# Monetary Report August 2002

Monetary Report
August 2002

During August, monetary variables showed positive developments, affirming the change in trend observed in July. Thus, for the first time in the year, growth was observed in the stock of deposits in the financial system. The greater liquidity was reflected, on one hand, in a clear decrease in BCRA assistance to financial entities and, on the other, in a sustained decline in interest rates, a trend that had begun in the previous month.

In this favorable context, the BCRA decided to increase its stock of international reserves and continue with the LEBAC placement policy that sterilizes, in part, the expansion of the external sector.

Deposits

For the first time in the year, the behavior of deposits ceased to generate a need for funds for entities. In August, the total placements in the financial system increased around $1,100 million, a figure that, net of the accounting of paid protections (at $/USD1.40), rises to more than $1,300 million, observing an increase both in deposits from the so-called "corralito" as well as in placements with fresh money¹.

Table 1 Financial Entities August
Stock Day 31 Monthly Var.
1. Deposits in pesos (a+b) 57,249 1,152
a. Private Sector pesos¹ 51,104 1,032

Corralito 20,807 825
Transactional 13,917 -612
PF 6,890 1,437
Free 10,582 642
Transactional² 7,271 283

PF 3,311 359
CEDROs 19,716 -435
Protections (at 1.4$/USD) -200
b. Public Sector pesos 6,145 120

2. Exchange rate difference protections -307

3. Effect of deposit decline on system liquidity
(1 + 2) 845

4. Deposits in dollars (in USD) 783 24
¹ Does not include BODEN stock
² Includes judicial deposits.

¹ It is worth recalling the difference existing between both types of deposits. Those on demand and with terms that are found in the so-called "corralito" present limits in their withdrawal possibility while placements with fresh money have no limitation whatsoever regarding the availability of funds.

The result is explained fundamentally by the evolution of deposits from the non-financial private sector, which increased $1,000 million. If the different types of placements are analyzed, it can be observed that within the "corralito" there was a significant increase in term deposits ($1,440 million) with a decline in those on demand ($600 million), while in the free segment, both on-demand deposits and those with terms with fresh money continued their growth path.

In relation to deposits within the "corralito," a factor to consider is that important liquidations of exports were recorded, which translate, in the first instance, into on-demand deposits within this segment. Foreign currency inflows for this concept would exceed USD500 million, that is almost $2,000 million.

Likewise, and as already mentioned, a transfer of funds was observed from demand accounts to term placements, which present a much higher return (with interest rates of around 60% per annum for operations between 14 and 30 days term). This type of movement between accounts had already been observed in July but increased its intensity in August.

On the other hand, according to information corresponding to entities in Capital Federal and GBA,² individuals together with financial service providers explained 80% of the increase in term deposits within the "corralito," leaving 20% for the rest of legal entities.

Graph 1
a) b)

Millions of pesos Stock of fixed-term corralito in pesos Participation in the variation of fixed-terms corralito in pesos
End-of-month balances - Cap. Fed. and Greater Bs. As. in August
5,000 Private Sector - Capital Federal and Greater Bs. As.

Variation sample: +957 m
4,000 21% 0%

3,000 36%

2,000

1,000
0 43%
 May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02
 Fin. Services Loans.Natural Persons Fin. Services Loans.Other Legal Entities Natural Persons Fin. Services Loans.Other Legal Entities Res. Abroad

 Regarding the maturity term of this type of deposits, it was observed that the increase
occurred in operations with approximately 30 days maturity. In a scenario of falling
interest rates, better prospects for the financial system and exchange rate stability, economic
agents would have opted to slightly extend the maturities of their placements.

2 Information supplied by the Centralized System of informational requirements (SISCEN).

 2Monetary Report August 2002

 Graph 2
 a) b)

 Amount in PF Corralito 14 to 29 days Average Rate Amount in PF Corralito 30 to 59 Weighted Average Rate
 Millions of $ Millions of $
 5,000 100% 5,000 100%

 3,750 3,750
 80% 80%

 2,500 2,500

 60% 60%
 1,250 1,250

 0 40% 0 40%
 01-Jul 08-Jul 16-Jul 23-Jul 30-Jul 06-Aug 13-Aug 21-Aug 28-Aug 01-Jul 08-Jul 16-Jul 23-Jul 30-Jul 06-Aug 13-Aug 21-Aug 28-Aug

 Deposits in the free segment registered encouraging behavior. Time placements increased
12% compared to the previous month. Within this type of deposits, 70% of the increase
corresponded to natural persons.

 Graph 3

 Millions of pesos Stock of new fixed-term deposits in pesos
 2,500 Balances at end of month - Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires

 2,000

 1,500

 1,000

 500

 0
 May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02
 Natural Persons Fin. Services Loans.Other Legal Entities Res. Abroad

Injunctions

 As previously mentioned, the outflow of deposits from the private sector through
injunction resources slightly mitigated the increase in deposits evidenced. However,
during August 2002, partial results of Decree 1316/02 of July 23 were observed, through
which the suspension for 120 business days of the compliance and execution of all
precautionary measures and final sentences issued in judicial proceedings presented by
customers against banks was established. Additionally, through the aforementioned
decree, it was determined that in exceptional cases –for health reasons or for account
holders over 75 years old–, the precautionary measures or judicial sentences should be
filed with the BCRA.

 3Monetary Report August 2002

 During the month analyzed, the outflow of deposits through injunction resources was
considerably less than that observed in previous months. In general terms, while between
February and July the outflow of deposits through injunctions was increasing and
amounted to approximately $450 million monthly (considering an exchange rate of
$/USD 1.40), in August this figure did not exceed $200 million, that is, less than half
of the historical average. It should be noted that, due to the application of the free
exchange rate, the payment of injunctions generated in financial entities additional
funding needs of more than $300 million.

 Table 2

 Outflow of Deposits through Injunction Resources

 A Apr-02 May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02 TOTAL
 In millions

 INJUNCTIONS IN USD (1) 810 301 305 316 138 1,869

 DEPOSIT DECLINE IN $ (2) 1,205 444 450 463 200 2,761

 MARKET EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT $ (3) 1,036 580 684 704 307 3,311

 MONETARY EFFECT IN $ (4) 2,241 1,024 1,133 1,167 507 6,072
 In units
 NUMBER OF CASES 25,024 12,184 14,559 15,244 6,184 73,195

 (1) For dollar deposits paid in cash dollars or pesos at the market exchange rate.
 (2) Injunctions in dollars at $/USD=1.40 plus injunctions for peso deposits.
 (3) Valuation adjustment of injunctions in dollars for difference between market exchange rate and $/USD=1.40
 (4) Injunctions in dollars at the average monthly exchange rate plus injunctions for peso deposits.
# Monetary Report August 2002 - Translation

The figures accumulated through August show that the removal of deposits due to judicial sentences represented around 14% of the fall in deposits from the private sector. On the other hand, it is worth noting that the "total monetary effect" of payments in concept of amparo resources in 2002 reached 77.7% of the rediscounts granted by the BCRA.

When considering the amount brackets of withdrawals by amparo resources, accumulated through August 2002, it can be observed that almost 50% of the bank funds allocated to return deposits by this type of judicial resolution corresponded to withdrawals greater than $200,000, which meant expenditures of approximately $3,000 million. From the point of view of the beneficiaries, it is worth noting that this amount corresponded to only 8% of the depositors who collected amparo resources.

By way of example, according to the information obtained to date it is estimated that the effect derived from a limit of $200,000 per amparo on the financing needs of financial entities in 2002, would have meant savings of $1,700 million. Consequently, the reduction of 30% in the effect of amparos on bank liquidity would have affected only and partially that 8% of the account holders possessing the largest deposits in the system. Alternatively, it is observed that, for withdrawals less than $50,000, more than 60% of the judicial cases were settled with just over 15% of the total funds applied to pay amparos.

---

## Loans

The stock of loans to the non-financial private sector continued showing a decline, although slightly smaller than in the previous months. These cancellations reached $1,100 million during August and would have been carried out, in part, with removals of Cedros (approximately $240 million).

A brief analysis of the brackets by loan amounts to the private sector shows marked dispersion in them. If all loans of each debtor are grouped to consider their location in the brackets, at the end of August 2002, the amount of private loans less than $150,000 registered a figure close to $18,800 million (more than 51%). On the other hand, loans greater than $500,000 amounted to just under $14,600 million, which represented almost 40% of the total. Likewise, there are important differences in the structure of the brackets by amounts when disaggregating between individuals and legal entities. In the case of the lower bracket, it is observed that it encompasses almost 90% of loans to individuals, while in the case of companies the share amounts to less than 10%. The opposite occurs when observing the figures for the upper bracket, where only 3% of loans to individuals are located, while more than 80% of the lines to companies were made for amounts greater than $500,000. Finally, it is worth mentioning that almost the totality of the number of loan holders corresponds to lines less than $150,000 (whether in the case of companies or individuals).

---

## Table 3

**Loans to the Private Sector (August 2002)**
**AMOUNTS in millions of pesos (Does not include CER)**

| BRACKET | INDIVIDUALS | LEGAL ENTITIES | TOTAL |
|---------|-------------|---|---|
| | Total | Accumulated | Total | Accumulated | Total | Accumulated |
| Up to 100,000 | 16,422 | 16,422 | 747 | 747 | 17,169 | 17,169 |
| From 100,000 to 150,000 | 1,234 | 17,657 | 347 | 1,093 | 1,581 | 18,750 |
| From 150,000 to 200,000 | 620 | 18,277 | 315 | 1,408 | 935 | 19,685 |
| From 200,000 to 250,000 | 377 | 18,654 | 272 | 1,680 | 649 | 20,334 |
| From 250,000 to 300,000 | 244 | 18,898 | 236 | 1,916 | 480 | 20,814 |
| From 300,000 to 350,000 | 177 | 19,075 | 211 | 2,127 | 389 | 21,202 |
| From 350,000 to 400,000 | 125 | 19,200 | 179 | 2,306 | 304 | 21,506 |
| From 400,000 to 450,000 | 83 | 19,283 | 172 | 2,478 | 255 | 21,761 |
| From 450,000 to 500,000 | 70 | 19,353 | 179 | 2,656 | 249 | 22,009 |
| More than 500,000 | 526 | 19,879 | 14,026 | 16,682 | 14,552 | 36,561 |
| **TOTAL** | **19,879** | **19,879** | **16,682** | **16,682** | **36,561** | **36,561** |
Participation in %

| RANGE | NATURAL PERSONS | LEGAL PERSONS | TOTAL |
|-------|-----------------|----------------|--------|
| | Participation | Cumulative | Participation | Cumulative | Participation | Cumulative |
| Up to 100,000 | 82.6% | 82.6% | 4.5% | 4.5% | 47.0% | 47.0% |
| From 100,000 to 150,000 | 6.2% | 88.8% | 2.1% | 6.6% | 4.3% | 51.3% |
| From 150,000 to 200,000 | 3.1% | 91.9% | 1.9% | 8.4% | 2.6% | 53.8% |
| From 200,000 to 250,000 | 1.9% | 93.8% | 1.6% | 10.1% | 1.8% | 55.6% |
| From 250,000 to 300,000 | 1.2% | 95.1% | 1.4% | 11.5% | 1.3% | 56.9% |
| From 300,000 to 350,000 | 0.9% | 96.0% | 1.3% | 12.8% | 1.1% | 58.0% |
| From 350,000 to 400,000 | 0.6% | 96.6% | 1.1% | 13.8% | 0.8% | 58.8% |
| From 400,000 to 450,000 | 0.4% | 97.0% | 1.0% | 14.9% | 0.7% | 59.5% |
| From 450,000 to 500,000 | 0.4% | 97.4% | 1.1% | 15.9% | 0.7% | 60.2% |
| More than 500,000 | 2.6% | 100.0% | 84.1% | 100.0% | 39.8% | 100.0% |

5 Monetary Report August 2002

Monetary Base and Monetary Expansion Factors

The monetary base increased $760 million, which is fundamentally due to the increase in deposits in current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA ($900 million). The evolution already described of deposits and loans had a positive effect on banks' liquidity, which was largely used to rebuild their reserves. A possible explanation for this behavior by the entities could be found in the fact that they had expectations of greater payments from amparo resources than what was finally verified.

Table 4
Financial Entities August

1. Deposits in pesos 845
   Private Sector* 725
   Public Sector 120

2. Cancellation of Private Sector Loans 1,150

3. Other liquidity needs 1,223

4. Funding needs (-1 - 2 + 3) -772

5. Use of bank reserves -980

6. BCRA Assistance to the Financial System 208

* Includes monetary effect of amparos

The other component of the monetary base, currency in circulation by the public, decreased as was foreseeable given the negative seasonality observed in August. However, when conducting a historical comparison, its variation was relatively small; while in the last decade a decline in circulation was observed on average in August of 4%, this year it was only 1%.

On the side of monetary base expansion factors, in this context of liquidity, the BCRA assisted financial entities in only $200 million, while no temporary advances were made to the National Government.

6 Monetary Report August 2002

Graph 4

Cumulative Evolution (31-Jan-02 to 31-Aug-02)
- In billions of pesos -
25

20

15

10

5

0
31-Jan 21-Feb 14-Mar 4-Apr 25-Apr 16-May 6-Jun 27-Jun 18-Jul 8-Aug 29-Aug
Loans BCRA Assistance
Fall in CC Fall in Deposits

| Fall in deposits (1) | Fall in loans (2) | Fall in CC Current Account (3) | BCRA Asst. (4) | BCRA Asst. / Deposits (4)/(1) |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Accumulated 21,737 | 11,563 | 2,717 | 7,812 | 36% |

The excess demand for monetary base together with the aggressive policy of LEBAC placements contributed strongly to an increase in international reserves of approximately USD 120 million, in line with the BCRA's policy of rebuilding reserves. The balance is composed of net purchases from the private sector of approximately USD 380 million, with the remainder corresponding to net sales to the public sector.

Table 5
Supply and Demand for Base - flow in millions of pesos - August

1. Expansion Factors 252

a. BCRA Assistance to the Treasury 0
b. BCRA Assistance to the Financial System 208
c. Other 44

2. Monetary Base 763
a. Currency in circulation by the public -217
b. Bank reserves 980
   Currency in banks 74
   Current account at the BCRA 906

3. Imbalance (Absorption Needs) (1) - (2) -511
a. Exchange rate intervention -1,302
b. Lebacs 791

Net Internal Assets (1) - (3b) -539

7 Monetary Report August 2002
A separate paragraph deserves the evolution of BCRA bills placements. The placements of LEBACs during the month meant a monetary contraction of $791 million, of which $736 million were the result of bill auctions in pesos, while the rest was achieved through the offering of securities denominated in dollars. It is worth noting that during this period the presence in the domestic market of securities issued by the BCRA was expanded through the allocation of bills in pesos with 28 and 91 days maturity, the latter adjustable by the Reference Stabilization Coefficient (CER). The debts with this average life were contracted at an average cost of 73% and 18% respectively. Likewise, bills in pesos at 14 days continued to be placed, which were awarded at an average rate of 74%, significantly lower than the average registered for July (115%). In terms of amount in circulation, bills in national currency increased their balance by VN $846 million, reaching VN $1,770 million at the end of August. On the other hand, the average cost of bills in dollars grew slightly to 3%, which was linked to the nominal appreciation of the peso with respect to the United States dollar during August. The nominal value in circulation of LEBACs in dollars was USD 216 million, USD 15.5 million higher than that in effect at the end of the previous month.

**Graph 5a)**

Avg. Rate Evolution of rates and balance of LEBACs in pesos Stock (millions
Weighted Amount (%) of pesos)
150 2,000

125
1,500
100

75 1,000

50
500
25

0 0
3-May 18-May 2-Jun 17-Jun 2-Jul 17-Jul 1-Aug 16-Aug 31-Aug
Balance Cut-off rate.

**Graph 5b)**
Stock (in millions
TNA cut-off Evolution of rates and balance of LEBACs in dollars
% of dollars)
50 250

40 200

30 150

20 100

10 50

0 0
3-May 18-May 2-Jun 17-Jun 2-Jul 17-Jul 1-Aug 16-Aug 31-Aug
Stock Cut-off rate

8 Monetary Report August 2002

Finally, it is important to note the incidence of the interest rates on LEBAC placements on the general level of interest rates in the market. During August these reaffirmed the negative trend observed since the end of July. In this way, passive interest rates decreased, on average, around 20%.

**Graph 6**
LEBAC rates, fixed-term, interbank and active rates
Percentage

160

120

80

40

0
9-Apr 9-May 8-Jun 8-Jul 7-Aug 6-Sep
TNA cut-off $ 14d. Call Priv. $ 15d. PF $ 7-30d. Prime $ 30d.

Estimation of a consolidated balance of the financial system

Finally, an estimate of the consolidated balance of the financial system for August 2002 is presented. The main objective of this exercise is to provide a first approximation of the equity situation of the sector after the context changes that occurred since the end of 2001. It should be recalled that, given the still current suspension of the submission by entities of the Balance Sheet Information Regime, an attempt has been made to reconstruct the level and composition of the Assets and Liabilities of the system based on the latest available data from other information regimes. Given this mention, the preliminary nature of the data presented here should be emphasized.

As general assumptions, it is worth mentioning that an exchange rate of 3.6 pesos per dollar was used in order to express in local currency the items that are currently denominated in foreign currency. Likewise—when it is appropriate to apply in the cases indicated—it is assumed that the value of the CER update index at the end of August 2002 is 1.338 (it is assumed that the variation of the CVS index is equal to zero).
On the Asset side, it should be mentioned that an estimated amount is included as assets of the public sector for bonds as compensation for the pesification of the different balance sheet items at different exchange rates -art. 28 and 29, Dec. 905/02-, and an additional bond in order to complete coverage of the net negative position in foreign currency that cannot be covered by the exchange of peso-denominated securities derived from the compensation -art. 29, inc. f-. The estimation of the amounts of compensation bonds are US$6,160 million and $4,400 million respectively. The estimated amount of the bond to complete coverage of the foreign currency position is US$3,200 million. The total amount, expressed in pesos and updating by CER the domestic currency bond, reaches approximately $39,800 million.

9 Monetary Report August 2002

On the Liability side, it should be clarified that an estimation has been included of the B.C.R.A. assistance to entities in the concept of subscription of bonds resulting from the exchange of deposits (art. 14, Dec. 905/02). Likewise, an additional amount of assistance is estimated in order to acquire the Coverage Bond (art. 29, inc. g, Dec. 905/02).

Given the legal scheme in force regarding the updating of certain asset and liability items, we proceeded to estimate the aggregate levels of these concepts with and without application of the index corresponding to August 2002. In the scenario where the different items are not updated, an estimation of Net Equity for the consolidated system as of August 2002 is obtained, of approximately 6% of total assets. Including the CER update in cases where it applies, the ratio reaches 11%. It is noted that in the hypothetical case of excluding from CER application the total financing to individuals, the aforementioned ratio would decrease to 10%. In the extreme where the updating of asset items only includes public sector assets, the ratio would fall to 8%.

It should be noted that approximately 57% of the total assets of the banking sector would be allocated to instruments with credit risk of the public sector; while these latter would represent a balance equivalent to 9 or 5 times Net Equity, depending on the scenario of updating or not by the CER index respectively. If public sector assets were considered net of their deposits and total BCRA assistance, this concept in terms of Net Equity would decrease to 3 in the scenario that emerges from considering the CER update. On the other hand, only one third of the total assets of the banking sector correspond to assets of the private sector, of which slightly more than half are commercial financing.

Graph 7
ESTIMATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
AUGUST 2002 - In millions of pesos
Includes CER update

160,000 Dep Sec Pub
Reserves 9,800 (6%) 6,900 (4%)

Financ Individuals 23,300 (15%) 140,000 Dep Sec Priv
32,900 (21%)

120,000
Financ Companies 27,100 (17%)
24,200 (16%) CEDROs
100,000

17,000 (11%) Red for illiquidity sit
80,000
Red for Boden and BC
12,800 (8%)
Credit Sec Pub 60,000
87,200 (57%)

40,000 44,600 (29%) Lines, ON and OS

20,000
Other net assets 17,400 (11%) NE
8,400 (5%) 0
Asset Liability +
NE

10
