# Monetary Report July 2002

Monetary Report
July 2002

During the month of July the behavior of monetary variables has been encouraging, in particular, taking into account the negative developments of recent months. The drain of deposits was halted, thus reducing the funding needs of financial entities, which generated a drastic decrease in the need for assistance from the BCRA to the financial system.

In a context of relative stability, without need for expansion of the money supply for liquidity reasons, and with high demand for currency in circulation for seasonal reasons, the monetary imbalance (although very small) required for its closure an expansion of the monetary base. If to this is added a successful placement of Central Bank Bills that implied almost $300 million of monetary base contraction, the result was a net purchase of foreign currency by this institution, maintaining its policy of stabilizing expectations regarding the exchange rate quotation.

## Deposits

The total deposits in pesos presented a decline of around $1,100 million during the month under analysis. Of that total, almost $400 million corresponded to the public sector, which used the largest funds accumulated at the end of the previous month for the payment of year-end bonuses.

For its part, deposits from the private sector decreased approximately $680 million, half the decline observed the previous month. The behavior of private deposits was associated fundamentally with the payment of precautionary measures (injunctions) that represented almost 80% of the decline.

Table 1 Financial Entities July

| | Stock Day 31 | Monthly Var |
|---|---|---|
| 1. Deposits in pesos (a+b) | 56,459 | -1,067 |
| a. Private Sector pesos | 50,438 | -681 |
| Corralito | 20,630 | 389 |
| Transactional | 15,230 | -803 |
| PF | 5,400 | 1,192 |
| Free | 9,218 | 741 |
| Transactional | 6,685 | 243 |
| PF | 2,533 | 498 |
| Corralón¹ | 20,590 | -1,811 |
| Injunctions (at 1.4$/USD) | | -525 |
| Disaffections | | -1,287 |
| (inc. loan cancellation) | | |
| b. Public Sector pesos | 6,021 | -386 |
| 2. Exchange rate difference injunctions | | -801 |
| 3. Effect of the drop in deposits on system liquidity (1 + 2) | | -1,868 |
| 4. Deposits in dollars (in USD) | 583 | -13 |

1- Does not include exchange for BODEN; to date $5,224 million has been recorded.

Note: This report was prepared based on information available as of August 7, 2002.

Demand deposits showed a decline that was smaller than that observed in previous months, even though in July greater withdrawals of funds could be expected associated with the payment of year-end bonuses. If the relationship between sight deposits and nominal GDP is analyzed, it is observed that it is close to the range it has presented during recent years, that is, between 5% and 6%. This would indicate that the savings component that included this type of deposits since the implementation of restrictions on fund withdrawals and the subsequent disaffection of rescheduled deposits, would have been exhausted. Currently, a transactional demand added to a precautionary demand would be observed. In this sense, if an increase in the velocity of circulation of transactional money is expected with respect to pre-crisis levels, the composition of current levels of sight deposits would be reflecting an increase in the demand for liquid balances for precautionary reasons.

Graph 1 Sight Deposits
- In terms of Nominal GDP -

14%
Demand for
12% precaution?

10%

8%

6%

4%
Transactional
2% demand

0%
Dec-99 Apr-00 Aug-00 Dec-00 Apr-01 Aug-01 Dec-01 Apr-02 Jul-02

Likewise, a fact that confirms the presumption that sight deposits are close to a transactional level, is the evolution of the so-called "liquidity premium," that is, the effective cost of exiting the corralito (the discount rate of a check). Said premium has evidenced a continuous decline throughout the month of July that places it at levels between 1.5% and 2%.

Graph 2 In % Liquidity Premium (Pesos / Check)*

12

10

8

6

4

2
0
 11-Feb 17-Mar 20-Apr 24-May 27-Jun 31-Jul
 *Adjustment based on data from Patacón Price and Patacón versus Check.

 2Monetary Report July 2002

 Table I shows that deposits from the corralito increased, since the fall in sight deposits was more than offset by the increase in time deposits not available. Additionally, there was an increase in free deposits (available at sight and fixed-term deposits in cash). With figures estimated based on a sample of entities representing approximately 50% of deposits, an increase of more than $700 million is observed in deposits outside the corralito, which currently represent one-third of non-rescheduled deposits. This means that, regardless of the restrictions, more than 30% of deposits that had not been rescheduled could have left the system and did not.

 Graph 3 Free / Non-rescheduled

 Private Sector Percentage
 40

 35

 30

 25

 20
 17-May 28-May 8-Jun 19-Jun 30-Jun 11-Jul 22-Jul 2-Aug

Court Orders

 As mentioned previously, the fall in private sector deposits was largely associated with court order resources presented to banks by their clients. In recent months, the outflow of funds from entities for this reason showed continuous growth and, in July, more than $500 million were de-affected from rescheduling, despite the judicial recess. It is important to note that successive increases in the exchange rate determined an increasing growth in the liquidity needs of entities to cover court order payments. To estimate the effect on entity liquidity, the difference in exchange rate originated in precautionary measures (paid at market exchange rate or in cash dollars) must be added to the figure of the deposit fall. For the month of July, the payment of these exchange rate differences was around $800 million, so the total effect of these resources reached $1,300 million.

 3Monetary Report July 2002

 Graph 4 Effect on liquidity from deposit fall and court order payments - Year 2002 Effect on liquidity from deposit fall and court order payments - Year 2002
 In millions of pesos In millions of pesos
 00 -189 -196 -424 -362 -503 -525 -189 -196 -424 -362 -503 -525
 -46 -144 -46 -144 -155 -155
 -432 -463 -770 -801 -432 -463 -770 -801
 -1,000 -1,000

 -1,008 -1,008

 -2,000 -2,000

 -3,000 -3,000 -2,609 -2,609

 -4,000 -4,000

 -4,335 -4,345 -4,513 -4,335 -4,345 -4,513
 -5,000 -5,000

 Net Deposits of Court Orders Net Deposits of Court Orders Outflow of Deposits by Court Orders Outflow of Deposits by Court Orders Exchange Rate Adjustment Court Orders Exchange Rate Adjustment Court Orders

 For its part, the evolution of the average court order amount measured in dollars continued with its declining trend, moving from more than US$30 thousand at the beginning of April to an amount less than US$27 thousand at the end of July.

 If the impact of court order payments on different groups of entities is considered, in July 2002, as with the historical trend, banks with foreign capital registered the largest outflow for this reason, with only this group representing 63% of the total, while domestic public banks ranked second with a participation of 26%. However, if the total accumulated court orders are observed in terms of rescheduled deposits of each group, banks with foreign capital and domestic capital show similar coefficients close to 13%.

 Graph 5 Distribution of Deposit Outflow by Court Orders

 - Accumulated as of 26/07/02 -

 Other Financial Entities/National Banks 0.2% Public Banks
 25.5%

 Foreign
 63.0% Domestic Private
 11.3%

 4Monetary Report July 2002

Funding Requirements
Returning to the developments observed during the month of July, it should be noted that a large part of the liquidity that left the entities returned in the form of loan cancellations (the application of CER starting in August could have been a reason). It is for this reason that the funding needs of the entities in July were very small, only $320 million, which they financed partly with their liquidity reserves and partly with assistance from this Central Bank.

If we consider the behavior of deposit funding during the year, it can be observed that loan cancellations were the most important source of funds, reaching to finance 46% of the outflow of private deposits. The assistance of the BCRA, in the form of rediscounts, was placed in the second place of funding sources; in this way, 33% of the deposit outflow was financed through this instrument. The banks as a whole also used their current account at the BCRA, which represented 16% of the private deposit withdrawal to date.

Graph 6 Cumulative Evolution

25 - In billions of pesos -

20

15

10

5

0
31-Jan 17-Feb 6-Mar 23-Mar 9-Apr 26-Apr 13-May 30-May 16-Jun 3-Jul 20-Jul
Loans BCRA Assistance
Fall in CC Fall in Private Deposits

During July in particular, the trend of the funding composition intensified and, as was mentioned, loan cancellations turned out to be again the main source of funds. For its part, BCRA assistance to banks only represented 15% of the private deposit outflow ($217 million) – a significant reduction when compared with the historical ratio (between January 31 and June 31, 2002 BCRA assistance represented 35% of the private deposit outflow), while the current account of the entities at the BCRA did not register significant variations in the month under analysis.

5 Monetary Report July 2002

Table 2 Financial Entities July

1. Deposits in pesos -1,868
   Private Sector* -1,482
   Public Sector -386

2. Cancellation of loans Private Sector 1,517

3. Other net liquidity needs 31

4. Funding needs -(1 + 2 + 3) 320

5. Use of bank reserves 103

6. BCRA Assistance to Financial System 217
   * Includes exchange rate differential under protective measures.

Supply and Demand of Monetary Base

As a consequence of the above, the monetary base increased only $330 million.

Table 3 Supply and Demand of Base - flow in millions of pesos - July

1. Supply of Monetary Base 187

   a. BCRA Assistance to the Treasury 0
   b. BCRA Assistance to Financial System 217
   c. Other -30

2. Demand for Monetary Base 331
   a. Currency in circulation held by the public 434
   b. Bank reserves -103
      Currency in banks -123
      Current account at the BCRA 20

3. Imbalance (Absorption Needs) (1) - (2) -143
   a. Exchange intervention -436
   b. Lebacs 293

Net Internal Assets (1) - (3b) -106

Regarding the components of monetary base demand, currency in circulation held by the public, showed an increase of approximately $440 million. Currency presents a marked seasonal behavior which, in the case of the month of July, implies greater demand for bills and coins by economic agents. Additionally, it is important to note that during the month approximately $650 million in additional bonds considered quasi-money were issued (the stock is estimated at approximately $7,330 million), which operate as substitutes for the currency issued by the BCRA.

6 Monetary Report July 2002

Graph 7

Bills and Coins
Average Index Jan = Base 100
160 July

140

120

100

80
Average 20-Feb 12-Mar 1-Apr 21-Apr 11-May 31-May 20-Jun 10-Jul 30-Jul
Jan
2000 2001 2002
In July, the monetary imbalance changed sign and shifted from an excess supply, as a result of funds flowing out of the system, to an excess demand for monetary base. This led to, unlike what had been happening during the first half of the year, the BCRA acting as a demander in the foreign exchange market, fulfilling the role it had imposed on itself of stabilizing expectations regarding exchange rate variations.

**Graph 8 Accumulated Intervention
in millions of dollars**

24-Jun
1,600

1,200

800 USD Purchase (24-6 / 31-7):
USD 159 million

400

0
02-Apr 15-Apr 26-Apr 10-May 23-May 05-Jun 19-Jun 02-Jul 16-Jul 29-Jul

On the other hand, the BCRA continued with its policy of placing Letters (LEBACs). During the month of July, these placements yielded a contractionary monetary result of approximately $300 million, as a consequence of the expansion of $77 million attributable to letters denominated in dollars and the contraction of $370 million originated in those denominated in pesos. In terms of interest rates, although on average the cost of LEBACs in pesos was significantly higher than the previous month, from mid-July onwards a continuous decline in the levels of agreed interest rates was evident (associated with exchange rate stability), going from 130% to 100% at the end of the month. The circulation of these securities increased by VN $450 million during the period, registering a total in circulation of VN $923 million at the end of July. For its part, the amount in circulation of LEBACs in dollars

*7 Monetary Report July 2002*

decreased slightly during the period (VN US$ 21 million) and was located at VN US$ 201 million; while the interest rates for this class of securities continued to decrease, registering an average of 2%.

**Graph 9.a)
TNA cut LEBACs in pesos Stock**

140 Percentage Million pesos 1,200

120 1,000

100 800

80 600

60 400

40 200

20 0
Mar-02 Apr-02 Apr-02 May-02 May-02 Jun-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Jul-02
Stock TNA cut

**Graph 9.b) TNA cut LEBACs in dollars Stock**

45 Percentage Million dollars 250

40
35 200

30
25 150

20 100

15

10 50

5

0 0
3-May 18-May 2-Jun 17-Jun 2-Jul 17-Jul
Stock TNA cut

**Exchange**

On July 16, an exchange of reprogrammed deposits for bonds of the National State (BODEN) was carried out. According to information available on August 8, 2002¹, the amount to be affected due to the exchange reached approximately $7,800 million, of which $6,750 million corresponded to reprogrammed deposits. If the balance of this type of deposits existing at the end of June 2002 is considered, the proportion of exchange of reprogrammed deposits reached 24.5% for the aggregate of the banking system.

Along with that average level for the proportion of exchange of reprogrammed deposits, a significant dispersion could be observed in the distribution of this variable at the individual entity level. Thus, for example, while a quarter of the reporting entities

¹ The information regarding the amount to be affected comes from the Informative Regime for Exchange of Deposits for Bonds. As of August 8, 2002, information was not available for two entities.

*8 Monetary Report July 2002*

recorded a ratio of less than 10% (accumulating 7% of the reprogrammed deposits of the system), another 25% of them recorded a ratio greater than 50% (7% of the reprogrammed deposits).

**Graph 10 Distribution of the Proportion of Exchange of Reprogrammed Deposits for
BODEN**

According to information as of August 8, 2002 - 100% of the total Reprogrammed -

20 19 100%

16
16 Total exchange proportion = 24.5% 80%
13 Entities with exchange >30% represent 30% of reprogrammed
12 60%
9

8 7 40%
5 6 5

4 3 20%

0 0%

less than 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% more than 80% Exchange proportion intervals
Number of entities in each exchange interval
Accumulated participation in Reprogrammed before exchange - 2nd axis -
The disparity in the degree of acceptance of the proposed exchange also appeared in the distribution by homogeneous groups of entities. On one hand, non-provincial public banks and branches of foreign banks (18% and 22% of rescheduled deposits respectively) registered the lowest relative level of exchange (14% both subgroups). At the other extreme were provincial public entities (31%), non-bank financial entities and national private banks (39%), while banks with majority foreign capital were found in an intermediate position (23% of exchange, accumulating 30% of the total rescheduled deposits of the system). It should be noted that private entities that are suspended averaged a high relative level of the proportion of exchange (close to 76%).

Graph 11
Proportion of Rescheduled Exchange by BODEN
By entity group
80% 76%

60%
39% 43%

40% 31% 30%
18% 13% 13% 23% 22%
20% 14% 14%

1% 4%
0%
National Public Priv Nac Contr. Suc. EFNB Ent.
Public Provincial Extranj. Extranj. Suspend.

Proportion of exchange Participation in Rescheduled before exchange

9 Monetary Report July 2002

Once the stock of remaining rescheduled deposits transformed into CEDROS is determined, it is appropriate to consider the potential liquidity requirements that entities would face in the coming quarters. With the objective of evaluating these requirements, the quarterly amounts of corresponding CEDROS maturities were estimated, given the observed level in the proportion of exchange, the characteristics (maturity schedule, interest rate, etc.) of these instruments and the accumulated variation of the update index (CER index) as of July 2002. Based on this set of information –and not including additional variation of the CER index–, it is estimated that the amount accrued for interest and capital amortization for the year 2002 would reach approximately $870 million, while in 2003 it would exceed $9,200 million, finding an absolute maximum in payments to be made in the fourth quarter of that year of almost $4,000 million. In 2004, total maturities would reach $12,200 million, ending in 2005 with an approximate amount of capital amortization and interest of $5,100 million.

Considering the total CEDROS maturities in terms of loans to the non-financial private sector in normal situation in force as of July 2002 -in order to appreciate the relative importance of said maturities, while relating them to a possible source of funding-, it can be observed that the potential resource needs for the coming years derived from the estimated maturities would represent approximately 26%, 35% and 15% of those financings in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.

Graph 12 Total CEDROS Maturities (after exchange)

- Update by CER at July 2002 value
4 100%

3 80%

60%
2
40%
1 20%

0 0%

I qtr 02 II qtr 02 III Qtr 02 IV Qtr 02 I qtr 03 II qtr 03 III Qtr 03 IV Qtr 03 I qtr 04 II qtr 04 III Qtr 04 IV Qtr 04 I qtr 05 II qtr 05 III Qtr 05

Total CEDROS Maturities - quarterly accumulated
Maturities / Financings for Individuals normal sit. (data as of April 2002) - % accumulated
Maturities / Financings Private Sector normal sit ESTIMATED (data as of April 2002) - % accumulated
Maturities / Financings Total normal sit (data as of April 2002) - % accumulated

10
