# Monetary Report September 2002

## Monetary Report
September 2002

During September, monetary variables continued to show positive developments, consolidating the change in trend observed since mid-year. In a month in which the exchange rate remained practically stable, the net inflow of foreign currency from foreign trade resulted in demand for domestic currency.

In this context, financial entities increased their deposits in local currency, which generated, together with the sustained net cancellation of loans, greater liquidity for the system as a whole. This evolution of monetary aggregates was reflected in a sustained decline in interest rates and reduced assistance from the BCRA to the financial system.

For its part, the BCRA continued accumulating international reserves, especially during the first three weeks of the month. Unlike previous months in which it placed significant amounts of LEBACs, sterilizing in part the monetary expansion resulting from the purchase of foreign currency, in September it only renewed the outstanding stock.

## Deposits

Deposits in the Argentine financial system increased for the second consecutive month, even accelerating its growth rate which reached 3.1% in September. Thus, even considering the impact of the payment of court injunctions at the market exchange rate, placements in financial entities increased around $1,200 million. As in the previous month, the variation was observed fundamentally in deposits from the private sector since the public sector has not shown notable variations considering the balances at the end of the month¹.

**Table 1 Financial Entities September**

| | Stock Day 30 | Monthly Var |
|---|---|---|
| **1. Deposits in pesos (a+b)** | 58,555 | 1,822 |
| a. Private Sector pesos | 52,609 | 1,767 |
| Corralito | 22,334 | 1,652 |
| Transactional | 14,595 | 651 |
| PF | 7,739 | 1,001 |
| Free | 11,331 | 701 |
| Transactional (includes judicial deposits) | 7,069 | -115 |
| PF | 4,261 | 816 |
| CEDROs | 18,944 | -586 |
| Court injunctions (at 1.4$/USD) | | -389 |
| b. Public Sector pesos | 5,946 | 55 |
| **2. Exchange rate difference court injunctions** | | -608 |
| **3. Effect of the fall of deposits on system liquidity (1 + 2)** | | 1,214 |
| **4. Deposits in dollars (in USD)** | 841 | 43 |

Do not include the stock of deposits exchanged for BODEN.

¹ It should be noted that public sector deposits show an intra-monthly seasonality that reflects the behavior of income and current expenditures of said sector.

Regarding private sector placements, a significant increase in balances in the so-called "corralito" ($1,650 million) continued to be observed, as well as in the "free" segment ($700 million). It is worth mentioning that existing regulations lead to an important part of export settlements being channeled through deposits in sight accounts of the corralito. In September, approximately US$1,000 million of exports were settled through the BCRA, part of which remained in the system.

Considering both segments together, an increase in transactional accounts (current accounts and savings accounts) is observed after several months of sustained decline. It is worth recalling that, with the various deprogramming of deposits, this type of placement was being fed by balances linked to savings. That savings deposited in sight accounts initially left the system, increasing demand for dollars, while in recent months, attracted by high interest rates, it remained in the banks in time deposits. However, in September sight accounts begin to grow, reinforcing what we mentioned in previous reports, in the sense that transactional deposits were reaching their historical relationship with GDP.
Another point worth highlighting is the acceleration in the growth rate of time deposits in the free segment, which increased 25% —around 10 percentage points more than in August—. In this way, they continue to increase their share in total deposits. It should be noted that one of the sources of funds for this type of deposits is the payment of precautionary measures that, in part, remains in free fixed-term deposits. As described later in this report, the payment of this type of judicial measures increased in September compared to the previous month.

On the other hand, if the different maturity periods are considered, approximately 60% of the increase corresponds to placements at around 30 days which in terms of stocks represent slightly more than half of the total time deposits with fresh money.

Finally, regarding the evolution by group of entities, it was observed that public banks were those that most increased their deposits during September (890 million pesos), followed by banks with majority foreign participation (450 million pesos). It should be noted that the interest rate offered by public banks during September exceeded that of private banking by around 5 percentage points on average (and reached a differential of approximately 10 percentage points in the last week).

**Chart 1 Average Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits**
% in Pesos
120
100
80
60
40
20
3-Jun 16-Jun 29-Jun 12-Jul 25-Jul 7-Aug 20-Aug 2-Sep 15-Sep 28-Sep
Public Private

2 Monetary Report September 2002

Thus, public banks continued to gain share in the total deposits of the private sector; with respect to September 2001, that share increased 8 percentage points, reaching 35%. The group of banks with majority foreign participation, which was the most important group a year ago, came to represent 27% of total private placements.

**Chart 2 a)**
Variation of deposits from the non-financial private sector (Sep-02)
(in millions of pesos)

1,000 881
800
600
389
400 294
200 142
56 5
0
Public Priv Nat Majority Extr. For. Branch New BISEL, E.F.N.B.
Suquía and BERSA

b) Balance of deposits from the non-financial private sector*
(in %)
40%
35% 35%
30% 27% 27%
20% 22%
20% 18%
13%
10%
3%
0% 0% 0%
0%
Public Priv Nat Majority Extr. For. Branch New BISEL, E.F.N.B.
Sep-01 Sep-02 Suquía and BERSA

* Does not include deposits exchanged for BODEN

**Precautionary Measures**

During September 2002, the withdrawal of deposits by amparo resources again dampened the growth of private sector placements. Despite the restrictions imposed by Decree 1316/02 of July 23 —through which the suspension for 120 business days of the fulfillment and execution of all precautionary measures and final sentences issued in judicial proceedings filed by customers against banks was established— the judicial resources effectively disbursed by financial entities increased compared to the previous month.

3 Monetary Report September 2002

**Table 2**

Withdrawal of Deposits by Amparo Resources

A May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 TOTAL

In millions
AMPAROS IN USD (1) 1,118 304 320 140 270 2,152
DEPOSIT DECLINE IN $ (2) 1,660 448 469 203 389 3,169
EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT AT MARKET RATE IN $ (3) 1,640 681 714 311 608 3,953
MONETARY EFFECT IN $ (4) 3,300 1,129 1,183 514 997 7,123

In units
NUMBER OF CASES 37,376 14,614 15,474 6,273 12,970 86,707

(1) For deposits in dollars paid in dollars in cash or pesos at the market exchange rate.
(2) Amparos in dollars at $1.40/USD plus amparos for deposits in pesos.
(3) Valuation adjustment of amparos in dollars by difference between the market exchange rate and $1.40/USD
(4) Amparos in dollars at the average exchange rate of the month plus amparos for deposits in pesos ((2)+(3)).
In September, the decline in rescheduled deposits (CEDROs) originating from injunction resources reached approximately $390 million. Although the figure is higher than that evidenced in August, it continues to be lower than that registered in previous months –with an average greater than $460 million–. For its part, the additional liquidity needs assumed by the banks, generated by the payment of injunctions at the market exchange rate or in cash dollars, amounted to a figure close to $610 million during the month under report.

Towards the end of September 2002, the execution of accumulated precautionary measures caused a decline equivalent to 8.4% of the rescheduled deposits existing in March of the same year2. However, taking into account the effect derived from the disbursement of injunctions at the free exchange rate, the liquidity needs of the entities were equivalent to 18.8% of those deposits.

To date, branch banks of foreign entities were the most affected by injunction resources. The deposit outflow of the previous group reached 10.4% of their rescheduled deposits in March –which implied liquidity needs of 23.8%–. For its part, entities with majority foreign participation also presented a significant withdrawal of deposits by judicial means, reaching 9.2% –or, payments equivalent to 20.9%–. As for national banking, both public and private, it ran almost with the same fate as the previous group. On the other hand, non-bank financial entities presented low relative levels of deposit outflow through injunctions, while cooperative entities positioned themselves significantly far from the other groups.

2 This figure assumes that all injunctions were executed against rescheduled deposits.

4 Monetary Report September 2002

**Graph 3**

**Distribution of Judicial Injunctions by Group**
**- In terms of Rescheduled Dep. in Mar-02 by Group - Cumulative as of 30/09/02 -**

[Graph showing percentages: Public 6.1%, Private National 7.3%, Cooperative 2.1%, Majority Foreign 9.2%, Foreign Branches 10.4%, New BISEL, Suquía and BERSA 5.5%, Non-Bank Financial Entities 7.9%]

## Loans

The stock of loans to the non-financial private sector continues to show a downward trend, although the rate of decline decelerated in September, the month in which net cancellation was approximately $900 million. This deceleration could be explained, in part, by the modification and postponement of the application of the Reference Stabilization Coefficient (CER). The installments adjusted by the CER were going to start being paid in October, but the payment was moved to November at the same time that the list of exceptions to its application was expanded. At the end of September, the Wage Variation Coefficient (CVS) was also regulated, which replaces the CER in the case of loans that have as mortgage guarantee the single, family dwelling for permanent occupation, loans with or without mortgage guarantee whose original amount does not exceed US$12,000 and loans with chattel mortgage guarantee whose original amount is less than US$30,000.

**Graph 4**

**Variation of Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector**
**September 2002**

-48 Credit Cards
-128 Personal
-103 Chattel Mortgage
-317 Mortgage
-92 Other
-29 Purchased Documents
-72 Discounted Documents
-240 Documents at Sole Signature
-9 Other Advances
145 Current Account Advances

[-400 -300 -200 -100 0 100 200]
Private Sector - Commercial | Private Sector - Consumption

5 Monetary Report September 2002
An analysis by loan type shows that most cancellations were recorded in the consumer portfolio, which decreased by $600 million in September. Some of these cancellations would have been carried out by liquidating reprogrammed deposits. It is worth mentioning that some entities offered their clients write-downs on the debt owed or on the original capital in cases where they paid off their debts in cash, which may have encouraged greater cancellation. Within consumer loans, those that decreased the most were those with mortgage guarantee, whose decline amounted to around $300 million. In the case of credit card debts, on the contrary, a deceleration in the level of cancellations is observed which could be due to the resurgence of installment financing. On the other hand, commercial loans recorded cancellations of $300 million. Within this category, the decrease in loans structured as unsecured promissory notes was cushioned by the increase in current account advances.

Despite the significant loan cancellation recorded during this year, its structure did not vary with respect to what it presented the previous year. Consumer credit continues to represent two-thirds of the total, while the rest corresponds to commercial credit. By type of loans, those that stand out the most are the mortgage, which represents 35% of the total, and unsecured promissory notes, which remain at around 17% of the total. Then follow current account advances and advances in other sight accounts which together account for 14% of the total, those with chattel mortgage guarantee and personal loans which together represent 16% of the total, credit card debts, 6% of the total, discounted and purchased documents, 2% of the total, and, finally, other loans, mostly of commercial origin, which together account for 10% of the total.

Graph 5

Structure of Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector

Current Account Advances
Credit Cards Other Advances

Chattel Mortgages Unsecured Promissory Notes

Discounted Documents
Mortgage Documents Purchased

Other

Monetary Base and Monetary Expansion Factors

The monetary base increased by $1,320 million as a result of a significant increase in current account deposits of financial entities at the BCRA ($1,380 million) and a small decline in monetary circulation ($60 million).

Table 3 Supply and Demand for Base - flow in millions of September

1. Supply of Monetary Base 634
   a. National Government 228
   b. BCRA Assistance to the Financial System 244
   c. Other 161

2. Demand for Monetary Base 1,324
   a. Currency in circulation with the public -191
   b. Bank reserves 1,515
      Currency in banks 132
      Current account at the BCRA 1,383

3. Imbalance (Absorption Needs) (1) - (2) -691
   a. Exchange rate intervention -718
   b. Lebacs 27

Net Internal Assets (1) - (3b) 606

The sustained increase in deposits together with the net cancellation of loans generated an increase in the liquidity of the financial system which was reflected in an increase in bank reserves. In this way, the entities continued with the process of reconstituting their liquidity reserves, perhaps foreseeing future expenditures to be made. It is worth recalling that as of the first day of October financial entities are obliged to return reprogrammed deposits up to $7,000 which creates a liquidity need to cover said expenditures. Likewise, payments for amparo resources continue, which implies an additional fund need for the entities.
# TABLE 4 Financial Entities - Cash Flows in Pesos September

**Assets** 1,222
- Banking reserves 1,515
- Private Sector Loans -832
- Lebacs 27
- Participation in trusts 511

**Liabilities** 1,222
- Deposits in pesos Private Sector (including monetary effect protections) 1,356
- Deposits in pesos Public Sector 55
- Rediscounts 244
- CEDROS (de-allocations for loans, health, age, etc.)* -197
- Other Net -237

*Net of BODEN effect

---

Regarding the evolution of monetary circulation, it is possible to distinguish the behavior of financial entities, which increased their cash holdings ($130 million) and the public, which decreased its demand for bills and coins by $190 million ($320 million on average). It is worth noting that although September presents negative seasonality, in real terms this year the decline was relatively insignificant.

When considering the year-on-year variation of bills and coins, it was approximately 40% in nominal terms, which implies that - given the inflation observed in the last twelve months of 38.5% - in real terms, the stock of bills and coins in the hands of the public practically did not change compared to September 2001. Nevertheless, to analyze the demand for circulation, a broader definition should be considered that incorporates quasi-money – public securities (patacones, lecops, and others) that are used as currency to conduct economic transactions. This broad definition of circulation continues to show values (both nominal and real) significantly higher than those observed in previous years.

On the other hand, observing the evolution of bills and coins exclusively, it is important to mention that although weekly seasonality continues to be evident, the daily variations observed in the past no longer occur. For example, previously marked increases in the stock of bills and coins could be noticed on Fridays, anticipating their use during the weekend, with its inverse correlation in the cash position in banks. In contrast, this year and for some months now, this behavior is no longer apparent. This phenomenon would be reflecting a change in the behavior of economic agents that could be related to more intensive use of debit cards. Factors such as insecurity, tax deductions, and the various promotional offers being made by some entities would be helping this process.

**Graph 6**
a) b)

**Bills and Coins Average Variations in millions of pesos**
**Index Average Jun = Base 100 September**

120 | 200
100 | September
110 | 0
100 | -100
90 | -200
80 | Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
Avg 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug 13-Sep 28-Sep
June | B and C 2001 B and C 2002 B and C
2000 | 2001 2000 2002

---

Regarding the factors of monetary base expansion, the external sector continued to be the most important, through the liquidation of net exports at the BCRA. Assistance to financial entities in the form of rediscounts as well as active repurchase agreements remained at a low level, around $200 million as a result of the increase mentioned in system liquidity. On the other hand, the national government used in September part of the funds transferred by the BCRA in August for profit transfers, which generated an expansion of the monetary base during the month in question.

---

## International Reserves of the BCRA

The BCRA once again accumulated international reserves for a second consecutive month, increasing its stock by US$300 million. In this way it continued with its policy of recomposing its reserves. The variation is due to net purchases from the private sector of US$200 million, to inflows of foreign currency directly to the BCRA for around US$100 million, and to the neutral effect of the public sector (the payments made were carried out with the income from a loan).

**Graph 7**

**International Reserves**
13,000

12,000

11,000

10,000 September

9,000
# 8,000
31-Mar 18-Apr 6-May 24-May 11-Jun 29-Jun 17-Jul 4-Aug 22-Aug 9-Sep 27-Sep

## LEBACs

As a result of the auctions carried out during the month, it was possible to renew the stock of LEBACs in effect at the end of August at an average interest rate lower than the one prevailing until then. In that sense, at the end of September the nominal value in circulation of LEBACs in pesos was $1,793 million and the corresponding amount for LEBACs issued in dollars amounted to US$237 million, which implied moderate increases for the period in the amounts in circulation for both types of securities (of VN $22 million and of VN US$21 million respectively). During the month under analysis, not only was it possible to reduce the average cost of the LEBAC portfolio; but furthermore these instruments became established as a reference for money market rates and on the other hand, actions continued with the objective of increasing in the future the average life of the portfolio in circulation of these securities.

For both LEBACs denominated in pesos and those issued in dollars, the cost continued the negative trend that has been evident since mid-July. It is worth noting that this was contributed to on one hand by the improvement in the liquidity situation of the banks³, which increased their relative participation in the total holdings of the amount in circulation at the expense of natural and legal persons, and on the other hand by the stability of the peso's exchange rate with respect to the dollar during the same period. However, it is important to note that the margin between the 14-day and 28-day rates increased significantly in the latter part of the month.

³ It is necessary to take into account that this effect is partially attenuated by the impossibility of banks that maintain rediscounts with the BCRA to participate in LEBAC auctions.

9 Monetary Report September 2002

**Graph 8**

Average cost of the LEBAC portfolio in pesos
TNA

125%

100%

75%

50%

25%

0%
15-Mar 6-Apr 28-Apr 20-May 11-Jun 3-Jul 25-Jul 16-Aug 7-Sep 29-Sep

As we had mentioned in the previous report, LEBAC rates began to have an important impact on the evolution of passive rates. This behavior is particularly noticeable as of the issuance of LEBACs in pesos with a 28-day term, when the rate offered for time deposits up to 30 days aligned completely with that resulting from auctions for this instrument. Likewise, the interbank rate for 1-day loans (78% of the interbank market) remained at a stable margin from the LEBAC interest rates cut in pesos. If we consider the 7 banks with the largest LEBAC holdings at the end of September (46% of total stock) and which at the same time represented 45% of the amount traded during this month in the interbank market, this becomes evident more clearly.

Finally, it should be noted that in mid-September LEBACs in pesos with a 56-day term began to be issued, an initiative that would allow increasing the average life of the portfolio of these securities in the medium term. However, given the amount in circulation at the end of the month for the different terms, the average life of the letter portfolio remained at 14 days.

**Graph 9**
a) b)

Evolution of the interbank rate and LEBACs
LEBAC rates and time deposits
Call of 7 banks with largest LEBAC holdings at 30-9
Percentage
Percentage 100
70
60 80

50 60

40 40

30 20
2-Sep 8-Sep 14-Sep 20-Sep 26-Sep 15-Aug 22-Aug 29-Aug 5-Sep 12-Sep 19-Sep 26-Sep
Call 1 day TNA cut 14d. TNA cut $ 14d. PF $ 7-30d. TNA cut $ 28d.

10
