# Monetary Report November 2002

## Monetary Report
November 2002

## Highlighted Events

üü During November, a preference by economic agents for more liquid assets was observed, which led to M2 (currency in circulation held by the public plus current accounts and savings accounts) increasing in real terms by 4.5%.

üü Private deposits continued to grow although at a slower pace than observed in previous months, and on this occasion, driven by the increase in sight deposits.

üü Although the stock of loans to the private sector continues to decline, the rate of decline has decelerated and increases are observed in some credit lines.

üü The liquidity of financial entities continued to recover and, for the second consecutive month, there was no assistance of any kind to the banks.

üü The monetary base grew 7.5% in real terms, with the main factor of expansion being the external sector through BCRA's foreign exchange purchases. The pesos issued were demanded by both banks and the public. The BCRA continued accumulating surpluses from the external sector and, in this way, regained international reserves during November, replenishing its stock, which at the end of the month reached USD 10,000 million.

üü Nearly the entire stock of LEBACs in pesos was refinanced, favoring longer-term instruments and reducing the cut-off rate. Market interest rates accompanied the evolution of the LEBACs rate and showed sustained decline, although smaller than observed in October.

## Introduction

During November, there were no significant variations in the evolution of variables in the local monetary market compared to what had been observed in recent months. This means that favorable developments continued in a macroeconomic context that has been showing some signs of reactivation in some productive sectors and greater consumer confidence, with low retail inflation of 0.5% monthly –and a negative variation in wholesale prices– and a stable exchange rate, beyond the increase at the end of the month.

## Graph 1

Inflation and Consumer Confidence Index (ICC)
Monthly Var in billions of pesos Accumulated Var
25 50

Inflation Var ICC

15 Accumulated Inflation Accumulated Var 30

5 10

-5 -10

-15 -30
Jan-01 Mar-01 May-01 Jul-01 Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02

During the course of the month, some events emerged that under other circumstances would have seriously complicated the development of monetary variables: the lack of definition in negotiations with the IMF, non-compliance with the World Bank, rumors of a possible Supreme Court ruling in favor of the redollarization of deposits, and political uncertainty.

However, financial entities continued to increase their deposits and, although net loan cancellations persist at the system level, this month increases have been observed in some credit lines. Likewise, the liquidity of the financial system continued to recover and for the second consecutive month there was no financial assistance of any kind to the banks.

The BCRA, for its part, continued with its policy of replenishing its stock of international reserves. In turn, it renewed the stock of LEBACs reducing the cut-off rate along with an increase in the maturity period.

## Deposits
In November, deposits from the private sector in the Argentine financial system, including reprogrammed deposits (CEDRO) at $1.40 without CER adjustment, increased by around $1,600 million (3%). Because in practice CEDROs are released considering CER adjustment and, in the case of amparo resources, at the market exchange rate, the analysis of the impact of deposit variation on bank liquidity should include both the CER adjustment and the difference in quotation between the market exchange rate at the moment of release and the exchange rate of $1.40 per dollar at which this type of liabilities are reported. Therefore, considering a definition that includes the aforementioned adjustments, the variation of these deposits would be $930 million. It should be noted that in this report, for purposes of analysis, this definition will be maintained.

2Monetary Report November 2002

Table 1

Monthly Flows in millions of pesos November
1. Peso Deposits (a+b) 2,667
a. Private Sector pesos 2,333
Corralito 215
Transactional -86
PF 301
Free 2,118
Transactional(1) 993
PF 1,125
b. Public Sector pesos 334

2. CEDROs -1,393
Amparos (2) -828
Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -332
CER Adjustment -129
Difference due to payment at free exchange rate -367
Other releases (3) -565
Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -404
CER Adjustment -161

3. Effect of deposit decline on system liquidity (1 + 2) 1,274

4. Dollar Deposits (in USD) 49
(1) Includes judicial deposits
(2) Estimated figure.
(3) Does not include CEDRO decline exchanged for BODEN.

Fixed-term deposits showed an increase ($1,400 million), which originated mainly in the free segment ($1,130 million, approximately 20%). Within this latter group, as in previous months, a concentration was observed in the 30-day term (around $860 million), which continued increasing its share in the total reaching 64%. A fact worth highlighting is that an increase has been noticed in the stock of placements for more than 365 days ($180 million) for the first time in the year. In general, there was a lengthening of placement terms which led to those for more than 2 months increasing their share in the total, reaching 22%. It should be noted that this behavior has been observed both for deposits from individuals and from companies and financial service providers (AFJPs, FCI, etc).

Graph 2
Millions of $ Distribution of Available Fixed-term Deposits

8,000

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov
7 to 29 30 to 59 60 to 179 + 180

3Monetary Report November 2002

The increase observed in fixed-term deposits was practically offset by the fall in CEDROs – which, as is known, originate mostly from fixed-term deposits that were "corralled" – since the releases of reprogrammed deposits, excluding those originating from Exchange II, reached around $1,400 million. In particular, it is estimated that amparo resources implied liquidity needs for somewhat more than $800 million1. Although this amount is lower than those observed in previous months, it means that there continues to be a significant drain of funds via amparos in the system.

Graph 3

Monthly flow of deposits
in thousands of millions of pesos
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov
2
1.1
1 0.8 0.8 0.9
0
-1 -0.6
-1.2 -1.3-1.1 -1.0 -1.0 -0.8
-2 -1.8
-3 Dep. Private Sector Amparos

The aforementioned releases together with Exchange II of deposits reprogrammed for BODEN 2013 or bank notes (accounting has been made for $730 million), led to the stock of CEDROs at the end of the month being reduced to $22,300 million ($15,900 million without considering CER adjustment).
Unlike what happened in recent months, in which deposit growth was driven by time deposits, this month showed a significant increase in transactional deposits (approximately $900 million). Within these, current accounts explain almost the entirety of the variation, although it should also be noted that savings account placements increased in November after several months of declines.

It is worth noting that the conditions prevailing in the month – the aforementioned lack of agreement with the IMF, non-payment to international organizations, political uncertainty – together with the fall in interest rates and a perception of increasing risk, led to the expectation that economic agents would opt to shift their assets toward more liquid positions.

This behavior of economic agents is confirmed by observing the evolution of the banknotes and coins aggregate during November. The non-financial private sector increased its cash holdings by $750 million during the month. Unlike what was observed in recent months, cash did not show its typical seasonal behavior, that is, a gradual decline from the second week of the month; on the contrary, it remained stable.

1 This figure corresponds to an estimate made taking into account the information available at the time of preparing this report, so it may be subject to variations.

4 Monetary Report November 2002

**Graph 4**

**Banknotes and Coins**
**Average Index Jun = Base 100**
120
November

100

80

60
1-Jul 31-Jul 30-Aug 29-Sep 29-Oct 28-Nov 28-Dec
2000 2001 2002

This increase in money in circulation together with the significant increase in transactional deposits mentioned above resulted in an increase in M2 of $1,600 million (5%), indicating the greater preference of economic agents for liquid balances. Given the low inflation observed, M2 also showed an increase in real terms (4.5%).

**Graph 5**

**M2**
45

November
35

25

15
Jan-00 May-00 Sep-00 Jan-01 May-01 Sep-01 Jan-02 May-02 Sep-02

Nominal Real

5 Monetary Report November 2002

Given the opening of the "corralito," it is considered appropriate to report that at the time of preparing this summary, the deposits that corresponded to the so-called "corralito" amounted on November 30 to $24,000 million of which $14,700 million (60%) corresponded to transactional deposits and the rest to time placements ($9,300 million). For its part, in the "free" segment there was $15,600 million of which 45% correspond to time deposits.

**Deposit Structure in Pesos and CEDROs**
**Private Sector**

CEDROs (at Sight Corralito
1.4$/USD) 26%
29%

Time Deposits Free Time Deposits
13% Sight Free Corralito
15% 17%

**Loans**

Loans to the private sector appear to be showing an incipient reactivation. Thus, for the first time in the year, an increase in the stock of commercial lines (advances and document discounts) was observed, while consumer loans showed a deceleration in the amount of net cancellations that had been observed.

**Graph 6**

**Monthly Evolution of Loans to Private Sector - 2002**
**Millions Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov**

500

0

-500 -329

-1000 -980
-1013 -898 -805
-1500 -1450 -1470

-2000 -1985 -1751
-2135

-2500 -2534

-3000 Commercial Consumption TOTAL

The behavior by bank group shows that approximately half of the decline in total loan stock occurred in foreign bank branches. On the other hand, banks with predominantly foreign capital together with those with national capital are the groups that increased their commercial loans, while all groups showed net cancellations in consumer lines with a significant deceleration observed compared to the previous month in public banks.

**Table 2**
# Loans to the Private Sector - November 2002
 Bank Group Variations in millions
 Commercial Consumption Total
 Public -42 -28 -70
 Private National 56 -51 6
 Foreign Bank Branches -44 -111 -155
 Cooperatives -13 -12 -25
 Financial Companies 7 -31 -24
 Credit Unions 0 0 0
 Majority Foreign Capital 88 -150 -62
 TOTAL 53 -382 -329

Monetary Base and Creation Factors

 In November, the monetary base increased $1,960 million (8%) showing an increase in both current account deposits at the BCRA ($1,070 million) and monetary circulation ($890 million).

Table 3

 Supply and Demand of Base - flow in millions of November

 1. Supply of Monetary Base 4,412
 a. National Government 259
 b. BCRA Assistance to the Financial System -62
 c. Liquidation of exports at the BCRA 4,120
 In dollars 1,165
 d. Other 95

 2. Demand for Monetary Base 1,960
 a. Cash in hands of the public 750
 b. Bank reserves 1,211
 Cash in banks 137
 Current account at the BCRA 1,074

 3. Imbalance (Absorption Needs) (1) - (2) 2,452
 a. Exchange intervention 2,537
 b. Lebacs -85

 Net Internal Assets (1) - (1c) - (3b) 377

 7Monetary Report November 2002

 In general, it was observed that the increase in bank liquidity resulted in an increase in their reserves at the BCRA, which evidences the continuity of cautious behavior on the part of the entities.

 If considered as an indicator of system liquidity, the ratio between bank reserves –not considering the technical reserve requirement- and private deposits, in November this relationship reached around 17% which demonstrates the sustained increase in liquidity that has been observed in the system since June and which reaches a level similar to that observed during the second quarter of 2001 prior to the beginning of the crisis.

Graph 7

 Percentage BCRA Current Account/Private Deposits*

 18 17 November

 16

 14

 12

 10

 8

 6
 31-Jan 2-Mar 1-Apr 1-May 31-May 30-Jun 30-Jul 29-Aug 28-Sep 28-Oct 27-Nov

 * Includes CEDROs

 On the other hand, analyzing the minimum cash position by entity it can be observed that the entities have generally maintained their position with respect to the previous month.

Graph 8

 Liquidity Position
 November vs. October
 600November

 400

 200

 October 0

 -600 -400 -200 0 200 400 600
 -200

 -400

 -600

 8Monetary Report November 2002

 With regard to the factors of variation of the monetary base, the private external sector continued being the main one. As a consequence of the exchange controls that, on the one hand, force the monetization of export liquidations and on the other hand, restrict purchases by individuals, this sector generated an expansive effect of $1,600 million. For its part, assistance to the government resulted in an expansion of $260 million. It should be noted here that the BCRA made temporary advances to the national government for approximately $1,800 million which were used to make payments to international organizations (representing payments of approximately USD500 million), which implies that said transfers had no effect on the monetary base.

Graph 9

 Monetary Base and Expansion Factors
 in millions of pesos
 2000

 1500

 1000

 500

 0

 -500

 External Sector Government Other Net Assistance to Lebacs Monetary Base
 (Private S.) National Entities Nominal
 Financial

 On the other hand, given the liquidity existing in the system, for the second consecutive month there was no financial assistance from the BCRA to the entities.

 As was mentioned, both the public and banks demanded the pesos issued. Nevertheless, it is noted that although up to the present the reconstitution of liquidity of the entities drove the increase in the monetary base, thus absorbing the monetization of foreign trade flows imposed by exchange controls, it cannot be assured that in the future a similar behavior will persist.

International Reserves
The BCRA's international reserves increased by USD 140 million as a result of net purchases from the private sector for USD 450 million and deposits in dollar current accounts from financial entities at the BCRA, which were partially offset by the foreign currency outflows implied by payments to international organizations already mentioned.
In this way, the stock of international reserves reached US 10,000 million, a level similar to that observed at the beginning of June of this year.

9 Monetary Report November 2002

**Graph 10**

Reference Exchange Rate and International Reserves
$/US$ Millions of US$
4.0 14,000

3.8 13,000

3.5 12,000

3.3 11,000

3.0 10,000

2.8 9,000

2.5 8,000
31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sep 27-Oct 26-Nov

Exchange rate Reserves

As can be observed in the graph, during November the exchange rate showed a sustained decline that reached to place the price of the currency at $3.48 as of November 262. However, in the last days of the month an increase in the exchange rate was observed as a result of uncertainty about what could happen in December with the suspension of restrictions on deposit withdrawals.

In this context, entities ended the month by slightly reducing their position in foreign currency with respect to the end of October. Thus, the general exchange position (PGC) went from 51% of the maximum permitted limit –5% of the computable equity liability (RPC) of November 2001- in October to 48% at the end of November.

**LEBACS**

Through the issuances of LEBACs in the month of November, it was possible to refinance almost entirely the stock in force at the beginning of the period at increasingly lower interest rates and at the same time, improve the maturity profile. Continuing with the policy implemented in previous months, priority was given to the placement of instruments with longer terms. In particular, LEBACs in pesos at 3 and 4 months average life came to constitute 5% and 12% respectively of the total stock of letters in pesos in circulation at the end of November. Likewise, LEBACs at 6 months increased their participation from 8% to 19%. This resulted in the lengthening of the average duration of the LEBACs portfolio in pesos, bringing it to 65 days and in 39% of the total maturities for this type of securities being concentrated as of February of next year. With respect to securities denominated in dollars, a lengthening of the terms was also observed, in particular the most liquid ones (14 days) went from representing 87% of the dollar amount to constituting 60%.

2 Corresponds to the reference exchange rate published by the BCRA.

10 Monetary Report November 2002

**Graph 11**
a)

Maturities of LEBACs in pesos -by adjudication term-
VN millions of pesos
400 1 month 2 months 84d 91d CER

3 months 4 months 6 months
300

200

100

0
1st W. 2nd W. 3rd W. 4th W. 1st W. 2nd W. 3rd W. 4th W. February March April May
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan.

b)

Maturities of LEBACs in dollars -by adjudication term-
VN millions of dollars

75

14d 1 month
50

25

0
1st W. 2nd W. 3rd W. 4th W. 1st W. 2nd W. 3rd W. 4th W. February March April May
Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan.

On the other hand, it should be noted that given that the maturities of LEBACs in pesos have not been entirely renewed and the amount in circulation of those denominated in dollars increased slightly – and reached VN US$195 million- the result for November of this type of placements was expansive in terms of the monetary base in $85 million.
Finally, it is worth noting that market interest rates continued to show sustained decline, although not as strong as that observed in October, and appear to have reached a floor similar to the shortest-term LEBACs toward the end of November. Both the rates paid for fixed-term deposits in pesos at 30 days and up to 59 days, as well as those traded in the interbank market in pesos were reduced by approximately 3 percentage points. However, the interest rate offered for fixed-term deposits up to 13 days showed a reduction close to 9 percentage points.

11 Monetary Report November 2002

Chart 12

TNA % Evolution of interest rates in pesos

70 Fixed-term 7-13d. Fixed-term 30d.
60 Fixed-term 7-59 d. Private call 15 d.
LEBAC $ 14 d. LEBAC $ 1 month
50 LEBAC $ 2 months

40

30

20

10

0
19-Sep 26-Sep 3-Oct 10-Oct 17-Oct 24-Oct 31-Oct 7-Nov 14-Nov 21-Nov 28-Nov 5-Dec

If interest rates for fixed-term deposits at 30 days are analyzed, it is observed that the dispersion between banks decreased as the same declined. However, it is important to note that there is significant market concentration, so interest rates are led by a small group of banks. If the structure of interest rates by bank group is observed together with the volume traded, a strong concentration of operations can be distinguished in national public banks and those with majority foreign capital.

Chart 13

Rate Fixed-term rate in pesos at 30 days - November Amount (millions)
35 10 Ent. 2500

30
18 Ent. 2000
25

20 1500

15 1000

10 7 Ent. 5 Ent.
500
5
5 Ent.
0 0
Public Cap. Major. Branches of Banks Private E.F.N.B.
Foreign Foreign National
Amount Rate

With regard to the interbank loan market (call), although 57% of entities participate, the volumes traded are small ($250 million, 25% of what was traded two years ago). Additionally, 20% operate as lenders and borrowers, while 50% are only loan providers. In turn, operations are concentrated basically in public banks.

Chart 14

Call up to 3 days - November 2002 Call up to 3 days - November 2002
Millions of $ Entities Lenders Percentage Millions of $ Entities Borrowers Percentage
30 12 35 2 entities 12
2 entities
25 10 30 10

20 8 25 8

20
15 6 6
15
10 14 entities 4 10 4
12 entities 5 entities
5 1 entity 8 entities 3 entities 25 7 entities 12 entities 3 entities 2

0 0 0 0
Public Private Nat. Branches Foreign Banks. Cooperatives Financial Companies Cap. May. Ext. Public Private Nat. Branches Foreign Banks. Financial Companies Cap. May. Ext.

Average Amount Traded Monthly Average Monthly Rate Average Amount Traded Monthly Average Monthly Rate

Monetary Program 2003

In compliance with the provisions established in article 3 of the Central Bank's Organic Charter, a Monetary Program for the year 2003 was recently presented. That document presents as its main objective the maintenance of price stability, in its character as a necessary condition for the fulfillment of this bank's primary and fundamental mission, which is to preserve the value of the currency.

Likewise, the implementation of monetary policy involves the establishment of quantitative targets for monetary aggregates in their capacity as the nominal anchor of the system. Understanding, in this way, that the consolidation of prices through the limitation of the expansion of domestic credit in the economy is fundamental to stimulate economic development.
This program also commits to the adoption of an appropriate monetary policy in order to reestablish systematic liquidity to face CEDRO maturities, continue with exchange rate stability and rebuild the BCRA's international reserves. In accordance with these objectives, an appropriate implementation of reserve requirement policies is proposed, sterilization through LEBAC placement, and responsible granting of assistance to banks.

The main working assumptions incorporated into the 2003 Monetary Program include prompt agreement with the IMF that implies a roll-over of debt service and a possible additional allocation in order to leave the consolidated public sector accounts balanced; fiscal balance in the national government accounts contemplating transfers from the BCRA to it, as advance payment of profits for $1,200 million in the year; restoration of confidence in the financial system which is visualized through partial reinvestment of funds released by the CEDRO amortization schedule and through resources from injunctions and the beginning of the public and private debt restructuring process.

Likewise, the Central Bank expects a progressive relaxation of exchange and capital controls in such a way as to definitively normalize the capital market. In this way, it is intended to have a better reading of monetary aggregates. Since the Central Bank has committed to expanding the monetary base by some USD 12,800 million as a result of exporters' liquidation and faces artificially suppressed demand due to the aforementioned controls, it cannot distinguish whether the surplus of liquidations is the product of genuine demand for pesos (which would not cause inflation) or due to the effect of controls (whereby the increase in money supply would generate inflation).

The Program was prepared mainly within a framework of economic reactivation, so after observing a decline of 16% during the first quarter of the current year, an annual decline of 11% is expected. Continuing with this recovery trend, a real GDP increase of 2.6% is projected for 2003.

One of the main dynamizing factors of the economy would be the external sector, with an estimated increase in exports for 2002 of 2.6%. Maintaining its leading role in recovery, an increase in exports of 11.7% is projected for 2003. Regarding the other branch of foreign trade, imports are expected to grow 27.9% as a result of increased income and exchange rate stability. In this regard, it is worth noting that part of domestic production is expected to be driven by import substitution.

As for domestic demand, a slight recovery in consumption and investment is projected. In the case of consumption, an increase of 2.6% is expected in 2003, following a contraction of 13.4% in 2002. For its part, investment growth of 5% is projected for the coming year after a real decline of 36.9% during the current year.

Regarding prices, it is expected that they will remain stable due to the slight downward trend in the nominal exchange rate, reduced pass-through and prudent monetary policy by the BCRA. Consistent with this, in a context of incipient reactivation but low utilization of productive resources, no pressure on nominal wages is expected. On the other hand, while increases in public service tariffs are expected, these will have a limited effect on the inflation index. Thus, after a price increase of 41.3% projected for the entire year 2002, retail inflation of around 21% is expected for 2003.
It is important to highlight the conditional nature of the projections associated with the monetary program presented, and thus emphasize the threats to the success of the monetary program. The lack of agreement with the IMF; the presence of fiscal dominance; the implementation of netting –cancellation of rediscounts with public securities; judicial resolutions associated with rescheduled deposits or the constitutionality of emergency measures adopted by this government and the institutional political framework constitute each and every one of them storm fronts that can endanger the execution of the proposed monetary program, implying in most cases an expansive monetary policy (through both direct and indirect financing of the deficit of the consolidated public sector) that would have immediate repercussions on the rest of macroeconomic projections, in particular the inflation rate and the nominal exchange rate, with clearly negative effects on the level of activity.

Information on Equity Status of Private Banks
June 20024

As a consequence of the resumption of sending information related to the Balance Sheet Regime by the entities, there is certain material available to evaluate their equity situation after the changes that occurred at the beginning of 2002. It should be mentioned that, basically, the conversion to local currency of asset and liability items originally denominated in foreign currency at different exchange rates, the indexing of asset and liability items converted to local currency at different indices5 and the phenomenon of strong financial disintermediation recorded so far this year, generated important modifications in the level and composition of the different items on the balance sheet of financial entities. Below is a brief description of the current structure of the balance sheet for the aggregate of private banks as of June 2002.

Considering a homogeneous group of private banking entities6, it can be observed that total assets measured in terms of local currency –at current values– grew 56% between December 2001 and June 2002. For its part, Net Equity registered an increase of almost 70% in the same period when converting all items to current pesos. However, given the significant increase in the price level observed between the months indicated, if the items are expressed at constant values –for example, using the Wholesale Internal Price Index, IPIM– a decrease equivalent to 21% and 16% of total Assets and Net Equity measured in this way respectively can be noted7. Finally, it should be noted that in terms of US dollars, and given its reference quotation at the end of June 2002, the Net Equity of private banking decreased approximately 60% between December 2001 and June 2002.

Graph 15

On the asset side, it is noteworthy that as of June 2002 credit to the public sector constitutes the concept with the highest weighting (49%) by growing almost 270% since December 2001. This growth in percentage participation responded, fundamentally, to both the

5 What has been called asymmetric pesification and indexation.

6 Entities in operation as of June 2002 are considered.
7 If the Consumer Price Index is used, the variations show an increase of 19% and 27% respectively.
incorporation into the balance sheet –at its technical value- of public securities received as compensation –for asymmetric pesification- and hedging -of the net open position in foreign currency-, as well as the conversion of a large part of the credit previously granted to this sector at a peso/dollar exchange rate of 1.4 and its respective adjustment by the CER index.

On the other hand, financing to the private sector registered a sharp loss of relative participation, going from almost 40% at the beginning of the period to 20% in June 2002. The pesification carried out -of those loans granted in foreign currency- at a peso/dollar exchange ratio of 1, the existence of an important proportion of pesified loans that update the capital at the rate of the salary variation coefficient index (C.V.S.), and the significant rate of cancellation of this financial assistance observed so far this year, helped to bring about this change in the composition of the asset portfolio of the set of private banking entities.

In terms of the funding structure, total deposits reduced their participation by almost 20 percentage points, reaching 35% of it by the end of June 2002, revealing the phenomenon of heavy withdrawal of deposits by savers observed in the first half of the year. For its part, and largely linked to this circumstance, Obligations with the Central Bank went on to account for just over 10%, basically reflecting the effect of the increase recorded in assistance granted due to illiquidity situations in the scenario mentioned above. Likewise, the rediscounts taken at the end of subscribing to the National State bond for the hedging reason -mentioned above- helped to explain part of the participation mentioned earlier. As a consequence, fundamentally, of the increase in the exchange rate value, the aggregate balance of External Credit Lines, Negotiable Obligations and Subordinated Obligations increased significantly (250%), increasing their relative participation by almost 16%, reaching in current pesos almost 30% of total funds.

**Chart 16**

**Balance of Private Banks**
**June 2002**

*In billions of pesos - Includes CER and CVS adjustment*

| ASSET | | LIABILITY |
|-------|---|---------|
| Reserves | 125 | 7 |
| | 100 | 43 Deposits |
| Credit to Public Sector | 59 | |
| | 75 | 14 Obligations with BCRA |
| Credit to Private Sector | 50 | 34 OS, ON and External Lines |
| | 26 | |
| Other Assets | 25 | 13 Other |
| | 30 | 18 |
| | | Net Worth |

To conclude, it is worth highlighting some relationships that help provide some approximation to the solvency status of the private banking sector. First, it is observed that the accounting Net Worth (PN) reported in June 2002 by the set of entities considered is equivalent to 20% of the aggregate of public and private financing –without adjusting for its risk value-, decreasing 3 percentage points with respect to December 2001. In terms of credit to the public sector, and as a consequence of the aforementioned increase in this item, the PN went from representing almost 70% at the beginning of the period to only 30% in June 2002. Given the current condition regarding the payment of debt services by the National State and the consequent change in market value of these assets, it is worth highlighting the level reached by this last indicator. Based on the information provided by the entities, it could be translated in general terms, and without other modifications in the relevant variables, that changes in the accounting value of credit to the public sector that represent decreases just over one third of its current registration would mean exhausting the accounting value as of June 2002 of Net Worth for the set of private entities analyzed.
