# Monetary Report December 2002

## Monetary Report
## December 2002

## Summary

üü The evolution of monetary variables evidenced the impact of seasonal factors typical of December.

üü Thus, means of payment (M2) increased on average by 8% driven by public demand for cash in circulation, which increased by $2,600 million.

üü In line with the BCRA's expectations, the lifting of the financial freeze did not have a major impact on the financial system. Demand deposits did not show significant variations in their level.

üü The increase in means of payment in pesos was financed basically by the BCRA's purchase of dollars. This, in turn, generated an increase in the BCRA's international reserves which reached U$S 10,476 million.

üü Payments for injunctions continued at the level of recent months, registering in December a total effect of $880 million. For its part, the deallocation of CEDRO adjusted by CER reached $870 million. The banking sector managed to absorb the payment of injunctions and the rest of CEDRO deallocations through new fixed-term deposits and the collection of loans.

üü In total, private M3 (including CEDRO at 1.4$/USD) increased by $2,100 million. During the year, monetization was 17.3 percentage points of GDP, a level similar to that observed in earlier times of the Tequila crisis.

üü The broad monetary base¹ increased by $2,794 million (8%), an increase explained mainly by net currency purchases. Other expansion factors were the transfers of profits to the government and operations with financial entities.

üü Interest rates for time deposits remained at levels close to 20% to rise in the final days. For its part, interest rates associated with call operations remained stable around 6%.

üü The placement of LEBAC resulted in a monetary contraction of $102 million. The policy of extending terms continued along with the reduction of their average cost. The volume of rejected offers indicates that investors continue to maintain their interest in this instrument.

üü With respect to currency quotations, the peso appreciated 6% with respect to the North American currency, the parity between the peso and the real remained constant while although the value of the euro on average was higher by 0.7% than in November, at the end of the month practically the same level was verified as in the previous month (3.52 $/euro).

¹ The adjective broad indicates that quasi-currencies are included.

---

## Body Text

During December, the broad monetary base, in line with the historical variations observed for this month, increased by $2,794 million (8%). The main expansion factor was the monetization of foreign trade surpluses. The Central Bank sterilized through market operations approximately 50% of the purchases from the liquidation of exports. In this way, the balance of net currency purchases proved expansionary in $1,935 million (U$S 550 million), so this expansion was backed by foreign currency.

## Table 1
Flow in millions of pesos December

**1. Expansion factors of the Monetary Base** 5,275
   a. National Government 578
      Transitory advance 0
      Advance on profits 1,031
      Remainder -453
   b. Financial System(1) 303
   
   c. Liquidation of exports at the BCRA 4,319
      In dollars 1,229
   d. Remainder 76

**2. Monetary Base** 2,794
   a. Cash in possession of the public 2,613
   b. Bank reserves 181
      Cash in banks 120
      Current account at the BCRA 61

**3. Monetary policy instruments** 2,481
   a. Currency intervention 2,384
   b. LEBACs 102

**Net Internal Assets** (1) - (1c) - (3b) 854

(1) Includes remuneration of current accounts at the BCRA for $289 million and an adjustment of active repos with an expansionary effect of $126 million.
Another expansion factor was assistance to the National Government, whose monetary effect was $578 million. It is important to clarify that although $1,031 million were transferred to the national government as an advance on profits, these were partly allocated to the payment of obligations contracted with international organizations (almost US$140 million), so they did not have a monetary impact.

The operations between the Central Bank and financial entities, for their part, resulted in a monetary expansion of $300 million. In this item, although the cancellations of capital and amortizations of premiums and interest on the assistance granted to the banks amounted to $112 million, the crediting of the remuneration of their current accounts at the BCRA together with an adjustment of active repurchase agreements more than compensated for this effect.

2Monetary Report December 2002

Graph 1

Monetary base and explanation factors

in millions of pesos

3,000 percentage participation
 in the increase of the
 2,500 base 69
 2,000

 1,500

 1,000 21
 11
 500 4 3

 0
 National Financial Sector External LEBAC Rest Monetary
 Government Sector Base

December is a month in which a marked positive seasonality of money demand can be observed, especially of cash in the hands of the public, which usually increases strongly. On this occasion, the increase in broad cash was $2,600 million (12%).

Graph 2

Cash in the hands of the public and quasi-monies
 billions

 130 December

 120

 110

 100

 90
 30-Sep 14-Oct 28-Oct 11-Nov 25-Nov 9-Dec 23-Dec 6-Jan 20-Jan 3-Feb 17-Feb

 1999 2000 2002

The seasonality of cash is associated with the demand for goods, a seasonality that has been observed even during periods of low activity levels. The figures associated with supermarket sales, for example, especially during recent years in which a recessionary framework predominated, confirm this seasonal behavior in consumption. In this item, sales at constant prices usually increase on average 30% at year-end.

3Monetary Report December 2002

Graph 3

Monthly Evolution of Supermarket Sales
 in percentage
 40

 30

 20

 10

 0

 -10

 -20

 -30
 May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar
 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001

The increase in demand for goods originates an increase in the level of transactions in the domestic economy. This increase in operations not only impacts the speed of rotation of transactional balances but also promotes an increase in means of payment.

During December the private M2 aggregate1 which summarizes the level of the most liquid monetary balances, increased on average 6.3%. If we consider the estimated evolution of this aggregate in terms of GDP, the increase evidenced this year was one percentage point, similar to that observed on average in recent years.

If the evolution of the components of Private M2 is analyzed, its increase originated entirely in the behavior of cash in the hands of the public already mentioned. Although the latter represented on average 44% of private M2 in December, between extremes its participation increased 4 percentage points.

Graph 4 Evolution of the components of Private M2

 in millions of pesos
 25,000 December

 24,000

 23,000

 22,000

 21,000

 20,000

 19,000

 18,000
 31-Aug 12-Sep 24-Sep 6-Oct 18-Oct 30-Oct 11-Nov 23-Nov 5-Dec 17-Dec 29-Dec

 Savings Account + Current Account Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-monies

1 Defined as the sum of cash in the hands of the public, the balance in bank current accounts, savings accounts in pesos and the stock of quasi-monies in circulation.

4Monetary Report December 2002
# Translation to English

The other component of M2, demand deposits, did not present major variations in its level. On the contrary, changes were observed in its composition. Placements in savings accounts decreased by around $260 million, a variation that was entirely offset by the growth of current accounts. Purchases made through debit cards of savings accounts, stimulated by price reduction promotions for their use, could be affecting the composition of demand deposits, although this assumption cannot be verified with the available information.

It is important to recall that at the beginning of December there was a liberalization of the so-called "corralito," however, this fact, and as was foreseen, did not have major impact on the system.

During December, banks had to face the return of writs of amparo for almost $1,070 million, which given the exchange rate at which payments were made, is equivalent to a de-allocation of CEDRO of $440 million ($600 million adjusted by CER). Additionally, a de-allocation of CEDRO was observed for other concepts of $280 million, a figure that rises to $390 million if adjusted by CER. In summary, the total de-allocation of CEDRO, whether by amparo resources, loan payments, amortizations within the established schedule and exceptions for humanitarian reasons, totaled $1,460 million.

Table 2
Monthly Flows in millions of pesos December
1. Deposits in pesos (a+b) 425
a. Private Sector pesos 499
Savings account -335
Current account 331
Other 24
Fixed-term deposits 479

b. Public Sector pesos -74

2. CEDROs -1.458
Writs of amparo (1) -1.066

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -437
CER adjustment -172
Difference due to payment at free exchange rate -456
Other de-allocations (2) -392

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -279
CER adjustment -113

3. Effect of deposit decline on system
liquidity (1 + 2) -1.033

4. Deposits in dollars (in USD) 38
(1) Estimated figure.
(2) Do not include decline in CEDROs exchanged for BODEN.

A portion of these liability de-allocations returned to the system in the form of fixed-term deposits. In December, these increased by around $480 million (2.8%), growth that concentrated especially during the last week of the month. This increase in fixed-term placements was much lower than that observed in recent months - the average monthly increase observed since August exceeded $2,000 million. This deceleration is also attributable to the preference for maintaining more liquid positions evidenced by the private sector. As has already been stated, December is a month with strong seasonality in the demand for transactional money and, therefore, an important increase in fixed-term deposits is not to be expected.

Private M3 defined as M2 plus other demand deposits, fixed-term deposits and CEDRO at 1.4 $/USD, increased during December $2,400 million explained fundamentally by the increase in the means of payment already mentioned. In this way, the level of monetization of the economy² in the year 2002 was on average 17.3 percentage points in terms of GDP – a decrease of 11 percentage points compared to the previous year. It is important to note that the pesification at 1.4$/US$ of balances in dollars (considering the balance of dollar deposits as of December 31) implied, at the beginning of 2002, an increase in the M3/GDP ratio in pesos of approximately 5 percentage points. For its part, the optional exchanges of CEDRO for BODEN represented a demonetization on average of around 1 point. As can be observed in the graph, monetization reached a level similar to that observed prior to the Tequila crisis (early 1995).

Graph 5
Degree of Monetization
in percentage M3* Private / GDP
40

30

20

10

0
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
The decline in liabilities was distributed in a relatively even manner among the different types of financial entities. If we consider three large subgroups of banks³: public banks, foreign private banks (whether branches or with majority foreign capital) and national private banks, we can observe that the decline they had to face was 42%, 30% and 28% of their total liabilities, respectively.

From the aforementioned cancellation of bank liabilities, a portion returned to the system through the collection of loans. During the month of December, net cancellations of loans to the private sector amounted to approximately $1,000 million⁴, of which $660 million corresponded to commercial loans and $340 million to consumer loans.

In the case of commercial lines, it is important to highlight that this month exceptional cancellations of corporate loans were made for an approximate amount of $400

² Defined as the average of the end-of-month balances of M3* (including dollar deposits at free exchange rate) over GDP.
³ Financial entities and credit cooperatives are excluded.
⁴ It should be recalled that part of this cancellation was made against the return of CEDRO.

6 Monetary Report December 2002

million, concentrated in banks with majority foreign capital and branches of foreign banks. Therefore, except for these operations, the behavior of commercial loans is similar to that observed in previous months, registering a rate of change of -2% over the capital stock.

In the case of consumer loans, although their stock continues to show a declining trend, as can be seen in the graph, their monthly rate of change has been decelerating, going from declines of between 4 and 5% until mid-year to a decrease of 1.85% of the capital stock in December.

Graph 6
a) b)
Commercial Loans to the Private Sector Consumer Loans to the Private Sector
Millions of $ Millions of $
20,000 0.4% 1% 28,000 0%

-1.4% 0% 26,000 -1%
18,000 -2.0% -2.2% -2.0%-1% 24,000 -2.2% -2.0% -1.9%
-3.0% -2% -2.5% -2%
-3.3% -3.9% -3.8% 22,000 -3.1% -2.8% -3.0%
16,000 -3% 20,000 -3%
-5.1% -4% -4.1% -4.1%
14,000 -5% 18,000 -4.6% -4%
-6% 16,000 -5.8% -5%
12,000 -8.2% -7% 14,000
-8% 12,000 -6%

10,000 -9% 10,000 -7%
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Capital stock at end of month Rate of Change Capital stock at end of month Rate of Change

It should be noted that the behavior of consumer loans was not totally homogeneous by group of entities. Most of the cancellations were concentrated in branches of foreign banks, banks with majority foreign capital and public banks, while national private banks increased this type of loans.

An appropriate indicator of liquidity needs given the significant loan cancellation observed so far is the variation in deposits net of their collection. Considering these figures, national private banks were the most affected in terms of liquidity needs, which amounted to approximately $345 million. In the case of foreign banks, the cancellation of loans exceeded the withdrawal of deposits and, in net terms, they obtained funds of $460 million.

Graph 7
Distribution of Liquidity - December 2002
in millions of pesos in percentage
800 25
46120.3457
400 20

15.7 14.0
0 15

-146
-400 -261 -205-286 -306-34510
-415

-800 5
Public National Private Foreign Private

Dep Dep - Loans CC BCRA CC/Dep (2nd axis)

7 Monetary Report December 2002
# Translation to English

The distribution of bank liquidity had its counterpart in the position of bank reserves at the BCRA. Only the group of foreign banks increased their current account balances at the BCRA, reaching a ratio of bank reserves to private deposits greater than 20%. It is important to note that, although liquidity indicators have been recovering during the second half of the year, there is segmentation in the market between banks with different liquidity levels. In this sense, foreign capital entities have maintained a higher level of liquidity than the rest of the groups.

In general, throughout December, interest rates remained relatively stable, showing an increase only in the last days of the month. Interest rates agreed for fixed-term deposits in pesos at 30 days remained at levels slightly above 20% annualized for private banks, ending the month at a level of 26% annualized for private banks. This increase in interest rates in the last days was associated with increased demand for liquid balances. It should be noted, on the other hand, that the more liquid banks remunerated their deposits with the lowest interest rates in the market. This is because, faced with the decision to remain absent from the credit market and restriction of investment alternatives, they lack incentives for marginal deposit capture.

These interest rate levels are high when compared with past inflation (approximately 3.6% annually during the last quarter), but could prove less attractive when compared with expected inflation for the first two months of 2003, which usually registers higher seasonal peaks.

**Chart 8**

Fixed-term Interest Rates and Private M2
in percentage in millions of $
30 37,000
25 35,750
20 34,500
15 33,250
10 32,000
1-Nov 9-Nov 17-Nov 25-Nov 3-Dec 11-Dec 19-Dec 27-Dec

Fixed-term 30-44 Days in Pesos Private M2 (2nd axis)

During December the BCRA continued accumulating international reserves which, at year-end reached a level of USD 10,476 million, recovering USD 1,650 million from its lowest level in early August. The increase in international reserves occurred through the already mentioned purchases of foreign trade surpluses, which in part were sterilized through foreign currency sales to the market. The result of these operations was partially offset by government payments to international organizations (USD 140 million), which led to an increase in international reserves of USD 450 million. This accumulation of foreign currency was accompanied by a fall in the exchange rate. Considering end-of-month data, the price of the U.S. currency went from $3.57 to $3.36, which represented a peso appreciation of 6%, similar to that experienced by other currencies of

8 Monetary Report December 2002

developed countries with respect to the dollar and lower than that verified by the Brazilian real, resulting in a stable real effective exchange rate.

**Chart 9**
a) b)

Real Exchange Rate Real Exchange Rate

Real Euro 400

1.4 3.8 350

1.3 3.7 300

250
1.2 3.6 200

1.1 3.5 150

100
1.0 3.4 50

0.9 3.3 0
30-Jun 30-Jul 29-Aug 28-Sep 28-Oct 27-Nov 27-Dec Jan-01 Apr-01 Jul-01 Oct-01 Jan-02 Apr-02 Jul-02 Oct-02

Pesos Real Pesos Euro Brazil USA
During the last week of December, some measures were taken to gradually liberalize the foreign exchange market. Among these rules, the following can be mentioned: the suspension of the Central Bank's dollar buying-selling operations on Account and Order basis, flexibility for payments of capital services and interest abroad, the increase of the General Foreign Exchange Position limit from 5 to 6%, the increase from USD 100,000 to USD 150,000 of the maximum limit for purchasing foreign currency without need of BCRA authorization, the reduction of minimum financing periods for imports of capital goods and finally, that the export settlement periods previously established by the Secretary of Industry and Commerce will begin to be governed according to what is agreed between exporter and importer⁵.

**Chart 10**

Reference Exchange Rate and International Reserves
$/USD millions of USD
4.0 14,000
3.8 13,000
3.5 12,000
3.3 11,000
3.0 10,000
2.8 9,000
2.5 8,000
31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sep 27-Oct 26-Nov 26-Dec

Reference Exchange Rate International Reserves (2nd axis)

⁵ Com "B" 7657 and Com "A" 3843, 3844, 3845, 3846, 3847 respectively.

⁹ Monetary Report December 2002

Finally, the LEBAC placement policy had a contractionary effect of $102 million, and the policy of extending maturities was continued. In this sense, LEBAC in pesos with 9 months of maturity began to be issued, while at the end of December the stock of 6-month LEBAC more than doubled what was in effect one month earlier. Likewise, it was possible to increase the total stock of LEBAC in pesos by slightly decreasing the average rate paid and still maintain investor interest in the auctioned instruments. This is verified by observing that the amounts offered by banks, natural persons and legal entities, mainly in auctions of longer-term securities, considerably exceeded the amounts announced by the Central Bank.

**Chart 11**
a) b)

in percentage Offered Amount/Announced Offered Amount/Awarded
in percentage
900 400
800 350
700 300
600 250
500
400 200
300 150
200 100
100 50
0 0
12-Nov 19-Nov 26-Nov 3-Dec 10-Dec 17-Dec 24-Dec 12-Nov 19-Nov 26-Nov 3-Dec 10-Dec 17-Dec 24-Dec
1 month 2 months 3 months 4 months 6 months 9 months 1 month 2 months 3 months 4 months 6 months 9 months

The good reception that the 9-month maturity LEBAC had in the primary market stands out, in whose auctions more than one third of the offers received were not awarded. On the other hand, the interest in LEBAC as an investment instrument was reflected in the increase in the number of banks that maintain this type of securities in their portfolio, which at the end of the year amounted to 29.

**Chart 12**

Number of Banks Holding LEBAC in pesos

30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
31-Jul 16-Aug 4-Sep 20-Sep 8-Oct 24-Oct 11-Nov 27-Nov 9-Dec 21-Dec

The total amount in circulation of LEBAC in pesos at the end of December was located at VN $3,049 million with an average duration of 103 days, while that corresponding to those issued in dollars reached VN US$ 185 million and its average life was 8 days.

10 Monetary Report December 2002

As mentioned previously, the average nominal cost of the outstanding LEBAC portfolio in pesos decreased slightly during the month, placing itself at 33.94% n.a.

**Chart 12**
a) b)

Interest Rates of LEBAC and Money Market Marginal Cost by Auction and Average Cost
in percentage of the LEBAC portfolio in pesos
50 December Percentage TNE 30 days
140
40 -225 pbs 120
100
30 +633 pbs
80
20 60
+44 pbs 40
10
20
0 0
1-Oct 16-Oct 31-Oct 15-Nov 30-Nov 15-Dec 30-Dec 15-Mar-02 29-Apr-02 13-Jun-02 30-Jul-02 12-Sep-02 29-Oct-02 12-Dec-02

PF $ 30 days Private Call $ up to 15 days Average cost LEBAC $ Marginal rate Average nominal cost of LEBAC portfolio $
Interest rates in the interbank market, for their part, remained stable throughout December at around 6% annually for operations in pesos. However, the average amount traded in this market showed a decline of almost 20%, and reached approximately $200 million in pesos on average. The average liquidity of this market represents less than 2% of the total banking reserves of the system, indicating that it continues to be a low-activity market and the level of liquidity redistribution among entities continues to be minimal.

11
