# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report
May 2003

Summary
During May, signals of stability were observed on the monetary front, marked both by a decline in nominal interest rates and an increase in private sector deposits. However, real interest rates continue to be relatively high. Progress was also made in the normalization of the monetary and financial system, with the completion of the lifting of financial restrictions ("corralón") and the initiation of the quasi-currency rescue program.

The broad monetary base (BMA) increased by $1,703 million (4.4%); in seasonally adjusted terms, such increase amounted to 3.6%. The increase in BMA is broken down into an increase in circulating currency of $882 million, an increase of $1,792 in current accounts of financial entities, and a decrease in the stock of quasi-currencies ($972 million). The compensation resulting between the increase in circulating currency and the decrease in the stock of quasi-currencies as a result of their rescue process initiated towards the end of May should be highlighted.

The consumer price index showed a decrease of 0.4% compared to the previous month, the first since November 2001. Contrary to April, it was the prices of goods that decreased (0.7%), while those of services increased very slightly (0.1%). The greater impact of the appreciation of the peso on wholesale prices led the ratio between IPIM and IPC to decline for the seventh consecutive month, reflecting the process of adjustment of relative prices.

Total means of payment in pesos (M2, including quasi-currencies) increased by approximately $2,000 million (4%), while private M2 showed a decrease of approximately $100 million (0.2%); in seasonally adjusted terms, the variation was 0.1%. The main determinant was the increase in demand deposits of the public sector, whose balances reflected record collection by the National Treasury. Total deposits grew (including the variation of CEDRO) in the month by $2,923 million (4%), while private deposits did so by $309 million (0.5%). The lower growth of private transactional deposits is shown to be consistent with the evolution of economic activity.

The liberation of financial restrictions was completed: their acceptance by savers occurred in a proportion lower than expected, and low in relation to the attractive conditions offered, reaching approximately 51% of private CEDRO whose rescheduling was being offered. The result looks favorable if one considers that only a total of $8,000 million (including CER) of rescheduled deposits remain, and that the degree of reinvestment of the liberated funds was high (93% of them directed to fixed-term deposits, considering only balances below $42,000).

The liberation of CEDRO "fed" fixed-term deposits. The variation in fixed-term placements in pesos was greater than that registered by CEDRO. The first amounted to $2,500 million (7%), while the second was -$1,900 million.

Interest rates accentuated the decline initiated the previous month (which reached towards the end of May at 10 percentage points), positioning themselves, in real terms, at levels prior to the financial crisis (with a significantly larger real volume operated than at that time). A trend towards less dispersion among the different entities of the system was also evident.

Although loans to the private sector in pesos decreased during the month, it is noteworthy that the decline in loans in May was the second smallest (in absolute value) so far this year. Not all lines follow the same trend: in the last two months, both commercial credit and credit card financing show evident stabilization.

The binding targets agreed with the IMF (Net International Reserves and Net Domestic Assets) were exceeded in April and May. Meanwhile, the BMA target was not reached. There are adequate economic reasons
that justify the deviation: the combination of greater economic activity, lower inflation, gradual normalization of the
financial system, and of the foreign exchange and capital markets.

ü The rescue of quasi-currencies began: LECOPs were redeemed via taxes, and LECORs through public bidding. The
contractionary monetary effect was very reduced ($14 million), but its qualitative effect cannot be overlooked: limited
circulation currency is eliminated in favor of national circulation money, whose control is in the hands of the
monetary authority.

ü The peso ended May at levels similar to those from a month earlier. Nevertheless, the domestic currency registered
volatile behavior, reaching its lows in more than a year. The euro appreciated almost 7% against the peso,
while the Brazilian real gained 1% with respect to the local currency.

ü The issuance of LEBACs increased (the stock in pesos grew 12%), along with a decline in the cut-off rate in the
auctions. The average life of the portfolio of these instruments also increased slightly.

ü The EMBI spread fell in May almost 80 basis points, driven mainly by the reduction in Brazilian sovereign risk, while
Argentine bonds in default maintained April prices.
# Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Facing a scenario of calm on the monetary and financial front

The BCRA continued during May with a monetary policy aimed at meeting the liquidity needs of the economy. In a context of marked instability of monetary aggregates as a consequence of the structural change suffered as a result of the crisis unleashed in December 2001, it has been implemented through the monetization of the current account surplus, thus directing the bias of monetary policy towards greater flexibility, given that the objective set at the beginning of the year has been more than met of establishing a framework of credibility marked by the stabilization of the annual inflation rate below one digit.

Economic activity continued to show signs of deceleration in the growth rate, an effect however expected given the high growth rates recorded in the first months of the year. Although data from the Monthly Estimator of Economic Activity (EMAE), prepared by INDEC, will only be available in the second half of July, some leading indicators of the level of activity allow us to predict this trend. It should be noted that in March and April the EMAE (monthly proxy of GDP) grew 0.3% monthly, after growing 1.1% monthly in the first two months of the year (see chart 1).

Chart 1
Industrial Activity and Construction
100% (% variation quarterly annualized; 3-month moving average s.a)

80% ISAC EMI

60%

40%

20%

0%

-20%

-40%

-60%

-80%

Mar-98 Sep-98 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02 Mar-03

In particular, the Monthly Industrial Estimator (EMI) recorded a deseasonalized decline for the second consecutive month. In fact, after falling 1% monthly in April, it fell again in May by 1.1% monthly. It should be recalled that industry was one of the most dynamic sectors of the recovery initiated in the second quarter of 2002, so the declines exhibited in recent months have a significant impact on the growth rate of the economy, although other sectors such as construction and agriculture compensate to a large extent for this lower dynamism of industrial activity.

A possible explanation for the deceleration of industrial production lies in the fact that it is heterogeneous in nature. On one hand there are sectors associated mainly with exports and secondly with import substitution or with activities connected to exports (as is the case with agricultural machinery) that substantially increased their production following the change in relative prices generated by the devaluation and are today working near the maximum of their installed capacity. On the other hand, there are sectors more dependent on domestic consumption that still have ample room to increase their production without the need for new investments.

This situation, added to the evidence of internal demand of lax growth, allows us to infer that, unless there are new investments in the first group of sectors, industrial activity could not continue to expand at the speed of the first quarter.

2 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

In this sense, the evolution of Consumer Confidence is very positive. In fact, both the indicator prepared by the Market Foundation and the one prepared by the Di Tella University showed significant increases in May, after the change of Government, reaching record levels in both cases. Should this dynamic continue, it could translate into future increases in private consumption and its magnitude will depend mainly on the reappearance of credit.
Likewise, during May tax collection reached a new all-time record ($7,149 million), with year-over-year growth close to 50%. It is worth noting that practically 80% of the increase is explained by the collection of income tax which showed an increase of 142.3% y.o.y. given the impossibility of adjusting balance sheets for inflation, and by export withholdings with an increase of 118% y.o.y.

It is important to mention further that the collection of certain taxes linked to the level of activity such as fuel, VAT DGI and import tariffs, showed some deterioration in the month, with declines of 7.1%, 5.1% and 4.4% monthly. Although this dynamic does not allow us to confirm a change in trend, it would constitute additional evidence suggesting that the growth rate is not the same as in the first months of the year.

During May, the consumer price index (CPI-GBA collected by INDEC) showed a decrease of 0.4% compared to the previous month, the first since November 2001, explained mostly by the negative carryover from the month of April (-0.3%).

The year-over-year variation of the index was 14.3%, and accumulates an increase of 2.1% in what has passed so far this year. Contrary to the previous month, it was the prices of goods that decreased (-0.7%), while those of services increased very slightly (0.1%). Goods make up 53% of the basket on which price variation is measured. The greatest impact (measured by how much the index would have varied if only the item in question had varied, with everything else remaining constant) was from the item "food and beverages" (negative impact of 0.34%), while two service items (health and transport and communications) also had a negative impact on the index.

The wholesale price index (IPIM, also collected by INDEC) fell in May by 0.7% against the previous month, thus continuing the decline that began in March of this year. The evolution of wholesale prices has been showing the impact of the decline in the value of the dollar with respect to the local currency in recent months. In the May reading, the prices of domestic products decreased 0.5% (as a result of the 1% decrease in primary products and 0.3% in manufactured goods and electric energy), while imported products fell back 3.3%.

The appreciation of the exchange rate in recent months explains in part the evolution of both price indices. The IPIM registers a more direct effect, by recording the variations of imported inputs and primary products (which, being exportable, modify their prices with the exchange rate); the CPI, meanwhile, registers a weaker relationship with the exchange rate—even so, the influence of the price of the local currency on it cannot be ruled out, evidenced by the strong deceleration of inflation.

The greater impact of the appreciation of the peso on wholesale prices led to the ratio between IPIM and CPI to fall for the seventh consecutive month: this would indicate a certain reversal in the adjustment of the relative price of tradable goods in terms of non-tradable goods.

The financial system showed in May a non-traumatic reaction to political ups and downs, corroborating a scenario of greater stability in the main monetary variables. Indeed, interest rates deepened the decline initiated in April (exhibiting a fall of almost 10 percentage points), while total deposits exhibited marked growth. Although nominal rates showed a sharp decline, real rates continue at relatively high levels.

Charts 2 (a) and (b) summarize this scenario of stability.

3 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Chart 2 (a)
Interest Rates and Deposits
TNA % in billions

60                                                    64
50                                                    62
40                                                    60
30                                                    58
20                                                    56
10                                                    54
0
Jul-02  Aug-02  Sep-02  Oct-02  Nov-02  Dec-02  Jan-03  Feb-03  Mar-03  Apr-03  May-03

Nominal Interest Rate, 30-day Fixed Term    Real Rate (CPI 3-month moving average)
Private Deposits
(b) Reserves and Exchange Rate
 billions of
 12 USD Peso/Dollar 4.0

 11 3.5

 10 3.0

 9 2.5

 8 2.0
 31-May-02 10-Jul-02 15-Aug-02 23-Sep-02 30-Oct-02 06-Dec-02 15-Jan-03 20-Feb-03 28-Mar-03 09-May-03

 BCRA Reserves Reference Exchange Rate, 2nd axis

 The increase in total deposits was mostly explained by the positive variation recorded in public deposits, as a consequence of strong tax collection. The increase observed in private deposits originated in time deposits. For its part, demand deposits would have evolved in accordance with certain signals of deceleration in the pace of economic recovery observed recently. Time deposits increased above the variation registered in CEDRO. Meanwhile, the release of rescheduled deposits concluded with an adhesion of 51% on the part of savers: although this is a result lower than expected, it appears favorable when considering that only $ 8,000 million in total remain (including adjustment for CER) of rescheduled deposits (capable of exerting an adverse effect on system liquidity). In this context, the redemption of provincial quasi-currencies was initiated, which implies a variation in the composition of the broad monetary base, with a slightly contractionary effect on it (since provincial bonds are redeemed at market value).

 Both the initiation of the redemption of quasi-currencies and the release of rescheduled deposits constitute advances toward the normalization of monetary and financial conditions. Together with the pronounced decline in interest rates, and the behavior of private sector deposits, they point toward a more stable monetary situation.

 4 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Broad monetary base: quantitative increase and qualitative improvement

 The broad monetary base exhibited in May an increase of $1,703 million (4.4%); in seasonally adjusted terms, such increase amounted to 3.6%. This is the second largest seasonally adjusted increase so far this year. The strong increase in the broad base breaks down into an increase in monetary circulation of $882 million (4.4%, which in turn is explained by almost $800 million of greater currency in circulation among the public, and the remainder in financial entities), a growth in the current account of financial entities in the Central Bank of $1,792 million (15.4%), and a decrease in the stock of quasi-currencies of $972 million (13.2%). Two outstanding features are thus noted:

 a) The increase in bank liquidity concentrates the largest part of the increase in the broad
 base, which is closely related to the marked growth in public sector deposits, derived
 from the record tax collection of the National Treasury in May. The variation in the
 current account at the Central Bank of public banks explains almost entirely the
 increase in the system's current account; within public banks, the greatest increase
 occurs in a national bank, and proceeds directly from tax collection.

 b) The increase in currency in national currency is fed by the redemption of quasi-currencies,
 that is, the change in circulation should be interpreted as a change in the composition
 of the base, and not in its quantity. In fact, what is observed is the substitution of
 quasi-money of limited circulation for money of national circulation1.

As can be seen in Graph 3 referring to the factors explaining the broad monetary base, the private external sector mainly determined the observed result, as had already occurred in recent months.

Graph 3
 Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors
 millions of $ May 2003
 3,000

 2,500

 2,000

 1,500

 1,000

 500

 -

 -500

 -1,000

 In effect, the BCRA's foreign exchange buying and selling operations with the private sector implied a base expansion of $2,332 million.
1 It should be clarified that not all the stock of quasi-money is circulating in the hands of the public (since part of it remains in the form of memorandum accounts in financial entities), therefore not all the decrease in the same flows into monetary circulation, but can rather be maintained as peso accounts in the banking system (see in this regard the section dedicated to quasi-money exchange in this report).

5 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

For its part, the public sector had a very reduced monetary effect, since although the granting of advances entailed a base expansion (by $2,100 million), it was more than offset by the purchase of foreign currency from the Central Bank (by $1,969 million), intended for the payment of BODEN and external commitments, and by the increase in the government's operating account at BCRA ($191 million).

Meanwhile, the cancellation of rediscounts by the financial sector (both in terms of capital and interest) also entailed a contractionary effect, which was $293 million.

The issuance of LEBAC also implied the absorption of monetary base, by $561 million; the monthly contractionary effect of this instrument was the largest since last January, although concentrated in the second part of the month).

The factors that explain the variation in the broad monetary base are detailed in table 1.

Table 1 Flow in millions of pesos May

1. Expansion Factors of the Broad Monetary Base 1,703
a. Net External Credit 362
Private Sector 2,332
Export Liquidation 80
Exchange Intervention 2,251
Public Sector -1,969 Net Public
b. Net Internal Credit 1,340 Sector
Public Sector 1,909 -60
Temporary Advances 2,100
Profit Anticipations 0
Others (use of National Government account) -191
Financial Sector -293
Assistance to Entities -307
Current Account Remuneration 14
LEBAC -561
Quasi-money Redemption (1) -13
Others 298

2. Broad Monetary Base 1,703
a. Circulating in hands of the Public 798
b. Bank Reserves 1,876
Circulating in Banks 84
Current Account at the BCRA 1,792
c. Quasi-monies -972

(1) Difference between the peso issuance for redemption and the nominal value redeemed.

The expansion of the broad base based on the monetization of the current account surplus once again determined an increase in the BCRA's international reserves, which amounted to US$ 402 million (3.7%); their stock thus stands at the end of May at US$ 11,374 million.

Means of Payment: Expansion in line with the evolution of economic activity

Total means of payment in the broad sense (M2, including quasi-monies) increased in May by $1,962 million (4%). The increase breaks down into positive variations in current accounts ($1,722 million, 12%), savings accounts ($414 million, 4%), and circulating in hands of the public ($798 million, 5%), while the stock of quasi-monies decreased by $972 million (13%). The increase in demand deposits of the public sector was determining in this evolution, and was in direct relation to the record collection obtained by the National Treasury.

6 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

During the second half of May (the period in which the Treasury received income from the income tax) an increase was observed in the public sector's current peso account on the order of $1,500 million. This evolution in public sector deposits led to the largest increase in banks' current account at the Central Bank corresponding to public entities.
Meanwhile, private payment methods in pesos in a broad sense (private M2) exhibited a decrease of approximately $100 million (0.2%); in seasonally adjusted terms, the variation was 0.1%, in contrast with the seasonally adjusted increases of the four previous months (generally equal to or greater than 1%). The observed variation breaks down into an increase in current account balances of $184 million (2%), a decrease in savings accounts of $107 million (2%), plus those mentioned in circulating currency in public hands and quasi-currencies. As noted in the previous section, the increase in currency circulation was the counterpart of the redemption of provincial quasi-currencies; broad circulating currency, however, decreased.

In this way, sight deposits of the private sector failed to extend the increase observed in April: current accounts increased in smaller amounts than in that month, and savings accounts decreased (compared to the increase in the previous month).

According to preliminary estimates, the growth rate of the first quarter of this year would not be repeated in the second; although not all indicators known during May (corresponding mostly to the month of April) show a lower increase than in previous periods. Current forecasts indicate that GDP growth would be 0.8% in the second quarter, compared to 2.7% in the first (taking in both cases seasonally adjusted variations with respect to the previous quarter). Thus, the growth of private transactional deposits is shown to be consistent with the performance of the real economy.

Putting into perspective the behavior of payment methods observed in June, no particularly marked preference for transactional aggregates is evident: the ratio between M2 and GDP (adjusted for seasonality) is only slightly above what could be considered a long-term trend – as observed in Graph 4.

Graph 4
Monetary Aggregates (seasonally adjusted, % GDP)

40%
M3=M2 (incl. 100% savings accounts US$)+ PF ($ and US$), incl CEDRO with CER and BODEN
35% M2=M1+savings accounts$ + savings accounts US$ (50%) gap
M1=M0 + Current accounts $ + Current accounts US$
30% M0= Bills and Coins + QM

25%

20%

15% gap
1%
10% gaps
2.5%
5%

0%

The composition of payment methods does show—since the imposition of financial restrictions—a bias toward greater holdings of circulating currency. This would make it foreseeable, to the extent that progress continues toward the normalization of the financial system, a reallocation from circulating currency toward sight deposits².

Deposits: the liberation of CEDRO was completed, advancing toward the normalization of the system

During May, the process of liberation of rescheduled deposits (CEDRO) was completed, thus advancing toward the normalization of financial system functioning. On May 23, the period (initiated on April 8) of liberation of rescheduled deposits (CEDRO), established by decree 739/2003, concluded. This measure covered both placements originally made in pesos and in dollars. As for the former, it was established, at the request of depositors, the immediate accreditation in sight accounts of the CEDRO balance from such deposits.

With respect to deposits originally made in foreign currency, the regulation provided that their holders could request total cancellation when the balance was less than $42,000, the constitution of a new fixed-term deposit for 90 days if the nominal amount was between $42,001 and $100,000, or the arrangement of a new fixed-term deposit for 120 days if that amount was greater than $100,000.

In these cases, the respective financial entity had to face the payment of the balance adjusted by the CER coefficient plus interest, while the National State would deliver to the holder BODEN 2013 bonds based on the difference between the exchange rate of the dollar in the free market and the original nominal value of the rescheduled deposit.
The acceptance by savers of the described scheme occurred in a proportion lower than expected, and low in relation to the attractive conditions offered. It reached (see graphs 5 and 6) approximately 51% of private deposits whose deprogramming was offered (around $8,300 million including CER adjustment), and 48% of deposits from all sectors.

The ratio between the variation of fixed-term placements and that of total CEDRO removed from affectation (from all sectors) amounted to 97%; if only savers with CEDRO balances of less than or equal to $42,000 are taken into account (those who could choose between withdrawing the amount in cash or depositing it as a fixed term), said ratio stands at 93% (the best indication of voluntary deprogramming).

The funds from CEDRO exceeding $42,000 were destined for new fixed-term deposits at 90 and 120 day terms, for a total amount of approximately $3,800 million.

Graph 5 (Corralito + Corralón) / Deposits

Non-Financial Private Sector - in pesos
Includes CER adjustment
100% Exchange I Beginning Exchange II
86% 86%
80% 81% and deprogramming up to $10,000

75%
60%
Anticipatory payment of CEDRO
40%

20% Corralito liberalization 29%

CEDRO liberalization
0% As of May 30

May- Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-Sep-02 Oct-Nov- Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-Apr- May-
02 02 02 02 03 03 03

2 In contrast, a broader monetary aggregate such as M3 would indeed be showing a "preference for liquidity," being well below its "trend"; again, it would be expected that even the (scarce) excess of means of payment over its trend would be directed toward less liquid placements.

8 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

As we noted in our previous report, in view of the attractive conditions offered to savers to carry out the exchange (which were equivalent to a recovery of approximately 85% of their original placements in dollars), the observed behavior would be attributed to expectations about possible even more favorable return conditions (expectation based on the experience of previous exchanges) or about the repayment of the deposit through precautionary measures (injunctions).

Graph 6
Acceptance by bracket Total results Structure as of May 23, 2003
First bracket (< $42 thousand) Initial balance = $16,500 MM Final balance = $8,150 MM
Total acceptance
57% $8,000 MM $2,450 MM
48%
Second bracket (between $42 and $100 thousand)
3rd Bracket 1st Bracket
45% 46% 30%
Var. FT / CEDRO Acceptance
Total Only bracket 2nd Bracket
Third bracket (> $100 thousand) less than $42 thousand
24%
$3,700 MM

43% 97% 93% $2,000 MM

NOTE:
Results correspond to an extrapolation to the total system of a sample of 11 entities - 90% of CEDRO as of April 7

The result of the liberation looks favorable if it is considered that only $8,000 million in total remain (including CER adjustment) of programmed deposits – which would be susceptible to exert an adverse effect on system liquidity in case of a court ruling that favors redollarization and/or cash repayment of the same. It is thus a certainly more "manageable" amount in case such measures took place.

As occurred the previous month, the liberation of CEDRO explains to a large extent the increase in fixed-term deposits. However, the variation in fixed-term placements in pesos from the private sector was higher than that recorded by CEDRO. The former amounted to practically $2,100 million (7%), while the latter was slightly more than $1,800 million.

This is significant insofar as fixed-term placements are a better reflection of investment decisions (as opposed to sight deposits, more related to transactional needs) and the increase took place in a month with interest rates lower than those recorded in April. It is clear, of course, that in real terms the rates remained in May relatively high.
Another direct effect of the liberalization scheme was the increase in the average term of deposits, continuing the trend initiated in April (chart 7).

This was due to the scheme's own de-scheduling design (explained at the beginning of this section). Thus, at the end of May, the average term of time deposits was 48 days, compared to 46.6 at the beginning of the month (and 41 on April 7).

To analyze what happened without incorporating the influence of deposit liberalization, the adjusted average term is calculated without taking into account fixed-term deposits originating from CEDRO balances exceeding $42,000, which amounted to 42.8 days at the end of May (compared to 42.2 at the start of the month, and 41 at the beginning of April).

9 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Chart 7
Fixed-term deposits in pesos and CEDRO (private sector, monthly variations), and average term
8,000 million $ 50

6,000 45

40
4,000
35
2,000 30

- 25

-2,000 20
Fixed-term $ 15
-4,000 CEDRO with CER
10
-6,000 Average term (2nd axis) 5
"Corrected" average term
-8,000 0
Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03

Considering the aforementioned variation in demand deposits, plus the evolution of CEDRO and fixed-term deposits, private sector deposits in pesos increased in May by $309 million (0.5%). Regarding total deposits, taking into account the evolution of all items and the decline in CEDRO, an increase of $2,923 million (4%) was recorded. Variations in the different types of deposits are detailed in Table 2.

Table 2 Monthly Flows in millions of pesos May

1. Total deposits in pesos 4,835
Savings account 414
Current account 1,722
Others 159
Fixed-term deposit 2,540

2. CEDRO -1,912
Protections (1) -302
Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -210
CER adjustment -92

Other de-designations (2) -1,610
Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -1,124
CER adjustment -486

3. Variation of total deposits in $ (1+2) 2,923

4. Difference due to payment of protections at free exchange rate -119

5. Effect on system liquidity (3+4) 2,804

6. Deposits in dollars (in US$) 146

(1) Estimated figure.
(2) Includes de-scheduling of CEDRO due to lifting of the "corralón."

The evolution of deposits by bank group shows a far from homogeneous picture among them (see chart 8). In effect, in all groups there is an increase in fixed-term deposits, but only in the case of public banks is this significantly higher than the amount resulting from CEDRO de-scheduling; while in the case of national private banks and branches of foreign banks, the increase in fixed terms tends to coincide exactly with the amount of de-designated CEDRO; whereas in foreign capital banks, fixed-term placements only reach 39% of de-programmed deposits.

10 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Chart 8

Variation of deposits by bank group - private sector $
millions of $ May 2003
1,500 18%

16%
1,000 14%

12%
500 10%

0 8%

Public National Private Branches of Majorityforeign capital Foreign Banks Other (cooperatives,6%
Banks Banks financial companies, etc)4%
-500

Fixed-term Variation Current Account Variation 2%

-1,000 Savings Account Variation CEDRO Variation incl CER 0%

Average rate, 30-44 days Average rate, de-scheduling period
At least part of this behavior could be explained by differences in interest rates: the group of banks that paid a lower rate during May (and during the deprogramming period included in May) was the one that retained the fewest deposits. However, public banks – which led the increase in fixed-term deposits in the private sector – were not the ones that remunerated these placements with the highest rate (that corresponded to private national banks, which nevertheless did not show increases above the deprogrammed amounts). Therefore, the observed evolution of fixed-term deposits should be associated with other factors. As for sight deposits, an increase is only observed in public banks and private national banks.

**Interest rates: the decline intensifies**

Interest rates exhibited in May behavior characterized by the deepening of the decline initiated the previous month, which led to placing them at their levels prior to the financial crisis, and a lower dispersion of values recorded among the different entities in the system. The most pronounced downward trend in interest rates was determined by pressure on liquidity lower than expected before the start of deprogramming, as well as by the relatively more expansive monetary conditions recorded in April and deepened in May.

Thus, the fixed-term rate for operations between 30 and 44 days in pesos went from 18.6% at the end of April to 10.2% at the end of May. With this, the rate of decline of rates among the different deposit tiers was more homogeneous than in April, although it was always more pronounced for amounts exceeding one million pesos (given that these are deposits which, while the CEDRO release lasted, did not face the "competition" from cash withdrawals).

Likewise, during almost all of May, the rate for deposits up to $100,000 was located above that for placements exceeding $1 million, as a consequence of a deposit capture policy by banks concentrated on the retention (in the form of new fixed-term deposits) of reprogrammed funds that were being gradually released. The atypical behavior of rates for deposits of smaller amounts could be explained in terms of at least two factors. On one hand, the aforementioned pressure on rates for those deposits that, during deprogramming, could be transformed into liquidity (those under $42,000). In parallel, the reaction of the entities to the behavior of relatively small savers at particular moments such as that of the CEDRO release, since in such instances (as was mentioned in the previous paragraph), banks would prefer to retain clients that are relatively more costly to attract back to the entity once they have withdrawn (such is the case of medium and small savers, unlike larger and more sophisticated investors3).

Another salient fact was that the difference between fixed-term returns and those of LEBACs tended to narrow. The evolution of rates for fixed-term deposits and LEBACs is observed in graph 9.

**Graph 9**
*Rates for fixed-term deposits in pesos, 30-44 days, and LEBAC*
*TNA (%) in pesos, 1 month*

[Graph showing three lines: Rates for deposits up to $100,000, Rates for deposits over $1 million, and LEBAC rate $, 1 month, with y-axis ranging from 5.0 to 30.0]

An aspect to highlight is that the current level of interest rates – measured in real terms – is already at the levels prior to the financial crisis. As observed in graph 10, the current real fixed-term rates at 30 days can only be compared with those observed in May 2001 (if atypical moments with low volume are disregarded). This stands out even more if one takes into account that the volume operated now (measured in constant currency) is, on average, more than twice that of then.
Graph 10 Real rates for fixed-term deposits in $, 30 days, and daily traded volume

50 TNA % (5-day moving averages) thousands of $ 350000

40 300000
30
20 250000
10 200000
0
-10 150000
-20
-30 100000
-40 50000
-50
-60 0

Real rate 30 days (deflated by centered CPI average, 3m)

Real volume (January 2001 prices)

The downward trend of interest rates goes hand in hand with lower variability among the levels paid by different entities. The dispersion of passive rates appears notably

3 Smaller savers are less specialized than large ones in financial operations, and may potentially face higher transaction costs: if they were to withdraw their funds during the deposit de-programming, it could be more difficult for the bank to attract them back. In contrast, larger investors move more quickly and are more sensitive to changes in rates.

12 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

reduced over the last few months. Such dispersion, measured both through the deviation from the average rate and the coefficient of variation (which relates the deviation to the average value at each moment in time⁴), is notably reduced between March and May of this year (a reduction that is more apparent if current values are compared with those recorded in the last quarter of last year), as observed in graph 11.

Graph 11 Fixed-Term Interest Rate 30 to 44 Days - Private Sector
Evolution of the 10-Day Weighted Moving Average Rate and the Coefficient

25 In % of the Average Variation 80
(a)

70
20
60

15 50

40
10 30

20
5
10

0 0
13-Sep-02 11-Oct-02 8-Nov-02 6-Dec-02 3-Jan-03 31-Jan-03 28-Feb-03 28-Mar- 25-Apr-03 23-May-
Coefficient of Variation of Interest Rate (Ratio between Weighted Deviation and Average)
Interest Rate (Weighted Average)(2nd axis)
More/less deviation
Less deviation

(b) Evolution of Variation Coefficients
In % of the average Interest Rates and Liquidity
30 Rates In % of liquidity 120
average
25 110

100
20 90

15 80

10 70

60
5 50

0 40
13-Sep-02 11-Oct-02 08-Nov- 06-Dec-02 03-Jan-03 31-Jan-03 28-Feb-03 28-Mar- 25-Apr-03 23-May-
Coefficient of Variation of Interest Rate (Ratio between Weighted Deviation and Average)
Coefficient of Variation of Liquidity (2nd axis)

When explaining this lower variability, it is necessary to focus on the factors that are common to different entities in recent months. One of them is the higher level of liquidity: if the coefficient of variation of liquidity is observed (measured as the balance in the current account at BCRA), it also tends to decrease (although in May it registered an increase: this is due, however, to the greater liquidity recorded by public banks due to tax collection, as already noted). Although undoubtedly not the only factor behind the lower cross-sectional volatility in interest rates, the more homogeneous distribution of liquidity should be contributing to it.

A factor consistent with the lower inequality in the distribution of liquidity is the gradual reactivation of the interbank loan market. It is the natural channel through which entities with excess liquidity can place their funds, and those with a shortage of liquid resources can obtain them.

⁴ The coefficient of variation expresses the deviation in units of average rate.

13 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

As we noted in our previous report, over the last two months there has been an increase in the volume traded in this market, together with a decline in the interbank rate. This showed further declines during May, dropping from 5.2% to 3.2% at the end of the month (taking the rate for private sector operations). The level currently registered is the lowest since January 1994 (although at that time the traded amount was approximately three times higher than the current one).
Both the decline in interest rates and the lower dispersion among them point towards a normalization of the conditions in which the financial system operates, as was mentioned in reference to the release of CEDRO. In this case, such normalization operates in the sense of regularizing the funding conditions of financial entities.

Loans continue their logical purification process

 During May, credits to the private sector in pesos decreased by $354 million (1.3%) in May, which compares with a decline of $316 million in April and $931 million in March.

 Both commercial and consumption lines showed decreases; and items in which improvement had been noted (such as credit cards) declined again. However, it should be noted that not all credit lines follow the same trend: in the last two months, both commercial credit and credit card financing show an evident stabilization of their declining behavior (chart 12).

 The notion of a certain plateau in the decline of the credit stock, and, in particular, in items related to consumption and commercial activity is thus corroborated.

Chart 12 Loans to the Private Sector in pesos
 7 In billions of pesos 15

 6 14

 5 13

 4 12

 3 11

 2 10

 1 9
 31-Jul-02 14-Sep-02 29-Oct-02 13-Dec-02 27-Jan-03 13-Mar-03 27-Apr-03

 Pledged Personal Credit Cards Mortgages (2nd axis) Advances + Documents + Others (2nd axis)

 Consumer credits decreased approximately $300 million (1.8%). Both mortgage lines and pledged lines showed declines smaller than those of the previous month; among the former, no entity showed increases. In the rest of the segments, the decreases registered in April were repeated or increased. If the evolution of credits is broken down by groups of financial entities, it is noted that all of them showed negative variations in this item, except for private banks of national capital, whose change in consumer credit was virtually null.

 Commercial loans decreased only $60 million (0.6%). It was documents on sole signature that showed the most significant decreases, while other advances and discounted documents showed virtually no variations. Evaluating the evolution of credits by groups of entities, only private banks of national capital exhibited an increase (2%) in their commercial credit lines.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Chart 13 Interest rates in pesos by type of loan
 Moving Quarterly Averages
 80
 TNA %

 60

 40

 20

 0
 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02
 Advances Documents Mortgages Credit Cards
 Pledged Personal Personal + Credit Cards

 The lack of credit reactivation is consistent with, among other factors, the level of interest rates. Active interest rates in real terms remain high compared to the values they registered before the crisis, as can be seen in chart 13 (although it should be noted that said chart covers up to the month of April, the last for which information is available). This occurs despite the fact that several of the rates in question have already declined significantly from their maximum levels, registered during the past year. If this downward movement were to consolidate, it would be one more element to favor the resurgence of credit.

Monetary targets: over-fulfillment of required targets, need to review the BMA target

 The required targets agreed with the IMF were again over-fulfilled both in April (measurement period between April 15 and May 15⁵) and in May.
The Net International Reserves (RIN) were located in April at US$ 2.007 billion above the objective set in the agreement, while the Net Domestic Assets (AIN, which constitute a measure of the monetary base not backed by net international reserves) remained $5.631 billion below the "ceiling" set.

In May, the RIN target was exceeded by US$ 2.961 billion, and the AIN target by $7.679 billion. In this way, the overfulfilment of the required targets has been growing throughout the year so far, as can be seen in graph 14.

In the case of the AIN target, the greater compliance shows that the expansion of the monetary base takes place exclusively against the increase in reserves, so this is issuance with full "backing" of foreign currency.

The indicative target of Broad Monetary Base (BMA), meanwhile, was not met during May. As has already been noted in previous reports, there are adequate economic reasons that justify the deviation. The combination of greater economic activity, lower inflation, gradual normalization of the financial system, and the foreign exchange and capital markets justifies growth in broad monetary base greater than what was agreed in January.

5 As has been indicated in previous reports, the measurement of each target extends between the ten business days prior and the ten days following the corresponding date.

15 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Graph 14
IMF Agreement
Compliance with monetary targets Billions of Thousands of
Percentage USD

14        2.80
12        
10        2.40
8         
6         2.00
4         
2         1.60
0         
-2        1.20
-4        
-6        0.80
-8        
-10       0.40
-12       0.00

17-Jan 31-Jan 14-Feb 28-Feb 14-Mar 28-Mar 14-Apr 30-Apr 15-May 29-May 12-Jun

AIN (Target-Observed)  BMA (Target-Observed)
RIN (Observed-Target), 2nd axis

The indicative target of Broad Monetary Base (BMA), meanwhile, was not met during May. As has already been noted in previous reports, there are adequate economic reasons that justify the deviation. The combination of greater economic activity, lower inflation, gradual normalization of the financial system, and the foreign exchange and capital markets justifies growth in broad monetary base greater than what was agreed in January.

Indeed, the economic recovery currently underway appears cash-intensive, entailing a greater demand for money for transactional reasons, which would be related to the increase in informal sector activity and the use of cash for functions other than that of medium of exchange (such as credit functions). Likewise, the absence of pressures on the price level and the quotation of the local currency indicates that this is a genuine increase in the demand for money (typically, the substitution between local currency and physical and external assets has been very high in Argentina).

It would therefore be too costly to limit the expansion of the broad base to comply with the targets currently in force. Having acknowledged this, the question also arises of how to address the increase in the demand for money, in a context of uncertainty about it. In this sense, issuance through external operations with the private sector appears as the most reasonable way to satisfy that demand.

Some of the points mentioned in the previous paragraph can be illustrated by observing the medium-term evolution of monetary aggregates with respect to GDP (see graph 4). It is noted that those more related to transactional needs are slightly above their trend, while those linked to savings decisions are below it; everything suggests that this relationship will be recomposed, and the current composition of monetary aggregates will be reversed (i.e., that part of cash in circulation will shift to deposits).
In particular –as already mentioned–, the means of payment show a relationship with GDP in line with the trend, together with a greater weight of currency in circulation with respect to deposits, implying that the expansion recorded in the monetary base has practically not implied an addition to the stock of money outside of that necessary to maintain the trend behavior of the means of payment.

The aspects just reviewed contribute to explaining the economic rationale behind the non-compliance with the broad monetary base target, while at the same time justifying the need to reconsider the current target to accommodate aspects not contemplated in the original agreement.

16 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Redemption of quasi-currencies: toward monetary normalization

During May, the redemption of provincial quasi-currencies began, within the Monetary Unification Program6. As explained in our previous report, the redemption is carried out through two mechanisms:

a) Public bidding, carried out by the BCRA on behalf and by order of the Ministry of Economics7, recognizing the market value of provincial bonds.

b) Direct redemption, in cases where the market value of the quasi-currency is similar to its face value. The first bonds to be redeemed –during May– included LECOP and issues from the province of Córdoba.

The redemption of LECOP is carried out at face value and takes place daily: as these bonds are received as part of tax collection (through the Federal Administration of Public Revenue), pesos are issued to cancel them.

By the end of May, $666 million had been issued to carry out the redemption. Given that LECOP tax collection is estimated at around $600 million monthly, this type of security would be completely out of circulation by September of this year.

It is likewise expected that a similar arrangement be applied for the redemption of Patacones (like LECOP, they trade close to their face value and are accepted for the payment of national taxes).

For the redemption of LECOR (bonds from the province of Córdoba), a public bidding was held on May 19, in which offers totaling $324 million in face value were accepted, and the cutoff price was set at 95.5%.

Note that, unlike the redemption of national LECOP, which only implies a change in the composition of the broad monetary base (by being carried out at face value), the redemption of LECOR also entails a decrease in it, by being carried out at market value (quasi-currencies are eliminated at their face value, but pesos are issued for an amount less than that).

The deadline for provincial adherence to the Monetary Unification Program was May 30, but as of the closing date of this report it had been extended to June 30. The jurisdictions already adhered are Córdoba, Entre Ríos, Formosa and Tucumán; those pending adherence are Buenos Aires, Corrientes, Chaco and Catamarca.

The results of the redemption (including that which took place in the first days of June) are detailed in graph 15 and table 38.

Table 3 Figures in millions of pesos

| Quasi-currencies | Total Redeemed May-03 |  | Jun-03 (until 9th) |  | With authorized exchange, pending redemption |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | FV | MV | FV | MV | FV | MV | FV |
| LECOP | 666 | 666 | 113 | 113 | 779 | 779 | 2,493 |
| LECOR | 306 | 293 | 170 | 162 | 477 | 455 | 180 |
| FEDERALES | 116 | 89 | 116 | 89 |  |  | 144 |
| BOCANFOR |  |  |  |  |  |  | 85 |
| BOCADE |  |  |  |  |  |  | 169 |
| TOTAL | 973 | 959 | 399 | 364 | 1,371 | 1,323 | 3,071 |

6 Implemented through decrees of the National Executive Power 743/2003, 957/2003 and their amendments, subsequently ratified by law 25.736.

7 According to the procedure specified in communication "A" 3945; see in this regard the Monthly Monetary Report of April 2003, p. 14.

8 Daily monitoring of quasi-currency redemption can be carried out through the BCRA website, at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/polmon/imagenes/grafico103.pdf

17 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003
# Chart 15
Redemption of Quasi-Currencies
Nominal Value
millions of $ Redeemed Redeemed With authorized
 2,500.0 May 2003 June 2003 exchange,
 (until the 9th) pending
 2,000.0 redemption

 1,500.0

 1,000.0

 500.0

 0.0

 LECOP LECOR LECOP LECOR LECOP LECOR BOCADE
 FEDERAL FEDERAL BOCANFOR

Although the monetary effect of redemption is reduced in quantitative terms, its qualitative effect cannot be overlooked: currencies of limited circulation are eliminated by money of national circulation, whose control is in the hands of the sole monetary authority. It is one more aspect in which progress is being made in the normalization of the monetary and financial system.

## Foreign Exchange Market

The local currency interrupted the appreciation trend against the dollar registered in recent months. The peso ended May at levels very similar to those from a month earlier (at 2.86 pesos per dollar, registering a depreciation of 1.2% in the period). During the month, however, the local currency did not show behavior free of volatility: it appreciated to 2.749 pesos per dollar, and then reached a maximum of 2.95, to later appreciate again toward the end of the month.

# Chart 16
BCRA foreign exchange operations with the private sector
(daily data)
500 million $

400

300 Operations by liquidation of exports

200 Rest

100

0

-100

-200

The behavior registered by the national currency vis-à-vis the American one was due both to the intervention carried out by the Central Bank and to the market's own dynamics. The intervention was not carried out uniformly throughout the month: it was in the first half when the monetary authority was most active in the foreign exchange market, while during the second half the intervention decreased considerably, as observed in chart 16. This is explained by two reasons: the obligation to liquidate foreign currency from exports was completely eliminated (in early May)⁹; and in the second half of the month political swings contributed to giving certain strength to the demand for foreign currency.

In contrast, the euro appreciated against the peso almost 7% during May. Such evolution is not unrelated to the marked appreciation of the European currency against the dollar: it reached the highest exchange rate against the American currency since its creation in 1999 (on May 29 it was quoted at 1.19 units per dollar). To the factors that have been weighing against the dollar (such as large and growing trade and fiscal deficits) was added the growing concern about the risk of deflation, expressed by several U.S. economic authorities. Although such risk is still considered relatively remote, it is perceived that American economic policymakers would be willing to tolerate a weak dollar as one of the tools to clear it. The appreciation of the euro is thus not supported by the strength of the European economy—in fact, given the unfavorable economic situation that Germany presents, talk is also beginning in Europe of deflationary risks—but rather by the situation of the U.S. itself. It is expected that in the short term the euro's rise will continue.

With respect to the Brazilian real, the peso depreciated 1% (ending the month at 0.96 units per real). The Brazilian economic situation continues to be evaluated favorably by the markets: in particular, the fiscal result registered in the first four months of 2003, which far exceeded the targets agreed with the IMF, is seen as an unequivocal signal of commitment to sustainable economic policies. Meanwhile, inflation is declining very gradually, approaching the targets set by the Central Bank of Brazil: in its last meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee decided not to alter interest rates, maintaining the SELIC rate at 26.5%, considering that the measures taken so far are producing the desired effect.

LEBACs: increase in stock without giving up lower rates
During the month of May, the stock of LEBAC in pesos grew almost 12%, ending the month with a nominal value (NV) in circulation of 5,323 million pesos (see chart 17).

This increase represents a magnitude greater than that recorded during the immediately preceding months, all with increases below 10% with the exception of the month of January 2003.

LEBAC in dollars, for their part, ended the month of May with an aggregate NV of 189 million dollars.

Chart 17

Evolution of LEBAC stock in circulation

NV in millions $
7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0
15-Mar-02 15-May-02 15-Jul-02 15-Sep-02 15-Nov-02 15-Ene-03 15-Mar-03 15-May-03
LEBAC stock in $ LEBAC stock in US$ (valued in $)

9 See in this regard communication "A" 3944.

19 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

This increase in stock did not hinder the monetary authority's strategy of progressively reducing cut-off rates, in a context of significant declines in the returns of alternative investments (in particular, fixed-term deposits, once the bank freeze release was overcome).

Indeed, the downward trend in cut-off rates observable since mid-2002 persisted, although in a moderated form, within a framework of greater stability in the foreign exchange market and declining inflation expectations. From the analysis of the term structure of interest rates resulting from the successive auctions carried out during the month, it follows that the decline in rates was greater in the intermediate terms. Thus, if the first and last auction of the month are compared, it can be seen that while the rate for 35-day bills barely fell 57 basis points (b.p.) between May 6 and 29, the rate at 3 months decreased 435 b.p., while that at approximately 6 months fell almost 325 b.p. (see chart 18).

Chart 18

Evolution of LEBAC cut-off rates in pesos | Evolution of the LEBAC yield curve in pesos
A.N.R. | A.N.R. without CER adjustment

46% | 25%
41% | 23%
36% | 21%
31% | 19%
26% | 17%
21% | 15%
16% | 13%
11% | 11%
6% | 9%
1% | 7% Days of term
| 5%
1-ene 21-ene 10-feb 2-mar 22-mar 11-abr 1-may 21-may | 0 100 200 300 400 500 600
At 6 months At 12 months At 18 months | 06-may-03 15-may-03 29-may-03

As will be seen below, this smaller decline in short-term rates corresponded with the public's greater interest in instruments of shorter maturity. Finally, the reduction in cut-off rates analyzed was reflected in a lower average cost for the outstanding LEBAC portfolio in pesos, which went from 29.1% at the end of April to 26% one month later.

The public continued to demonstrate certain interest in indexed letters, making bids for amounts above those announced in 5 of the 8 auctions held during May10. It should be recalled that the CER adjustment functions as insurance against inflation, making it possible to reduce uncertainty regarding the real return on investment in letters held in portfolio until maturity.

The presence of these instruments also allows that—to the extent that the monetary authority is successful in controlling inflation—the average cost of the outstanding letters portfolio remains low, while at the same time acting as an incentive to keep inflation under control. Likewise, these instruments help expand the information available for investors and for the monetary authority itself, insofar as they provide data about the predominant inflation expectations.
Unlike the previous months, the offers made by BCRA bills showed greater concentration in shorter-term instruments; indeed, 51% of the total amount offered in the auctions of peso-denominated instruments in the month of May corresponded to the maturity segment of up to 3 months, when the previous month this maturity accounted for only 15% of the total amount offered. Given the amounts of accepted offers in each tranche and the maturity of bills previously in circulation, this greater interest in short-term instruments did not prevent the average life of the LEBAC portfolio in

10 It should be noted that certain auctions were declared void not due to absence of offers but in order to not validate high real yields in the long term.

20 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

circulation from being maintained and even increasing slightly, rising from 157 days at the end of April to 161 days upon completion of the analyzed month (see graph 19). In this regard, it should be clarified that the issuance of bills for an approximate maturity of 500 days was successfully continued, an instrument introduced to the market during the month of April.

Graph 19

Distribution of total amounts offered by maturity          Distribution of total amounts offered by instrument type
LEBAC auctions in pesos
100%                                                        100%
      87%
80%   76%                                                   80%   73%
      62%                                                         65%  63%  63%
60%          51%                                            60%
      42%  43%        41%
40%  32%  33%  28% 29%                                      40%
      25%  27%  23% 25%
20%              15%  13%  12%  14% 13%                     20%        7%              14%
      6%   8%   8%
0%                                                          0%
  Jan-  Feb-  Mar-  Apr-  May-                              Jan-  Feb-  Mar-  Apr-  May-
  03    03    03    03    03                                03    03    03    03    03

Maturity up to 3 months   Maturity 4 to 6 months   Maturity over 6 months   Pesos without CER   Pesos with CER adjustment   Dollars

The issuance of instruments with longer maturity allows for greater arbitrage between rates and maturities, so it is expected that the secondary market for LEBAC will gradually deepen. In fact, during the month of May this market registered the largest amount traded (522 million pesos traded in the Electronic Open Market) since the Central Bank bills began to be auctioned, breaking the record previously observed in the month of July 2002 (412 million pesos), when the context of high uncertainty and significant yields in the foreign exchange market encouraged the trading of these securities instead of holding them in portfolio until maturity. During the analyzed month, the active intervention of third parties11 in the EOM can be highlighted as sellers of bills, while the amounts sold by them represented almost 40% of total sales in the month.

It should be clarified that, as in previous months, the prices observed in the secondary market remained aligned with the cutoff rates of contemporary auctions and above the yields obtainable in the forward dollar market.

Public Securities: quotations of the most liquid bonds are maintained

From an international perspective, during the month of May general liquidity was maintained in the markets. Expectations of lower rates in the markets of developed countries continued to benefit the assets of emerging economies, which translates into a progressive reduction of the margin required in secondary markets for public debt securities of emerging economies in relation to the yield of United States Treasury bonds. Thus, the monthly average spread of the EMBI+ Latin American (excluding Argentina) fell almost 80 points in May (see graph 20), driven by the fall in Brazilian sovereign risk, whose monthly average fell more than 100 points.

11 That is, they are not EOM agents.

21 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Graph 20

Evolution of the EMBI spread

3,000                                                       8,000

2,500                                                       7,000

2,000                                                       6,000

1,500                                                       5,000

1,000                                                       4,000

500                                                         3,000

0                                                           2,000
                                                            1,000

                                                            0
Jan-  Mar-  May-  Jul-  Sep-  Nov-  Jan-  Mar-  May-  Jul-  Sep-  Nov-  Jan-  Mar-  May-
01    01    01    01    01    01    02    02    02    02    02    02    03    03    03

EMBI+Lat (without Arg.)    EMBI+ (without Arg.)    Brazil    Argentina (2nd axis)
In the particular case of Argentina, although the default status of its debt and the lack of definitions around its future restructuring limited the positive effect of capital inflows in the region, the behavior of domestic public securities quotations allows us to glimpse a certain favorable impact, insofar as the spread required in secondary markets for Argentine debt was reduced by almost 200 basis points if we compare the averages of April and May (see chart 21).

Chart 21 Quotation of public securities in default

 USD
 33
 31
 29
 27
 25
 23
 21
 19
 17
 15
 30-Sep- 30-Oct- 30-Nov- 30-Dic- 30-Ene- 28-Feb- 30-Mar- 30-Abr- 30-May-
 02 02 02 02 03 03 03 03 03

 FRB GLOBAL 08 GLOBAL 17

 In general terms, after the revaluation of the most liquid bonds during part of the months of March and April –largely motivated by the influence of the electoral process on investor expectations– during the month of May the quotations of these bonds remained at the new levels reached. Such is the case of the new National Government securities (BODEN), currently up to date with their payments, whose quotations did not show changes of magnitude despite showing a slightly declining trend12. A similar behavior was observed in the most liquid international bonds, such as Global 08. In this context, only the evolution of certain less representative bonds stood out; such is the case of certain specific series of BONTES and BOCONES (Pension-Related and

12 The only novelty regarding the new bonds is the quotation of the new BODEN 08 in pesos, which remained around $87. For its part, the quotation of BODEN USD 12 –which turns out to be the most liquid of these bonds– fell 4% during the analyzed month, closing on May 30 around 53 dollars.

 22 Monthly Monetary Report—May 2003

Supplier-Related)13, bonds with lower liquidity that showed significant advances in their quotations (see chart 22).

Chart 22
 Pesos Quotations of Pension-Related and Supplier Bonds

 80

 70

 60

 50

 40
 30

 20
 10

 0
 1-Jan 15-Jan 29-Jan 12-Feb 26-Feb 12-Mar 26-Mar 9-Apr 23-Apr 7-May 21-May

 PRE5 PRO5 PRO9 PRO10 PRO4

 The variety of behaviors recorded could be indicating the existence of arbitrages between the different categories of bonds based on their quotations in the market and the expectations of the different operators with respect to the treatment that each type will receive at the moment of debt restructuring, although such strategies constitute medium and long-term bets.

 In terms of volumes, securities traded on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange showed during the month of May an average close to 120 million pesos daily, almost 25 million below that of the previous month, but still above the averages recorded during the first quarter of the year.

Equities: better sectoral perspectives prompt selective increases

 The main stock exchanges of developed countries showed positive developments during the month of May, in light of the incipient optimism of investors regarding the evolution of the North American economy in the face of indicators better than expected.

 A bullish behavior also characterized the Brazilian stock exchange, which thus shows its third consecutive month of expansion, partly benefited by better expectations for the region and the environment of low returns in the developed countries' markets. In line with these movements, although still responding mostly to factors of a domestic nature, the local stock market confirmed its positive trend during the month of May.
This becomes evident in the case of leading stocks, with the MERVAL index accumulating an increase of 6.7% measured in pesos and 5.4% if measured in dollars, given the appreciation recorded in the domestic currency. It should be noted that this result was influenced by a significant rise in the last days of the month, when new highs were achieved in pesos for the period following the end of Convertibility, closing the index at 678 points on May 28¹⁴.

In this way, the monthly average of the MERVAL, of 645 points, is positioned almost 45 points above that of the preceding month (see chart 23). In terms of amounts traded, although the daily average for May (43 million pesos) was below the high level of the preceding month (55 million), it remained above those recorded during the first quarter of the year. This would be confirming a certain persistence in investors' interest in maintaining their positions in stocks.

Chart 23
MERVAL Domestic stock market Volatility
-MERVAL index in local currency-
[Graph showing index from 200-800 on left axis and 0%-120% volatility on right axis, spanning from Jan-02 to May-03]

MERVAL Historical volatility (sample of 20 trading sessions)

The positive trend was not without high volatility (see chart 23), capturing the noise generated by the electoral process —including the runoff scheduled for May 20 and the political events that occurred until then— and its influence on the dollar price in the spot market. Once the electoral process was overcome, volatility showed a sharp decline, while the market returned to prioritizing the fundamental variables of the economy, allowing confirmation of the upward trend in the stock market environment, within the framework of progressive price corrections of various securities.

It should be clarified in this regard that during the month of May various company balance sheets were released corresponding to the first quarter of the year with promising results, as different companies showed profits that contrasted with the losses recorded in previous quarters.

Similarly, although the positive trend of the MERVAL is linked to a domestic environment of declining reference interest rates within a context of relative dollar stability that proves favorable to equity investment, it should be clarified that the increases by security show marked selectivity.

Indeed, the companies whose quotations received the greatest boost were those linked to the construction sector, as the assumption of the new president and the announcement of an important public works plan had the effect of increasing the expected income flows for this sector. Thus, the stocks whose quotations showed the greatest growth throughout May were the construction company Polledo (63%), the cement company Minetti (48%) and the steel-metallurgical company Acindar (35%) (see chart 24).

Likewise, there were significant increases in the quotations of companies linked to the energy sector (YPF, Central Puerto, Sol Petróleo and Gas BAN).

Chart 24
Companies with the greatest increases in May
2.5 Quotations in pesos
[Graph showing price trends for ACINDAR, MINETTI, and POLLEDO from January 1 to May 16]

---
¹³ These categories include various species of securities originally in dollars that were subsequently pesified and currently are indexed according to the evolution of the CER.
¹⁴ The previous record had been registered on April 23 (670 points).
