# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

## Monthly Monetary Report
## June 2003

## Summary

ü The evolution of monetary and financial variables during June continued to point toward the progressive normalization of the conditions in which the system operates, particularly with regard to its liabilities. Deposits showed a gradual return to a significant growth rate, while interest rates continued to decline, the exchange rate remained stable, and the quasi-currency redemption program continued.

ü The broad monetary base (BMA) continued to expand driven by the external sector. The BMA increased $2,293 million (4%); in seasonally adjusted terms, its growth was 7%. The increase is composed of approximately $1,300 million growth in currency in circulation held by the public, $175 million held by financial entities, $2,000 million increase in the current account of banks at the BCRA, and $1,200 million decrease in the stock of quasi-currencies.

ü Private means of payment in pesos including quasi-currencies (M2) increased $1,503 million (3%). In seasonally adjusted terms, M2 increased $583 million (1%). This indicates that positive behavior persists in aggregates more related to economic transactions, beyond the positive seasonality present in June (due to factors such as bonus payments).

ü Private sector time deposits in pesos—a better reflection of investment decisions—increased during the month by approximately $1,104 million (3.5%). The net increase in CEDRO variation was slightly over $600 million. Insofar as these are placements made in a context completely free of restrictions and declining interest rates, they constitute an incipient signal of confidence in the financial system.

ü Interest rates continued the downward trend that began at the end of April. The fixed-term rate for 30 to 44 days in pesos declined by practically two percentage points, from 10.2% at the end of May. The fall in the price level, plus an international context of declining interest rates, means that local real rates remain relatively high.

ü In June, private sector credits in pesos decreased by approximately $170 million (0.7%), the smallest monthly decline so far this year. This variation was approximately half that of the previous month, and was basically due to the decline in consumer loans, as commercial loans showed virtually no changes.

1 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

## Summary

ü The BCRA decided to lower the minimum cash reserve requirements and resource application coefficients as of July, taking into account both the seasonality of money demand in that month as well as other factors that would affect the position of the entities (completion of the schedule for reducing the minimum resource application requirement through the accounting of the National Government 2002 bond, increase in the requirement due to change in the residual structure of time deposits).

ü The two enforceable targets included in the agreement with the IMF were systematically exceeded beyond what was agreed during the first six months of the year. The need to provide an appropriate framework for greater flexibility in monetary policy led to the revision of the monetary targets for the month of June. Given the substantial over-fulfillment of the enforceable targets, it was possible to set more stringent objectives, while the original BMA target was relaxed by $4,000 million.
ü The peso appreciated 2% against the US currency. The trend toward appreciation of the local currency, although moderate, continues. Likewise, the volatility of the exchange rate has also diminished notably: it was situated at its lowest levels since December of last year. Meanwhile, the peso appreciated 4% against the euro, and depreciated 2.5% against the Brazilian real.

ü The quasi-currency redemption program continued: bonds with a nominal value of $1,232 million were withdrawn from circulation. Among the quantitative effects of the redemption, the following can be identified: a) decrease in the BMA due to part of the redemption being carried out at market value (this effect amounts to $110 million since the beginning of the program); b) increase in banking liabilities, due to part of the stock of quasi-currencies being converted into deposits; c) increase in banking liquidity, as a function of the above.

ü For the second consecutive month, a double-digit percentage increase in the stock of LEBAC in pesos was registered, in light of greater needs for monetary absorption in a context of significant foreign currency inflows. The increase in stock did not prevent a fall in cut-off rates, while letters for longer terms aroused strong interest.

ü The higher liquidity international bonds in default showed a new advance in their quotations, while the fall in international interest rates and dialogue with the IMF made it possible to foresee a restructuring context more favorable than initially expected.

2 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

The monetary situation points toward progressive normalization of the financial system

The evolution of monetary and financial variables during June continued pointing in the direction of progressive normalization of the conditions in which the system operates, particularly with regard to its liabilities. Deposits showed a gradual return to a significant growth rate, while interest rates continued to decline. Several aspects stand out in this situation: a) private deposits in pesos showed a significant increase, which intensified in the last 30 days (as seen in graph 1); b) sight deposits, related to the transactional needs of economic agents, again showed increases (only partly due to a seasonal effect); c) fixed-term deposits, whose growth was linked during the months of April and May with the lifting of financial restrictions, moved in June to take on their own momentum; d) the average terms of fixed-term deposits gradually increased (beyond the considerable extension of their term related to the lifting of financial restrictions); e) interest rates continued the decline exhibited the previous month – although in real terms they remain relatively high, especially if placed in the international context. All these developments become more relevant having taken place in a context free from the effect of financial restrictions, where the purely voluntary decisions of savers are those that guide the evolution of monetary variables.

Graph 1

Private Sector Deposits in pesos
(includes CEDRO with CER)
66 3.5
Billions of $ %

64 2.7

62 1.9

60 1.1

58 0.3

56 -0.5
30-Sep-02 08-Nov-02 17-Dec-02 25-Jan-03 05-Mar-03 13-Apr-03 22-May-03 30-Jun-03
Private Sector Deposits, billions of pesos
30-day variation, 30-day moving average (2nd axis)
In this situation, the BCRA carries out a policy consistent with its mission of preserving the value of the currency, in order to provide economic agents with a predictable horizon within which to form their plans and make their decisions. The measures taken during June have implied important steps towards the normalization of the monetary and financial system, covering several fronts: a) continuation of a credible and flexible monetary policy, both in the foreign exchange market and in the bills market (which was reflected in the expansion of the broad monetary base and the issuance of LEBAC); b) changes in prudential regulation, in order to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and solvency in the financial system, thus laying the groundwork for the return of credit; c) continuity of the provincial quasi-currency rescue program, aimed at unifying monetary circulation at the national level.

It is important to note that greater flexibility in the conduct of monetary policy has not had costs in terms of the price level: quite the opposite, in June retail prices showed a decline once again. This decline should not be confused with "harmful" deflationary processes (i.e. those associated with recessionary conditions in the economy), but rather reflects the readjustment of prices to more stable monetary and financial conditions than those expected following the devaluation.

3 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

Below, the aforementioned points are developed, referring to both the situation and the BCRA's policy. Previously, the developments on the monetary front are put into context, synthesizing the evolution of the real economy during the month.

The real economy: the realignment of relative prices continues

During June, the process of realignment of relative prices that began in October 2002 when the dollar reached its maximum continued during the month. In particular, the CPI showed in June, for the second consecutive month, a decline of 0.1% monthly and has accumulated an increase of only 2.1% since December. Additionally, wholesale prices (IPIM) fell in the month by 0.2% monthly and have accumulated a decrease of 2.5% compared to December 2002, and construction prices (ICC) increased in the month by 0.1%, 2.6% compared to December 2002. In year-on-year terms, the variations converge to around 10% with increases of 10.4%, 8.1% and 12.1% respectively (see chart 2).

The fall in retail prices is explained by a reduction in the price of goods, which represent 63% of the basket, which reached 0.7% monthly and was driven mainly by the reduction in food costs. This fall in food prices resulted in a new reduction in the cost of the Basic Food Basket, used to measure indigence indices, which verified a decline of 0.4% monthly during the month and has accumulated a reduction of 4.4% compared to the maximum reached in March.

In contrast, services showed an increase of 0.9% during the month, accompanied by increases in the prices of some regulated services that until now remained fixed. Although over the last two months the process of realignment of relative prices (goods/services) has regained momentum, there is still a long way to go, taking into account that the bulk of privatized services have still not increased their prices.

Chart 2

Evolution of Prices
140 (year-on-year % variation)

120 CPI
IPIM
100 Nominal Wages
Construction
80

60

40

20

0
-20
Ene-02 Abr-02 Jul-02 Oct-02 Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03

In effect, since the exit from convertibility, the prices of goods increased by 71% and the prices of services only by 14%, and since October 2002 both components grew respectively by 2.5% and 3.2%. Taking the relationship between IPIM and IPC as a proxy for tradables and non-tradables, the realignment of relative prices is even stronger than when comparing the goods and services items of the IPC. In effect, since the peaks reached in October 2002, the ratio between IPIM and IPC was reduced by 7.1%, while in that period the ratio between IPC goods and services was reduced only by 0.7%. Since the exit from convertibility, the increase reaches 48% and 43% respectively.

4 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

For its part, nominal wages showed in May a monthly increase of 2.9% and in real terms an increase of 3.3%. It should be noted that the dynamics of May is explained basically by the increase of $50 (to $200) non-remunerable amount granted by the Ministry of Labor that directly impacts the wages of the "formal" private sector, given that both public employee wages and informal employee wages did not experience modifications in the month.

With respect to the fiscal situation, in June tax collection continued showing good results, with an increase of 40.4% year-over-year in tax revenues that totaled $6,481 million. Practically 84% of this increase is explained by the collection of income tax, which showed an increase of 97.8% y.o.y. (given the impossibility of adjusting balances for inflation), by VAT collection with an increase of 25% y.o.y., and by export withholdings with an increase of 57% y.o.y. (despite the appreciation of the exchange rate). Although the dynamics of these taxes stand out by their magnitude, the rest of the taxes also showed improvements in the month.

Broad Monetary Base: Strong Seasonally-Adjusted Increase

During June, the broad monetary base (BMA) continued expanding strongly, once again driven by the external sector. The BMA increased $2,293 million (5.7%); in seasonally-adjusted terms, its growth was 7%, the highest increase recorded since June of last year. From the perspective of the base components, such increase is composed of an increase of approximately $1,300 million in currency in circulation held by the public, $175 million held by financial entities, $2,000 million increase in the current accounts of banks at the BCRA, and $1,200 million decrease in the stock of quasi-monies. Note that, as occurred in May, the increase in the holding of bills and coins by the public has been in good measure generated by the redemption of quasi-monies; it is therefore an impact on the composition of the BMA, but not on its quantity. The increase in the BMA is thus the counterpart of the increase in the level of deposits in the system.
From the perspective of the factors of expansion of the BMA, once again the external operations of the BCRA with the private sector account for the observed variation. Such operations implied an expansive monetary effect of $2,803 million. The rest of the explanatory factors entailed a contractionary effect. Operations with the public sector implied a contractionary effect of $159 million, since payments abroad exceeded in magnitude the temporary advances granted and the use of the government's operating account at the BCRA. The issuance of LEBAC entailed a monetary contraction of $385 million, while operations with the financial sector also had an effect of similar sign, although of lesser magnitude ($62 million, basically due to the payment of interest on rediscounts). The redemption of quasi-monies, in carrying the withdrawal of circulation of bonds at nominal value and the issuance of money at the market value of the former, had a contractionary monetary effect of $89 million. Table 1 details the different factors explaining the BMA and their effects.

Likewise, when comparing the evolution of the base during the first semester of this year with respect to what occurred in the second semester of last year, some differences are appreciated (graph 3). In 2003, the amount of expansion due to the private external sector increased, and internal credit took on a negative sign. While in the second semester of 2002 the granting of internal credit entailed an expansive monetary effect (intended to assist the Government and the financial sector), in what has occurred this year such factor has the opposite effect. In the first half of this year, there is no monetary expansion intended to cover financing needs, but rather the issuance of currency is destined to meet the money demand of domestic agents.

5 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

Table 1 Factors of Variation of the Broad Monetary Base Variation
 Broad June
 Broad monetary base 2,293
 Quasi-monies -1,232

 Monetary base 3,525
 Monetary circulation 1,519
 In the hands of the public 1,332
 In financial entities 187
 Current account at the BCRA 2,006

 Variation factors
 Financial sector -62
 Public sector -159
 Temporary advances + Profit transfers 383
 Use of the National Government account 0
 External credit -542
 Private sector 2,803
 Liquidation of exports 0
 Rest 2,803
 LEBAC -385
 Redemption of quasi-monies at nominal value 1,232
 Difference between redemption value and nominal value of quasi-monies -89
 Others 185

Graph 3

 Sources of expansion of the Broad Monetary Base
 In billions of pesos
 2nd semester 2002 9.2 1st semester 2003
 9 7.7
 8
 7
 6
 5 3.7
 4
 3
 2
 1
 0
 -1
 -2 -0.9
 -3 -1.6 -2.0

 Private External Credit Internal Credit Lebac

The strong expansion of the BMA continues to coexist with declining retail prices; this is a fact that points to genuine money demand, given that the greater issuance is not directed toward demand for external assets or goods. As we have noted on other occasions, several factors converge to justify the greater demand for base, all of them characterizing an economy that is more "cash-intensive": a) the increase in informal activities (which are based on the use of cash); b) the use of currency beyond its function as a medium of exchange (e.g., credit functions: financing with working capital); c) "aversion to banks" as a result of financial restrictions (now lifted) and regulations such as the check tax.

6 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

Private means of payment
During June, private payment methods in pesos including quasi-currencies (M2) increased $1,503 million (3%). This variation is due to both an increase in current accounts (approximately $600 million, 6%) and in savings accounts (about $800 million, 9%). The latter showed a marked increase, following the decline of the previous month. Meanwhile, broad-based currency in circulation increased just $100 million.

A significant portion of the M2 increase, however, is due to seasonal reasons – basically, the payment of the bonus starting at the end of June. Thus, in seasonally adjusted terms, M2 increased $583 million (1%). It is important to highlight this increase, as it indicates that the positive behavior persists in the aggregates most related to economic transactions: if we exclude the month of May –when the fall in private payment methods was counterbalanced by the increase in sight deposits of the public sector, upon recording record tax collection– during 2003 the seasonally adjusted M2 has been showing growth, a fact consistent with the economic reactivation scenario.

Regarding the composition of payment methods, it is relevant to note that broad-based currency shows an important change, by including fewer quasi-currencies and more bills and coins in national circulation: the total of this aggregate, however, does not show a very significant increase. This is noteworthy, as June is a month of seasonal increase in currency. This fact confirms in some way the assumption of the Monetary Program of considering a percentage of quasi-currencies and not their totality as currency. The reduced increase in broad-based currency suggests that a significant portion of the quasi-currencies stock redeemed is being translated into higher deposits and not into currency (said portion appeared in order accounts of the entities; regarding this, see the section dedicated to quasi-currency redemption in this same report).

## Time deposits resume their upward course

Private fixed-term deposits in pesos –a better reflection of investment decisions– increased during the month by around $1,104 million (3.5%). The increase is significant if one takes into account that they were no longer "fed" by the deprogramming of CEDRO (which ended in May). The increase in these placements, net of the CEDRO variation (which was approximately –500 million, including CER adjustment), was slightly higher than $600 million.

Observing the evolution of recent months (see chart 4), from June onwards one can see how the aggregate of fixed-term deposits plus CEDRO resumes a significant growth rate, following a certain "plateau" registered from mid-February onwards (given that in the chart the stocks of fixed-term and CEDRO are added together, increases in the former generated by falls in the latter are compensated). Insofar as these are placements made in a context fully free of restrictions and declining interest rates¹, they constitute an incipient signal of confidence in the financial system.
As we have already noted on other occasions, the observed growth of term deposits is not distributed uniformly throughout the financial system: just over a dozen entities concentrate most of the increase in private fixed-term deposits in pesos (net of CEDRO), as shown in graph 5 (a). When explaining the differential behavior observed, the interest rate is a significant factor, although not the only one: there is evidence of market segmentation, due to other variables. Graph 5 (b) shows the relationship between the fixed-term deposit rate for deposits greater than $1 million and the variation of private fixed-term deposits in pesos. There is far from a direct or even approximately direct relationship between interest rates and term deposits: there are entities that pay higher rates than others, but capture fewer deposits; entities that pay similar interest rate levels, but whose

1 In real terms, of course, interest rates remain at relatively high levels, especially when considered in an international context of falling rates.

7 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

deposits vary in opposite directions. There is evidence of segmentation by size: the entities that pay rates higher than the one that captures the most deposits are smaller in size and/or provincial banks. Even if a subgroup is formed with the banks whose rates are equal to or lower than that of the entity that captured the most deposits, it must still be concluded that there is a certain degree of segmentation (although in this case it may be more due to strategies specific to each entity).

Graph 4 Private Sector Deposits in Pesos

millions of pesos
42,000 Fixed-Term + CEDRO 24,000

41,000 Sight (Current Account + Savings Account), 23,000

40,000 2nd axis 22,000

39,000 21,000

38,000 20,000

37,000 19,000

36,000 18,000

35,000 17,000

Graph 5 Variation Private Fixed-Term Sector net of CEDRO, $
May 30 - June 26
(a) 400 million $

359

300

200 218
182
136114
100
69 entity

-

-100 -84
-133

-200 -197

Variation FT net of CEDRO, vs FT rate greater than $1M, 7-35 days
(b)

400 million $

300

200

100 ANA

-
- 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
-100

-200
-300

8 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

When the total of private sector deposits in pesos is aggregated, the variation recorded in June amounts to $2,254 million. Table 2 details the increases in the different items of total deposits in the financial system, the total variation, and the effect on the liquidity of the financial system.

Table 2
Monthly Flows in millions of pesos June

1. Total deposits in pesos 3,018
Savings Account 778
Current Account 651
Others 329
Fixed-Term 1,260

2. CEDRO -466
Legal Protections (1) -224

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -156
CER Adjustment -68

Other Removals (2) -242
Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -151
CER Adjustment -91

3. Variation of total deposits in $ (1+2) 2,552

4. Difference from payment of legal protections at free exchange rate -86

5. Effect on the liquidity of the system (3+4) 2,466

6. Deposits in dollars (in US$) 78

(1) Estimated figure.
(2) Includes CEDRO deprogramming due to lifting of the "freeze."

Prudential Regulation: Seeking to Ensure Solvency and Liquidity

The measures taken have addressed three main needs: reinstalling rules to generate an adequate degree of solvency in the financial system; providing a level of liquidity consistent with the financing needs to be faced by the entities; and addressing the situation of those affected included in the "disaster zones" declared by Law 25,735.
Regarding the first objective, new regulations on minimum capital for financial institutions were enacted (Communication "A" 3559). An 8% requirement on risk assets of the private sector is established, and another of equal percentage for holdings of public sector assets (securities and loans). The application of the adjustment factor for the capital requirement based on the loan interest rate (called "Risk Indicator") was suspended. In this way, financing will be temporarily weighted according to its guarantee and not based on the interest rate. An additional requirement was established for the risk of mismatch between inflation and market interest rates, and the dollar was incorporated into market risk requirements. The application of the CAMEL corrective factor (the rating that the Superintendency of Financial and Exchange Entities assigns to financial institutions) was suspended until June 2004, and an adjustment was made to risk weightings, consistent with the modifications made in March 2003 regarding guarantees and the treatment given to public sector assets. Attenuation coefficients (less than one) will be defined for the different capital requirements, which will be applied equally to all entities in the financial system, and a convergence schedule to one will be established, in order to facilitate compliance by financial institutions.

9 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

Regarding the liquidity of the financial system, it was taken into account that from July entities will face a series of factors that could affect their position (among them: the greater demand for cash typical of that time of year, the change in the maturity structure generated by the lifting of the "corralón," increase in minimum resource application due to the end of the schedule that allowed them to deduct a percentage of their holdings of the 2002 Government Bond). A reduction in legal reserve requirements was therefore decided, in order to adapt to the liquidity needs of the market (Communication "A" 3967). The modifications introduced are detailed in Table 3.

Table 3

Minimum Cash Requirements and Minimum Resource Application for Demand Deposits and Term Placements in Pesos

| Items Included | Demand Deposits | Term Deposits (includes CEDRO) Issued as of 1/1/02 |  |  |  |  |  | Debt Securities (includes ON) |  |  |  |  |  | Other Judicial | Demand Deposits for FCIs | Placements |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | up to 29 days | 30 to 59 days | 60 to 89 days | 90 to 179 days | 180 to 365 days | more than 365 days | up to 29 days | 30 to 59 days | 60 to 89 days | 90 to 179 days | 180 to 365 days | more than 365 days | | |
| Before | 35% | 22% | 19% | 18% | 5% | 3% | 0% | 22% | 19% | 18% | 5% | 3% | 0% | 0% | 10% | 100% |
| June | 25% | 18% | 14% | 10% | 5% | 3% | 0% | 18% | 14% | 10% | 5% | 3% | 0% | 0% | 10% | 80% |

Finally, measures were adopted to address the situation of those affected by the floods: checks issued prior to 4/28/03 that are rejected due to lack of funds or formal defects will not be incorporated into the Returned Checks Database; for the purposes of debtor classification, the delays incurred by those affected with respect to debts they have will not be taken into account.

Interest Rates: decline continues, hand in hand with greater liquidity
Interest rates continued the downward trend that began at the end of April, which accelerated after the announcement of the reduction in reserve requirements effective from July onwards. The fixed-term deposit rate for between 30 and 44 days in pesos declined by practically two percentage points, from 10.2% at the end of May to 8.3% at the end of June. The decline was more pronounced in the segment of operations exceeding $1 million, while the difference between the interest rates of said segment and those for placements of up to $100,000 tended to narrow – a relatively "anomalous" behavior, due (as we noted in the previous report) to the intention of retaining depositors who, due to their relatively low level of sophistication, tend to be more difficult to recapture.

**Graph 6 TNA of Fixed-Term Deposits in $ for 30-44 days**

In % - 5-day moving average -
13
75 Reduction in reserve requirements
11

9
60
7
45 5
30-5 6-6 13-6 20-6 27-6

Release of corralito
30 Exchange I

15
Offer of early redemption Release of corralón
0
Dec-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jun-02 Aug-02 Oct-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jun-03

Total general Up to $100,000

Despite the fall in nominal interest rates, real rates could be considered high in light of the evolution of the CPI in recent months (and, if inflation expectations are taken into account, they are still far from being negative). Likewise, in an international context of low interest rates, local ones look attractive. For example, the reference rate in the eurozone is currently at 2%, that of the United Kingdom at 3.25%, and the federal funds rate in the USA was reduced to 1%.

The persistent downward trend in interest rates is in line with the monetary situation: the combination of generalized growth in monetary aggregates and reduction in the reserve requirements of entities resulted in a higher level of system liquidity. Liquidity (defined as the current account of entities at the BCRA, plus cash holdings in banks, both in pesos and in dollars) is currently at historically high levels, as seen in graph 7. The comparison with previous moments in time should not obscure, however, that the ratios are interpreted in different ways. If the current level is comparable to that observed between mid-1996 and early 2001 - and greater than that recorded on average during the Convertibility regime - in the case of the context following the Tequila effect it was a deliberate policy of strengthening systemic liquidity, as a safeguard for the financial sector in a regime with an absence of a lender of last resort; in contrast, the current situation appears as a product of the behavior of financial entities, which have tended to accumulate liquidity following a crisis, both in view of the prospect of measures that could affect their funds (such as injunctions) and as a consequence of the lack of credit reactivation.

**Graph 7**
Liquidity / Deposits
in % Monthly averages
35 December 2001

30
26.3
25

20
Convertibility
15 Average: 23.2

10
Jan-91 Sep-92 May-94 Jan-96 Sep-97 May-99 Jan-01 Sep-02

**Credit: the reduction continues at decreasing rates**

In June, credit to the private sector in pesos was reduced by approximately $180 million (0.7%), the smallest monthly decline so far this year. Such variation was approximately half that of the previous month, and was due basically to the decline in consumer loans, since commercial loans showed virtually no changes². After observing a somewhat more pronounced decrease in credit in May than in April, the behavior observed in June looks favorable, and continues to corroborate the notion that several credit lines are stabilizing following the collapse associated with the recession that began in 1999.
Commercial credits practically showed no changes (they increased by $10 million). Within this group, it was advances in current account that exhibited the most significant increase ($100 million), whose magnitude is slightly lower than that verified in April. Discounted documents and

2 Consumer loans are defined as the sum of mortgages, pledged property loans, personal loans and credit card financing; and commercial loans, as the sum of current account advances, other advances, promissory notes, purchased and discounted documents, and other loans, net of documented interest.

11 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

purchased documents also increased ($20 million each line), while promissory notes and other advances decreased.

Consumer credits were reduced by almost $200 million (compared to almost $300 million of negative variation the previous month), with the majority of its lines showing variations smaller than those recorded in May. This is the smallest decrease verified in this group of loans since December of last year.

Chart 8
Commercial and consumer loans in pesos to the private sector (monthly variations)

Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03
0

-200

-400

-600

-800
Commercial
-1000 Consumer

-1200

-1400

Monetary policy: from credibility to flexibility

The monetary policy implemented during this period by the BCRA advanced toward greater flexibility, to the extent that the main objective of the last year and a half –establishing a framework of credibility following the devaluation– is being fulfilled abundantly. Both the compliance with the mandatory targets contained in the agreement with the IMF, and the growing stability observed in the foreign exchange market (with quotations that are well below the pessimistic forecasts from less than a year ago) and the inflation rate lower than expected (which, as we already mentioned, took the form of deflation in May and June) have contributed to strengthening the credibility of the monetary authority, a strengthening that has not been costly in terms of level of activity. Once such steps were taken, monetary policy has been gaining an important dose of flexibility, adapting to the needs of the real economy. Crucial in this sense have been the BCRA's operations in the foreign exchange market, and the issuance of Central Bank Notes (LEBAC). During June, as in recent months, the BCRA's exchange rate operations have fulfilled a dual objective: to substantially reduce the volatility of the exchange rate; and to provide the economy with the necessary means of payment in a context of recovery such as the current one. The issuance fully backed by reserves (derived from the aforementioned exchange rate operations), not directed as in the past to finance the needs of agents such as the government or the financial sector, constitutes the most reasonable way to address current money demand. Meanwhile, the issuance of LEBAC proceeds according to the strategy of reducing interest rates, a requirement for the return of credit and the consolidation of economic recovery. In the following sections, the points mentioned here are reviewed.

Targets with the IMF: revision in June

As was indicated in the previous paragraph, the broad over-compliance with the mandatory monetary targets agreed with the IMF was one of the factors that contributed to consolidating the credibility of the monetary authority. Both the Net Domestic Assets (NDA) target and the Net International Reserves (NIR) target were met in excess of what was agreed systematically during the first six months of the year (although originally a bimonthly monitoring of the targets was agreed, the BCRA carries it out

12 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003
on a monthly basis). During June, the measurement period for May's targets concluded: the level of RIN was then US$ 2,961 million above the target, while AIN was located $ 7,967 million above the objective (an overfulfilment of 13%).

In contrast with the above, the indicative target for Broad Monetary Base (BMA) established in the January 2003 agreement has not been met since March. We have pointed out in previous reports the economic rationale for such non-compliance: it would be too costly in terms of economic activity to limit monetary expansion in a context of recovery without inflationary pressures, nor pressure on the exchange rate –and in which evidence of "genuine" money demand manifests itself.

The need to provide an adequate framework for greater flexibility in monetary policy led to the revision of the monetary targets for the month of June. Thus, given the broad overfulfilment of the required targets, it was possible to set stricter objectives, while the original BMA target was relaxed by $4,000 million. The new targets and the performance observed in June are detailed in table 4.

**Table 4**

| June (measurement between 13-Jun and 15-Jul) Figures in millions | As of 10-Jul | Target 30-Jun | Deviation * |
|---|---|---|---|
| Net domestic assets (AIN) | 49.805 | 56.525 | -6.720 |
| Net international reserves (RIN) | -1.821 | -4.188 | 2.367 |
| Broad Monetary Base (BMA) (indicative) | 42.794 | 40.400 | 2.394 |

* Deviation: In AIN and Monetary Base the negative sign (-) indicates overfulfilment.
In RIN the positive sign (+) indicates overfulfilment.

## Monetary Program

Throughout recent months, the need to carry out a revision of the 2003 monetary program to adapt it to the new economic context became increasingly evident. Such context is characterized by positive macroeconomic changes, as well as by important measures aimed at normalizing the financial system and liberalizing controls in the capital and foreign exchange markets –elements that have been detailed in this and previous reports. To ensure that the program continues to fulfill its role as a guide for monetary policy in the present transition stage toward an inflation targeting scheme, a revision thereof was carried out in the month of June³.

When reviewing the program, the difficulty of making effective forecasts of monetary aggregates makes it problematic and even inadvisable to cling to any monetary "target." For this reason, the projections should be taken as indicative and subject to a reasonable margin of error. Moreover, the changes generated by the crisis mean that the usual transmission mechanisms of monetary policy are operating in a limited manner. In particular, the credit channel, which is usually very powerful for transmitting interest rate decisions to the level of activity, is heavily affected by the reduced credit extension. The difficulty of making forecasts is not limited to monetary aggregates, but extends to various key macroeconomic variables, such as the level of activity, relative prices, and inflation. The fact that the transmission mechanisms of monetary policy are not operating normally due to the effects of the banking crisis makes it more difficult to forecast the level of activity, real investment, and imports. The magnitude of the changes in relative prices generated by the exit from Convertibility and the strong overshooting of the exchange rate make it difficult to distinguish variations in relative prices from those observed in the general price level.

For the reasons mentioned in the previous paragraph, it has generally been preferred to project intervals within which it is considered likely that the various variables will be found in the present year, with

³ The monetary program is available on the BCRA website,
http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/polmon/ProgMonRevision.pdf

13 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003
a certain conservative bias. Said bias is based on the consideration that deviations implying a higher level of activity or a lower level of inflation are more tolerable than deviations in the opposite direction.

Table 5 summarizes the projections of the revised monetary program, for broad monetary base and the M2 and M3 aggregates.

Table 5 Broad Monetary Base I Sem III Trim IV Trim II Sem

 Total Upper Band 43.026 44.100 49.215 49.215
 Lower Band 40.254 40.348 43.909 43.909
 B and M 21.254 22.465 26.623 26.623
 18.750 20.039 23.860 23.860
 Reserves 17.307 19.984 22.196 22.196
 Bank 17.039 18.659 19.653 19.653
 Quasi-money 4.465 1.650 395 395
 4.465 1.650 395 395

 M2 I Sem III Trim IV Trim II Sem Year
 Level Upper Band 53.195 55.132 60.838 60.838 60.838
 Lower Band 50.217 50.572 54.152 54.152 54.152
 Nominal 11% 4% 10% 14% 27%
 Variation 5% 1% 7% 8% 13%
 Variation in terms 0,3 0,8 0,5 1,3 1,6
 of GDP (pp) -0,5 -0,1 -0,7 -0,8 -1,3

 M3 I Sem III Trim IV Trim II Sem Year
 Level Upper Band 107.936 112.819 121.711 121.711 121.711
 Lower Band 104.655 106.983 112.610 112.610 112.610
 Nominal 11% 5% 8% 13% 25%
 Variation 8% 2% 5% 8% 16%
 Variation in terms 0,6 1,9 0,3 2,2 2,8
 of GDP (pp) -0,3 0,3 -1,9 -1,6 -2,0

 It is noted thus that the BMA (whose behavior during the month was detailed earlier in this report) evolves in accordance with what is set forth in the monetary program, remaining within the range specified therein (as observed in graphic 9).

Graphic 9 Broad Monetary Base

 in billions of pesos
 50
 49
 48
 47
 46
 45
 44
 43
 42
 41
 40
 39
 2-Jun 24-Jun 16-Jul 6-Aug 28-Aug 18-Sep 9-Oct 30-Oct 21-Nov 12-Dec

 Band Monetary Program Observed

Foreign Exchange Market: Lower volatility and slight appreciation of the peso

 During June, the peso appreciated 2% with respect to the U.S. dollar. Although the local currency reached a rate of 2.76 units per dollar, it closed the month at 2.8075. The trend toward peso appreciation, although moderate, continues. Likewise, foreign exchange volatility has also decreased significantly: it stood at its lowest levels since December of last year, as observed in graphic 10.

Graphic 10

 Pesos/Dollar Peso/dollar exchange rate and its annual volatility (10-day sample) Volatility
 3,7 $/USD Volat. 50%
 2,9 13%
 2,8 11% 45%
 3,5 9% 40%
 2,7 7%
 3,3 2,6 5% 35%

 2,5 3% 30%
 1-Jun 8-Jun 15-Jun 22-Jun 29-Jun
 3,1 25%

 20%
 2,9 15%

 2,7 10%

 5%

 2,5 0%
 2-Dec-02 3-Jan-03 4-Feb-03 5-Mar-03 2-Apr-03 24-Apr-03 16-May-03 7-Jun-03 29-Jun-03
 Reference Exchange Rate Annual Historical Volatility

 The BCRA's intervention in the foreign exchange market resumed during June, following the impasse that took place in the second half of May. When comparing the net dollar purchases made by the BCRA with the settlement of exports (in particular, those from cereals and oilseeds), one can observe the close relationship between both operations, even though already in May the obligation of exporters to settle their foreign currency at the Central Bank was eliminated (see graphic 11). It should be noted that, although exporters settle their foreign currency in the market, to the extent that the demand for foreign currency does not increase, the BCRA ends up absorbing the excess supply of it.

Graphic 11

 Settlement of exports (cereals and oilseeds) and
 net dollar purchases by the BCRA

 millions of US$ (20-day moving averages)

 70
 60 Export settlement cereals

 50 Net purchases BCRA

 40

 30

 20

 10

 0
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT - JUNE 2003

The local currency also appreciated against the euro during the month, closing at the end of June 4% above the previous month's close. Not unrelated to this movement was the decline experienced by the euro with respect to the dollar after reaching its highs in May. The interest rate differential between the eurozone and the U.S. decreased during June, following the rate cut ordered by the European Central Bank. Even so, the problems of "twin deficits" in the U.S. (fiscal and trade deficit) and doubts about the return to a sustained growth rate mean that medium-term prospects continue to look favorable for the European currency.

The peso depreciated against the Brazilian real by 2.5%, ending June at 0.98 units per real. The Central Bank of Brazil decided to cut the Selic rate by 50 basis points. The measure appeared as a "compromise solution" between the needs of the real economy (which is experiencing a marked deceleration) and caution in the face of inflation that is outside the target established by the monetary authority, and converging very slowly toward it.

## The Quasi-Currency Redemption Program: Progress and Effects

During June, the quasi-currency redemption program continued: bonds with a nominal value of $1,232 million were withdrawn from circulation; the monetary base expansion corresponding to such redemption was $1,143 million (since in several cases the redemption was carried out at market value). The quasi-currencies now out of circulation corresponded to issuances from the provinces of Córdoba (Lecor), Entre Ríos (Federales), Formosa (Bocade), Tucumán (Bocanfor), and the Nation (Lecop). The detail of the redemption during June is observed in graph 12.

**Graph 12**
**Quasi-Currency Redemption**
Nominal Value, millions of pesos. $ 2,205 million (29% of Estimated Total)

[Chart showing redemption data from May 21 to June 30, with LECOP (Nation) and Other categories, plus accumulated total on secondary axis]

As of June 30, bonds representing 29% of the total nominal value of quasi-currencies at the beginning of the program had been redeemed. In addition to the remaining amounts of species that have already been auctioned and have begun to be redeemed, pending is the withdrawal from circulation of bonds from Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Corrientes, Chaco, La Rioja and Mendoza.

The effects of the quasi-currency redemption are both qualitative and quantitative. Among the former, we already pointed out in our previous report that the redemption of quasi-currencies is a significant advance toward the normalization of the conditions in which the financial system operates, insofar as it implies the return to the existence of a single national currency controlled by the monetary authority. Among the latter, at least three can be identified: a) decrease in the BMA by carrying out part of the redemption at market value (this effect amounts to $110 million since the beginning of the program); b) increase in bank liabilities, due to the fact that part of the stock of quasi-currencies flows into deposits; c) increase in bank liquidity, based on the increase mentioned in b). Within the new deposits mentioned in point b), it should be taken into account that part comes from quasi-currencies that appeared in memorandum accounts of financial entities, and that did not constitute circulation.

## LEBAC: With Rates in Decline, Greater Interest in Longer Terms
Towards the end of the month of June, the nominal value of the stock of Central Bank bills in circulation amounted to $6,176 million for those instruments denominated in domestic currency and US$125 million for those in foreign currency. This implies an increase of 16% and a decline of 34% in the respective stocks in relation to those at the end of the previous month (see chart 12a). In this manner, a second consecutive month of double-digit percentage increase in the stock of LEBAC in pesos is recorded, in light of the greater needs for monetary absorption in a context of significant foreign exchange inflows. It should be noted that, of the monthly increase in bills in pesos ($855 million), a good part was concentrated in the last week of the month, when a record increase of almost 680 million pesos occurred in the stock of these instruments. Likewise, with reference to bills in domestic currency, a slight decline is recorded in the percentage of the stock adjustable by CER; in a context of downward revision of inflationary expectations, the stock of LEBAC adjustable by CER increased by only 2%, thus its participation in the total portfolio of bills in pesos falling from 13.4% to 11.8%. On the other hand, with regard to bills in dollars —bills adjustable according to the evolution of the foreign currency exchange rate—, the decline in their stock is consistent with a scenario of exchange rate stability, in which they lose their attractiveness as a hedge against currency risk4.

One of the most notable features of the auctions of bills denominated in pesos during the month analyzed was the strong interest aroused by bills for longer terms (see chart 13b). In this sense, the continuous fall in rates would be forcing investors to position themselves in longer-term instruments in order to maintain a certain level of return, thus taking advantage of the current level of rates in light of expectations of greater cuts in the same. In fact, while in the month of May bills for terms of up to three months captured 51% of the total amounts offered, in June the corresponding portion fell to 10%, with 72% of the offerings concentrated in instruments of more than six months. This clearly had an impact on the average life of the portfolio in circulation of bills in pesos, which went from 161 days at the end of May to 223 days at the end of the period under study. In this manner, at the end of the month analyzed nearly 55% of the total stock in pesos in circulation matured during the year 2004. It should be noted that for the month of July 2003 maturities are scheduled for a considerable amount - approximately 1,600 million pesos in total—, which represents approximately 25% of the stock in circulation at the beginning of said month.

Chart 13
a) b)

Evolution of the stock of LEBAC in circulation Stock of LEBAC in pesos by term
NV in millions of $
NV in millions of $ 7,000
7,000
6,000
6,000
5,000 5,000

4,000 4,000

3,000 3,000

2,000 2,000

1,000 1,000

0 0
Mar-02 Apr-02 May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 May-Jun-Jul-Aug-Sep-Oct-Nov-Dec-Jan-Feb-Mar-Apr-May-Jun-
02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 03 03 03 03 03 03

Stock of LEBAC in pesos Stock of LEBAC in Dollars (expressed in $) Up to 1 month 2 to 3 months 4 to 6 months 9 to 12 months More than one year

17 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003
Given the context of high liquidity and limited investment alternatives with an attractive risk-return profile in the domestic market, the increase in the stock did not prevent a decline in the cut-off rates accepted by the monetary authority (see chart 14). Indeed, declines in rates of between 1.5 and 2.75 percentage points were recorded between the end of May and June. Thus, while bills in pesos at approximately one month at the end of May were accepted at an annual rate of 6.4%, in the last auction in June an equivalent instrument received a rate of 4.9%. A similar trend was evident in the 6-month instruments, whose annual rate fell from 13.25% to 11% between extremes. Finally, while at the end of June a bill at 497 days had a rate of 22.25%, a month later a similar instrument (469 days) was auctioned at a rate of 19.5%. These declines in rates resulted in a lower average cost for the outstanding LEBAC portfolio, which fell 3.6 percentage points during June, ending at a level of 22.4% (measured as annual rate at 30 days) (see chart 15).

Chart 14
a) b)

Evolution of the interest rate structure of Evolution of LEBAC rates and alternative returns
Cut-off annual rate LEBAC in pesos
25% 50%

20% 40%

15% 30%

10% 20%

5% Days of term 10%

0% 0%
0 100 200 300 400 500 Jan-03Jan-03Jan-03Feb-03Feb-03Mar-03Mar-03Apr-03Apr-03May-03May-03Jun-03Jun-03

Thursday May 29 Thursday June 12 Thursday June 26 LEBAC$ 1 month LEBAC$ 6 months
Fixed-term Deposit $ 1 month NDF 1 month

Chart 15
a) b)

Distribution of total amounts offered by term Average life and average cost of the portfolio %
LEBAC in pesos LEBAC in pesos
100% 250 140
80% 72%
200 112

60% 150 84

40% 100 56

20% 10%17% 50 28

0% 0 0
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Mar-02Apr-02May-02Jun-02Jul-02Aug-02Sep-02Oct-02Nov-02Dec-02Jan-03Feb-03Mar-03Apr-03May-03Jun-03

Up to 3 months 4 to 6 months More than 6 months Average life LEBAC $ (days) Average cost portfolio LEBAC $ (Annual rate 30 d) - 2nd axis

4 Note that these are instruments with a maximum term of one month that are auctioned at zero rate.

18 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

As a counterpart to the progressive increase in the stock and average life of outstanding bills, the secondary market for these instruments continued to increase its level of activity (see chart 16). Thus, during June an average daily amount close to $40 million was traded, when the previous month the average amount was almost $30 million, while in April it was approximately $20 million and during the immediately preceding months between $10 and $5 million. Consequently, the total amount traded per month showed an increase of almost $200 million between May and June, accumulating during this last month transactions of almost $730 million. With respect to returns in this market, they are generally aligned with those of the primary market, recording in recent months a declining trend.

Chart 16
a) b)

Total amount traded per month Evolution of returns in the secondary market
Millions of pesos Includes trading of LEBAC in pesos, dollars and adjustable by CERTNA
1200 45 30%

1000 40 25%
35
800 728 30
25 20%
600 522
412 357 20 15%
400 305 15
236
200 10 10%
7 46 29 69 116 105 112 97 121 5
0 0 5%
Apr-02May-02Jun-02Jul-02Aug-02Sep-02Oct-02Nov-02Dec-02Jan-03Feb-03Mar-03Apr-03May-03Jun-03 Days of term
0%
Amount traded LEBAC 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Amount traded Stock Exchange
Amount traded BODEN (Stock Exchange) 37727 13-May-03 37784 37797
Daily average Amount traded LEBAC (2nd axis)

Public Securities: awaiting developments
Throughout the month of June, the global liquidity context continued supporting demand for fixed-income assets from emerging countries, which resulted in the persistence of the downward trend in the respective country risk indicators, although the same shows some deceleration (see chart 17). Thus, for example, the spread of the Latin American EMBI without Argentina, which during the first quarter of the year averaged around 840 points, in April registered an average of approximately 680 points, while in May it fell to 610, averaging around 585 basis points in the month of June. A similar path followed the Brazilian spread, going from levels above 1,000 basis points in the first quarter to averaging almost 750 points during the month of June, although it began to rise in the last days of the month –ending June at 800 points, a level similar to the close of the previous month-. For its part, the Argentine EMBI spread, having started the year above 6000 basis points, averaged during the month of May around 5,300 points, to finally register in June an average value of approximately 4,700 points, thus reflecting the continuous increase –starting from extremely depressed prices- in the quotations of sovereign bonds in foreign currency considered by JPMorgan for the construction of the indicator. Thus, the spread for Argentina at the end of June was 4,550 points, almost 800 points below that of the end of the previous month.

Evolution of the EMBI+ Spread
Chart 17
[Chart data preserved as shown]

In the particular case of Argentine debt securities, during the month of June the international bonds in default with greater liquidity showed a new advance in their quotations, while the fall in international interest rates and dialogue with the IMF allowed one to presage a restructuring context more friendly than initially expected. Thus, for example, bonds such as the FRB and the Globals'08 and '17 registered appreciations between bid and ask of between 10 and 13% (see chart 18). The default securities with lower liquidity, such as the BOCONES and the BONTES showed advances in their quotations, with certain bonds (such as the PRE5 and the PRO5) reaching increases on the order of 20% during the month. With regard to default debt, it should be clarified that at the beginning of the analyzed month the last days of the month of September of the current year were announced as a tentative date for the presentation of a concrete restructuring proposal. On the other hand, it is necessary to take into account that toward the end of the month versions began to be disseminated in the media according to which the debt already pesified could also come to be included in the restructuring of sovereign debt, thus generating some additional uncertainty in the markets with respect to the future of the debt issued post-default.

Chart 18

Quotation of Public Securities in Default
USD
[Chart data preserved as shown]

Despite these rumors, the quotations of the BODEN did not register a particularly negative behavior (see chart 19). Thus, among the bonds issued after the cessation of payments, the performance of the BODEN USD 2012 stood out –one of the most liquid, along with the BODEN $ 2008- with an appreciation between bid and ask of approximately 11% in dollars. The rest of the BODEN, however, did not show relevant variations in their quotations.

Chart 19 Parity BODEN BODEN 05 and
BODEN 12 BODEN 07
[Chart data preserved as shown]
30% 65%
 25% 60%
 31-Dec- 15- 30- 14- 1-Mar- 16- 31- 15- 30- 15- 30- 14-Jun-29-Jun-
 02 Jan-03 Jan-03 Feb-03 03 Mar-03Mar-03 Apr-03 Apr-03 May-03May-03 03 03

 BODEN 12 BODEN 05 (2nd axis) BODEN 07 (2nd axis)

 20 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

 In terms of volumes, those traded on the Commerce Stock Exchange registered an increase of nearly $100 million, totaling approximately $2,600 million in operations for the month, thus sustaining the incipient increase in volumes with respect to the immediately preceding months. It should be noted, however, that the aforementioned amount represents little more than half of that traded during the same month a year ago, when the real possibility—or speculation about the eventual possibility—of using bonds for different purposes (tax payment, loan cancellation) motivated considerable activity in this market.

Equities: Price Correction and Profit Taking

 Sustaining the trend registered in recent months, performance during the month of June proved positive for the major world stock exchanges. The global scenario of elevated liquidity and falling interest rates5 —added to certain optimism regarding the future evolution of the North American economy and improved prospects in relation to the fundamentals of emerging economies—continues to motivate adjustments in investors' portfolios with the objective of maintaining their returns, increasing the flow of funds entering equity markets and thus driving quotations, thereby allowing the generalized recovery of the different exchanges (see table 6).

Table 6
 Variations of stock exchange indices
 In local currency In dollars

 June Year-to-date 2003 June Year-to-date 2003

 MERVAL 12.9% 45.8% 15.1% 74.7%
 NIKKEI 225 7.8% 5.9% 7.4% 5.0%
 NASDAQ 1.7% 21.5% 1.7% 21.5%
 S&P 500 1.1% 10.8% 1.1% 10.8%
 FTSE 100 -0.4% 2.3% 0.7% 5.1%
 DOW JONES 1.5% 7.7% 1.5% 7.7%
 BOVESPA -3.3% 15.1% 0.9% 43.3%

 The domestic stock exchange was not immune to these trends, reinforced in turn by the local singularities of the aforementioned factors; on one hand, the peculiar level of liquidity in the economy must be taken into account, which has put downward pressure on returns of lower-risk assets. Likewise, the caution of less sophisticated investors entering the fixed-income market should be considered, insofar as uncertainty persists regarding the future renegotiation of debt. On the other hand, once the electoral process has been overcome, given the stability of the exchange rate at a level that proves favorable for the recovery of certain sectors of the real economy and while an increase is registered in the level of consumer confidence, positive expectations are maintained regarding the level of future activity. In this way, the positive trend of the local stock market (see chart 20) allows progress in the price correction of certain securities particularly affected by the recession of recent years and the crisis unleashed at the end of 2001. This latter point is evident in the month under analysis in the case of shares of companies belonging to the financial sector, which showed significant advances in their quotations. For example, Grupo Galicia shares—with a weighting of almost 15% in the

5 At the end of the month of June and in order to sustain the level of economic activity, the monetary authorities of the United States decided to lower their target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, thus stipulating a level of 1% for this reference rate. It should be clarified that this level of rates for Fed funds has not been registered effectively since 1965.

 21 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

construction of the MERVAL—were revalued between the beginning and end of the month by 43%, being the security with the greatest increase in value during the month in question (see chart 20).

Chart 20
MERVAL Domestic stock market Volatility
 -MERVAL index in local currency-
 900 120%

 800
 100%
 700

 600 80%

 500
 60%
 400

 300 40%

 200
 20%
 100

 0 0%

 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03
 MERVAL in $
 MERVAL in US$
 Historical volatility MERVAL in $ (sample of 20 trading sessions)

 The behavior of the stock market during the month of June was therefore consistent with the
favorable environment: the MERVAL index in pesos grew approximately 13% during the month, an increase
that reaches 15% if the same index is considered in dollars, given the strengthening of the domestic
currency. In this way, the leading stock index accumulated a growth of 45.8% in pesos and 74.7% in
dollars during the first half of the year.

Chart 21

 Price correction of financial sector securities in June
 Quotations in pesos
 3 6.96

 2.5 5.8

 2 4.64

 1.5 3.48

 1 2.32

 0.5 1.16

 0 0

 01- 16- 31- 15- 02- 17- 01- 16- 01- 16- 31- 15- 30-
 Jan Jan Jan Feb Mar Mar Apr Apr May May May Jun Jun
 Grupo Galicia BANSUD BBVA (2nd axis)

 It should be clarified that on June 20 the MERVAL managed to exceed 800 points, a level it had not
reached since October 1997; subsequently, towards the end of the month the same index would show an
abrupt decline contemporaneously with the announcement of the introduction of controls on short-term
capital inflows6. Having occurred after a prior period of significant appreciations, these announcements
could have accelerated profit-taking by various operators, temporarily depressing the index. As a result of this

6 Decree 285/03, regulated by Com. "A" 3.972. According to this decree, foreign currency entering the local market
may only be transferred out of said market upon the expiration of a period of 180 calendar days, with the exception
of those corresponding to foreign trade operations and direct foreign investments.

 22 Monthly Monetary Report—June 2003

final decline in quotations, the historical volatility of the MERVAL increased: after falling progressively
following the disruption introduced during the electoral period, reaching a level of 25% in mid-June7, towards
the last days of the period it increased again to represent approximately 40%.

 The interest of investors in the stock market was validated by an increase in traded volumes (see chart 22).
Thus, during the month of June the volume of stock trading amounted to almost 1,000 million pesos, compared
to approximately 700 million pesos traded during the previous month. It is worth noting that in the last month an
average daily amount of 51 million pesos was traded, the highest in current currency since June 1999 –although
if measured in homogeneous currency at the closing date according to the CPI the average turns out to be similar
to that of January 2002-.

Chart 22

 Millions of $ Daily average traded volume of stocks
 250

 200

 150

 100

 50

 0
 Jan-98Apr-98Jul-98Oct-98Jan-99Apr-99Jul-99Oct-99Jan-00Apr-00Jul-00Oct-00Jan-01Apr-01Jul-01Oct-01Jan-02Apr-02Jul-02Oct-02Jan-03Apr-03

 In current pesos In pesos of June '03 (according to CPI)

7 Historical volatility (annualized) calculated on the basis of a sample of 20 trading sessions.

 23
