# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

## Monthly Monetary Report
## July 2003

## Summary

ü The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) expanded on average in July by $961 million (2%), in line with the evolution of recent months (*). This was the result of an expansion in circulating currency of $1,985 million, a reduction of $168 million in the current account of financial entities at the BCRA (counterpart of the lower liquidity requirements arranged in the previous month), and a decrease in the stock of quasi-money of $855 million. According to the monetary program in effect for the year 2003, the band for July expressed in balances in millions at the end of the month was $44,800-$41,600, whereas the BMA as of July 31 was $42,709 million, registering a decline between peaks of $120 million (0.3%), a decline that in seasonally adjusted terms amounted to 4%.

ü Consumer prices showed an increase of 0.4% in July compared to the previous month, after two months of decline. In this way, the CPI accumulates an increase of only 2.5% so far this year.

ü Private means of payment in pesos (M2, including quasi-money) showed an expansion of $2,900 million in the month (6.6%). Such behavior should be attributed mainly to demand deposits, with circulating currency in the broad sense showing an increase lower than that of such placements.

ü Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased by approximately $300 million (1%). If the variation in the stock of CEDRO is incorporated into the fixed terms, a decrease of $150 million (0.4%) is found. Behind this behavior are at least three factors: a) the maturity of fixed-term deposits arranged in April and May, within the framework of CEDRO "de-scheduling"; b) the marked decrease in the relative yield of fixed-term deposits compared to demand placements; c) the greater incidence of the tax on bank debits and credits. The decrease in fixed-term deposits was more than offset by the increase in demand placements, so total deposits increased.

ü Interest rates continued their downward trend: despite the deceleration observed in the growth of monetary aggregates, the liquidity of financial entities remained sufficiently ample. Thus, the interest rate for fixed-term deposits in pesos of between 30 and 44 days went from 8.3% at the end of June to 4.8% at the end of July.

ü Loans to the private sector in pesos continued to decline: the stock thereof decreased approximately $500 million (2%).

ü The redemption of quasi-money for the provinces that had already adhered to it continued (and also for the Nation), and the province of Buenos Aires joined the program. Thus, during the month in question, quasi-money worth a nominal value of $1,005 million was redeemed; the issuance of national currency as counterpart of such withdrawal amounted to $989 million.

ü The exchange rate of the peso against the dollar tended to decline during the month of July (with the North American currency appreciating 4% against the local currency), thus interrupting the upward trend observed throughout the first half of the year. The market felt the impact of lower liquidation of exports. With respect to the euro, the local currency depreciated 2%, and showed virtually no changes against the Brazilian real.

ü The excess liquidity prevalent among banks operating in the domestic market favored the placement of Central Bank debt and meant that July became the month with the greatest monetary contraction through LEBAC adjudications since the implementation of these instruments in March of the previous year. This occurred despite the sustained decrease in the interest rates cut for all tendered terms.

(*)Except where otherwise indicated, all variations reported in monetary variables are expressed in terms of monthly averages.
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT — JULY 2003

## The Real Economy: Industry Returns to Growth After 3 Months of Decline

Although most indicators on the evolution of economic activity during the month of July are not yet available, some advance data allow us to infer a recovery compared to previous months. It should be recalled that in June, the latest data released, the Monthly Estimator of Economic Activity (EMAE), monthly proxy of GDP, remained at May levels. In any case and despite the contraction shown by industry, which until then had been the engine of economic recovery, the EMAE accumulated in the second quarter of the year an increase of 1.5% seasonally adjusted compared to the first quarter. This dynamic, while showing a deceleration with respect to growth observed in the first three months of 2003 (+2.5% q/q s.a.), shows an improvement in relation to what was expected by the Market Consensus. In year-on-year terms, the EMAE increase reaches 6.5% in the quarter and 7.4% accumulated through June.

In particular in July, according to the Monthly Industrial Estimator (EMI), industry returned to growth, after three consecutive months of declines, at a rate of 1.5% monthly seasonally adjusted, completely reversing the decline of the second quarter and positioning itself 0.3% s.a. above the levels of the first quarter of the year. In year-on-year terms the increase reaches 16.7%, and accumulates so far this year an increase of 17.3% compared to the same period of 2002.

Likewise, the collection of consumption-related taxes shows a new recovery in the month. In particular, VAT collection by DGI showed in the month an increase of 16.9% year-on-year (8.9% in real terms) and 6.4% seasonally adjusted compared to June. The evolution of activity level indicators is summarized in Table 1.

**Table 1**

| Activity Indicators (*) | Var % 1T 02/1T 03 | Var % 1T 03/2T 03 | Var % Jul 03/2T 03 |
|---|---|---|---|
| EMAE (**) | 2.5% | 1.5% | |
| EMI (**) | 8.0% | -0.5% | 0.9% |
| ISAC (**) | 15.2% | 6.7% | |
| Public Services (**) | 2.8% | 1.8% | |
| Supermarket Sales (quantities) (**) | -2.5% | 3.3% | |
| Shopping Center Sales (quantities) (**) | 3.9% | -0.7% | |
| Auto Sales (**) | 7.7% | 55.8% | 25.9% |
| VAT DGI (**) | 1.2% | 1.6% | 3.5% |
| Imports (**) | 19.0% | 17.4% | |
| Employment Level GBA (**) | 0.6% | 0.5% | |
| Consumer Confidence Di Tella (***) | 40.6 | 46.9 | 54.8 |

(*) Seasonally adjusted series
(**) Quarterly variation rates
(***) Average level of the series

For its part, in July the process of relative price realignment initiated in October of last year continued and currently, year-on-year price variations are in a range of between 3% (Wholesale) and 8% (CPI, CPI goods, CPI services and Construction).

Consumer prices showed an increase of 0.4% in July compared to the previous month, after two months of decline. In this way, the CPI accumulates so far this year an increase of only 2.5%; the average of the first 7 months of the year compared to the first 7 months of last year yields an increase of 21.5%. Additionally, wholesale prices (IPIM) stagnated and accumulate a decline of 2.5% compared to December 2002 and construction prices (ICC) increased in the month 0.7% monthly, 3.3% since December 2002.

The increase in the CPI is mainly explained by the dynamics of services which represent 37% of the basket and showed in the month an increase of 1%. In particular, in the last month the increase in service prices was basically explained by seasonal increases in items related to tourism and entertainment originated in the winter vacation period.
In any case, and unlike last month, prices of goods showed a slight increase of 0.1% despite the negative seasonality of the clothing sector generated by the start of winter clearance sales. In particular, it is worth highlighting the stagnation in prices of food and beverages after three consecutive months of declines and the increase in cigarette prices agreed upon by the main companies in the sector, which had an impact of 0.2 percentage points on the CPI.

Graph 1

140% Price Evolution
(a) CPI
120% CPI Goods
CPI Services
100% IPIM
Nominal Wages
Construction
80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

(b) CPI Variation %, 3-month moving average/3-month
(annualized and seasonally adjusted)
250%

CPI Var. %, 3m/3m Moving Average Annualized Goods Services
200% %
10%

8%

150% 6%

4%

100% 2%

0%

-2%
50%
-4%
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03

0%

-50%

Taking the relationship between IPM and CPI as a proxy for tradables and non-tradables, the realignment of relative prices is even stronger than when comparing CPI goods and services, although in recent months it tends to equalize. Indeed, since the highs reached in October 2002, the ratio between IPM and CPI decreased by 7.5%, while in that period the ratio between CPI goods and services decreased only by 2.4%, although since the exit from Convertibility they have accumulated increases of 47.1% and 46.7% in one and the other case respectively.

For its part, in June, the last available data, nominal wages increased by 0.5% monthly and have accumulated an increase of 16.4% since the lows reached in April 2002. In real terms, a recomposition of real wages is observed that since March reaches 6%, although they still remain almost 20% below the levels prior to the exit from Convertibility. This increase was explained exclusively by the formal sector, which saw its salaries increased by 1% monthly, while public sector wages remained stable and private informal sector wages decreased slightly.

Broad monetary base: in line with the monetary program

The broad monetary base (BMA) expanded on average in July by $961 million (2%), in line with its behavior in recent months. This was the result of an expansion in currency in circulation of $1,985 million, a reduction of $168 million in the current account of financial entities at the BCRA, which is related to the lower liquidity requirements established the previous month, and a decrease in the stock of quasi-money of $855 million. The first two elements determined an increase in the monetary base of $1,816 million.

Graph 2
Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors
average variations - July 2003
millions of $
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
-500
-1,000
-1,500
It was mentioned previously that the reduction in the current account of financial entities at the BCRA was a result of the decrease in liquidity requirements. This measure was taken in the face of greater liquidity needs that financial entities would face during July, derived from three main factors:

a) The increase in the requirement for minimum application of resources of approximately $800 million, as a consequence of the completion of the schedule that allowed deducting a percentage of the holdings that they had in the month of June of last year of the 9% National Bond.

b) The changes in the structure of residual maturity terms of deposits related to the release of rescheduled deposits (CEDRO). In July, fixed-term deposits made by those account holders with balances above $42,000 and up to $100,000 – originally for 90 days – will be subject to requirement coefficients 1 percentage point higher, and those deposits with balances greater than $100,000 – originally made for 120 days – to coefficients 13 percentage points higher.

c) The marked positive seasonality in the demand for cash in July, a phenomenon associated with winter vacations and bonus payments.

Thus, it was decided to reduce the liquidity requirement, to allow appropriately accommodating the cited effects, which resulted in the aforementioned reduction in the current account of financial entities.

From the perspective of the BMA explanation factors, the element that showed the individually most significant expansion was external credit to the private sector ($2,207 million). The variation of this factor was of comparable magnitude to that of the two previous months. The rest of the factors had a contractionary effect. Thus, the issuance of LEBAC entailed a monetary contraction of $1,192 million. Meanwhile, the financial sector led to a contractionary monetary effect, of approximately $65 million – this was basically due to the cancellation of rediscounts (both in terms of capital and interest)². For its part, the BCRA's operations with the public sector implied a monetary contraction of $12 million: the effects of temporary advances and external credit were more than offset by the decline in the government's operating account at the BCRA. Table 2 details the different factors and quantifies the effects associated with them.

The evolution of the BMA in July was completely in line with what was foreseen in the revision of the 2003 monetary program. Thus, during the month the BMA remained comfortably within the range determined in the monetary program in force for 2003 (see chart 3). According to it, the band for July expressed in end-of-month balances in millions was $44,800-$41,600, while the BMA as of July 31 was $42,709 million, registering a decline between end-points of $120 million (0.3%), a decline that in seasonally adjusted terms amounted to 4%, in line with the Central Bank's objective to ensure price stability (see chart 4).

**Table 2 Variations with respect to the previous month, in millions of pesos - July 2003 On average "Between end-points"**

| | Average | Between end-points |
|---|---|---|
| Broad Monetary Base | 961 | -120 |
| Quasi-money (*) | -855 | -1,019 |
| Monetary Base | 1,816 | 899 |
| Monetary Circulation | 1,985 | 1,766 |
| In the hands of the Public | 1,829 | 1,657 |
| In Financial Entities | 155 | 109 |
| Current Account at the BCRA | -168 | -868 |
| **Variation Factors of the Broad Monetary Base** | | |
| Financial Sector | -65 | -288 |
| Public Sector | -12 | -92 |
| Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits | 207 | 180 |
| Use of the National Government Account | -461 | 669 |
| External Credit | 242 | -941 |
| Private External Sector | 2,207 | 1,613 |
| LEBAC | -1,192 | -1,352 |
| Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money | -46 | -16 |
| Others | 70 | 15 |
(*) Includes the fall of unredeemed quasi-currencies pending exchange for securities without cancellation power.

**Chart 3**
**Broad Monetary Base**
**in billions of pesos**

50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
42
41
40
39

2-Jun 26-Jun 22-Jul 14-Aug 9-Sep 2-Oct 27-Oct 20-Nov 15-Dec

Monetary Program Band Observed

2 Observing the monthly variation "between endpoints," this factor shows a significant decrease due to the total cancellation of rediscounts from a public entity.

5 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

**Chart 4**
**Broad Monetary Base and inflation**

8%
7%
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-1% Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-Jun-03 Jul-03
02 03

Broad Monetary Base (Monthly Average Variation) Inflation (Monthly Variation)

**Means of payment: expansion above the seasonal pattern**

Private means of payment in pesos (M2, including quasi-currencies) showed an expansion of $2,900 million in the month (6.6%); the seasonally adjusted variation calculated "between endpoints"3 was 4%. Thus, although means of payment tend to increase at this time of year, in July they did so above the expected variation. Such behavior should be attributed first to demand deposits, which showed a notably more marked variation than broad currency. This is how current accounts increased by more than $500 million (5%), savings accounts by almost $1,400 million (16%), while currency in the hands of the public increased approximately $1,800 million (9.6%), compared to a decline in the stock of quasi-currencies of $855 million (18%) –whereby broad currency increased by more than $900 million.

The evolution of broad currency in July is also noteworthy: in seasonally adjusted terms it implied a fall of 2% (evaluated "between endpoints"). Likewise, and as we already noted in our previous report, within said variable bills and coins are gaining increasing participation to the detriment of quasi-currencies, as the redemption of the latter develops. The divergence between the seasonal pattern and the observed behavior would point to the existence of a significant fraction of quasi-currencies that do not constitute currency proper –this would explain why broad currency does not increase: once deducted from it the quasi-currencies that would not constitute circulation, an increase could be observed.

If, together with what was mentioned in the previous paragraph, it is taken into account that demand deposits grew above what the seasonal pattern would lead one to expect, it could be concluded that an important fraction of the quasi-currencies redeemed is being channeled into higher deposits. This, of course, is not the only factor in explaining the growth of current accounts and savings accounts: the maturity of fixed-term deposits, whose balances were channeled to more liquid positions, would also be "feeding" sight balances4.

In summary, private means of payment showed in July an increase greater than expected for seasonal reasons. It cannot be ruled out that a significant part of it is due to the maturities of

3Variation between July 31 and June 30.
4 It is clear that the effect of quasi-currency redemption is "internal" to the M2 aggregate (it implies a reallocation among its components and not a change in its magnitude), while fixed-term deposits that mature and are channeled to sight placements constitute an "external" effect.

6 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

"unscheduled" fixed-term deposits; additionally, and taking into account the behavior of consumption evidenced by VAT collection, said increase would be due to factors more typically associated with the conduct of means of payment –transactional needs.

**Fixed-term deposits: the effect of unscheduling and lower returns**
During July, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased by approximately $300 million (1%). If the variation of the CEDRO stock is incorporated into fixed-term deposits, a decrease of more than $150 million is found: this is the negative average monthly variation of greater magnitude so far this year (although in May a decrease had also been observed, it had been of lesser amount).

Among the factors behind this behavior, at least three can be mentioned, which are related to each other:
a) the maturity of fixed-term deposits arranged in April and May, within the "deprogramming" scheme of CEDRO (and definitive lifting of financial restrictions);
b) the marked decrease in the relative yield of fixed-term deposits compared to sight deposits;
c) the greater incidence of the tax on bank debits and credits (this point will be revisited in the section dedicated to interest rates).

To analyze what happened in this type of placements, it is relevant to compute the variation "end-to-end," which was negative. The maturities of fixed-term deposits arranged within the scheme of lifting financial restrictions reveal themselves as an important element in explaining the decrease in term placements. Between April and May last, depositors with CEDRO balances exceeding $42,000 could exercise the option of making term placements of 90 or 120 days (depending on the amount of their CEDRO): this makes it relevant to look at the decline in the stock of 90-day term placements starting in July as an indicator of what such depositors did with their investments. As observed in Chart 5, the greatest decline in fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector (evaluated end-to-end) was observed in terms between 90 and 179 days, which points to a fund outflow associated with "deprogramming" – an outflow that was not redirected into new term deposits given the markedly lower yields on these deposits.

Chart 5

Fixed-Term Deposits in pesos, private sector
variations July 2003
400 million $

200

0

-200

-400

-600

-800
From 7 to 13 From 14 to 29 From 30 to 59 From 60 to 89 From 90 to 179 From 180 to 365 From 366 days
days days days days days days and more

A pertinent question is where the funds that were not reinvested in term placements were directed. The variation in sight deposits during July, greater than what would be expected for seasonal reasons, strongly suggests that a significant fraction of fixed-term deposit maturities were redirected into such placements – an idea that is reinforced when considering that the relative yield between

7 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003
sight deposits and time deposits decreased notably. Nor can it be ruled out that a part was simply translated into greater circulating currency – in particular, if one takes the definition of broad circulating currency "corrected" by the fraction of quasi-monies in custody. In that latter case, as already mentioned in the previous section, a positive deseasoned variation of circulating currency would be obtained: it could be due, for example, to the intention to evade the tax on bank debits and credits. Additionally, it has been suggested that expired funds would also have been directed to the purchase of foreign currency. Nevertheless, as pointed out in the section dedicated to the foreign exchange market, the behavior of demand for dollars during July does not seem to corroborate that idea.

Funds not reinvested in time deposits did not necessarily flow directly to sight placements, but there are good reasons to think that part of them were directed to investment funds (FCI). Observing the variations of money market FCIs, an important increase in their assets is noted in July (graph 6, where variations are expressed at endpoints): it completes the idea of a reallocation of savers' portfolios from illiquid positions towards more liquid ones. Said reallocation, when it occurs through the aforementioned FCIs, implies that part of the funds coming from time placements "return" to said deposits, since the portfolio of money market FCIs contains both sight deposits and time fixed deposits.

What has been noted so far should not, however, cause us to lose sight of the fact that the evolution of total deposits was positive in a context that can be characterized as increasingly free of financial restrictions (as the fixed-term deposits agreed upon when CEDRO programs were discontinued go to maturity). Indeed, total deposits in pesos increased by approximately $1,800 million (2%), with the entire increase corresponding to private deposits (which increased by 3%). Table 3 summarizes the variations in the different items of total deposits.

Graph 6 Money Market FCI in pesos
Monthly Evolution of Assets, in millions of pesos
1,200 1,074
1,000
800
600 428
378
400
200 22 65
0
-200 -93
-400 -275
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03

Variations with respect to the previous month in millions of pesos - July On average "Between endpoints"
2003
Table 3 1. Total deposits in pesos 2,225 1,424
Savings account 1,371 1,401
Current account 292 523
Others 99 4
Fixed rate deposit 462 -504

2. CEDRO -460 -343
Shelters (1) -248 -216

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -175 -153
CER adjustment -73 -63

Other de-affectations (2) -213 -127

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -131 -78
CER adjustment -82 -49

3. Variation of total deposits in $ (1+2) 1,765 1,081

4. Difference due to payment of shelters at free exchange rate -92 -81

5. Effect on system liquidity (3+4) 1,673 1,000
6. Deposits in dollars (in US$) 79 94

(1) Estimated figure.
(2) Includes CEDRO de-programming.
8 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003

Interest rates: descent continues

Interest rates continued their downward trend: despite the deceleration observed in the growth of monetary aggregates, the liquidity of financial entities remained sufficiently ample. Thus, the rate for fixed-term deposits in pesos of between 30 and 44 days fell from 8.3% at the end of June to 4.8% at the end of July.
The reduction in interest rates translated into fewer incentives to maintain time deposits, given the marked decrease in the "liquidity premium". If such reduction was already notable from early April last, during the last month it intensified until markedly decreasing the premium in question. To illustrate the incentives that a company would face, the effective return at 30 days of a time deposit of more than $1 million can be calculated vis-à-vis a special current account5 (both in pesos). As can be seen in graph 7, since mid-July there is little difference between the effective return resulting from a time deposit and that from a sight deposit; likewise, it should be noted how low inflation rates result in the persistence of positive real rates.

**Graph 7**
Evolution of the Liquidity Premium
Effective returns at 30 days for deposits of more than 1 million pesos*,
for legal entities
[Graph showing three lines: Time deposit - real, Time Deposit (5-day moving average), and Special Current Account (5-day moving average), measured from day 1 to 141, with an inset showing detail from 10-Jul to 31-Jul]

Both the reduction in interest rates – associated with the high levels of liquidity prevailing6 – and the incidence of the tax on bank debits and credits combine to explain the absence of incentives that an institutional investor would have to maintain less liquid positions. Graph 8 illustrates the growing incidence of the aforementioned tax on the returns of time deposits: note how, throughout the last month, the former impacts an amount exceeding 50% of the latter. Given the greater tax incidence, it is logical that there would be less "demand" for the good whose price is affected by the tax7. Then, in the absence of a differential remuneration for illiquidity, it is only natural that the investor remains "liquid", resulting in the evolution of time deposits mentioned in the previous section.

5 This is a type of remunerative placement exclusively for legal entities, with characteristics similar to a savings account.
6 In this regard, see the Monthly Monetary Report of June 2003.

7 Even under the possibility of computing such tax as payment on account of others (which is currently not in effect), the economic distortion is not eliminated.

9 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003

**Graph 8 Evolution of effective returns at 30 days for time deposits of more than one million pesos*

[Graph showing two bars from 31-Dec-02 to 24-Jul-03: Tax on Credits and Debits and Net Return of Taxes]

* For the tax on credits and debits, the rate of 0.1% is considered, which is the one corresponding to this type of operations).

The interbank rate also continued declining, falling from 3% to 2% towards the end of the month. The volume traded in the private call market also declined markedly: as can be seen in graph 9, it returned to amounts comparable to those observed at the beginning of this year. The effect of the reduction in reserve requirements ordered by the BCRA for the month of July was certainly noted in the interbank market (we already mentioned how a reduction in the current accounts of the entities was observed); the lower movement in the funds market between banks denotes a lower need to finance itself with "external" resources to maintain the level of liquidity required by current regulations.

**Graph 9 Private interbank market: call rate and amount

[Graph showing two lines from 18-Jan-03 to 17-Jul-03: Amount traded (5-day moving average) in Millions of $ and Average rate, 5-day moving average (2nd axis) in TNA (%)]

**Credits: the downward trend continues**
During July, loans to the private sector in pesos continued to decline: the stock of the same decreased approximately $540 million (2%), which compares to a decrease of approximately $200 million in June. Consumption lines recorded the largest reductions observed, while commercial lines showed negative variations of greater magnitude than in previous months (during which they had exhibited notable stabilization). It should be noted, however, that the data available tends to overestimate the decline in loans: a significant fraction of the decline in the credit stock corresponds to loans that are written off from the assets of financial entities, and had already been provisioned as uncollectible8; therefore, the true net cancellation of credit is less than what was recorded.

Commercial loans decreased approximately $180 million (1.7%), with the negative variation being mainly due to advances, as documents showed slightly positive changes. Despite the decrease observed, it is important to note that these lines remain the most stable within the set of loans, which is consistent with the current situation of the real economy.

Consumer loans decreased by approximately $360 million (2%). The largest reduction was recorded in mortgage credits (which showed a decrease greater than that of the previous month), followed by credit card financing. Meanwhile, personal loans exhibited a decrease similar to that of the previous month, while chattel mortgage credits slightly accentuated their negative variation in relation to June.

The reactivation of the credit market has as one of its prerequisites the reduction of the cost of credit. To achieve this, reducing uncertainty about the financial conditions to which lent funds will be subject constitutes an essential aspect. In this sense, the BCRA has authorized financial entities to grant financing that can be adjusted according to the evolution of the Reference Stabilization Coefficient (CER)9. In accordance with the new regime, financial entities are allowed to grant loans in pesos to individuals, legal entities and other entities, whose interest rates will be applied to the capital adjusted according to the aforementioned index.

A natural concern is the effect of the foreseen adjustment on borrowers whose income may eventually lag behind the CER. In this regard, a mechanism is foreseen such that the installments of financing for individuals (for any amount borrowed) and commercial activities (for up to $250,000 of capital) cannot be adjusted more than 1% above the previous installment. This will be an option to which debtors may adhere when the loan is arranged, and will be implemented through the extension of the originally agreed term: in case that, with the installment determined according to the original term, it exceeds the previous one by more than 1%, the maturity period will be extended in order to lower the value of each installment. For credits with terms of up to 5 years, it is established that the extension of the term may be up to 25% of what was originally agreed, while for longer terms, such extension may amount to up to 50%.
# Translation to English

The introduction of these instruments complements, on the asset side of banks' balance sheets, the possibility of introducing adjustment mechanisms freely agreed upon between the parties (this possibility was already open on the liability side through deposits adjustable by CER). In this way, a greater degree of coverage of potential financial risks is incorporated for debtors and creditors; additionally, compared to a system with fixed rates, it eliminates the inflationary risk component. For this reason, in a scenario of price stability such as the current one, this system contributes to laying the foundations for the return of credit. This is so insofar as the expectations of banks and consumers regarding inflation tend to be asymmetrical: while lenders would expect positive inflation, consumers would tend to foresee zero price variation: therefore, a system that provides for an adjustment mechanism should prove beneficial for both parties.

Redemption of Quasi-Monies

During July, the redemption of quasi-monies continued for the provinces that had already joined it (and also for the nation), and the Province of Buenos Aires joined the program. In this way, during the month in question quasi-monies worth a nominal value of $1,005 million10 were redeemed; the issuance of national currency as a counterpart to said withdrawal amounted to $989 million (due to the divergence between market value and nominal value). Details of the species redeemed and the amounts of each one, as well as the amounts whose exchange is authorized but are pending redemption, appear in Table 4.

Table 4 Figures in millions of pesos

| Quasi-Monies | May-03 | Jun-03 | Jul-03 |
|---|---|---|---|
| | NV | RV | NV | RV | NV | RV |
| LECOP | 666 | 666 | 515 | 515 | 360 | 360 |
| LECOR | 306 | 293 | 316 | 302 | 28 | 26 |
| FEDERALES | 235 | 178 | 20 | 15 | | |
| BOCANFOR | 58 | 47 | 26 | 22 | | |
| BOCADE | 108 | 102 | 59 | 53 | | |
| PATACON | | | | | 512 | 512 |
| TOTAL | 973 | 959 | 1,232 | 1,144 | 1,005 | 989 |

NV Nominal Value | RV Redemption Value

| Quasi-Monies | Total Redeemed |  | With authorized exchange, pending redemption |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | VN | VR | VN |
| LECOP | 1,542 | 1,542 | 1,730 |
| LECOR | 650 | 621 | |
| FEDERALES | 255 | 193 | |
| BOCANFOR | 85 | 70 | |
| BOCADE | 167 | 155 | |
| PATACON | 512 | 512 | 2,191 |
| TOTAL | 3,210 | 3,092 | 3,921 |

The redemption of quasi-monies by the Province of Buenos Aires will encompass bonds totaling $2,700 million (in nominal value), and will be completed in December of this year. The exchange of quasi-monies will be carried out through the collection of taxes (provincial and national) or directly at the window of the Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires: in both cases the total nominal value of the security is recognized. Meanwhile, the salaries of Buenos Aires public employees begin to be paid, in increasing proportion, in national currency. In this way, with the elimination of one of the most widely circulating quasi-monies, the redemption program enters its most relevant phase.

It was already mentioned in a previous section that the increase in sight deposits can be partially explained through the redemption of quasi-monies. A significant amount of the redeemed quasi-monies remains in the financial system as sight placements.

Foreign Exchange Market: The Floating Scenario Consolidates
The dollar quotation tended to rebound during the month of July (appreciating 4% with respect to the peso), thus interrupting the downward trend observed throughout the first half of the year. This was how the reference exchange rate published by BCRA closed the month at 2.93 pesos per dollar, which compares with 2.81 at the end of the previous month. This was related to lower liquidation of exports.

One of the arguments pointed out to explain the decline in time deposits was that part of the funds were destined for the purchase of foreign currency. A look at the amount of dollars sold by financial entities to the public during July (graph 11 a), which can be interpreted as an estimate of the quantity of dollars demanded, does not seem to support that idea: it tended to decline slightly, but the quantity "offered" (estimated through the amount of dollars purchased by the entities) declined in greater quantity. Therefore, the behavior of the dollar during the month would have been supported by supply reasons, as indicated previously.

12 Monthly Monetary Report —July 2003

With respect to the euro, the local currency depreciated 2%, closing the month at 3.28 pesos per unit. The euro halted its upward run against the dollar and tended to reverse (although only very partially) the gains it had obtained previously. Upon learning of the GDP data for the second quarter of the year in the U.S. –greater than expected– and as deflationary risks began to clear –especially following Alan Greenspan's statements– the yields on Treasury bonds began to increase, and the dollar gained momentum with respect to the European currency. Against the Brazilian real, the peso closed the month virtually unchanged.

Graph 11
Sales and purchases of dollars by financial entities to the public and Exchange Rate
Millions of USD Business days, up to July 23. $/USD
300 4

250 3.5

200 3

150 2.5

100 2

50 1.5

0 1
12-Mar-02 31-May-02 13-Aug-02 23-Oct-02 06-Jan-03 17-Mar-03 30-May-03

Wholesale Dollar, 2nd axis Purchases (20-day moving average) Sales (20-day moving average)

LEBAC: the largest issuance since the introduction of these instruments

At the end of July, the stock of LEBACs denominated in national currency (including those that are adjusted according to the CER) reached VN $7,668 million while the corresponding amount of LEBACs issued in dollars was VN US$121 million. At that date, the total amount of LEBACs in circulation was composed of 85% of instruments in pesos, 11% by notes in pesos adjustable by CER and 4% of securities in dollars. These figures are equivalent to increases of 24% and 22% monthly for the peso segment and for those indexed by the CER respectively, while there was a slight decrease of 3% for the portion in circulation in foreign currency (graph 12 a). The excess liquidity predominant among banks operating in the domestic market favored the placement of Central Bank debt and implied that July became the month with the greatest monetary contraction through LEBAC adjudications since the implementation of these instruments in March of the previous year (graph 12 b).

Graph 12
a) b)

Millions of LEBAC Stock Millions of Accumulated monetary contraction
pesos pesos through LEBAC placement
7000
8000 6000

6000 5000
4000 24% 4000 July
3000 $ 1,352
2000 2000 million
1000
0 0
28-Jun-02 28-Sep-02 28-Dec-02 28-Mar-03 28-Jun-03 15-Mar-02 15-Jun-02 15-Sep-02 15-Dec-02 15-Mar-03 15-Jun-03
Pesos Pesos adj. by CER Dollars (expressed in pesos)

13 Monthly Monetary Report —July 2003
Unlike what occurred in the previous month, most of the offers received to acquire LEBACs in pesos was directed at shorter terms (chart 13 a). Although the amount offered was significantly higher than those received in previous months, even doubling those that follow in magnitude, 53% of the amount was concentrated in LEBACs with around one month average life, while up to 3 months accounted for 77% of the offers. Such behavior could be due on one hand to a lack of current investment alternatives and on the other, to speculation surrounding the possible emergence of some different ones in the medium term that could not make LEBACs with longer terms as attractive at current rates. On the other hand, a recovery was observed in the demand for LEBACs in pesos indexed by the Reference Stabilization Coefficient which during the month of June had practically disappeared (chart 13 b).

Chart 13

a) b)

 Thousands of mill. Offers for LEBACs in pesos by term Millions of Offers for LEBACs in pesos adjustable
 of pesos year 2003 pesos by CER by term -year 2003-
 7 800
 6 600
 5
 4 400
 3
 2 200
 1
 0 0
 January February March April May June July February March April May June July

 1 to 3 months 4 to 6 months More than 6 months 6 months 12 months 18 months

The high demand for LEBACs that was mentioned had its counterpart in the decrease in interest rates at cut for all the terms auctioned. As already noted, those that aroused the greatest interest were letters with around 1 month average life, whose cut rates showed a decline of 3.2 percentage points with respect to the interest rates paid at the end of June, providing a yield of 1.7% (A.N.R.) at the end of July. However, it was also possible to reduce the placement cost for instruments with more distant maturities, which had an impact on a fall in the average cost of the portfolio in circulation of LEBACs in pesos, which stood at 18% on July 31 (6 percentage points less than a month earlier). On the other hand, the predominance of placements with shorter terms was reflected in a slight decrease in the average life of the portfolio denominated in pesos, which went during the course of the month from 223 to 210 days. As for the average life of LEBACs in dollars, it fell from 21 to 15 days in the same period.

Chart 14

a) b)

 Cut rates in the primary market Yield curve in the market
 A.N.R. LEBACs in pesos ANR secondary -July 31-
 20% 20%

 15% 15%

 10% 10%

 5% 5%
 26-Jun 15-Jul 31-Jul Secondary market Primary market
 0% 0%
 0 100 200 300 400 500 0 60 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 Term until maturity (days)
 Days until maturity

 14 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

As can be seen in chart 14, the yields involved in operations carried out in the Electronic Open Market are quite aligned with the results of the auctions. In the mentioned diagram, the last auction of the month is compared with the negotiations carried out that same day and it is observed that the spread between the interest rates paid is particularly small for instruments of six and twelve months. With regard to the volume traded in the secondary market, it was slightly higher than that of the previous month, reaching $748 million and a daily average of $37 million (in June it had been $38 million the daily average traded). It should be noted that most of what was traded during the month was linked to instruments with terms greater than five months, a segment in which 88% of the total amount traded was concentrated.

Public Securities: among the renegotiation perspectives and the increase in yields in the United States
During the seventh month of 2003, and unlike the preceding months, the country risk of emerging markets began to evolve in a slightly upward manner. With a more erratic behavior than what it had been showing until then, the average for July of the spread of the EMBI+ Latin American –excluding Argentina- amounted to approximately 525 basis points, almost 10 points above the average of the previous month.

**Chart 15 Evolution of the EMBI+ spread**

This change in trend reflects the influence of the evolution of the Brazilian spread, which after decreasing notably from October 2002 to May 2003, subsequently entered a phase characterized by less defined behavior. For its part, this evolution was marked by the inflow of capital to the region during the first half of the year, a movement that was losing strength as assets appreciated and their risk/return profile became less attractive, while returns in the markets of developed countries began to rebound. With respect to this last point, between the end of June and the end of the following month, the yields on 5, 10, and 30-year Treasury bonds increased –from very low levels- approximately 0.8 percentage points, registering a change with respect to the trend observed during the preceding months.

**Chart 16**
**Generic 30-Year Bond Yield**
**YTM %**

In the Argentine case, the EMBI+ spread ended the month of July at around 5,050 points, almost 500 points above the level recorded at the end of the first half of the year, although the increase in the monthly average of this indicator was only 70 points between June and July, given the high level recorded by the spread during the first week of June. As a counterpart, the quotation of the most relevant international bonds that are currently in default showed a decline. Indeed, bonds such as the Global 2008 or the FRB, which had seen their quotations increase markedly between mid-March and mid-June of the current year –when expected haircuts in the future debt renegotiation were corrected downward- registered between the end of June and the end of the following month a decline in their quotations of between 5 and 11%.

**Chart 17 Quotation of public securities in default**
**US$**

For their part, the BODEN –titles of recent issue whose payments are being honored- registered disparate behaviors. In the case of dollar-denominated bonds, while the BODEN 2012 saw its quotation decrease 3.2% in original currency between the end of June and the end of the analyzed month, the BODEN 2005 registered an appreciation of 2.8%. With respect to the new titles in pesos, while the BODEN 2008 maintained its price between month-end points, with a slight appreciation close to 1%, the BODEN 2007 registered an increase of around 3% in its parity. It should be noted that the delivery of the BODEN 2013 still remains to be effectuated, resulting from the second swap of rescheduled deposits carried out during the year 2002 and the release of the "corralón" in the current year.

**Chart 18**
**BODEN Parity BODEN 05 and**
**BODEN 12 BODEN 07**
25% 65%
 31- 15- 30- 14- 1- 16- 31- 15- 30- 15- 30- 14- 29- 14- 29-
 Dec- Jan- Jan- Feb- Mar- Mar- Mar- Apr- Apr- May- May- Jun- Jun- Jul- Jul-
 02 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03

 BODEN 12 BODEN 05 (2nd axis) BODEN 07 (2nd axis)

 Finally, with regard to the traded volumes of public securities, the daily average of transactions on the Stock Exchange reached almost 124 million pesos. Although this figure is below the 131 million traded daily in the same venue during the previous month, it falls within the range of monthly averages recorded during recent months. On the other hand, with regard specifically to the new bonds of the National Government (BODEN), they showed for the aggregate of the month of July an increase in their effective volume traded on the Stock Exchange, rising from almost 840 million pesos in June to just over 1,150 million in the analyzed month11.

Graph 19 Effective volume of BODEN traded on the Stock Exchange
 Millions of $ Monthly accumulated
 1,400

 1,200
 1,000

 800
 600

 400
 200

 0
 Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan- Feb- Mar- Apr- May- Jun- Jul-03
 02 02 02 02 03 03 03 03 03 03

 Boden US$ 2012 Boden US$ 2005 Boden $ 2007 Boden $ 2008

Equities: greater caution, lower growth

 In an environment of returns still low although rising in global fixed-income markets, during the month of July the world's main stock exchanges continued to register positive developments. With the presentation of various indicators whose performance exceeded expectations, the strengthening of expectations regarding the future evolution of the North American economy was evident in the different stock market indicators of that country, whose most notable increases occurred in technological branches—the most harmed by the decline registered throughout the preceding years-.

11 Total traded in the month (accumulated effective volumes).

 17 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

 Variations of stock market indices
 In local currency In dollars

 July Year-to-date 2003 July Year-to-date 2003

 MERVAL -1.3% 43.9% -5.5% 65.1%
 BOVESPA 4.6% 20.4% 0.3% 43.7%
 S&P 500 1.6% 12.6% 1.6% 12.6%
 DOW JONES 2.8% 10.7% 2.8% 10.7%
 NASDAQ 6.9% 29.9% 6.9% 29.9%
 FTSE 100 3.1% 5.5% 0.4% 5.5%
 NIKKEI 225 5.3% 11.5% 4.6% 9.8%

Graph 20
 Evolution of the North American stock market
 110 Indices based January '02 = 100

 100

 90

 80

 70

 60

 50
 Jan-02 Feb-02 Mar-02 Apr-02 May-02 Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03

 DOW JONES S&P 500 NASDAQ

 For its part, after registering significant growth rates during three consecutive months, the prices of leading companies in the domestic stock market showed more subdued behavior. Thus, the Merval index closed the month of July around 755 points, 50 points below the maximum reached in the year, recorded on June 23rd. In monthly terms and considering the values between extremes, this implies a decline during the month of July of 1.3% if measured in pesos and 5.5% if measured in dollars, given the increase in the dollar quote in terms of domestic currency during the second half—and in particular, during the last week—of the reference month. This evolution took place after the significant corrections that asset prices registered during the preceding months, inducing profit-taking and limiting the margin of potential gains for the different securities in the short term. However, it should not be overlooked that this index has accumulated in what has been of 2003 a growth of 44% in pesos and 65% if measured in dollars.

 18 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

Graph 21
 MERVAL Domestic stock market Volatility
 -MERVAL index in local currency-
 900 120%
 800
 700 100%

 600 80%

 500
 60%
 400
 300 40%

 200
 20%
 100
# MONETARY INDICATORS

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Variables Jul-03 Jun-03Dec-02Jul-02 Monthly Year 2003
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 42,840 41,879 35,117 27,129 2.3% 1.8% 22.0% 19.0%
 Quasi-money (1) 4,863 5,718 7,448 6,806 -15.0% -15.3% -34.7% -36.3%

Monetary Base 37,977 36,160 27,669 20,323 5.0% 4.6% 37.3% 33.9%
 Monetary Circulation 23,656 21,671 17,766 15,280 9.2% 8.7% 33.2% 29.9%
 In Public Hands 20,922 19,092 15,439 13,630 9.6% 9.1% 35.5% 32.2%
 In Financial Entities 2,734 2,579 2,327 1,649 6.0% 5.5% 17.5% 14.6%
 Current Account at BCRA 14,321 14,489 9,904 5,043 -1.2% -1.6% 44.6% 41.1%

BCRA International Reserves 12,774 11,763 10,265 9,224 8.6% 24.4%

Total Deposits in Pesos (2) 79,038 77,276 71,478 65,050 2.3% 1.8% 10.6% 7.9%

 Private Deposits 67,441 65,616 63,784 58,178 2.8% 2.3% 5.7% 3.1%
 Current Account 11,710 11,145 11,177 9,557 5.1% 4.6% 4.8% 2.2%
 Savings Account 9,815 8,436 8,243 9,181 16.3% 15.8% 19.1% 16.1%
 Fixed Term 32,769 32,472 16,919 3,747 0.9% 0.5% 93.7% 88.9%
 Other Deposits 4,313 4,268 3,972 3,374 1.1% 0.6% 8.6% 5.9%
 Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 1,749 1,757 3,784 2,634 -0.5% -0.9% -53.8% -54.9%
 CEDRO including CER 7,086 7,538 19,689 13,919 -6.0% -6.4% -64.0% -64.9%

 Public Sector Deposits 10,954 11,074 7,158 5,973 -1.1% -1.5% 53.0% 49.3%

Total Deposits in Dollars (2) 1,384 1,305 834 658 6.1% 5.6% 66.0% 61.9%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (2) 58,709 59,158 61,923 57,089 -0.8% -1.2% -5.2% -7.5%

---

Despite the significant liquidity existing in the financial market and the continuity recorded in the decline of returns on alternative investments led by the fall in the cut-off rates of LEBAC auctions, investor caution -awaiting greater clarification in the economic policy sphere and progress in negotiations for a medium-term agreement with the IMF- was reflected in a reduction in operating volumes, which went from almost 1,000 million in the month of June to about 680 million one month later. In terms of daily averages, they declined, going from 48 million pesos operated daily in the month of June to 30 million on average during the following month. In this sense, it should be noted that this last month was marked by high volatility in terms of volumes, while the final daily average is similar to that of the months of April and May.

**Chart 22 Leading stocks with the largest increases during July**
 Quotations in pesos

 [Chart showing timeline from Jan-01 to Jul-15/30 with five lines representing: Solvay Indupa, Atanor, Telefónica (2nd axis), and Repsol (2nd axis)]

 Finally, the leading stocks with the best performance during the reference month –Telefónica (5.3%), the petrochemicals Solvay Indupa (5.2%) and Atanor (3.1%) and the oil company Repsol (3.1%)- were benefited by the movements recorded in their quotations during the second half of the month. Note that there were no changes in leading quotations greater than 10% as recorded in the previous price correction stage.

19 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003
To the Private Sector 26,546 27,090 30,700 33,669 -2.0% -2.4% -13.5% -15.7%
 Advances 3,743 3,892 4,376 4,754 -3.8% -4.2% -14.5% -16.6%
 Documents 4,689 4,654 5,392 5,924 0.7% 0.3% -13.0% -15.2%
 Mortgages 9,968 10,136 11,310 11,944 -1.7% -2.1% -11.9% -14.0%
 Pledges 1,535 1,599 2,118 2,532 -4.0% -4.4% -27.5% -29.3%
 Personal Loans 2,024 2,081 2,662 3,331 -2.7% -3.2% -24.0% -25.8%
 Credit Cards 1,959 2,026 2,047 2,409 -3.3% -3.7% -4.3% -6.6%
 Others 2,627 2,702 2,794 2,775 -2.8% -3.2% -6.0% -8.3%

 To the Public Sector 32,163 32,069 31,223 23,421 0.3% -0.2% 3.0% 0.5%

Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (2) 1,365 1,385 1,543 9,561 -1.5% -1.9% -11.6% -13.7%

Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 42,219 40,929 36,910 32,437 3.2% 2.7% 14.4% 11.6%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 54,082 51,315 46,339 42,772 5.4% 4.9% 16.7% 13.8%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 106,943 103,998 93,490 85,224 2.8% 2.4% 14.4% 11.6%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 37,494 35,955 34,063 29,994 4.3% 3.8% 10.1% 7.4%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 47,309 44,392 42,307 39,175 6.6% 6.1% 11.8% 9.1%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 69,662 67,272 73,127 62,441 3.6% 3.1% -4.7% -7.1%

(1) Estimated figures.
(2) Provisional figures, subject to revision.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

 20 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2003 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (1) Nominal Contribution (1) Nominal Contribution (1) Nominal Contribution (1)

Broad Monetary Base 961 2.3% 4,609 12.1% 7,722 22.0% 15,711 57.9%
 Financial Sector -65 -0.2% -536 -1.4% -994 -2.8% -348 -1.3%
 Public Sector -12 0.0% -95 -0.2% 77 0.2% 1,179 4.3%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 207 2,487 6,509 9,631
 Use of the National Government Account -461 -878 -1,534 4,819
 External Credit 242 -1,704 -4,898 -9,451
 Private External Sector 2,207 5.3% 6,631 17.3% 11,122 31.7% 17,603 64.9%
 Liquidation of Exports 794 2,345 3,747 5,794
 Rest 1,412 4,286 7,374 11,809
 LEBAC -1,192 -2.8% -1,774 -4.6% -2,946 -8.4% -4,325 -15.9%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money -46 -0.1% -112 -0.3% -112 -0.3% -112 -0.4%
 Others 70 0.2% 496 1.3% 576 1.6% 1,714 6.3%

International Reserves 1,011 8.6% 2,186 20.6% 2,509 24.4% 3,550 38.5%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 788 6.7% 2,363 22.3% 3,771 36.7% 5,611 60.8%
 Public Sector 138 1.2% -792 -7.5% -2,068 -20.1% -3,413 -37.0%
 Payment to International Organizations 115 -553 -1,513 -2,866
 Other National Government Operations 24 -240 -555 -547
 Others 84 0.7% 616 5.8% 806 7.8% 1,352 14.7%

(1) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

 21 Monthly Monetary Report — July 2003

 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Rates Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 Call between Private Banks in pesos
 Rate 2.2 3.6 4.2 6.5 66.2
 Amount 131 211 153 87 305

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 14-29 days 3.2 7.2 8.7 15.5 90.7
 30 days 6.1 10.3 13.5 22.8 55.8
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 5.1 10.1 12.6 25.1 66.3
 In dollars
 14-29 days 0.5 0.5 0.6 1.3 2.5
 30 days 0.8 0.9 0.9 1.8 4.6
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.9 3.2

 Active Rates Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 16.6 20.3 24.5 33.5 n/d

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 4.5 8.8 11.3 14.8 51.0
 Operating volume (total terms) 217 248 236 130 100
Loans in Pesos
 Current Account Advances 45.2 47.8 50.8 82.7
 Documents at Sole Signature 24.3 26.9 27.3 44.6
 Mortgage Loans 19.0 19.4 22.1 50.8
 Pledge Loans 17.3 18.6 21.7 17.9
 Personal Loans 51.1 53.3 53.3 34.8
 Credit Cards 62.1 64.3 64.1 57.1

 Reference Rates Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 LIBOR
 1 month 1.11 1.16 1.32 1.42 1.83
 6 months 1.12 1.09 1.23 1.42 1.90

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.46 1.21 1.38 1.82 2.53
 10 years 3.95 3.33 3.53 4.02 4.61

 FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.20 1.25 1.25 1.75

 SELIC (at 1 year) 25.52 26.28 26.50 23.43 18.25

 22 Monthly Monetary Report—July 2003

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 LEBAC Rates Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 In Pesos
 1 month 2.7 5.3 6.8 6.8 n/a
 2 months 3.7 5.9 8.6 7.5 n/a
 3 months 4.5 6.8 10.9 10.8 n/a
 6 months 7.8 12.4 14.6 50.3 n/a
 12 months 14.6 18.8 19.1 n/a n/a
 18 months 17.0 21.4 23.3 n/a n/a

 In Pesos Adjustable by CER
 12 months 8.7 n/a 8.3 n/a n/a
 18 months 9.3 9.4 10.0 n/a n/a

 In Dollars
 14 days 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.9
 1 month 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 2.80 2.81 2.84 3.48 3.61
 Exchange Houses 2.80 2.81 2.84 3.50 3.63
 BCRA Reference 2.80 2.81 2.84 3.49 3.61

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.82 2.84 2.87 3.52 3.95
 INDOL 1 month 2.81 2.83 2.85 3.54 n/a
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 3 1 5 1 n/a
 ROFEX 1 month 2.81 2.82 2.85 3.35 3.75
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 27 27 28 12 n/a

 Peso / Real 0.97 0.97 0.96 0.96 1.23

 Peso / Euro 3.19 3.28 3.30 3.55 3.59

 Capital Market Jul-03 Jun-03 May-03 Dec-02 Jul-02

 MERVAL
 Index 732 751 645 506 371
 Trading Volume 37 59 43 42 39

 Government Bonds
 BODEN 2012 (US$) (1) 59.0 58.7 51.7 46.0 n/a
 BODEN 08 ($) 77.2 76.4 77.5 n/a n/a

 Country Risk
 EMBI+ Argentina 4805 4746 5320 6258 6854
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 523 518 536 842 937

 (1) The quotation is expressed in US dollars.

 23
