# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
March 2003

## Synthesis

ü During March, the broad monetary base expanded 1% ($ 364 million), while in February it had increased 1.8%. In real terms, the increase in the base in March was 0.4%, accumulating real growth of 1.2% so far this year.

ü The BCRA's international reserves increased USD 228 million (2.2%) in March. Of this increase, USD 175 million resulted from operations with the private sector (which refer to foreign trade operations settlements and intervention), which show a declining trend in recent months, due to the progressive normalization of the foreign exchange market.

ü Private means of payment in broad sense (M2A, including quasi-currencies) in pesos registered in March a decline of 0.9% ($395 million) compared to the previous month. In real terms, means of payment decreased 1.5%. While banknotes and coins in the hands of the public increased $ 500 million (3%), demand deposits contracted by more than $700 million (3.9%) and the quasi-currencies stock decreased by $ 140 million (1.9%).

ü Fixed-term deposits of the private sector in pesos showed growth of more than $1,100 million (5%), implying a certain deceleration compared to the previous month. Unlike February, during March there were no early repayment offers. The average term of these placements also decreased, which cannot be separated from the uncertainty generated by the upcoming national elections.

ü More contractionary monetary conditions contributed to explaining the rise in interest rates observed in March. This is added to a scenario in which withdrawals continue due to court-ordered funds (amparo), the possibility of a re-dollarization of deposits would not have dissipated, and expectations emerge about the total lifting of financial restrictions (implemented in April), which could bring greater liquidity needs for the financial system.

ü With the objective of generating an appropriate degree of liquidity to satisfactorily face the lifting of financial restrictions, the BCRA introduced changes in the minimum cash regulations. They had a slightly expansive effect on the liquidity position of financial entities. It is thus estimated that entities have sufficient resources to face the lifting of the "corralón".

ü Net cancellations of loans in pesos were observed that were lower than in previous months. Loans to the non-financial private sector decreased by approximately $ 860 million in March (2.9%).

ü The monetary targets required under the agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were exceeded in February and March.

ü Net issuance of LEBAC decreased again compared to the previous month: the increase in the LEBAC stock (at effective value) amounted to $ 27 million. Average cost decreased, and longer-term issuances were placed.

ü In March inflation was 0.6%, the same as observed in February. Although it was again led by the goods sector, in March a slight deflation in services was observed for the first time since the devaluation.

ü The peso closed the month 8% above its exchange rate against the dollar at the end of February, marking a strong appreciation. This took place in a context in which normalization of the foreign exchange market continued. With respect to the euro, the peso appreciated 7.2%, while it gained 0.9% against the real.

1 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Broad monetary base and international reserves: less expansion than in February
During March, the broad monetary base recorded a markedly smaller expansion than in the previous month. Thus, the broad monetary base expanded by only 1% ($ 364 million) in March, while in February it had increased 1.8%. The nominal growth is explained by the expansion of currency in circulation ($ 530 million) together with a decrease in bank reserves ($ 26 million), and the reduction in the stock of provincial quasi-money ($ 140 million). In real terms, the increase in the base in March was 0.4%, accumulating a real growth of 1.2% so far this year. This contrasts with a real increase in the broad monetary base exceeding 20% during the last quarter of 2002. This thus corroborates the current scenario of moderate monetary expansion and reduced increase in the price level, as can be seen in graph 1.

Graph I

 Broad Monetary Base and Inflation
 10% 85%

 8% 70%

 55%
 6%
 35% (IMF) 40%
 4%
 22% (BCRA) 25%

 2% 10%

 0% -5%
 Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03

 Broad Monetary Base Inflation (monthly variation)
 Inflation (annualized quarterly variation) - 2nd axis

 As in previous months, the greatest contribution to the expansion of the monetary base came from net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector, which were expansive by $ 519 million. The trend of this type of operation, however, is declining: it fell in amount for the third consecutive month, and in March represents 27% of the amount it reached at the end of last year. This is due to the reduced presence of the monetary authority in the foreign exchange market (presence associated with both the liquidation of exports and intervention). In this regard, this month continued the implementation of regulations aimed at normalizing the foreign exchange market (as detailed later in this same report). For their part, factors associated with domestic credit (such as advances to the public sector, operations with the financial sector and LEBAC issuance) had a contractionary effect. It should be noted that operations with the financial sector contracted the monetary base by $ 122 million, due mainly to the payment of capital and interest on rediscounts. As for LEBAC issuance, its effect was contractionary for the fourth consecutive month ($ 27 million). Regarding BCRA operations with the public sector, those linked with domestic credit (such as temporary advances, anticipated utility distributions and net use of their BCRA account) resulted in monetary contraction of $ 30 million. On the other hand, operations related to external credit implied an expansion of $ 145 million (this effect includes the entry of an IMF disbursement as part of the Stand By Agreement reached in January), so the total effect of the public sector was expansive by $ 110 million. The items that explain the changes in the base are detailed in Table I.

 Regarding the reduction of broad monetary base due to the decrease in the stock of quasi-money, it should be clarified that these are bonds from the province of Córdoba (LECOR) that were withdrawn from circulation. Therefore, it was not a redemption operation that decreased the quantity of quasi-money with the counterpart of an increase in the stock of pesos, but rather a direct reduction in the stock of provincial bonds took place for a nominal value of $ 140 million (and, therefore, is not related to the quasi-money redemption plan announced during March¹).

Table 1

 Flow in millions of pesos March
1. Expansion Factors of Broad Monetary Base 364
 a. Net External Credit 664
 Private Sector 519
 Export Liquidation 641
 Foreign Exchange Intervention -122
 Public Sector 145 Net Public
 b. Net Internal Credit -300 Sector
 Public Sector -30 115
 Transitory Advances -612
 Profit Anticipation 148
 Others (use of National Government account) 435
 Financial Sector -122
 Assistance to Entities -152
 Remuneration of Current Accounts 30
 LEBAC -27
 Others (1) -122

 2. Broad Monetary Base 364
 a. Currency in Circulation 500
 b. Banking Reserves 4
 Currency in Banks 30
 Current Account at the BCRA -26
 c. Quasi-monies -140

 (1) Includes variation of quasi-monies.

 A point that should be highlighted from the analysis of the expansion factors of the monetary base
is that the primary issuance of money is not being carried out to meet the financing needs
of domestic agents (government or financial sector). As observed in graph 2, since
mid-last year the monetary base grows without a counterpart in domestic assets, indicating
that the increase in the monetary base comes from external sources (specifically, from the monetary effect
of foreign currency purchases from the private sector). In this way, it becomes clear that the increase in primary
money is linked with the supply of foreign currency proceeding from the trade surplus, and not with the coverage
of local financing needs.

1 Through the so-called Monetary Unification Program, which covers the provinces of Buenos Aires,
Catamarca, Córdoba, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Ríos, Formosa, La Rioja, Mendoza and Tucumán, the issuance of
national public securities is foreseen, against which currency will be issued to redeem quasi-monies; the national
bonds will be repaid with funds from Federal Revenue Sharing (in this regard, see decree 743/2003).

 3 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Graph 2

 Domestic Assets and Monetary Base

 12,000 7-Jan-03

 10,000

 6,000
 4,000 External
 Private Sector

 0

 -2,000
 3-Apr-02 30-May-02 24-Sep-02 21-Nov-02 17-Mar-03
 Domestic Assets

 The BCRA's international reserves increased by USD 228 million (2.2%) in March. Of
said increase, USD 175 million were due to operations with the private sector. The growth of
reserves from operations between the Central Bank and the private sector (which refer to liquidations of
foreign trade operations and intervention) shows a declining trend in recent months,
which is due to the progressive normalization of the foreign exchange market. Thus
the accumulated balance from this type of operations since February 2002 amounts to USD 551 million. At the end of March, the
Central Bank's reserves reached USD 10,517 million.

Monetary Aggregates: decline in means of payment and lower growth of
time placements

 Private means of payment including quasi-monies (M2A)2 in pesos, registered in March a
decline of 0.9% ($ 395 million) compared to the previous month. Such decrease was greater than that of February. In
real terms, means of payment were reduced by 1.5%. While bills and coins in circulation
increased by $ 500 million (3%), sight deposits contracted by more than $ 700
million (3.9%), and the stock of quasi-monies was reduced by $ 140 million (1.9%). The increase in broad
currency (bills, coins and quasi-monies) was 1.5% and was slightly lower than that of the previous month (in
February it had increased 1.6%). In real terms, broad currency increased by 0.9%. In
contrast, the decrease in sight placements was slightly greater than that of February. The
behavior of the latter is found relatively in line with the seasonal pattern, unlike that of
bills and coins in circulation. Typically, both items decline in the third month of the
year3, given that the transactional needs linked to the summer season diminish.
Regarding this relatively "anomalous" behavior of currency in circulation, it cannot be ruled out that its increase is related to the decrease in sight deposits: a significant portion of bills and coins in the hands of the public could be performing functions that normally correspond to sight deposits.

2 We define M2 as currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos, and M2A as M2 plus quasi-money. The M2A thus defined constitutes an aggregate of means of payment in the broad sense.
3 Although, according to estimates made for the period 1991-2003, it is sight placements that do so in a more pronounced manner

 4 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

 Fixed-term deposits from the private sector in pesos showed growth of more than $1,100 million (5%), which implies a certain deceleration compared to the previous month. It should be noted, however, that, unlike February, during March there were virtually no offers of early repayment: this reduced the dynamism of fixed-term placements.

 Incorporating the variation of fixed terms the decrease in the stock of CEDRO (for all purposes, including CER), the increase in said placements would amount to $450 million (which compares with $1,200 million in February). Within the fall of CEDRO, injunction resources (including CER) implied fund outflows close to $300 million during March4, while other CEDRO de-allocations entailed disbursements of approximately $370 million. This last item includes the maturity of reprogrammed deposits and their early repayment.

 The slower growth rate of fixed-term deposits went hand in hand with a decrease in their average term: in March this was 40.8 days, whereas in February it was 42.2 days. This is also reflected in the growing participation of placements at terms of less than 25 days within the total of operations: from representing 25% of the volume operated at fixed term in January, they move to 36% in March5. As we noted in our previous report, the reduction in term cannot be separated from the uncertainty generated by the upcoming national elections. On the other hand, it was banks with majority foreign capital that led the increase in fixed-term deposits (net of variation in CEDRO), followed by public banks.

Table 2

 Monthly Flows in millions of pesos March

 1. Deposits in pesos (a+b) 485
 a. Private Sector 441
 Savings Account -248
 Current Account -507
 Others 67
 Fixed Term 1,129
 b. Public Sector 44

 2. CEDRO -837
 Injunctions (1) -466

 Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -216
 CER Adjustment -89
 Difference due to payment at free exchange rate -161
 Other de-allocations (2) -371

 Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -259
 CER Adjustment -112

 3. Effect of deposit variation on system liquidity (1 + 2) -352

 4. Deposits in dollars (in USD) 56

 (1) Estimated figure.
 (2) Do not include fall of CEDRO exchanged for BODEN.

4 To estimate the effect of injunctions on the liquidity of entities, the amount specified must be added to the payments for the difference between 1.4 $/U$S and the free exchange rate, which amounted to $160 million.
5 It should be noted that we are referring to participation in the total operated daily at fixed term, not in the total stock of fixed-term deposits.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

 Regarding the evolution of total deposits in dollars, it should be noted that the increase observed in March (6%) was lower than that of February (12%), and was explained in 90% by sight placements.
When observing the evolution of total deposits of the private sector by bank groups in March, it is found that public entities and those with majority foreign capital were the ones that gained deposits, while branches of foreign banks lost deposits and domestic private banks showed only a slight decrease. In all cases, sight deposits were reduced, and the increases were given by term placements (which is observed in graph 3). It should be noted that the greater relative increase in term placements in banks with majority foreign capital is consistent with the fact that these were the ones that paid the highest average rate for those deposits during the month (almost 23%6).

Graph 3

Private Sector Deposits in Pesos - March 2003
In millions of pesos
600 +172 -90 -287 +134 +8
500
400
300
200
100
0
-100
-200
-300
Public Private Foreign Banks Cap. May. For. Non-Banking
National Branches Entities
Checking Account Savings Account Fixed Terms CEDRO Total

## Rebound in Interest Rates

The more contractionary monetary conditions described in the previous section contribute to explaining the increase in interest rates observed in March (see graph 4). This is added to a scenario in which withdrawals continue due to amparo resources, the possibility of a redollarization of deposits would not have dissipated, and the expectation emerges regarding the total lifting of financial restrictions (or "corralón"), which could bring about greater liquidity needs for the financial system in the future.

On average, interest rates for fixed-term deposits of between 25 and 35 days in private banks went from 20% in February to 23% in March. The rates for the same term, but for deposits of more than $1 million, were located in March at 25% (against 22% in February)7. During the month —and especially throughout the second fortnight— specific increases were noted, related to the then still undefined lifting of financial restrictions. For example, the rate for fixed terms exceeding $1 million (in private banks) reached levels of 28%. The announcement of Central Bank measures aimed at providing an adequate level of liquidity to the financial system contributed to easing such increases.

6 This rate refers to the total of term operations, i.e. it includes all amounts traded.

7 The reason why the segment of 25 to 35 days is chosen is that this concentrates the largest number of operations, and the agreed rates better reflect the market dynamics: in the month of March, the term placements made in this segment represented 56% of the total.

6 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Graph 4

Fixed Terms in pesos Millions

30% < 25 days 25 to 35 days 55 to 65 days 85 to 95 days 6,000

25% 5,000

20% 4,000

15% 3,000

10% 2,000

5% 1,000

0% 0
Public Private Public Private Public Private Public Private

Amount Traded January Amount Traded February Amount Traded March
Average Rates January Average Rates February Average Rates March

Within the group of private banks, those with foreign capital were the ones that paid the highest remuneration for fixed-term deposits of between 25 and 35 days (24.6%), followed by banks with domestic capital (23%); the branches of foreign entities agreed on substantially lower rates for those same deposits (18%; in all cases we are referring to averages of daily data).
Regarding interest rates in the interbank market, there was also an increase, although it was more notable in the first half of the month: then, the call between private banks reached levels of 11%. During the second half, and following the announcement of changes in the minimum cash regulations (which represented a slight expansive effect on the liquidity position of financial entities8), the interbank rate fell to end the month at 6.8%. The daily volume traded between private banks was positioned at an average of $144 million, below the $175 million in February, but still above the average volume of $105 million recorded in January (see chart 5).

It is relevant to briefly analyze the composition of the interbank market in March. Considering the monthly average of daily net call (that is, the difference between funds received as loans and those lent by financial entities, on average) in March, it appears that branches of foreign banks were the main fund recipients, followed by public banks and entities with majority foreign capital. In contrast, domestic private banks were the most important providers of liquid resources, also followed by public entities. In fact, of all the average net call offered, domestic private banks represent 37%, while branches of foreign banks participate in 44% of the funds taken on average. The group of domestic private banks that are net call providers is made up of a dozen entities, which basically includes provincial and medium-sized banks. For their part, the largest net demand centers for interbank funds (branches of foreign banks) are eight entities, four of which operate exclusively in the wholesale market. Comparing this situation with that of the two preceding months, the main difference observed is a more significant role of domestic private banking in the net provision of funds in March. Using the aggregate data for the quarter, a market emerges characterized by the presence of domestic private banks as main net providers (with 26% of total lent) and branches of foreign banks as the most important borrowers (43% of total borrowed).

8 Its announcement took place on March 19.

7 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Chart 5

Private Interbank Market: Call Rate and Amount Traded

Millions of $ Annual Rate (%)
300 12

250 10

200 8

150 6

100 4

50 2

0 0
Oct 30-02 Nov 19-02 Dec 9-02 Dec 29-02 Jan 18-03 Feb 7-03 Feb 27-03 Mar 19-03

Amount Traded Average Rate, 5-day Moving Average (2nd axis)

Prices: stability scenario maintained

In March, retail price inflation was 0.6%, as observed in February. Although inflation was again led by the goods sector (1%), in March slight deflation (0.1%) was observed for the first time since the devaluation in services. Likewise, and partly associated with the appreciation of the peso, the wholesale price index (IPIM), in contrast to what was recorded in February, showed a decrease of 0.6%. If the ratio between IPIM and CPI is considered as an approximate measure of the relative price between tradable and non-tradable goods, it can be observed that for the fifth consecutive month this indicator decreased (1%), accumulating in this period a decrease of 5%.

Chart 6

Monthly Inflation
18% 170

15% 160

12% 150

9% 140
Inflation 130
6% 0.6%
120
3% 110

0% 100

-3% 90
Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03

Monthly Inflation Goods Services Tradables / Non-Tradables (WPI/CPI)

8 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

The lifting of financial restrictions and the measures taken by the BCRA
Although its official announcement took place on the first day of April, the lifting of financial restrictions known as the "corralón" is a measure whose relevance had already been felt – as we pointed out – in March, which is why it is discussed in this report. The elimination of the "corralón" will be carried out in three stages, on an optional basis: 1) immediate availability of funds for savers with up to $42,000 in CEDRO (not including CER); 2) funds available in 90 days for depositors with balances of up to $100,000; 3) availability of funds in 120 days for those deposits with balances exceeding those indicated. The difference between the balance of the deposit pesified at 1.4 $/USD plus the CER calculation, and the value of said balance valued at the dollar exchange rate would be covered through a bond (delivered to depositors). The pesified balance plus CER, on the other hand, will be returned in cash. It is estimated that savers who would have immediate availability according to this scheme maintain balances of almost $6,400 million; they represent approximately 40% of the liquid resources of financial entities (considering the current account at BCRA plus the cash they maintain, both in pesos and in dollars in both cases).

The liquidity needs to be faced by banks depend crucially on cash withdrawals. They result in turn from two factors: first, on how many of those authorized to dispose of their deposits present themselves to do so; second, on what amount is withdrawn in cash by those who decide to dispose of their placements. The effect on the liquidity of the entities depends on both decisions. For example, in February – according to an informal survey carried out – there were acceptances of 24% of the return offer; in that same month cash withdrawals represented 5.7% of the amount of CEDRO whose early return was being offered. If February's behavior were to be repeated, the liquid resource needs of the financial system would amount to almost $370 million. Since the behavior of savers during February was influenced by expectations of the redollarization ruling and the same lifting of financial restrictions – and this caused many depositors to exercise the option to wait instead of choosing early return – it cannot be ruled out that now the relationship between the total amount in immediate availability and cash withdrawals may be higher.

With the objective of generating an adequate degree of liquidity to satisfactorily face the lifting of financial restrictions, the BCRA introduced – initially in March – changes in minimum cash requirements. These consisted in reducing the requirement for time placements, while discriminating between different maturities, and standardizing the treatment of CEDRO with that of other deposits (by introducing reserve requirements for them). The details of the changes are seen in table 3. It is estimated that these measures had an expansionary effect of approximately $200 million on the liquidity position (difference between requirement and integration) of the financial system. The requirement coefficients were reduced in April.

Table 3

Minimum Cash Requirements and Minimum Application of Sight Resources and Time Placements in Pesos

| Items Included | Sight Deposits | Time Deposits (includes CEDRO) up to 29 days | 30 to 59 days | 60 to 89 days | 90 to 179 days | 180 to 365 days | More than 365 days | Debt Securities Issued from 1/1/02 up to 29 days | 30 to 59 days | 60 to 89 days | 90 to 179 days | 180 to 365 days | More than 365 days | Rest | Judicial Deposits | Sight Placements | FCI |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Before | 40% | 26% | 26% | 26% | 26% | 26% | 26% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 10% | 100% |
| March | 40% | 24% | 21% | 20% | 6% | 4% | 0% | 24% | 21% | 20% | 6% | 4% | 0% | 0% | 10% | 100% |
Together with the lifting of financial restrictions, the mechanism for canceling the rediscounts received by banks was resolved. The entities will be able to do so in a maximum of 70 installments, adjustable by CER plus an annual rate of 3.5%. To do this, they may align the maturity dates of capital and interest of guaranteed loans (held by banks) with those of rediscounts, which is known as "matching". In order to access such a system, entities must provide as collateral the public securities they own up to a value equivalent to 125% of the rediscount⁹.

⁹ In this regard, consult decree 739/2003 of the PEN.

9 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Credits: the decrease continues, although at a slower pace

During March, net loan cancellations were observed that were lower than those of previous months: thus the declining trend in credit reduction would be corroborated. Loans in pesos to the non-financial private sector decreased by approximately $860 million in March (2.9%), which compares to a decline of $980 million (3.2%) in February.

A clearly disparate behavior was recorded between the two large segments of credits. Consumer loans (considered as such are personal credits, secured loans, mortgages, and financing to credit card holders) contracted in March by almost $670 million (3.8%), a decline greater than that recorded the previous month. In contrast, commercial credit showed a decrease markedly lower than that of February, and also lower than consumption in March. Thus, commercial loans (a line item that includes single-signature notes, current account advances, and others) decreased approximately $200 million (1.5%), against a decrease of $460 million in February (3.5%).

Chart 7
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector - March 2003
In millions of pesos

Credit Cards

Consumption Personal
$-666 M Secured Loans

Mortgages

Others

Commercial Notes
$-196 M

Advances

-300 -250 -200 -150 -100 -50 0

Exceeding of targets required with the IMF

The monetary targets required under the agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were exceeded in February, and those corresponding to March are also being exceeded. In effect, during March it was confirmed that the targets corresponding to February 28 (for which 10 working days before and 10 working days after are taken, so their calculation was only completed on March 14) were exceeded: the Net International Reserves (RIN) target was met in excess by USD 1,320 million, the Net Domestic Assets (AIN) target was exceeded by $5,502 million, while the broad monetary base was located $421 million below its indicative "ceiling" (this latter target is not mandatory).

10 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Chart 8

Exceeding of IMF targets
Millions of $ Millions of USD
5.6 1.80

5.5 1.70

5.4 1.60

5.3 1.50

5.2 1.40

5.1 1.30
14-Mar 18-Mar 22-Mar 26-Mar 30-Mar 3-Apr 7-Apr 11-Apr

AIN RIN (2nd axis)

As for the March targets, the mandatory ones were met in excess of what was agreed: USD 1,522 million in the case of RIN, and $5,519 million pesos in that of AIN. Although the indicative target for broad monetary base shows a shortfall in compliance, it should be noted that such target implies a contraction of the monetary base in real terms: strict compliance with it (within a framework of lower inflation than estimated at the time of target setting) could disregard the needs of the real economy, which shows an incipient recovery. Likewise, as we noted before, the increase in broad monetary base is taking place as a result of excess supply of foreign currency, and not due to the granting of internal credit (government or financial sector).

LEBACs: reduction in average cost and longer-term issuances
This month, the monetary effect of LEBAC placement resulted in a contraction of $ 27 million. The average cost decreased, and issuances with longer terms were placed. A significant improvement was observed in terms of the maturation of the amounts offered in the LEBAC auctions, which had a favorable impact on the average life of the LEBAC portfolio in circulation in pesos. As can be seen in graph 9, the participation of purchase offers for securities with more than six months of average life on the total offered amounted to 43%, well above the 6% registered in the month of February. A similar behavior is observed in the adjudicated amounts, which caused the average life of the total in circulation in pesos to increase to 138 days at the end of March, practically reaching the level at the end of January. Likewise, the increase in average life was accompanied by a slight decrease in the average nominal cost of the LEBAC portfolio in pesos, which went from 33.5% at the end of February to 31.3% at the end of March (see graph 10).

11 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Graph 9

Participation in total offered Participation in total adjudicated
in LEBAC auctions in pesos in LEBAC auctions in pesos Days
70% 62% 70% 139 138 140

60% 60%
135
50% 42% 43% 50%

40% 32% 33% 40% 130
25% 29% 28% 126
30% 30% 125

20% 20%
10% 6% 120
10%

0% 0% 115
jan-03 feb-03 mar-03 jan-03 feb-03 mar-03
1m + 2m + 3m 4m + 5m + 6m 9m + 12m 1m + 2m + 3m 4m + 5m + 6m 9m + 12m Average duration of LEBAC portfolio in $

An aspect to highlight was the realization of placements at 12 months at a fixed rate, which even exceeded in amount the instruments adjusted by CER: the issuance (in nominal value) of the former amounted to $ 287 million, while that of the latter was $ 110 million. This reveals, on the part of investors, the perception of a horizon of greater stability.

Graph 10

Percentage Indicators of the LEBAC portfolio in pesos Duration

(TNA 30 d.) (days)
140 300

120 250

100 200

80
150
60
40 100

20 50

0 0
15-mar-02 2-may-02 20-jun-02 8-ago-02 26-sep-02 14-nov-02 7-jan-03 25-feb-03

Marginal cost Average nominal cost
Marginal maturation Average maturation

On the other hand, as mentioned in the previous month's report, LEBACs have gradually increased their relevance as an investment alternative for AFJPs. Especially, in the month of March, these institutional investors came to hold more than 50% of the LEBACs in pesos in the possession of legal entities, increasing the total in pesos in their portfolio by $213 million compared to February 28 (see graph 11).

12 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Graph 11

Holding of LEBAC in pesos of AFJPs - as of March 28-
Universe of legal entities

Holder Maturation

12 months
Other Legal
Entities AFJP 9 months 6 months
$620m. $690m.

5 months

Foreign exchange market: strong appreciation of the peso in a context of fewer restrictions

In the foreign exchange market, a marked appreciation of the local currency with respect to the dollar was noticed: the peso closed the month of March 8% above its quotation at the end of the previous month, which reflected both the persistent supply of foreign currency resulting from the trade surplus and the greater confidence of economic agents in the local currency – as the market resumed operating in a context of progressive relaxation. Thus, during the month, the Central Bank continued implementing measures aimed at normalizing the functioning of the foreign exchange market. Among the measures taken in March, the following were included.
# Translation to English

• The monthly limit for the purchase of foreign currency by individuals and legal entities was increased from USD 150,000 to USD 200,000 and later to USD 300,000 (communications "A" 3894 and "A" 3909). This measure is estimated to have had the greatest effect on the demand for dollars (among those taken in the month), by increasing it by USD 45 million.

• Early payment of debts with the exterior was authorized in connection with imports of goods, regardless of the agreed maturity, as of March 13 and until April 15, 2003 (com. "A" 3896). This implied an estimated increase in the demand for foreign currency of USD 32 million.

• The possibility of capital service payments was expanded provided that: the monthly amount paid does not exceed USD 1 million; or the services to be paid did not exceed, as of December 31, 2001, USD 5 million (com. "A" 3895 and "A" 3908). This measure had an estimated effect of USD 12 million.

If the estimated effect that the measures taken in January and February had in March is added, it is observed that the quantity demanded of foreign currency increased by USD 525 million. The estimated effect on the demand of all the set of measures in the first quarter of the year was practically USD 1,100. The trend thus continues toward a foreign exchange market with less presence of the monetary authority, which fully reflects the interaction of private economic agents. As can be seen in chart 12, over the last few months (and March was no exception in this regard) the intervention of the BCRA in the foreign exchange market was substantially reduced, while the demand for dollars was progressively freed (in accordance with the measures that have been detailed in our latest reports), which occurred together with a reduction in the nominal exchange rate.

13 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

**Chart 12**

Millions of USD | Foreign Exchange Market Intervention | Arg.$/USD

600 | 557 525 | 3.75
500 | 499 511 520 | 3.50
400 | 445 | 3.25
     | 352 |
300 | 285 | 3.00
     | 249 |
200 | 191 175 | 2.75
100 |     |
0  |     |
    | aug-02 sep-02 oct-02 nov-02 dec-02 jan-03 feb-03 mar-03 |

Net purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA
Demand for dollars due to the removal of foreign exchange controls
Nominal exchange rate (2nd axis)

While it is clear that the fall in the nominal exchange rate is linked to the excess supply in the foreign exchange market, fed by a widely surplus trade balance, it is also true that the appreciation of the peso is related to public confidence in the local currency. Even in a market in which demand is increasing (through the aforementioned measures), the price of foreign currency continues to fall. The trade surplus should not be mechanically linked to the appreciation of the peso, since such a surplus, if there were no public confidence, would have as its counterpart a capital outflow. To see this point more clearly, it is enough to compare the current situation with what occurred during 1989 and 1990, when with a record trade surplus at that time (and the consequent supply of foreign currency) the local currency depreciated violently. If today the positive effect on supply that the current trade surplus entails cannot be denied, it must be taken into account that the demand for local currency by the public also plays a role in the downward pressure suffered by the dollar.

The appreciation of the local currency was also recorded with respect to currencies other than the dollar. With respect to the euro, the peso appreciated by 7.2%, while it gained 0.9% against the real.

Capital Markets
For the first time, after nine consecutive months of increases, the MERVAL index showed a decline in pesos, while the appreciation of the exchange rate allowed it to increase again in dollars (3.1%), accumulating a gain of 22.5% for the current year. Although on average volatility, measured on a sample of 20 trading sessions, showed a decrease compared to February (from 23.3% to 20.3%), specifically an increase in the same was noted from the second week of February onwards (as it went from 15% to 24% between the beginning and end of the month; see chart 13).

The stocks that showed the greatest increases were Acindar (25%), Minetti (10%) and Ledesma (9%); on the other extreme, those that suffered the greatest losses were Sociedad Comercial del Plata (18%), Cresud (17%) and Telecom. (17%). Regarding the volume traded, the daily average for March stood at $37 million, 4% above the average value of the previous month. As a new development, four companies were incorporated into the MERVAL index: Distribuidora de Gas Cuyana, Gas Natural Ban, Garovaglio and Rigolleau; while Instituto Rosembush and Fitoplasto were displaced.

14 Monthly Monetary Report—March 2003

Chart 13

Domestic stock market
MERVAL MERVAL Index in local currency Volatility
700 120%

600 100%

80%
500
60%
400
40%

300 20%

200 0%
2-Jan-02 6-Mar-02 9-May-02 11-Jul-02 13-Sep-02 18-Nov-02 22-Jan-03 26-Mar-03

MERVAL Historical volatility (sample of 20 trading sessions)

For its part, in the rest of the world stock markets recovered substantially driven by expectations that the war in Iraq would not last much longer. However, in all cases, they showed high volatility mainly motivated by events linked to military confrontations rather than by the announcement of economic indicators (see table 4).

Table 4

Variations in stock indices

In local currency In dollars

March Year-to-date 2003 March Year-to-date 2003

MERVAL -4.6% 7.9% 3.1% 22.5%

NIKKEI 225 -4.7% -4.2% -4.6% -6.5%

NASDAQ 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4%

S&P 500 6.5% 1.8% 6.5% 1.8%

FTSE 100 -1.2% -8.3% -0.5% -9.9%

DOW JONES 1.3% -4.2% 1.3% -4.2%

BOVESPA 9.7% 0.0% 16.7% 5.6%

For its part, the emerging countries' debt market continued its upward trend during March. Thus, the spread of emerging bonds measured according to the EMBI+ index shows a decline of 12% in the first quarter of the year. In the case of Argentina, this spread fell 496 basis points during March. It is considered that a higher degree of liquidity in the emerging debt market would be contributing to fuel these increases.

Regarding the local bond market, the behavior of the BODEN parity was not homogeneous: on one hand, the BODEN 07 showed sustained increases throughout the month; the parity of the BODEN 05 also increased during March, but fell toward the end of the month; while the BODEN 12 showed a slight decline during the first fortnight, from which it recovered only partially in the rest of the month (see chart 14). To explain this uneven evolution, it must be taken into account that the holders of BODEN 05 and 07 will receive capital payments during this year; likewise, the larger future issuance of long-term bonds (for compensation to savers and the redemption of quasi-currencies) would have influenced the quotation of BODEN 12. As for traded volumes, these increased notably compared to previous months: in the case of BODEN 05 and 07, the average monthly volume doubled, while it increased almost 50% in the case of 12.

Chart 14

BODEN Parity

55% 95%

50% 90%

45% 85%

40% 80%

35% 75%

30% 70%

25% 65%
31-Dec-02 15-Jan-03 30-Jan-03 14-Feb-03 1-Mar-03 16-Mar-03 31-Mar-03

BODEN 12 BODEN 07 (2nd axis) BODEN 05 (2nd axis)
It should be clarified that in the first half of April the BODEN 12 showed a very marked increase in its parity, which was attributed to the possibility of using said securities for the purchase of automobiles or real estate construction. For its part, the BODEN 07 extended its upward trend and the 05 recovered from the decline in its parity observed towards the end of March.
