# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report
April 2003

Summary

---

*Note: This is the header/title section of the document. The actual content of the summary section was not included in your input. Please provide the complete text if you would like me to translate the full summary and remaining sections of the report.*
ü The monetary market showed favorable behavior in a context of incipient reactivation of the activity level, and despite the uncertainty generated by the presidential elections on April 27. During April, a capital inflow was observed that was monetized in the face of demand for pesos by economic agents and generated a significant expansion of the monetary base. However, inflation continued to decline and showed the lowest level since the devaluation.

ü The broad monetary base expanded by $807 million (2.1%), its largest increase so far this year; in seasonally adjusted terms, however, it decreased 0.9%. Purchases of foreign currency from the private sector once again proved to be the most important growth factor of the base, reaching a figure of around $998 million. Monetary expansion is thus carried out "against reserves": the issuance has as its counterpart the decrease in the stock of foreign currency in circulation.

ü As a consequence of foreign currency purchases, the Central Bank's international reserves increased by an amount that doubles that observed in the previous month (US$ 455 million, an increase of 4%), reaching a level of US$ 10,971 million at the end of the month.

ü Private means of payment in pesos, including quasi-money (M2A), showed a notable increase: $1,186 million (2.7%; and 3% in seasonally adjusted terms). This was due to the fact that the public's holdings of bills and coins expanded by $370 million (2%), and private demand deposits grew by $814 million (4%). Demand deposits show the first increase after four consecutive months of decreases. The greater desire to maintain transactional balances on the part of savers would be in line with incipient economic reactivation.

ü The lifting of financial restrictions ("corralón") received a lower than expected response: it reached 40% of the CEDRO stock. Of the observed decline in CEDRO, 96% would have gone into fixed-term deposits. The relatively low uptake occurred despite the attractive conditions offered to savers: this could be explained by uncertainty about the political situation, and the possible expectation of a more favorable repayment scheme than the current one.

ü The unprogramming of deposits brought with it a significant increase in private sector fixed-term deposit placements in pesos: they increased by more than $6,100 million (26%) during April; however, taking into account that private sector CEDRO (including CER) decreased by $6,700 million, a net negative variation of around $600 million (1.4%) is obtained.

ü The more favorable monetary conditions than expected determined that, in the second half of April, interest rates reversed the upward trend observed since mid-March.

ü The evolution of credit was favorable compared to that observed in previous months: loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos decreased by $170 million (0.6%), which compares with a decrease of $835 million in March. An increase in commercial credit was observed for the first time since July of last year; and as for consumer loans, an increase in credit card financing was recorded.

ü Inflation in April was 0.1%, well below the previous month's figure (0.6%), and confirming a scenario of smaller price increases compared to those expected. Goods showed a price increase of 0.2% compared to March, and services a decrease of 0.1%. For the second consecutive month, a decrease in service prices was recorded.

ü The quasi-money rescue project continued to advance: the Government will be able to issue bonds (BODEN) for up to $7,800 million in nominal value, against which currency will be issued to replace the
quasi-currencies currently in circulation (through a public auction or direct redemption, as applicable). It is estimated that the program would not have significant effects on the level of the broad monetary base, but rather on its composition.

ü The mandatory monetary targets agreed with the IMF were exceeded in March, and were being exceeded in April. The (indicative) monetary base target contained in the agreement signed in January 2003 shows itself as contractionary in real terms, given the current economic recovery situation.

ü The local currency closed the month 4.7% above the exchange rate recorded against the dollar at the end of March. Although the measures taken by the Central Bank between December and March have increased the demand for foreign currency, the greater supply has exceeded that effect. The peso also appreciated against the euro, but to a lesser extent than against the dollar (2%); with respect to the real, the local currency depreciated by 6.8%.
# Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

## The monetary situation, marked by the liberation of financial restrictions, economic reactivation and elections

The monetary market showed favorable behavior in a context of incipient reactivation of the level of activity and, despite the uncertainty generated by the presidential elections of April 27. During the month, a continuous inflow of capital was observed that generated an important expansion of the monetary base. However, inflation continued declining and showed the lowest level since December 2001.

**Graph 1**
**Broad Monetary Base and Inflation**

10% 100%

8% 80%

6% 60%

4% 40%

2% 20%

0% 0%
Jul-02 Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03

Broad Monetary Base / Inflation (monthly variation)
Inflation (quarterly variation annualized) - 2nd axis

Within this framework, in reference to what was verified through the end of April, the lifting of financial restrictions (the "financial corralón") was successful insofar as it did not imply mass withdrawals of funds from the system, although the volume of "dereprogrammed" deposits turned out to be lower than expected. Given the attractive conditions offered to savers to release their placements, the non-acceptance of the proposal could be explained by the expectation that the next administration would propose an even more favorable scheme or the hope of making effective the amparo recourse filed. For its part, the rest of private sector deposits in pesos showed an evolution consistent with the positive trend of data from the real economy. Credits also showed signals that are consistent with real indicators: their decline was much lower than in previous months, and the set of commercial credits showed an increase for the first time in eight months. With respect to interest rates, during the second half of the month, once the relatively low response of savers to the lifting of the "corralón" was verified, they presented a declining trend. Although, as can be seen, the indicators of the monetary situation in April are positive, the BCRA must continue monitoring its evolution cautiously in the coming months.

## Broad monetary base: at the pace of the external sector

In the month of April, the broad monetary base expanded by $807 million (2.1%), its largest increase in absolute terms so far this year. In real terms, the increase in the base was 2%, virtually identical to the nominal variation, given the low level of inflation recorded in the month. It is worth noting, however, that the increase in this variable takes place in a context of price level stability, which would be revealing a "genuine" demand for pesos on the part of economic agents, consistent with an incipient economic reactivation, with some uncertainty generated by the electoral process and with the persistence of a certain degree of distrust in the financial system. It should also be taken into account that if the broad monetary base is adjusted for seasonality, a decrease of 0.9% is found with respect to the previous month.

The sources of monetary base creation continued to be the same as in previous months, in particular, purchases of foreign currency from the private sector were once again the most important factor in base growth, reaching a figure of US$ 350 million, which implied an injection of pesos into the market of around $1,000 million. Throughout the first months of the year, a declining trend in this type of operations had been observed, however April showed a change and its volume doubled that observed in March, in a context of peso appreciation.

**Graph 2 - Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors**
**April and accumulated 2003**

5000 4,367

4000

3000 2,555

2000
998 807
1000 120
38 -24
0
-1000 -541 -252 -157 -131
-1.057
 -2000
 Government Sector LEBAC External Sector Others Monetary Base
 Financial National Net Private Nominal

 BCRA credit to the financial system was contractionary in terms of the monetary base by
$157 million, due both to the cancellation of rediscounts and to the collection of interest. For its part, government operations were expansionary as a result of the monetization of income from international organizations. During April, the public sector did not require BCRA financing. For its part, LEBAC operations were contractionary by $130 million. The factors explaining the variation in the broad monetary base are detailed in table 1.

Table 1 Flow in millions of pesos April

 1. Factors of expansion of the Broad Monetary Base 807
 a. Net External Credit 1.317
 Private Sector 998
 Export Liquidation 380
 Exchange Intervention 619
 Public Sector 319 Sector
 b. Net Internal Credit -510 Public Net
 Public Sector -199 120
 Transitory Advances -100
 Profit Advances 100
 Others (use of National Government account) -199
 Financial Sector -157
 Assistance to Entities -170
 Remuneration of Current Accounts 13
 LEBAC -131
 Others (1) -24

 2. Broad Monetary Base 807
 a. Currency in Public Hands 372
 b. Bank Reserves 436
 Currency in Banks 56
 Current Account at the BCRA 380
 c. Quasi-monies 0

 (1) Includes variation of quasi-monies.
 From the perspective of the components of the broad monetary base, its variation breaks down
into $428 million increase in currency1 ($372 million in public hands and $56 million

1 In this analysis, the notion of broad currency is considered, that is, including quasi-monies.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

held by financial entities) and $380 million increase in the current account of banks
at the BCRA.

Means of payment behave in accordance with the economic reactivation scenario

 During April, private means of payment showed a notable increase, driven both by
the demand for bills and coins as well as by sight deposits. In effect, private means of payment
in pesos including quasi-monies (M2) increased by $1,186 million (2.7%). Its growth was due to the fact that public holdings of bills and coins expanded by $372 million (2%), and to the fact that private sight deposits grew by $814 million (4%). The change in sight deposits was due both to the increase in savings accounts ($439 million, 5.2%) as well as to current accounts ($375 million, 3.5%). While no changes were observed in the stock of quasi-monies. In seasonally adjusted terms, the increase in M2 compared to the previous month was 3% (a difference of only 0.3 percentage points with the variation without seasonal adjustment). The evolution of currency in public hands was relatively in line with its seasonal pattern: in seasonally adjusted terms, the increase in the same in April compared to the previous month was only 0.5%.

 The growth of currency in public hands is the continuation of a trend observed in
recent months; on the other hand, sight deposits show the first increase after four
consecutive months of declines. Until now, sight deposits had presented decreases that
were more than offset by increases in public holdings of cash.

 A factor that may explain the greater desire to maintain transactional balances is the level of
activity: several of the latest available indicators (referring mostly to the months of February and
March) point towards a stronger pace of recovery so far this year. In graph 3 it can be observed
how the EMAE (Monthly Estimator of Economic Activity), the EMI (Monthly Industrial Estimator) and the M2 have evolved, all measured in seasonally adjusted terms.
**Graph 3 Private means of payment in $ (monthly variations) and economic indicators (indices)**

2500 Million $ Indices 105

2000
100
1500

1000 95

500
90
0
Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03
-500 85

-1000
80
-1500

-2000 75

Private M2, seasonally adjusted EMAE seasonally adjusted EMI seasonally adjusted

Regarding the composition of the monetary aggregate M2, as has already been mentioned, an increase can be observed in the participation of bills, coins and quasi-money throughout the last year, reaching almost 60% of M2 in pesos in April (more than ten percentage points above the average of the 1990s decade). This behavior is probably explained on one hand by a perception of elevated "banking risk" on the part of certain segments of society, and on the other hand by greater use of bills and coins as a consequence of the increase in "informal" activities that use "physical" money in a greater proportion than the rest.

In summary, although the information is still preliminary, inasmuch as it is necessary to await the appearance of the next monetary data to confirm that the growth of transactional deposits is consolidating, the data available so far allows us to affirm that the performance of the monetary aggregates during April would have accompanied the recovery indicated by the main economic indicators.

**The lifting of financial restrictions and the behavior of deposits**

A key fact in the monetary market during April was the lifting of financial restrictions known as the "corralón". Through decree 739/2003, voluntary cancellation of rescheduled deposits was arranged in three stages according to the bracket of the original deposit amount: 1) immediate availability of funds for savers with up to $42,000 in CEDRO (not including CER); 2) funds available in 90 days for depositors with balances of up to $100,000; 3) availability of funds in 120 days for those deposits with balances greater than those indicated. The difference between the balance of the deposit pesified at 1.4 $/USD plus the computation of CER, and the value of said balance valued at the dollar exchange rate would be covered through a bond (delivered to depositors).

The adherence of savers to the proposed rescheduling of deposits was lower than expected: by May 9, it reached 42% of the stock of private CEDRO existing on April 7 (the day before the start of the rescheduling). Of the observed decline in CEDRO, a large part would have been reinvested - the relationship between the increase in time deposits of the private sector and the decrease in private CEDRO observed was 98%; taking into account only the bracket of deposits less than or equal to $42,000 – that for which there was an option between time deposit or immediate availability - said relationship was 96%.

**Graph 4**

Acceptance by bracket Total results Structure as of May 9, 2003
First bracket (< $42 thousand) Initial balance = $16,400 MM Final balance = $9,500 MM
Total acceptance

51% $6,900 MM $2,900 MM
42%
Second bracket (between $42 and $100 thousand)
3rd Bracket 1st Bracket
38% 46% 30%
Var. PF / CEDRO Acceptance
Total Only bracket 2nd Bracket
Third bracket (> $100 thousand) less than $42 thousand
$4,400 MM 24%

34% 98% 96% $2,200 MM
You will be given a text in Spanish, from Central Bank of Argentina, its monthly report.
It is parsed from a PDF file, some words might be splitted or parsed incorrectly.
Your task is to translate the text to English, keeping as close to the text as possible.
DO NOT SKIP ANY SECTION OF THE TEXT.

---

NOTE: The results correspond to an extrapolation to the total system of a sample of 11 entities -87% of the CEDRO as of
April 7-.

The relatively low adherence to lifting the "corralón" occurred despite the attractive
conditions offered to savers. The total amount to be received by savers with balances up to $42,000
under this scheme consists of: a) a sum in cash, determined as the balance of their deposit
plus accrued interest and CER, as of the date of withdrawal; b) a dollar bond (BODEN
2013), whose nominal value is determined by the difference between the sum received in cash and the value
of the dollar deposit according to the reference exchange rate of April 1st. To properly evaluate
what the saver would truly receive, the amount in a) and the bond
mentioned in b) valued at market price must be added together. In graph 5 it can be observed how
the amount received by the depositor has evolved². The estimate shows an increase in the amount in
dollars to be received by the saver (for each dollar originally deposited) since the beginning of the
opening of the "corralón". This was due both to the appreciation of the dollar and to an increase in the parity

2 It should be noted that, as of the date of preparation of this report there is no market for BODEN 2013, the
parity of BODEN 2012 has been considered. The parity of BODEN 2012 has been used as an initial reference without
considering its increase during April due to the possibility of early redemption to finance new construction.

5 Monthly Monetary Report —April 2003

of the BODEN. However, this increase has not been accompanied by greater adherence: the daily decline of
CEDRO with CER only deepened significantly towards the date of the original closing of the scheme (which
was later extended), while the amount to be returned was rising steadily.

Graph 5 Accumulated variation of CEDRO stock with CER vs. amount received
by the saver
- 0.89

-5
0.88
-10

-15 0.87

-20
0.86
-25

-30 0.85

-35 Accumulated % Variation of CEDRO Stock with
private CER 0.84
-40 Total amount received by saver (2nd axis)

-45 0.83

The option to wait exercised by savers could be explained by several reasons: the hope of
making effective the amparo (protection) remedy filed in a timely manner, uncertainty about the
political situation, and the possible expectation (based on the experience of previous exchanges) of a more
favorable return scheme than the current one.

The response of savers to the de-scheduling was not uniform across different types of
financial entities: in public banks and private banks of national capital, the growth of
fixed-term deposits exceeded the variation of CEDRO, while in branches of foreign banks the
fixed-term placements represented 82% of the total de-affected CEDRO, and only 63% in entities
of predominantly foreign capital (taking, in all cases, variations between April 7 and 30;
see table 33). The general behavior, as observed in graph 6, was that entities tended
in their majority to lose more CEDRO than the fixed-term placements they gained (in the graph, the points above
the dotted line are entities that received fixed-term deposits in greater amounts than the
de-affected CEDRO, while those below said line experienced the opposite).

Table 3 De-scheduling of Deposits - private sector

April 7 to 30, 2003 - daily information data BCRA (SISCEN)

Group Variation of CEDRO Variation Fixed Relation Variation PF /
Denomination Reported + CER Term Variation CEDRO

Public -2,096 -2,993 3,064 102%
Private National -357 -508 539 106%
Foreign Bank Branches -920 -1,310 1,078 82%
Predominantly Foreign Capital -1,175 -1,676 1,060 63%
Cooperatives -84 -120 104 87%
Financial Companies -5 -7 10 145%
Credit Boxes -1 -1 2 193%
TOTAL -4,637 -6,615 5,857 89%
3 Note that the data in table 3 differ from those in graph 4 since in the first, the daily information collected by BCRA for the entire system is used, while in the second, data from a sample of 11 entities are included.

6 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Graph 6 Variation in CEDRO vs. Fixed-Term Deposits
Data by entity, April 7 to 30, 2003.

1,800

1,600

1,400

1,200

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

-1,800 -1,600 -1,400 -1,200 -1,000 -800 -600 -400 -200 0
Var. CEDRO with CER, Mill. of $ -200

As has already been mentioned, the removal of CEDRO brought about a significant increase in fixed-term placements: they increased by more than $6,100 million (26%) during April; however, taking into account that CEDRO from the private sector (including CER) decreased by $6,700 million, a net negative variation of around $600 million (1.4%)4 is obtained. A large part of said variation was assigned to sight deposits. The lifting of financial restrictions also implied that the segment with the highest growth in fixed-term placements was the 90 to 179 day segment, since the de-scheduling scheme stipulates that savers with balances between $42,000 and $100,000 can release their funds through such deposits. Thus, fixed-term deposits of between 90 and 179 days virtually tripled their volume during April (increasing by $3,400 million), explaining 55% of the increase in total fixed-term placements in pesos. These were followed by fixed-term deposits of between 30 and 59 days, which increased by nearly $2,300 million (14%). In this way, the average term of fixed-term deposits in pesos increased notably during April, going from 41 to 46 days throughout the month. They thus reached the highest average term observed since July of last year, as shown in graph 7. It is clear that one will have to wait for these placements linked to the release of the "corralón" to mature (between June and July) to observe the real behavior of depositors.

Graph 7
Fixed-term deposits in pesos: average term

55 days

Average term of FT deposits $
50
Average term FT $ net of increase from
liberation of CEDRO greater than 42,000
45

40
Effect of the
35 lifting of the
"corralón"

30

4 To compute the effect on the liquidity of the entities, the effect of payment for the difference between balances pesified at 1.4 $/USD and the free exchange rate (in the case of amparos), which amounted to 100 million, must be added to the CEDRO variation already indicated.

7 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Taking into account the evolution of fixed-term deposits and CEDRO, plus that of sight deposits already mentioned, private sector placements in pesos increased by more than $220 million (0.3%). This contrasts with the decrease of $160 million recorded the previous month. The flows of deposits and CEDRO are detailed in table 2 (which includes variations of public and private sector deposits, and total CEDRO variations).

Table 2

Monthly Flows in millions of pesos April

1. Deposits in pesos (a+b) 7,226
a. Private Sector 6,906
Savings Account 439
Current Account 375
Others -27
Fixed-Term 6,119
b. Public Sector 320

2. CEDRO -6,781
Amparos (1) -328

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -159
CER Adjustment -69
Difference from payment at free exchange rate -100
Other removals (2) -6,453

Stock (at 1.4$/USD) -4,546
CER Adjustment -1,907

3. Effect of deposit variation on system
liquidity (1 + 2) 445

4. Deposits in dollars (in USD) 63

(1) Estimated figure.
(2) Includes de-scheduling of CEDRO by lifting of the "corralón".

The flexibility of reserve requirements as a measure to ensure an adequate level of liquidity
As mentioned previously, during April the voluntary cancellation of rescheduled deposits began. Given the possible impact of this measure on system liquidity, the BCRA implemented a relaxation of reserve requirements so that banks would have the necessary liquidity to meet their short-term obligations and thus avoid an increase in the interest rate and/or an increase in internal credit through the granting of rediscounts.

From the perspective of systemic liquidity, the release of rescheduled deposits has, in principle, a first direct effect constituted by the possible immediate disbursement of the shorter tranches – up to $42,000 – and a second effect associated with the change in the maturity of the remaining rescheduled deposits held by the entities. This latter effect is associated with the particularities of the current minimum cash and resource application regime. It should be recalled that in March the calculation methodology of both regimes was modified5, establishing differential requirements according to the residual maturity of the deposit6 (instead of the contractual maturity), whereby CEDRO deposits are applied a coefficient similar to that of a deposit of identical maturity.7 Therefore, if a client with a CEDRO of up to $42,000 had accepted the release, even if they did not withdraw their funds and deposited them at a 30-day term or left them in a sight deposit, for example, the entity's minimum cash and resource application requirement would have increased by the difference between the different reserve coefficients8. The same consideration applies to rescheduled deposits exceeding $42,000 for which placements must be made at terms of 90 days or 120 days depending on whether the original rescheduled deposit is less than or greater than $100,000 respectively.

It must be clear that the magnitude of the impact on system liquidity would depend on the degree of acceptance of this proposal and, if accepted, on the percentage of reinvestment and the destination of the funds, that is, whether they become term placements – and within these at what maturity – or sight deposits.

Through Com. A 3917, both for the minimum cash regime and for the minimum resource application: a) the determination of a combined position for April-May, and b) the reduction of reserves were established (see table 3).

Table 3 Summary of changes in requirements.
| | Previous Requirement | Current Requirement |
|---|---|---|
| | EM | AMR | EM | AMR |
| Sight deposits | 22 | 18 | 18 | 17 |
| Term deposits | | | | |
| up to 29 days | 12 | 12 | 11 | 11 |
| 30 to 59 days | 9 | 12 | 8 | 11 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8 | 12 | 7 | 11 |
| 90 to 179 days | 6 | 0 | 5 | 0 |
| 180 to 365 days | 4 | 0 | 3 | 0 |
| more than 365 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |

References: EM: Minimum Cash Regime
AMR: Minimum Resource Application Regime
As mentioned in the previous paragraph, the final position incorporates the figures for May; however, estimates of the partial position for April demonstrate the existence of a high degree of overintegration. The combination between the degree of acceptance of the CEDRO operation and reinvestment of funds in the system described previously, together with the flexibilizations in the reserve requirement regime adopted by the BCRA, determined that 90% of the entities showed liquid positions in the month under analysis. However, a somewhat more contractive effect is expected on the minimum cash position and application of resources in May given the impact on the requirement for the shortening of the deposit term9.

For its part, the balance of the current account of banks at the BCRA reached an average of 17.4% in the month. In relative terms, the system maintained the level observed during the first quarter of the year.

Chart 8 CC BCRA / Private Deposits

18.0%

17.6%

17.2%

16.8%

16.4%
Jan Feb Mar Q1 2003 Apr

9 As mentioned, reserves are calculated based on the structure of residual terms of the previous month, so in May it is already determined by deposits from the releases carried out during April.

9 Monthly Monetary Report—April 2003

**Decline in Interest Rates**

The more favorable monetary conditions than expected before the start of the deposit deprogramming determined that, in the second half of April, interest rates reversed the upward trend observed since mid-March and reached levels similar to those recorded in February. Among the factors that determined the evolution of rates, the following can be mentioned: a) the moderate reaction of savers following the opening of the "corralón" together with the significant reinvestment of funds by those who opted for the release of their deposits, and b) the lower returns on LEBACs (which are discussed later in this report), which constitute one of the applications of bank funds (to the extent that these decrease their yield, maintaining a certain level of spread requires a reduction in the remuneration of funds captured by the entities).

Interest rates for fixed-term deposits in pesos between 30 and 44 days went from levels of around 24% at the beginning of April to 18% at the end of that month. The most marked movement occurred in the case of amounts greater than $1,000,000: interest rates agreed for these amounts showed a decline from levels above 25% to 17% throughout the month.

The evolution of interest rates could not, however, be read as a uniform decrease throughout the financial system during the month: certain specific rate reductions that took place between the second and third weeks of April appear more associated with the growth in the participation of banks with below-average rates within the total amount operated10; whereas, from the fourth week of the month, all entities tended to register lower rates. Thus, the effect of the more liquid monetary conditions would only have been felt in a generalized manner towards the end of the month, whereas before it was rather changes within the participation in the amounts operated by fixed-term placements.
What was mentioned in the previous paragraph becomes particularly evident in the case of time deposits for amounts under $ 100,000. Observing a sample of 14 entities (which concentrate 97% of the total operated in the fixed-term deposit segment), it is noted that those banks that offered interest rates below the system average grew in their share of the total amount between April 15 and 21, which contributed to determining a specific drop in passive rates. Later in the month, their share decreased again, but as the decline in interest rates at the rest of the entities also became more pronounced, the average rate fell.

Graph 9

Fixed-term deposit rates of 20 to 40 days, less than $100,000 Amounts operated in fixed-term deposits of 20 to 40 days, less than $100,000
Sample of 14 banks, representing 97% of total operated Sample of 14 banks representing 97% of total operated
24% 160
23% 140
22% 120
21% 100
20% 80
19% 60
18% 40
17% 20
16% 0
15%
 1-Apr-03 4-Apr-03 9-Apr-03 14-Apr-03 21-Apr-03 24-Apr-03 29-Apr-03 1-Apr-03 3-Apr-03 7-Apr-03 9-Apr-03 11-Apr-03 15-Apr-03 21-Apr-03 23-Apr-03 25-Apr-03 29-Apr-03

 < AVERAGE = AVERAGE > AVERAGE < AVERAGE = AVERAGE > AVERAGE

If the rates for deposits less than $ 100,000 are compared with those for placements greater than $ 1,000,000, it is noted that the latter showed a faster decline during the month. This would be related to the fact that the former comprised customers who possessed rescheduled deposits of up to $42,000, which could more rapidly access cash in accordance with the scheme for lifting financial restrictions.

Graph 10
Rates for fixed-term deposits in pesos, 30-44 days
29.0 TNA (%)
27.0
25.0
23.0
21.0
19.0
 Rates for deposits up to $ 100,000
17.0
 Rates for deposits of more than $ 1 million
15.0

Regarding the interbank market (call), on average, the volume operated in April increased 22% compared to March; in the private banks segment, the call amounts operated were on average 50% higher than those of the previous month. For its part, the call rate continued the downward trend evidenced since the second half of March, which was consistent with liquidity needs lower than expected.

Graph 11 Private interbank market: call rate and amount operated

Millions of $ TNA (%)
 400 Amount operated 12
 350 Average rate, 5-day moving average (2nd axis)
 10
 300
 250 8

 200 6

 150 4

 100
 50 2

 0 0

Loans: positive preliminary signals

The evolution of loans in April proved markedly favorable compared to that observed in previous months: loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos decreased $ 171 million (0.6%), which compares with declines of $ 835 million in March and $ 969 million in February. It is interesting to note that the observed variation is explained fundamentally by an increase in commercial credits, which increase compared to the previous month for the first time since July of last year, and as for consumer loans, by an increase in credit card financings. These two elements are in line with real economy indicators, which point to an incipient reactivation, which would be accelerating (in particular, financing via credit cards would be consistent with the upturn in the consumer confidence index recorded in April11).
Commercial credits in pesos exhibited an increase close to $80 million (0.7%), which breaks down into an increase in advances (in current account and other advances), a decrease in documents at sole signature, and an increase in the category of other commercial credits (while discounted documents practically did not vary). In the case of current account advances, their growth occurred for the second consecutive month.

Consumer credits in pesos decreased by around $240 million (1.5%): both mortgage segments, as well as pledge and personal loans, showed declines lower than those of the previous month, while credit card financing increased by 3%. This latter category grows for the first time since March 2002, if the seasonal increase observed in December and January is excepted.

Loans thus show a dynamic that: a) extends the trend of decrease but at a decreasing rate, so that their decline becomes increasingly smaller in absolute terms; b) is consistent with positive indicators of the real economy.

**Chart 12**
Loans to the private sector in pesos, commercial and consumer

millions of $ (monthly variation)

200

0

-200

-400

-600

-800

-1,000 Commercial loans
-1,200 Consumer loans

-1,400
Aug-02 Sep-02 Oct-02 Nov-02 Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03

**Targets with the International Monetary Fund (IMF): overperformance of required objectives and need to review the monetary base target**

The mandatory monetary targets agreed with the IMF were exceeded in March, and were being exceeded in April. Thus, the targets corresponding to March 31 (measurement period that extended between March 14 and April 14) were exceeded by US$ 1,522 million in the case of Net International Reserves (NIR) and by $5,519 million in the case of Net Domestic Assets (NDA). Meanwhile, the indicative target for broad monetary base was not met, as the measurement exceeded it by $341 million. Meanwhile, the targets corresponding to April 30 (measurement period covering April 14 to May 15) were also being exceeded at the close of this report: NIR were located US$ 1,927 million above the set objective, while NDA reached a level of $5,585 million below the agreed target (in this latter case, the target sets a "ceiling," so being below it implies overperformance).

The monetary base target contained in the agreement signed in January 2003 was contractionary in real terms. However, the evolution of the broad monetary base so far this year has shown growth that does not align with the trajectory provided for in the agreement. The genuine demand for money by economic agents in a context of price stability leads to the need to expand the monetary base beyond what was originally agreed.

A projection of monetary base that contemplates both a trend growth of the monetary base (estimated at 22%, incorporating both expected growth and inflation) as well as its seasonal variations, entails values of this variable that are well above the originally set targets. In a context like the current one, of economic recovery with low inflation, it could prove costly in terms of level of activity to reduce the base in accordance with what was originally foreseen.

A scenario of declining inflation is consolidating
Inflation in April was 0.1% (measured according to the IPC-GBA surveyed by INDEC), well below the previous month's figure (0.6%), and confirming a scenario of smaller price increases than expected. The variation in the retail price index with respect to the same month of the previous year was 19.4%. Goods showed a price increase of 0.2% compared to March, and services a decrease of 0.1%. For the second consecutive month, a decline in service prices was registered (a decline that had not been recorded since November 2001). The item that recorded the greatest impact on the index was clothing, while food and beverages exhibited a negative impact.

For its part, the wholesale price index (IPIM) fell 1.9% in April compared to the previous month. It thus showed a decrease for the second consecutive month. The ratio between IPIM and IPC, used as an approximation of the relationship between prices of tradable and non-tradable goods fell for the sixth consecutive month (showed a negative variation of 2% in April).

**Chart 13 Monthly Inflation**

[Chart with data points and lines showing Inflation, Monthly Inflation, Goods, Services, and Tradables/Non-Tradables (IPM/IPC) from Jan-02 to Apr-03]

## The quasi-money redemption program: possible monetary effects

During April, the quasi-money redemption project continued to advance: to the securities of the provinces included in the original project (Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Córdoba, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Ríos, Formosa, La Rioja, Mendoza and Tucumán) were added the LECOPs; thus, the Government will be able to issue bonds (BODEN) for up to $7,800 million in nominal value, against which currency will be issued to replace the quasi-money currently in circulation¹². The project also provides that the funds for the repayment of BODEN come from the resources that the Nation transfers to the provinces monthly under revenue sharing (the so-called "trickle"). Likewise, the project establishes that the redemption of such provincial bonds will be carried out through public bidding¹³, observing their market prices; for quasi-money that trades at par with national currency, direct redemption is provided for¹⁴. In the case of LECOPs, direct redemption would be carried out through the payment of taxes.

The effect of bond redemption on the broad monetary base could be slightly contractionary, taking into account that currency would be issued for an amount equivalent to the value of provincial securities. The difference between the nominal value of the total securities in circulation and their market value amounts to more than $300 million, so if all quasi-money were redeemed at market value, the contractionary effect would be of that amount. If one takes into account that differential treatment is provided for primary holders of securities who received them in their capacity as public employees or retirees, the effect would be lower – since such holders would obtain pesos for the nominal value of their quasi-money holdings. Assuming that 40% of the total amount in circulation is redeemed at nominal value and the remainder at market price, the contractionary effect would be less than $200 million.

---

¹² According to decrees 743/2003 and 957/2003 of the National Executive Power.

¹³ Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

¹⁴ Direct redemption through tax payment.
It should be noted, however, that the redemption of quasi-currencies involves replacing instruments of limited circulation (given their cancellation power generally restricted to the provincial scope), and on which banks cannot issue loans, with legal tender currency. The latter has national circulation and, once deposited in the financial system, can –through credit creation– expand the amount of money. Insofar as the redemption tends to be carried out at market value, the "premium" for national circulation of currency would be recognized (which must be incorporated in the quasi-currency quotation with respect to the peso); however, to the extent that credit channels are reactivated and the creation of bank money begins to increase, some expansionary effect could take place. Additionally, it can be argued that, if the redemption of quasi-currencies induced some effect on the amount of cash desired by the public, the multiplier of the monetary base would also vary (this point, however, seems more debatable, since it requires explaining why such a reallocation would take place, if the public considers quasi-currencies as circulating).

It is thus possible to propose several scenarios, according to the estimated value of the monetary base multiplier during the period in which the redemption is extended15. With said multiplier below 1.03, the effect of the redemption program would be contractionary. Above that value, the monetary effect of this program would begin to be expansionary. Note that even in the optimistic scenario in which the monetary base multiplier rises to 1.10, the effect on the initial stock of broad monetary base is 1%.

The previous exercise implies that the quasi-currency redemption program, with the implementation planned until April, would not have significant effects on the level of the broad monetary base, but rather on its composition. Other types of effects (which would depend, for example, on whether the redemption induced greater or lesser transactional uses of money) could impact the velocity of circulation of money, but they are given lesser probability here.

13 Through communication "A" 3945, the BCRA regulated the redemption mechanism: participation in the auction must be carried out through deposit in a financial institution, with five sections available for it: competitive, non-competitive, special (bonds corresponding to the Public Sector), retail (holdings of up to $500) and special retail (public employees and retirees). The competitive section, the special section and the retail section will receive the single price determined in the auction, the non-competitive section 95% of that price, and the special retail section will carry out the exchange at nominal value (which does not exceed the equivalent to the last payment received in bonds). The offers must be made by the bond holders through the financial institutions that register their custody, which must deliver the bonds to the Agent Bank (the one designated by each issuer as financial agent).

14 As of the closing date of this report, the Senate had given half approval to the project with modifications. Among these are the following: the bonds to be issued by the government are divided into two series, BODEN 2011 at 2% annual, for $6,800 and BODEN 2013 at 2% for $1,000 million (this latter issue is intended for provinces that have issued up to $300 million) and the repayment of BODEN through "drip-feed" is eliminated.

15 Keep in mind the reference to a "marginal" multiplier of the monetary base: we refer to how much of the base flow that banks would receive would expand as secondary money.

14 Monthly Monetary Report —April 2003

Foreign Exchange Market and International Reserves of the BCRA
During April, the peso showed strong appreciation against the dollar: the local currency closed the month 4.7% above the exchange rate recorded at the end of March. So far this year, the peso is positioned almost 19% above its value against the dollar. The sustained trade surplus and public confidence in the local currency are factors underlying the evolution of the currency (in a context in which it also influences that external payments are relatively reduced). Additionally, the increase in interest rates in pesos observed since the second half of March would have encouraged capital inflows.

Although the measures applied by the Central Bank between December and March, aimed at normalizing the functioning of the foreign exchange market, have increased the demand for foreign currency, the greater supply has exceeded that effect. During April no new measures were taken; nevertheless, the estimated effect on demand of the previously taken measures amounted to approximately US$400 million during April (a magnitude 25% lower than the estimated effect in March). In this way, it is estimated that, so far this year, the measures applied implied an increase in the demand for foreign currency of around US$1,500 million16.

The excess supply of dollars would have impacted the price of the currency even more, but during the second half of April the purchases by intervention of the BCRA increased. Therefore, not all the adjustment between supply and demand took place by price (fall in the dollar exchange rate), but also by quantity (increase in Central Bank reserves, increase in the monetary base). In this way, volatility was more pronounced in the first part of the month, and tended to decline in the second, as observed in graph 15.

For the reasons mentioned in the previous paragraph, the Central Bank's international reserves increased during April, and they did so at a magnitude that doubles that observed in the previous month (US$455 million, an increase of 4%), reaching US$10,971 million at the end of the month. Almost 80% of that increase is explained by these operations with the private sector. The remainder corresponded to fund inflows from international organizations for the public sector.

The peso also appreciated against the euro, but to a lesser extent than against the dollar: the local currency was quoted against the euro at the end of April 2% above its close the previous month. This had to do with the euro itself appreciating against the North American currency. At the close of April, the euro reached its highest level against the dollar since February 1999 (one month after its creation), at 1.1184 dollars per unit. Several factors would be behind the current strength of the European currency; among them stand out: a) a "hard" monetary policy on the part of European authorities, who have kept interest rates unchanged even in a scenario where risks to prices appear downward (with such behavior of rates increasing the yield differential of European assets vis-à-vis North American ones); b) uncertainty about the economic performance of the USA: the US fiscal and trade deficits show an increasing trend and pressure toward dollar depreciation, implying a greater burden of future payments from the USA to the outside in a context of economic activity in which no signs of recovery are evident. In the short term, such appreciation is expected to continue, although in the medium term the productivity differential would act in favor of the US currency.

16 Paradoxically, it cannot be ruled out that in the very short term the normalization of the foreign exchange market may imply greater capital inflows, since it would improve investors' perception about lower "exit barriers" from the local market; this would lead to a bearish bias for the dollar.

15 Monthly Monetary Report—April 2003

Graph 14 Exchange rate peso/dollar and its annual volatility
Pesos/Dollar (10-day sample) Volatility
 3.7 40%

 35%

 30%
 3.3 25%

 20%

 2.9 15%

 10%

 5%

 2.5 0%

 Reference Exchange Rate Annual Historical Volatility

 With respect to the Brazilian currency, the peso depreciated 6.8%. The current Brazilian administration consolidates a "pro-market" approach to economic policy, which has a favorable impact on the real exchange rate and other financial indicators in that country. In particular, the market values the central role that the economic team has given to fiscal solvency and the need to honor the external commitments assumed by the government. Thus, at the end of April Brazil returned to the international capital market after one year, issuing a four-year bond for US$1,000 million.

 LEBAC: longer term and lower average cost

 During the month of April, 18-month term peso letters (LEBAC) began to be issued in the primary market, which received good reception in the market. Approximately 80% of the total of letter purchase offers were concentrated in terms longer than nine months. Consequently, the placements made during this month made it possible to increase the average term of the LEBAC stock in circulation in pesos by 19 days, which ended the month with an average life of 157 days (in graph 16 the greater participation of LEBAC with longer maturity on the total offered can be seen). This was possible even while reducing the average nominal cost by 2 percentage points, to 29% (see graph 16). At the end of April the total amount of LEBAC in circulation in pesos was VN $4,761 million and that of those denominated in dollars amounted to VN US$159 million.

 Graph 15

 Participation in total offered in LEBAC auctions in pesos Cutting rates of LEBAC in pesos
 T.N.A.
90% 78% 60%
80%
70% 62% 50%

60% 40%
50% 42% 43%
40% 32% 33% 28%29% 30%
30% 25%
20% 14% 20%
 6% 8%
10% 10%
 0% 3-Dec-02 23-Dec-02 12-Jan-03 1-Feb-03 21-Feb-03 13-Mar-03 2-Apr-03 22-Apr-03
 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03
 1m+2m+3m 4m + 5m + 6m 9m + 12m + 18m 6 months 12 months 18 months

 The AFJPs continued to participate in an increasing manner in the auctions, increasing both their portfolio stock and their participation within the holdings of legal entities (see graph 17).

 16 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Indeed, as of April 30, the AFJPs held 69% of the total LEBAC denominated in pesos under the holding of legal entities and 19% of the total stock in circulation.

 Graph 16 Holdings of LEBAC in pesos by legal entities
 Millions of $ includes LEBAC adjustable by CER

 1400

 1200 421

 1000

 800 764 830 720 676 620 542

 600 540

 400 454
 507 520 461 453
 200 257 306

 0 42 68 77 44 45 67 191 337 433 441 477 574 690 746 925

 AFJP Rest of legal entities

 The offer of LEBAC with longer term had a positive impact on the incipient secondary market17, which reached during the month of April the maximum amount traded ($357 million) during the last nine months (as can be seen in graph 18). This volume was only surpassed by the trading observed in July of last year, in a scenario of exchange rate with strong volatility and rates paid in the primary market at levels that constitute the maximums since the emergence of these letters. Unlike what was recorded in the last month of April, a good part of the transactions in the secondary market during July 2002 corresponded to LEBAC in dollars. The activity of the secondary market during April may also have been stimulated by the fall registered in the rates paid by fixed-term deposits of more than one million pesos, taking into account that the BADLAR interest rate for all reporting banks fell at the end of April by 4 percentage points compared to that operated one month before.

 Graph 17 Total amount traded per month
 Includes trading of LEBAC in pesos, dollars and adjustable by CER

 450 Millions of pesos 412

 400 357

 350 305

 300
 236
 250
200
 150 116 105 112 97 121
 100 69
 46 29
 50 7

 0
 Apr-02 May- Jun-02 Jul-02 Aug-Sep-02 Oct-Nov-Dec-02 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-Apr-03
 02 02 02 02 03

 Considering as a sample the day of the month with the highest liquidity in the secondary market (April 25), it is observed that the prices traded are equivalent to yields aligned with the results of the auctions, which would indicate that the cut-off rates would be adequately reflecting the prices demanded by the market to undertake this type of investments.

17 The aforementioned secondary market operations consist of transactions carried out in the Electronic Open Market.

 17 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Chart 18
 Yield curve in the secondary market
 TNA April 25

 25%

 20%

 15%

 10% Secondary market

 Primary market (auction April 24)
 5% Logarithmic (Secondary market)

 0%
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
 Time to maturity (days)

 On the other hand, and also taking April 25 as a sample, it is found that the yield of investment in LEBAC is higher than what could be obtained from a placement in the future dollar market (considering operations in ROFEX), exceeding it by approximately 5 percentage points for most maturities. This could result in greater attraction of funds toward the LEBAC market, which would improve its liquidity.

Chart 19 Secondary market of LEBAC and future dollar
 TEA April 25
 25%

 20%

 15%

 10% Secondary market
 Future dollar ROFEX
 5% Logarithmic (Secondary market)
 Logarithmic (Future dollar ROFEX)

 0%

 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
 Time to maturity (days)

Stock market: between elections and corporate debt restructuring

 During the month of April the local stock exchange market (measured through the MERVAL index) showed a positive return of 12.3% if measured in pesos, while in dollars the increase was 17.5%, given the progressive appreciation of the domestic currency.

 18 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Table 4
 Variations in stock market indices
 In local currency In dollars
 April Accumulated Accumulated
 year 2003 April year 2003
 MERVAL 12.3% 7.9% 17.5% 30.0%
 NIKKEI 225 -1.8% 0.3% -2.4% -28.3%
 NASDAQ 9.6% 10.2% 9.6% 10.2%
 S&P 500 2.8% 4.7% 2.8% 4.7%
 FTSE 100 8.7% -6.8% 9.7% -9.9%
 DOW JONES 6.1% 1.7% 6.1% 1.7%
 BOVESPA 11.4% -0.6% 28.3% 35.5%

 This evolution was mainly linked to the events of the electoral period, the index having reached a maximum level of 670 on April 23, the date on which surveys were released that projected a runoff between the candidates with the best reception in the domestic capital market. This was reflected in the significant increase in volatility, which taking a sample of 20 trading sessions was placed at 46.92% annually at the end of the month, when at the end of March it was 21.92% (see chart 21). Likewise, the average daily volume traded in this market increased appreciably (48%) compared to the March average, reaching $55 million.

Chart 20
 Domestic stock market

 MERVAL -MERVAL index in local currency- Volatility
 700 120%

 600 100%

 80%
 500
 60%

 400
 40%

 300 20%

 200 0%

 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03
 MERVAL Historical volatility (sample of 20 trading sessions)
The company with the best performance in the period was Telecom (46%), which opened on April 16 a cash repurchase offer for part of its debt stock that has been in default since last year. The company announced that for this purpose it would be willing to use US$ 260 million, while its Telecom Personal unit would use US$ 45 million to purchase approximately 20% of its debt at a price between 43.5 and 50% of its nominal value. While this offer concludes on May 16, the remainder of its debt will be partially restructured through the issuance of three new fixed-income instruments with maturities between 2004 and 2015 and through cancellation with company shares. On the other hand, it is worth noting that the two companies that followed in performance were Acindar (41%) and Transportadora Gas del Sur (36%), which are in the process of negotiating to restructure their debts.

19 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

Chart 21 Companies with largest increases in April

3.5 quotations in pesos 2.5

3.0 2.0

2.5 1.5

2.0 1.0

1.5 0.5

02-Jan 17-Jan 01-Feb 16-Feb 03-Mar 18-Mar 02-Apr 17-Apr

Telecom Acindar (2nd axis) Transportadora Gas del Sur (2nd axis)

Public Securities: appreciation continues

Transactions of National Government bonds were also favored by events linked to the presidential elections. Both bonds issued in exchange for deposits from the financial system (BODEN) as well as international bonds had significant appreciations. Regarding international bonds with a market, the quotation of the global bond maturing in 2008 increased 22%, while the price of the FRB on April 30 was 24% higher than that recorded at the end of March. As these are bonds in default, it is understood that this behavior was related to the possibility of an imminent restructuring of public debt under conditions less adverse than those previously foreseen.

Chart 22
USD Quotation of public securities in default
33

31

29

27

25

23

21

19

17

15
30-Sep-02 30-Oct-02 30-Nov-02 30-Dec-02 30-Jan-03 28-Feb-03 30-Mar-03 30-Apr-03

FRB GLOBAL 08 GLOBAL 17

In turn, investments in BODEN generally had a positive result during April, with the quotation of BODEN USD 12 being the most favored, with an increase of 22%. The bond in dollars maturing in 2005 appreciated by only 1%, while BODEN $ 07 did so by 7%. It should be clarified that the evolution of BODEN USD 2005 in the market had already recorded an important positive impact during the preceding months due to the proximity of its first capital payment (33% of nominal value), maturing on May 3, insofar as it was expected that the same would be honored. Finally, it should be clarified that as of this month BODEN in pesos began to be delivered with

20 Monthly Monetary Report — April 2003

maturity in 2008 to retirees and public employees who had suffered a 13% reduction in their income. This security was scarcely traded and had a decline of 2% until April 30.

21
