1. Synthesis

1. Synthesis 1
2. Monetary Program 3
3. IMF Monetary Goals 4
4. Interest Rates 4

• In November, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased on average 2% ($913 million) and 36% in year-on-year terms, slightly exceeding the upper limit agreed upon in the monetary program for the end of November. However, its balance is well below the level foreseen for December, a month characterized by strong positive seasonality in money demand.
4.1. LEBAC 4 • Maintaining the upward trend that they have been registering since mid-year, total
 4.2. Interbank Market 5 deposits in pesos grew 2.5% in November and 19.3% compared to the same month of the
 previous year. So far this year, these deposits have accumulated an increase of 18.6%, which measured
 4.3. Passive Interest Rates 6 in real terms was 14.6%. Meanwhile, total deposits in dollars registered in
 4.4. Active Interest Rates 7 November an increase close to 4%, having doubled the existing stock at the beginning of the
 year.
5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity 8
 5.1. Means of Payment 8 • The monthly average of total means of payment in pesos (M2 total) during
 5.2. Quasi-Currency Redemption 8 November grew around $2,200 million (4%) in nominal terms. For its part,
 the means of payment in pesos of the private sector (M2 private) increased approximately
 5.3. Fixed-Term Deposits 9 $1,000 million (2%), a variation attributable almost entirely to the growth of sight
 5.4. Deposits in Dollars 10 deposits of the private sector. In seasonally adjusted terms, the variation of M2 private had
 the same magnitude in percentage terms, because the negative seasonality of November
 5.5. Banking Liquidity 11 is similar to that of the previous month.
6. Loans 12 • Interest rates continued reflecting the ample liquidity situation that financial
7. Financial Assets Markets 13 institutions maintain. With respect to LEBACs, those of longer duration continued
 7.1. Exchange Market 13 with their downward trajectory both in the primary and secondary markets, while
 those with shorter terms remained at levels similar to those registered in October, which
 7.2. Capital Markets 14 translated into a new flattening of the yield curve. On the other hand,
 7.2.1. Shares 14 while the interest rates of the interbank market remained stable at levels
 7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 15 similar to those of October, passive and active interest rates continued their decline throughout
 November. In the segment of fixed-term deposits of 30 to 59 days, the rate went from 4.6% at
 7.2.3. Corporate Bonds 15 the end of October to 4.3% at the end of November. For its part, fixed-term deposits of more than 60
 8. Regulatory Changes 16 days registered a rate of 5.4% in November, 0.7 percentage points lower than that of October. With respect
 to active rates, the interest rate of personal loans was the one that showed
 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators 18 the greatest decline, decreasing by 3.0 percentage points.
 • In November, a new reduction of reserve requirements on the requirement of sight
 deposits from 23% to 20% was ordered, to be effective as of the last month of the year. It should be noted that said
 measure would imply an increase in the lending capacity of banks by
 approximately $1,000 million as of December.
 • Fixed-term placements in pesos of the private sector showed a reduction of
 around $290 million (1%) on average in November. For this month the BCRA
 established the extension of the minimum collection term, which resulted in an increase in average collection term from 39 days in October to 41 days in November. It is estimated that
 around 70% of fixed terms originally agreed until 29 days were transferred to the
 30 to 59 day segment.
 • Loans to the private sector in pesos did not vary on average compared to the
 previous month. However, if the figures are compared between end of month, there was an increase of
 around $140 million, which amounts to approximately $250 million when excluding the
 variations in mortgage and chattel loans. In the month under analysis, the more
 dynamic credits were personal loans, which registered an increase of $120 million on
 average compared to October. Advances and documents also increased, while
 mortgage and chattel lines continued to decrease.
• In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated nominally with respect to the three currencies of its main trading partners, the euro, the US dollar and the Brazilian real. With minimal inflation differentials, this implied that the peso depreciated in real terms by 4% in the month, which means that so far this year the peso has accumulated a competitiveness gain of around 5%.
# Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

**Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Program**

*billions of pesos – Broad Monetary Base*

During the month of November, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased on average by $913 million (2%). This expansion can be broken down into an increase in monetary circulation of $538 million, a decrease in the balance of quasi-money of $856 million, and an increase in current accounts in pesos of financial entities at the BCRA of $1,230 million. In seasonally adjusted terms, the BMA fell slightly (1%).

As of the end of November, the BMA exceeded the upper band provided for in the Monetary Program for the current year, which was revised in June. However, this behavior is explained by the methodology of measuring the band and the seasonality of money demand. Given that the target is measured as a stock at the end of each month and December has high seasonality in relation to November, the evolution of the base in the last few days only reflects this change in short-term trend. As we mentioned in the previous Monthly Monetary Report, only as of October did the BMA begin to approach the upper limit established for this variable. This behavior is in accordance with the sustained growth of economic activity throughout the year and with the downward trajectory of the inflation rate. As can be observed in Graph 2.2, the year-on-year inflation rate as of November is 3.6%; with which, it is estimated that the annual price variation will be below the band established in the Monetary Program (5-15%).

**Graph 2.2**

*Annual Inflation – percentage*

The BCRA continued with the policy of meeting the demand for liquidity through the external sector. In that sense, the only factor with an expansive effect on the BMA was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector, which on average totaled $1,718 million. Among the factors that implied a contraction of the BMA, the one with the greatest significance was the placement of LEBAC, through which $512 million were absorbed, an amount 12% higher than that corresponding to October and 39% greater than the monthly average absorbed during the year. It is important to mention that the increase in the balance of these

**Table 2.1**

*Monthly Flows, in millions of pesos – November 2003 | Average | End of Period*

Broad Monetary Base | 913 | 746
Quasi-money | -856 | -465
Monetary Base | 1,769 | 1,211
Monetary Circulation | 538 | 1,009
In the hands of the Public | 481 | 876
In Financial Entities | 58 | 133
Current Account at the BCRA | 1,230 | 202
Variation Factors of the Broad Monetary Base
Financial Sector -98 -109 instruments took place in a context of excess demand, which
Public Sector -140 -173 allowed especially reducing interest rates paid for
Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits 1.294 0 longer terms (see Section 4.1).
Use of the National Government Account 61 -71
External Credit -1.495 -102
Private External Sector 1.718 1.467
BCRA Securities -512 -354 Regarding public sector operations,
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-currencies -56 -38 during November, they led to a monetary contraction of $140
Others -1 -48 million. This result was the product of the absorption of funds to
meet payments to international organizations and to increase the balance
of their account at the BCRA. For its part, BCRA operations
Graph 2.3 with the financial sector implied a monetary contraction of
$98 million, which are attributable to the collection of interest and
Monetary Base and Explanation Factors redemption amortizations. Finally, the redemption of
millions of $ November 2003 quasi-currencies originated a slight absorption of $56 million, due to
2.000 the fact that, as will be detailed in Section 5, during November
1.500 the redemption of provincial bonds took place at prices below par.

1.000

500

0

-500

-1.000

2 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

3. IMF Monetary Targets

The measurement of monetary targets agreed with the International
Table 3.1 Monetary Fund (IMF) for the month of October concluded on the 17th
In millions On average of November¹, showing over-compliance for all monitored
Monetary targets: October 2003* Currency As of 17-Nov Target Deviation* variables. As can be observed in table 3.1, Net Domestic Assets

Net Domestic Assets Pesos 56.175 59.147 -2.972 (AIN) were located $2.972 million below the upper limit set
Net International Reserves Dollars -4.151 -5.118 967
Broad Monetary Base (indicative) Pesos 44.137 44.305 -168 while Net International Reserves (RIN) were at that date US$967
*Measurement between October 17 and November 17 million above the lower limit foreseen². For its part, the indicative
** Deviation: In AIN and Monetary Base the negative sign (-) indicates over-compliance. BMA target was also satisfactorily met, the average having been
In RIN the positive sign (+) indicates over-compliance. located at $44.137 million against the upper limit set of
$44.305 million.

Table 3.2
The next targets were established for December 31st. The upper
limit of BMA was set at $47.770 million; while, taking into account
Monetary targets: December 2003* In millions On average the payments to IDB and IBRD accumulated as of September 1st,
Currency As of 16-Dec Target Deviation** the originally agreed targets for AIN and RIN are currently found
Net Domestic Assets Pesos 56.964 63.246 -6.282 at the levels shown in Table 3.2.
Net International Reserves Dollars -3.782 -5.336 1.554
Broad Monetary Base (indicative) Pesos 45.996 47.770 -1.774
*Measurement between December 16 and January 15. Considering the values observed to date, all variables
** Deviation: In AIN and Monetary Base the negative sign (-) indicates over-compliance. are at levels that allow foreseeing that the targets will be
In RIN the positive sign (+) indicates over-compliance. met comfortably.

4. Interest Rates
Interest rates again reflected in November the comfortable liquidity situation maintained by financial entities, as well as low inflation expectations. In the LEBAC market in pesos, both in the primary and secondary markets, continued declines in interest rates were evident, especially in longer terms. This declining trend was also observed in passive interest rates and active interest rates, while interbank market interest rates remained stable.

**Chart 4.1.1 4.1. LEBAC**

**LEBAC cut rates in pesos**
**percentage (TNA)**

During the month of November, a flattening continued to be evident in the yield curve of LEBAC in pesos. As can be observed in Chart 4.1.1, interest rates offered by LEBAC of longer duration decreased again in greater proportion, which implies in part a reduction in inflation expected in the medium term. For the terms of 12 and 18 months, interest rates decreased in November by 1 pp. and 0.7 pp. respectively. On the other hand, for shorter terms, returns remained at the levels recorded in the previous month. Likewise, it can be seen in Chart 4.1.2 that there is convergence between the returns of the primary and secondary markets for these instruments. There are graphed the rates resulting from LEBAC auctions in pesos of 12 months duration, together with the implicit interest rate in the negotiations of the most liquid species of similar residual term. It is verified that from September, when the volume of transactions in the secondary LEBAC market began to acquire greater importance, interest rates aligned in a significant way, which reflects the market's validation regarding the interest rates agreed in the primary market.

**Chart 4.1.2**
**Convergence of LEBAC Returns**
**percentage (TNA) In pesos, 12 months**

As of November 28, the average life of the LEBAC portfolio in circulation in pesos was located at 251 days, a level similar to that in effect at the end of October. At the same date, the total stock in circulation of LEBAC in pesos was VN $9,614 million, VN $466 million higher than that recorded a month earlier. 75% of this increase corresponds to CER-adjustable instruments, whose stock reached VN $1,556 million at the end of the month. For its part, LEBAC issued in dollars reached VN US$ 86 million.

Regarding the amount traded in the secondary LEBAC market, a significant increase was observed again according to available information on transactions completed in the MAE. In this sense, the average daily volume for November reached $151 million, a level equivalent to 130% of the amount traded the previous month. As can be seen in Chart 4.1.3, from September the pace of growth of these negotiations accelerated, which coincides with the increase in unmet demand in the primary market. As noted in previous monthly monetary reports, in this period the distribution by instrument of LEBAC demand in the auctions showed that

**Chart 4.1.3**

**Amount traded in the secondary LEBAC market**
**Thousands of millions / Millions of $**

¹ It is recalled that the targets are calculated as the average of 21 business days, 10 days before and after the last business day of the month under target.
² The AIN target sets a ceiling for its growth while the RIN target sets a floor.

³ Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003
0.0 0 the preference for instruments of longer duration intensified, which
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03had as a counterpart the fact that practically the totality of
 Up to 6 months Between 6 and 12 months
 More than 12 months Daily average (2nd axis) operations in the secondary market was directed
 towards LEBAC with residual term exceeding 12 months.

 4.2. Interbank Market

 The interest rates in the call market did not register
 Chart 4.2.1 variations with respect to the previous month, standing at 1.6% the
 monthly average of the same. It should be noted that, as observed
Monthly Amount Interbank Market in chart 4.2.1, 80% of the operations carried out during
 Operated Accumulated Operations in pesos up to 15 days
6,000 November were located in the interest rate interval below the

5,000 average. Volatility, measured through the coefficient of variation,
 remained relatively stable, moving from 0.54 in October to 0.57
4,000 in November. In the same chart, the amounts negotiated three

3,000 and six months earlier are outlined. It is verified that the distribution
 by interest rate interval of the operations agreed in August was similar
2,000 to those negotiated in November, given that in both months the average
 rate was located at similar levels. By contrast, in May the distribution
1,000 was significantly different. In that sense, six months ago 91% of

 0 operations up to 15 days in the interbank market were carried out at
 < 1% 1% - 1.5% 1.5% - 2% 2% - 2.5% 2.5% - 3% > 3% interest rates greater than 3%.
 Interest rate interval
 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03

 Regarding the average of the daily amounts operated, a slight
 decrease is observed in relation to October ($13 million),
 reaching in November $165 million. If the average monetary effect
 of daily operations is considered taking into account their days of

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

 impact³, a decrease of 12% was observed in the month under analysis.

 Chart 4.2.2

 Around half of the entities in the system participate in this
 Interbank Market market, of which approximately one third intervenes as both
 November 2003 lenders and borrowers of funds throughout the month.
 Lenders Borrowers Daily TNA

On the side of lenders, an important diversification is observed,
20% 1.9%
 with branches of foreign banks and non-banking entities being the
7% main participants (together they account for 62% of funds lent).
1.5% 22%
 31% 1% In contrast, fund-receiving entities are more concentrated, with
 1.5% branches of foreign banks being those with the highest relative
31%
 70% participation (70%). This group includes the main wholesale banks,
1.6%
 13% whose participation in this market is traditionally high. (See Chart
 5% 1.4%
 Public Private National 4.2.2). In general, receivers are entities that prefer to maintain
 Foreign Bank Branches Non-Banking Entities themselves without excess liquidity and adjust their cash position
 Majority Foreign Capital by obtaining funding at low cost through this market.

 4.3. Passive Interest Rates

 Chart 4.3.1

 The excess of liquid funds by financial entities was reflected
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos again in the interest rates of fixed-term deposits in pesos,

Percentage Monthly average weighted by amount operated which continued showing a downward trend. Although most of the
30 decline in these rates occurred between March and July of this year,

25 in recent months negative variations continued to be recorded, although

20 at a much slower pace. As observed in Chart 4.3.1, the interest

15 rates that decreased the most in November were those corresponding
 to deposits of more than 90 days, which showed a decrease of 0.7
10 pp., standing at 5.5%. For their part, interest rates for deposits

5 between 30 and 59 days and between 60 and 89 days

0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Novreduced 0.3 pp., reaching levels of 4.1% and 4.7%

30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days respectively.

Graph 4.3.2 When analyzing the different brackets by type of depositor, it
is observed that although the downward trend in interest rates prevails,
Yield Curves for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos these present different levels. In all brackets, natural persons
By type of depositor resulted in the beneficiaries of the highest rates.

percentage OCTOBER NOVEMBER
8 In the case of deposits between 30 and 59 days, which represented

7 86% of the amount operated in November, interest rates were
from 2.9% for financial service providers to 4.8%
6
for natural persons. While in the segment of deposits
5
with terms between 60 and 89 days, the dispersion between interest rates
4 according to type of depositor was smaller, ranging from

3 3.7% to 5.4%. Finally, in the bracket of deposits over 90 days,

2 which constitutes the lowest volume operated (6% of total
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 daystraded), interest rates varied from 4.9% (legal entities)

Natural Persons Financial Services Legal Entities to 6.1% (natural persons). In this segment, it is worth noting the
important reduction verified in interest rates for financial service providers that reached almost 2 pp., going
from 7.1% in October to 5.1% in November. Until last month, these
companies were the beneficiaries of the highest interest rates in
this term bracket.

3 That is, considering the average of daily operations taking into account their term and bringing them all to a single day of duration.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

In light of the foregoing and observing Graph 4.3.2, it
can be concluded that during November a flattening
of the yield curves of fixed-term deposits occurred for all types
of depositors, registering in all cases interest rate levels lower than those of the previous month.

4.4. Active Interest Rates

Graph 4.4.1

Active Rates In November, active interest rates validated the

percentage Monthly weighted average by amount downward trend that has been characterizing them for several
70 months. Interest rates on overdrafts and personal loans,
as well as those on documents are the ones that registered

60 the largest cumulative decline since the beginning of the year, while

50 interest rates on mortgage and chattel loans
verified milder declines.

40

30 In the case of overdrafts, the interest rate showed a decline
of 1 pp., positioning itself around 29%. Since the beginning of the year,

20 the interest rate for this type of loans accumulates a decline of
10 24 pp. As mentioned in previous monthly monetary reports,

0 there is significant segmentation in this market. 71% of the amounts
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 operated in November corresponded to large companies, whose rate
Overdrafts in Current Acct. Documents Mortgage was at 17%, a level similar to that of the previous month. Natural persons,
Chattel Credit Cards for their part, operated 24% of the total, with a rate close to 60%, somewhat higher than that registered in October. While SMEs, having
represented 5% of the market, operated at a rate of 53%⁴. Finally, the rate negotiated
by financial service providers (AFJP, FCI, etc.), whose participation in the market is almost nil, remained around 41%, as in October.

The other line of loans whose interest rate showed an
important decline since the beginning of the year is that of personal loans. The
interest rate went from 57% in January to 40% in November, month in which it registered a decline of 3 pp.
The documents also registered a significant
reduction in the interest rate since January, accumulating a decrease of
11.5pp. However, in recent months the interest rate for this
type of loan remained relatively stable, having
registered a small decrease in November of 0.5pp., placing it at
13.5%.

On the other hand, the interest rate for pawn loans
has been registering an oscillating trajectory with a downward trend. Although
last month said rate had increased slightly, in
November it fell again 1.3pp., placing it at the level of
September of 17%. It should be noted that the volume traded in this
market is very small, so the interest rate observed is
influenced by private entities, whose participation is not
constant.

4 On occasions loans to SMEs are structured as loans to their
holders, for which the distinction between advances to individuals
and SMEs is not very clear.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

Finally, the interest rate for mortgage loans,
a segment in which very few operations were registered, showed
a decrease of 4pp., placing it at 12.4%. So far this year, this
rate has accumulated a reduction of 9.4 pp.

5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity

5.1. Means of Payment

Graph 5.1.1 The monthly average of total means of payment in pesos,

M2 private and total (M2 total) during November grew by around $2,200
percentage Real monthly averages, seasonally adjusted thousands of millions of $
8 65 million (4%) in nominal terms. For its part, the means of

6 60 payment in pesos of the private sector (M2 private) increased

55 approximately $1,000 million (2%). This variation corresponds

4 50 practically in its entirety to the increase in demand deposits

45 of the private sector, given that broad currency did not show changes
2
40 significant with respect to the monthly average of October. On the other

0 35 hand, if the aggregate is considered in real terms
seasonally adjusted, it can be observed that the monthly increase was

-2 30 of similar magnitude, given the almost null inflation in the period, and
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03taking into account that the seasonality of November is similar to that

Percentage Var. M2 private Percentage Var. M2 total of the previous month (see Graph 5.1.1).
M2 private (2nd axis) M2 total (2nd axis)

It should be noted that the variation on average of deposits Table 5.1.1
demand deposits of the private sector mentioned above is strongly

Average nominal flows, in millions of pesos. NOVEMBER 2003 Monthly Year-over-year influenced by the increase that took place in the last days of

Total Deposits in Pesos 2,029 13,694 the month of October. However, if the variation of the balance
recorded on the last day of November is considered with respect to the end of

Private Deposits 866 5,851 October, the increase in this type of deposits also showed a
Current Account 871 3,399 positive value, although of lesser magnitude (approximately $550 million).
Savings Account 501 3,776 Around 70% of this increase
Fixed Term -287 15,167 corresponded to the increase in placements in current account in
Other Deposits 170 1,238 pesos.
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) -21 -2,041

CEDRO including CER -367 -15,689 For its part, currency in the hands of the public increased in
Public Sector Deposits 1,062 7,620 seasonally adjusted terms approximately 2%, given the
Total Deposits in Dollars 65 966 negative seasonality that November presents. As we had

Note: Provisional figures, subject to revision. anticipated in the previous Monthly Monetary Report, its evolution
is this time less influenced by the redemption of quasi-monies. This,
taking into account that a greater proportion of its remaining balance
is in the hands of companies, which is why it is expected that the
counterpart of its redemption would be the increase in demand
deposits.

5.2. Redemption of Quasi-Monies
Within the framework of the Monetary Unification Program during the month of November, VN $471 million were redeemed, which implied an issuance of $433 million. Of the total redeemed, 38% corresponded to PATACONES (VN $179 million), 27% to

7 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

CECACOR (VN $126 million), 26% to LECOP (VN $120 million) and the remainder to QUEBRACHOS (VN $46 million). Since the beginning of the Program, 85% of the quasicurrencies in circulation adhering to it have already been redeemed.

Graph 5.2.1 In the month under analysis, the redemption rate decreased considerably. This was due mainly to the completion of the first phase of LECOP redemption, which comprised approximately VN $2,800 million and the delay in the beginning of the second phase of the redemption of said quasicurrencies. The first phase comprised issuances made by the Nation on its own account, while the second phase corresponds to issuances by the Nation on behalf and order of the provinces. To consummate the redemption of this latter phase it is necessary that the provinces entrust the Nation with the remaining quasicurrencies, within the regulatory framework to be established by the Ministry of Economy. It is to be expected that said process will occur soon, giving rise to the redemption of the LECOP that still remain in circulation.

In turn, the redemption rate of PATACONES also decreased. Although at the end of November approximately VN $630 million still remained to be redeemed, it is assumed that the total will be redeemed without difficulties during the last month of the year, the deadline for said process.

On the other hand, during November the redemptions of QUEBRACHOS and CECACOR were completed. In the case of the former, only VN $0.9 million remained unredeemed, which will be exchanged for registered securities without payment power to be issued by the province of Chaco. In the case of CECACOR, approximately VN $0.9 million also remained unredeemed, representing less than 0.5% of the total adhering to the program. These bonds will also be exchanged for registered securities that will be issued by the province of Corrientes.

Finally, outside the Monetary Unification Program, the province of Mendoza continued in November with the redemption of PETROM with its own resources. Meanwhile, the government of the province of La Rioja signed an agreement with the Nation, which was later ratified by the provincial legislature, by means of which the Nation undertook to transfer to it the funds stipulated in the Ordered Financing Program, approved at the beginning of the year, so that the province would use them exclusively for the redemption of quasicurrencies. It should be noted that of the authorized issuance of series A and B bonds, informally called "Evita" bonds, the province issued less than 70% (VN $35 million). Currently there are approximately VN $25 million in circulation, of which 60% is held by the private sector. Although these bonds expire on December 31, the provincial government has not yet made explicit how the redemption of the same will be implemented.

5.3. Time Deposits

Fixed-term placements in pesos by the private sector registered in November a reduction of approximately $290 million on average. When considering the total of time deposits,

8 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

including CEDRO adjusted by CER, the decrease is around $660 million.

Graph 5.3.1 In Graph 5.3.1, the evolution of fixed-term deposits of the private sector in the second part of the year is observed by amount bracket. As mentioned in the previous monthly monetary reports, between July and September, the placements of
23.5 10.0 less than 1 million pesos decreased abruptly

 23.0 9.5 influenced by the maturities of fixed-term deposits arranged

 22.5 9.0 within the framework of the lifting of financial restrictions. After

 22.0 8.5 its behavior stabilized in October, this type of

 21.5 8.0 deposits fell again in November. It is to be expected that in

 21.0 7.5 December, these placements continue to decrease due to

 20.5 7.0 seasonal reasons related to greater demand for liquidity

 Less than 1 millionMore than 1 million (2nd axis)Monthly Average by the public. For its part, deposits greater than 1 million
 pesos maintain an upward trend since June.

 A fact that characterized the behavior of
 fixed-term deposits in the month under analysis was the entry into force of
 Communication A 4032, through which the BCRA increased from
 7 to 30 days the minimum term for collection of fixed-term deposits, which
 Graph 5.3.2 notably influenced the composition of the stock of fixed-term deposits of the private sector. Of the total private placements
 in thousands Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos
 in millions of $ up to 29 days that existed at the end of October (approximately $
 31.0 3.5 2,600 million), around 70% transferred to fixed-term deposits

 30.5 3.0 between 30 and 59 days during November; while the rest of the

 30.0 2.5 increase verified in this segment of deposits corresponded to the

 29.5 2.0 entry of new funds. This resulted in the increase in the average

 29.0 1.5 collection term from 39 to 41 days, which reached a new

 28.5 1.0 maximum since the end of 2001 (see Graph 5.3.2).

 28.0 0.5

 27.5 - If the volume traded is analyzed with respect to the different

 30-Sep 8-Oct 16-Oct 24-Oct 1-Nov 9-Nov 17-Nov 25-Nov types of depositors, excluding from the analysis operations of

 more than 30 days up to 29 days (2nd axis) less than 30 days for October, it is observed that the providers of
 financial services (AFJP, FCI, etc.) were those that most
 decreased their participation, registering a decline close to 25%.
 This decline is consistent with the evolution of the net equity of
 money market FCI, which did not vary in November in relation to
 October, breaking the upward trend it had been showing
 since mid-year.

 5.4. Deposits in Dollars
 Graph 5.4.1

in millions Deposits in Dollars in millions Continuing with the upward trend evidenced since
 of US$ Monthly Average Variation of US$ the beginning of 2003, deposits in dollars increased
140 2,000 again during the month of November. In this regard, the increase
120 1,800 totaled US$68 million this month, basically explained by the
100 1,600
 1,400 increase in fixed-term deposits and savings accounts (US$40 and
80 US$22 million respectively). In this way, the stock of
60 1,200
40 1,000 dollar deposits amounts on November 30 to
 800 approximately US$1,750 million (see Graph 5.4.1).
20 600
 0 It should be noted that as of this month the impossibility of
 400 constituting deposits at a term of less than 30 days came into force. In
-20 200
-40 0 the dollar segment these placements totaled around
 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 US$80 million which would have been renewed this month at a term of
 Current Account Savings Account Fixed-Term Other Total Stock (2nd axis) between 30 and 59 days.

 9 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

 In Graph 5.4.2 it can be observed that the market of
 Graph 5.4.2 dollar deposits evidenced in November a lower

 Fixed-Term Deposits in US$ participation of individuals and placements of up to

 millions of US$ Monthly Volume Traded Type of Depositor Term Amount Stratum US$100,000 (which essentially characterized until October
 450 the operations of fixed-term deposits of up to 29 days) while an
400 increase in the participation of legal entities was
 350
300 operations of more than one million dollars. Specifically, natural persons participated in 45% of forward operations
 250 (66% in October) while legal entities did so in 51%
 200 (29% in October). Regarding amount brackets, operations of up to
 150 US$100,000 constituted 44% (62% in October) of the total amount
 100 operated while an increase was recorded in the segment of operations
 50 of more than one million that represented 40% of the total operated
 0 (16% in October). Likewise, the increase evidenced in operations
 Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov agreed in the 30 to 60-day bracket resulted in almost 90% of the
 total operations this month being agreed in said bracket (76% in
 Public Sector more than 60 up to 100,000 October) which generated an increase in the average term of deposit
 Natural Persons 30 to 60 more than 100,000 collection that went from 35 to 41 days.
 Legal Entities up to 30

 Chart 5.5.1 5.5. Bank Liquidity

percentage Liquidity Ratio*
 - as percentage of deposits - In line with what occurred in previous months, bank liquidity
29 remained at considerably high levels also during the month of
 28.1 November. In this regard, as indicated by the liquidity ratio, entities
28 maintained in cash and in their current accounts at the BCRA
 27.2 approximately 28% of total deposits existing in the system (see
27 Chart 5.5.1). Specifically, total bank reserves increased on average
 25.6 approximately $1,500 million by virtue of the increase of $1,300
26 million in current accounts at the BCRA and $200 million in cash.
25

24
 September October November
* The Liquidity ratio is defined as Cash in banks + Current Accounts at the BCRA over total deposits.
It includes pesos and dollars valued at the average exchange rate of the month.

 Chart 5.5.2 If the position of minimum cash in the peso deposit segment is analyzed, it is observed that the integration carried out by financial
 entities in November exceeded by more than 8 pp the requirements legally required by the BCRA. It should be mentioned that as of
 Requirement Coefficients and Minimum Cash Position November the BCRA reduced the coefficients it requires financial
percentage percentage entities to maintain as minimum cash on their sight obligations in
 14 - as percentage of deposits - 42 pesos (from 25 to 23%). Likewise, as explained later in section 9, as of
 13 35 December a new reduction in requirement on said deposits will take
 11 effect, this time from 23 to 20%. As shown in Chart 5.5.2, while
 10 28 the liquidity requirements demanded by the BCRA were reduced
 8 23 towards the end of the year to practically half of those existing at
 7 21 the beginning of 2003, the excess liquidity maintained by financial
 6 14 entities over said requirement was in gradual increase and reached
 4 almost triple by year-end.
 3 7
 1 0
 0
 Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-Dec-03

 Position EM in $ Encajes Dep. Vista (2nd axis)
 Encajes Dep. Fixed Terms 30 days (2nd axis)

* Until October, the minimum cash requirements and resource application requirements are computed. The figures for
November and December are estimated.

5 Includes pesos and dollars valued at the average exchange rate of the month.
6 The reduction in the requirement on sight obligations from 25% to 23% was effective only for sight obligations in pesos because
the elimination of the minimum resource application regime implied an increase in reserve requirements for all types of
obligations in the dollar segment. On the other hand, the reduction to take effect as of 1-12-03 applies to both peso and dollar
obligations. See "Regulatory Changes" Section.

 10 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003
On the other hand, the minimum cash position in dollars continued to show ample over-integration with respect to the legal requirements, despite the increase in the same that resulted from the elimination of the Minimum Application of Resources regime. In this regard, as shown in Graph 5.5.3, banks allocate practically all of their lending capacity in foreign currency to the integration of minimum cash, while applications to other destinations authorized by the BCRA continue to be at a low level.

Finally, if the abundant liquidity existing in both segments is consolidated, the joint minimum cash position results in approximately 12 percentage points excess over the BCRA's legal requirements (a total of approximately $10,500 million).

*Estimated data. The requirement does not compute the increase in the same equivalent to the default in the application of lending capacity in foreign currency.

## 6. Loans

**Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos**

During the month of November, the average stock of loans to the private sector did not vary with respect to the previous month. Although declines continued to be observed in mortgage and pledge-backed lines, these were offset by the increases verified in advances, documents and personal credits. However, if the figures are compared between end of month, an increase of around $140 million in total stock is appreciated, which resulted from the increase in commercial and consumption lines, as can be seen in Graph 6.1.

During the month under analysis, the credit line that performed best was the one corresponding to personal loans. These increased around $120 million on average. Domestic private banks were the ones that drove this increase, followed by public banks, non-banking entities and banks with mostly foreign capital, as can be observed in Graph 6.2. The growing trend of this type of loans began in August, coinciding with the launch of new products by financial entities. The sustained decrease in interest rates also contributed to greater granting of personal credit.

The dynamism observed in previous months in current account advances could also be verified during November. These loans increased $60 million on average with respect to the previous month. If the variation between end of month is considered, the increase is even greater, reaching $100 million. The main parties responsible for this increase continue to be banks
7 The BCRA recently expanded the authorized destinations for the application of lending capacity resulting from obligations in foreign currency. Currently authorized destinations are the financing of exports, interbank loans, BCRA Bills, financial trusts whose underlying assets are loans intended for export financing and loans to producers of final or intermediate goods that have guarantees from exporters.

In accordance with what has been established by the BCRA, the failure of financial entities to apply the lending capacity in foreign currency in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the requirement for minimum cash in that period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities "legally" accredit is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement corresponding to the application of legal reserve coefficients on obligations in foreign currency is computed, without considering the increase in the same equivalent to the failure to apply resources.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

private nationals, accompanied by branches of foreign banks and public banks.

Loans implemented through the receipt of
**Graph 6.3** documents also presented a monthly increase in their
Documents stock, which on average reached approximately $15 million.

Average monthly variation, in millions of pesos As mentioned in previous monthly monetary reports,

Jan within this type of loan, three items can be distinguished
Feb that differ in their behavior, as observed in Graph
Mar 6.3. On one hand, there are the discounted documents, which
Apr registered an average increase of around $40 million,

May consolidating the growing trend that has been registering since
Jun mid-year. On the other hand, there are the purchased
Jul documents, which in November verified an increase of $15
Aug At sight million on average. Finally, the documents at
Sep Discounted sight are distinguished, which continued declining during November,
Oct Purchased although at a slower pace than the previous month, registering
Nov an average decrease of $40 million.

-300 -250 -200 -150 -100 -50 0 50

For its part, the lines with mortgage and chattel guarantee continued declining during November, although a deceleration in the rate of cancellations is observed. On average, mortgage loans were reduced by $160 million in the month under analysis, while the decline in chattel loans was almost $20 million. In the case of mortgage credits, it should be noted that in recent months a slight increase in the amount operated has been observed, although it is insignificant when compared with the amount resulting from the cancellation of installments.

Finally, with respect to credit card financing, during November an average decline in stock close to $10 million was observed.

A separate paragraph deserves the financing in dollars, which in November registered an increase for the second consecutive month. Said increase totaled US$30 million on average, of which 90% corresponded to documents at sight related to foreign trade operations.

7. Financial Assets Markets

7.1. Exchange Market8
# 7.2.1. Shares

Graph 7.2.1.1

The performance of shares traded in the domestic market proved significantly lower than that which took place the previous month. In the course of November, measuring its evolution through the MERVAL Index, the holding of shares yielded a gain of 7% in pesos; accumulating in the year a nominal appreciation of 90%. This result was influenced mainly by profit-taking that occurred in the first part of the month and the presentation of the balance sheets of the companies listed on the BCBA. On the other hand, expressed in dollars, the monthly performance was 3% due to the nominal depreciation of the peso against the US dollar during the period.

MERVAL Index Evolution of the MERVAL in millions of $ 1100 120
1000 100
900 80
800 60
700 40
600 20
500 0
31-Dec-02 28-Feb-03 30-Apr-03 30-Jun-03 31-Aug-03 31-Oct-03

Volume Traded (2nd axis) MERVAL In table 7.2.1.1 the results presented by the companies that make up the MERVAL index are recorded for the first nine months of the year. If they are compared with those of the same period of the previous year, it is verified that the majority of them have presented improvements in terms of their ordinary result. The revaluation of the peso between the end of 2002 and September 30, 2003 played a fundamental role in the reversal of these results, taking into account that the majority of the companies

Table 7.2.1.1

Ordinary net result of the companies that make up the MERVAL
in millions of pesos

Company Accumulated 9 months Accumulated 9 months
2003 2002
TELECOM 779 -4,137 local entities have net debt in dollars. It is feasible that the
TRASNP. GAS DEL SUR 244 -587 origin of this result may not have convinced those who operate with
BBVA BANCO FRANCES -196 -984 these securities, given that the first reaction to its announcement was the
MOLINOS 9 -106
COMERCIAL DEL PLATA -726 -211 contraction of quotations for the majority of the shares of the
SIDERAR 284 10 companies in question.
RENAULT -106 -368
SOLVAY INDUPA 9 259 With respect to trading volume, it is worth noting that the
TENARIS 574 122
GRUPO GALICIA -195 -1,079 daily average decreased compared to the levels reached in the
BANCO BANSUD 29 150 two previous months and was placed at $43 million. The securities with
PETROBRAS 524 -1,482 the highest trading volume were Grupo Galicia, Acindar and
ACINDAR 442 -477 Petrobras, which accumulated a total monthly amount of $132
million, $121 million and $73 million respectively; which when
added together equals 40% of the total amount traded of the shares

13 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

included in the MERVAL index. It is worth noting that within the
aforementioned index, Acindar was the one that presented the best
performance in terms of returns, having appreciated 16%. For its part,
the shares of Grupo Galicia were positively influenced by the progress
of its debt restructuring process in foreign currency subject to foreign
legislation.

7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds

Among the sovereign bonds with the greatest liquidity in the
national public sector, those denominated in pesos indexed by the
CER and not included in the public debt restructuring process
currently underway stood out in November for their good performance.
In this group of bonds issued after the payment cessation, both for
their liquidity and for their monthly return, the BODEN 2008 continued
to stand out, whose parity on the last business day of November was
4% higher than that recorded one month earlier. As observed in
Graph 7.3.1, during the month, the evolution of this security was
Graph 7.2.2.1 well differentiated from that corresponding to BODEN 2012. In this
regard, it is worth noting that some local investors, among whom
Parity of BODENs institutional investors would be included, would have restructured their
BODEN 12 BODEN 08investment portfolios to the detriment of public debt in dollars and
percentage percentage in favor of inflation-adjusted securities. As for operating volumes,
64 86 according to the latest available information, the average daily volume
62 84 traded in the local BODEN market was 19% higher than in October,
having reached an average amount of $212 million.
60 82

58 80 On the other hand, consolidation bonds issued in pesos with
56 78 adjustment according to the CER, registered an even better
54 76 performance than that of the BODENs. The PRO12 and the
30-Sep 6-Oct 12-Oct 18-Oct 24-Oct 30-Oct 5-Nov 11-Nov 17-Nov 23-Nov PRE08 especially stood out, whose prices increased 11% and 8%
BODEN 12 BODEN 08 (2nd axis) respectively compared to the end of October.

As for bonds currently in default, practically all of them
showed losses in their quotations compared to the end of October.
One of those that presented the greatest decline was Global 31, with
a decrease in its price of 10%, for its part, the FRB lost around 5% of
its value.

7.2.3. Corporate Bonds

Among the corporate news in November, it is noted that
Metrogas joined the group of companies that initiated the request
for consent to restructure their financial debt through an
Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement (APE). The company launched
on November 10 the invitation to subscribe to the APE to the holders
of Negotiable Obligations (ON) series A, series B and series C and to
its banking creditors, who may choose between a cash buyback option
and/or a modification option. The first of these consists of the cash
purchase of US$0.5 for each US$1 of existing debt capital
denominated in dollars
10 As of now, data is only available from the MAE.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

Americans, of 0.5 euros for each 1 euro of debt denominated in euros and $0.5 for each $1 of debt denominated in pesos. The company will purchase a maximum of US$100 million of the total capital of existing debt or its equivalent in other currencies. Regarding the modification option, it implies increasing the capital of existing debt, adding capitalized interest and modifying the final maturity date, the interest rate and other relevant terms and conditions of existing debt.

For its part, Banco Hipotecario continues with the process of restructuring its debt and at the end of November announced that it has received exchange offers for a percentage higher than 90% of the total capital amount of existing securities, required to carry out the offered exchange. The bank extended until December 18 the deadline for submitting offers in order to have sufficient time to finalize the definitive restructuring contracts relating to the totality of debt pending from the bank with its banking creditors; taking into account that the bank will execute the offers and the restructuring of its banking debt simultaneously.

In a primary market characterized by scarce activity, Banco Francés resolved to issue the fifteenth class of negotiable obligations with a nominal value of US$121 million, with maturity on October 31, 2007, within the framework of the global program of issuance of ON for an amount of NV US$1,000 million.

8. Regulatory Changes with Impact on the Monetary Market

This section comprises the main regulatory changes of relevance in monetary matters carried out by the BCRA during the month of November 2003.

In this regard, Communication "A" 4043 established the calculation procedure for the purpose of determining the amount of balances in foreign currency current accounts opened at the BCRA not affected by the conversion to pesos due to the provisions of article 10 of Decree 214/02.

The aforementioned Decree 214/02 (in accordance with the modifications of Decrees 410/02 and 1267/02), established that the balances at the close of operations on 1/02/02 of the accounts of financial entities in United States dollars or other computable foreign currencies to meet reserve requirements, except for cash available in bills, be converted to pesos at the rate of $1.40 for each United States dollar. This included the balances of accounts opened for this purpose at Deutsche Bank in New York, prior to the transfer of funds to the accounts indicated by the BCRA.

Likewise, it provided that the amounts not subject to pesification arise in cases and to the extent that the balances of accounts opened at this BCRA are not related to the

15 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

reserve requirements or in accordance with the treatment that corresponds to computable liabilities to determine those requirements.
In the communication, the methodology is defined to determine the amount susceptible to reimbursement -Isr- by the BCRA (if the result has a positive sign), or that to be reimbursed by financial entities (if the result has a negative sign), which originates a debt in pesos equivalent to the difference between the free dollar quotation as of 1/02/02 and the exchange rate applied to pesification.

Table 8.1

Liquidity Requirements
October November December
Concept Minimum Cash (1) Minimum Application of Resources (2) Minimum Cash (1) Minimum Cash (1)
Sight Deposits 13% 12% 23% 20%
Time Deposits
h. 29 d. 9% 9% 18% 18%
30 to 59 d. 7% 7% 14% 14%
60 to 89 d. 5% 5% 10% 10%
90 to 179 d. 5% 0% 5% 5%
180 to 365 d. 3% 0% 3% 3%
more than 365 d. 0% 0% 0% 0%

(1) Includes Obligations in pesos and dollars.
(2) Includes Obligations in pesos.

Likewise, to said amount are added interests from 4/02/02 until its effective payment, calculated at the rate used to remunerate the balances of current accounts of financial entities open at the BCRA in pesos.

In accordance with the estimates made, the impact of the measure would be between $350 and $400 million.

In order to normalize the operations of the financial system and reestablish the intermediation function between savings and investment, through Communication "A" 4051, the BCRA ordered a new reduction in reserve requirements to be implemented as of the last month of the year. Specifically, following the elimination of the minimum resource application regime that resulted in a reduction of 2 percentage points on the requirement in sight obligations for the month of November, the BCRA ordered a reduction of 3 percentage points in the requirement coefficients on sight obligations, from 23% to 20% (see Table 8.1).

It should be noted that said measure implies a release of resources that will increase the lending capacity of banks by approximately $1,000 million.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Nov-03 Oct-03 Dec-02 Nov-02 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 44,574 43,661 35,117 32,755 2.1% 1.8% 36.1% 31.3%
Quasi-Money (1) 1,076 1,932 7,448 7,358 -44.3% -44.4% -85.4% -85.9%

Monetary Base 43,498 41,729 27,669 25,397 4.2% 4.0% 71.3% 65.3%
Monetary Circulation 26,331 25,793 17,766 15,774 2.1% 1.8% 66.9% 61.1%
In Possession of the Public 23,419 22,938 15,439 13,633 2.1% 1.8% 71.8% 65.8%
In Financial Entities 2,912 2,854 2,327 2,141 2.0% 1.8% 36.1% 31.3%
Current Account at the BCRA 17,167 15,937 9,904 9,623 7.7% 7.5% 78.4% 72.1%

International Reserves of the BCRA 13,285 13,247 10,265 9,884 0.3% 34.4%

Total Deposits in Pesos (2) 84,747 82,718 71,478 71,053 2.5% 2.2% 19.3% 15.1%

Private Deposits 69,391 68,525 63,784 63,540 1.3% 1.0% 9.2% 5.4%
Current Account 14,077 13,206 11,177 10,677 6.6% 6.3% 31.8% 27.2%
Savings Account 12,098 11,597 8,243 8,322 4.3% 4.1% 45.4% 40.3%
Fixed Term 31,093 31,381 16,919 15,926 -0.9% -1.2% 95.2% 88.4%
Other Deposits 4,751 4,581 3,972 3,513 3.7% 3.4% 35.2% 30.5%
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 1,738 1,759 3,784 3,778 -1.2% -1.4% -54.0% -55.6%
CEDRO including CER 5,634 6,002 19,689 21,323 -6.1% -6.4% -73.6% -74.5%

Public Sector Deposits 14,593 13,531 7,158 6,973 7.9% 7.6% 109.3% 101.9%
Total Deposits in Dollars (2) 1,742 1,677 834 776 3.9% 124.6%

Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (2) 54,032 54,453 61,923 62,862 -0.8% -1.0% -14.0% -17.1%
# To the Private Sector 26.564 26.578 30.700 31.418 -0.1% -0.3% -15.4% -18.4%
 Advances 4.176 4.130 4.376 4.403 1.1% 0.9% -5.1% -8.5%
 Documents 4.698 4.687 5.392 5.547 0.2% 0.0% -15.3% -18.3%
 Mortgages 9.363 9.525 11.310 11.504 -1.7% -1.9% -18.6% -21.5%
 Pledges 1.300 1.318 2.118 2.186 -1.4% -1.6% -40.5% -42.6%
 Personal Loans 2.273 2.157 2.662 2.764 5.4% 5.1% -17.8% -20.7%
 Credit Cards 2.108 2.108 2.047 2.081 0.0% -0.2% 1.3% -2.2%
 Others 2.646 2.654 2.794 2.934 -0.3% -0.5% -9.8% -13.0%

 To the Public Sector 27.468 27.875 31.223 31.444 -1.5% -1.7% -12.6% -15.7%
 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (2) 1.412 1.380 1.543 1.591 2.3% -11.2%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 46.087 44.417 36.910 34.401 3.8% 3.5% 34.0% 29.3%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Accounts in Pesos and Dollars) 61.225 58.997 46.339 43.746 3.8% 3.5% 40.0% 35.0%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 112.510 110.595 93.490 91.003 1.7% 1.5% 23.6% 19.3%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 38.572 38.076 34.063 31.669 1.3% 1.1% 21.8% 17.5%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Accounts Private Sector) 50.669 49.673 42.307 39.990 2.0% 1.8% 26.7% 22.3%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 92.148 91.637 82.887 80.753 0.6% 0.3% 14.1% 10.1%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2003 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3)

 Broad Monetary Base 912 2.1% 1.849 4.3% 9.456 26.9% 11.819 36.1%
 Financial Sector -98 -0.2% -205 -0.5% -1.486 -4.2% -1.302 -4.0%
 Public Sector -140 -0.3% 389 0.9% 242 0.7% 355 1.1%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 1.294 1.890 8.492 9.498
 Utilization of National Government Account 61 2.158 -873 -864
 External Credit -1.495 -3.660 -7.377 -8.279
 Private External Sector 1.718 3.9% 2.690 6.3% 14.705 41.9% 16.424 50.1%
 BCRA Securities -512 -0.1% -1.120 -0.2% -4.681 -0.5% -4.576 3.4%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Par Value of Quasi-money -56 -0.1% -69 -0.2% -187 -0.5% -187 3.4%
 Others -1 0.0% 164 0.4% 863 2.5% 1.104 3.4%

 International Reserves 38 0.3% -117 -1.2% 3.020 29.4% 3.401 34.4%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 601 4.5% 960 7.2% 5.049 49.2% 5.541 56.1%
 Payment to International Organizations -532 -4.0% -1.163 -8.7% -2.469 -24.1% -2.701 -27.3%
 Other Operations of the Public Sector -1 0.0% -1 0.0% -99 -1.0% -87 -0.9%
 Minimum Cash -46 -0.3% -12 -0.1% 384 3.7% 454 4.6%
 Repurchase Rate Valuation -10 -0.1% 47 0.4% -33 -0.3% -33 -0.3%
 Others 25 0.2% 52 0.4% 188 1.8% 226 0.0%

 (1) Estimated figures. 17
 (2) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 (3) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated. Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

Interest rates in annual percentage nominal and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

Call between Private Banks in pesos
 Rate 1.65 1.52 1.49 6.52 6.12
 Amount 99 120 150 87 129

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 14-29 days 2.29 2.29 2.30 15.48 13.79
 30 days 4.32 4.53 4.49 22.78 21.63
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 3.55 3.83 3.69 25.10 20.86
 In dollars
 14-29 days 0.35 0.35 0.33 1.27 1.50
 30 days 0.59 0.59 0.59 1.78 2.11
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.81 0.81 0.77 2.25 3.15

 Active Interest Rates Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

Prime in pesos at 30 days 10.76 11.18 11.96 33.48 39.41

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 3.71 3.94 3.73 14.79 11.85
 Traded volume (total terms) 63 59 50 130 147

Loans in pesos
 Advances in Current Account 25.08 26.95 50.85 58.21
 Documents on single signature 12.58 11.76 26.97 25.86
 Mortgages 16.23 13.71 22.12 23.84
 Pledges 17.66 18.29 21.66 18.00
 Personal Loans 37.50 39.03 54.10 53.68
 Credit Cards 38.09 47.33 64.16 64.23
# REFERENCE RATES Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

LIBOR
 1 month 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.42 1.43
 6 months 1.24 1.21 1.19 1.42 1.46

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.90 1.72 1.69 1.82 1.91
 10 years 4.28 4.27 4.27 4.02 4.04

FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.33

SELIC (at 1 year) 18.45 19.68 21.18 23.43 21.40

 18 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2003

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 LEBAC Rates Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

In pesos
 1 month n/d 0.60 0.67 6.84 9.46
 2 months n/d 2.01 2.42 7.51 10.10
 3 months 2.65 2.98 3.87 10.82 18.24
 6 months 5.29 5.94 6.92 50.34 51.57
 12 months 10.30 11.82 13.41 n/d n/d
 18 months 11.99 13.89 15.53 n/d n/d

In pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months 5.63 6.63 7.38 n/d n/d
 18 months 7.13 8.00 8.60 n/d n/d

In dollars
 14 days n/d n/d -0.23 0.00 0.00
 1 month n/d 0.00 0.00 -0.01 0.00

 Foreign Exchange Market Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 2.88 2.86 2.92 3.48 3.52
 Exchange houses 2.88 2.85 2.92 3.50 3.54
 BCRA Reference 2.88 2.86 2.92 3.49 3.53

Dollar Futures
 NDF 1 month 2.89 2.86 2.93 3.52 3.58
 INDOL 1 month 2.86 2.86 2.93 3.54 3.58
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1 2 2 1 1
 ROFEX 1 month 2.86 2.86 2.92 3.52 3.56
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 43 43 42 12 n/d

Peso / Real 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.96 0.99

Peso / Euro 3.39 3.34 3.29 3.55 3.54

 Capital Market Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02 Nov-02

MERVAL
 Index 950 882 775 506 463
 Trading Volume 43 55 53 42 46

Government Bonds
 BODEN 2012 (US$) (1) 57.96 60.18 61.55 46.01 47.64
 BODEN 08 ($) 82.82 80.14 76.88 n/d n/d

Country Risk
 EMBI+ Argentina 6,206 5,492 5,017 6,258 6,235
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 405 435 462 842 904 19

(1) The quotation is expressed in United States dollars.
