# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monetary Monthly Report

DECEMBER 2003

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1
   • The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased in December by 3% ($1,487 million) and ended the year with growth of 31% (26% in real terms). In seasonally adjusted terms, it showed a decline in the month of 0.4%. Its balance at the end of the month was located around the midpoint of the range of the Monetary Program in effect at the close of 2003.
   
2. Monetary Program 2
   • Total deposits in pesos increased 1% in December, maintaining the growing trend they have registered for several months and accumulating an annual increase of 23.7% in nominal terms and 19.4% in real terms. For their part, total deposits in dollars showed a monthly increase of 9%, totaling growth of 128% for 2003.

3. IMF Monetary Targets 3
   • Total means of payment in pesos (M2) increased in nominal terms around $3,100 million (5%) in December. Practically all of the increase corresponded to the private sector. This behavior is consistent with the strong positive seasonality of December. In seasonally adjusted terms, its growth was 0.8%.

4. Interest Rates 3
   • Private sector time deposits in pesos experienced a decline of approximately $670 million in December. This behavior reflects the seasonality of the month, characterized by increased demand for liquidity. The average term of deposits increased, as it has been doing continuously since September and was located, in December, at 44 days, 14 days more than 12 months ago.

4.1. BCRA Securities 3
   • Interest rates continued to reflect the liquidity conditions of the financial system. The interest rates of the interbank market and passive interest rates remained relatively stable, while the LEBAC interest rates continued their downward trajectory, having decreased the cut-off rates for the longer terms by approximately 1 percentage point compared to the previous month. In December, BCRA Notes (NOBAC) were incorporated as monetary policy instruments, which unlike LEBAC pay a coupon semiannually and mature in the medium term (3 years). The implicit rate for NOBAC adjustable by CER at the end of December was 6%. Continuing with the trend evidenced in recent months, the average daily amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market increased 12% compared to the previous month.

4.2. Interbank Market 4
   • Loans to the private sector in pesos showed an increase of $270 million (1%) compared to the previous month, driven mainly by the evolution of commercial credit and consumer credit which since August have shown a clear positive trend. Loans with real collateral continued showing a negative trend.

4.3. Passive Interest Rates 5
   • In December, in the foreign exchange market the peso showed nominal and real depreciations with respect to the currencies of its main trading partners. The multilateral real exchange rate reflects a depreciation of the peso of 1.4% for December and an appreciation of 0.6% in 2003.

4.4. Active Interest Rates 6

5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity 7

5.1. Means of Payment 7

5.2. Quasi-Money Redemption 8

5.3. Time Deposits 9

5.4. Deposits in Dollars 10

5.5. Banking Liquidity 10

6. Loans 11

7. Financial Asset Markets 13

7.1. Foreign Exchange Market 13

7.2. Capital Market 14

7.2.1. Shares 14

7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 15

7.2.2. Corporate Bonds 15

8. Regulatory Changes 16

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators 18

---

¹ Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

Monetary Monthly Report – DECEMBER 2003

2. Monetary Program
**Chart 2.1**

During December, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased on average $1,487 million (3%), accumulating an increase in the year of 31% ($10,869 million) and of 26% in real terms. The monthly growth of the BMA can be broken down into the increase in monetary circulation of $2,385 million, the decrease in bank reserves in pesos by $505 million and the fall in the balance of quasicurrencies outstanding by an amount of $393 million. In seasonally adjusted terms, the BMA practically had no variation with respect to the previous month, given the strong positive seasonality that the last month of the year presents.

At the end of December, the BMA was located around the midpoint of the range projected in the revision of the 2003 Monetary Program. In this way, as observed in Chart 2.1, over 7 months, the BMA remained within the limits set in said program. The significant monetary expansion accompanied the growing demand for real balances in a context of declining inflation rates (see Chart 2.2). The increase in the consumer price level in December was 0.2%, with the increase for the year being 3.7%, slightly below the lower bound (5%) of the range established in the revision of the Program.

**Chart 2.2**
Broad Monetary Base
Year-over-Year Percentage Change

As occurred practically throughout the year, the BCRA continued with the policy of supplying the demand for liquidity through the external sector and in that sense, the main factor with an expansive effect on the BMA was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector, which contributed $1,832 million and accumulated in the year an expansion of $17,470 million. The BCRA's intervention in the foreign exchange market in the month determined that the BCRA's international reserves reached US$14,119 million on the last day of the year, recovering the level they presented at the beginning of 2002.

**Chart 2.3**
Annual Inflation

The instrument with the greatest contractionary impact was the placement of BCRA securities, which implied a reduction of the BMA of $237 million.

The operations of the public sector during December implied a monetary absorption of $59 million, linked mainly to the use of National Treasury deposits in the financial system to face part of the payments to international organizations made in the period, while the rest was settled through the use of temporary advances.

**Table 2.1**

Monthly flows, in millions of pesos - DECEMBER 2003 | Average | End of Period
---|---|---
Broad Monetary Base | 1,487 | 1,356
Quasicurrencies | -393 | -878
Monetary Base | 1,880 | 2,234
Monetary Circulation | 2,385 | -1,391
In the hands of the Public | 2,011 | 3,136
In Financial Entities | 374 | 489
Current Account at the BCRA | -505 | -1,391

The banking entities continued making interest payments on advances and rediscounts for approximately $55 million. By virtue of this, the financial system resulted in being contractionary in the year by $1,541 million.
# FACTORS OF VARIATION OF BROAD MONETARY BASE

By last, the redemption of quasi-monies implied an average absorption
 Financial Sector -55 -40
 Public Sector -59 -439 of $6 million, because during the month redemptions of provincial
 Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits 557 164 bonds were made at prices below par. As of December 31st, the
 Use of the National Government Account -61 -70
 External Credit -555 -533 accumulated contraction of BMA originating in these price
 Private External Sector 1.832 2.125 differences amounts to $193 million. If to this figure are added the
 BCRA Securities -237 -338
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-monies -6 -1 quasi-monies exchanged for book-entry securities, the reduction of
 Others 11 66 BMA due to redemption of quasi-monies within the Monetary
 Unification Program (P.U.M.) amounts to $213 million. In
 2 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003 section 5.2 of this report more details about this operation will be
 found.

# 3. IMF Monetary Targets

 In the framework of the agreement signed with the IMF in September,
 Table 3.1 the balances that show the variables to be monitored between December 16th
 and January 15th will be used to calculate compliance with the monetary
Monetary targets: December 2003 In millions In average measurement between 16-Dec-03 and 15-Jan-04 Currency At 15-Jan Target Deviation1 targets for December 2003.

Net Domestic Assets Pesos 56.047 62.443 -6.396 Taking into account the amortization payments to the IDB and IBRD
Net International Reserves Dollars -3.157 -5.060 1.903 made as of September 1st, the targets were adjusted and were
Broad Monetary Base (indicative) Pesos 46.892 47.770 -878 placed at the levels shown in Table 3.1. As can be observed, the
1 Deviation: In NDA and Monetary Base the negative sign (-) indicates overperformance. targets were overperformed with marked flexibility for the three
 In NIR the positive sign (+) indicates overperformance. variables considered. The next targets were set for the month of March.

# 4. Interest Rates

 Interest rates continued to reflect the liquidity conditions of the
 financial system. Interest rates in the interbank market and those
 corresponding to time deposits remained relatively stable, while
 active interest rates and those of LEBAC auctions continued to
 decline, especially for longer terms.

# 4.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

 During December, interest rates agreed upon in LEBAC auctions
 Graph 4.1.1 in pesos continued to decline. As can be observed in Graph 4.1.1, the
 decline was slightly higher for instruments of longer duration, with
 LEBAC yield curve the cut-off interest rate for 12 months falling almost 2 percentage points
 45 TNA, percentage compared to November. Likewise, the cut-off rates for LEBAC adjusted
 40 by CER were reduced between 1 and 2 percentage points between
 35 late December and November. In the same graph are shown the
 30 interest rates resulting in one of the first auctions of the year where
 25 12-month instruments were incorporated. From its observation, the
 20 significant decline in yields during 2003 can be appreciated. Thus,
 15 for example, the nominal rate for 6 months went from 35% at the
 10
 beginning of the year to 3.7% in the last auction of 2003.
 5
 0 In Graph 4.1.2, the evolution of the average monthly cut-off
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 interest rate for LEBAC issued in pesos at a term of 6 months is
 Days shown, verifying that the decline mentioned above occurred through
 21-Jan-03 20-Nov-03 30-Dec-03 CER 20-Nov-03 CER 30-Dec-03 a monotonically decreasing trajectory in the course of the year.
 Likewise, the year-on-year inflation rate observed throughout 2003
 and the inflation for 12 months implicit in the margin between the
 cut-off rates of LEBAC
# 3 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

in pesos and those adjustable by CER for the same term. It is
**Graph 4.1.2** observed that as the annual inflation observed was declining,
Cut-off rate of LEBAC and inflation the inflation expectations for the future also did so, which led to
40 in percentage the inflation for 12 months implicit in the
35 BCRA securities auction to go from almost 20% in March to
30 around 5% in the second half of the year.
TNA average monthly cut-off rate, LEBAC 6 months
25 Inflation 12 months

20 In December, securities of greater duration began to be
Inflation 12 months implicit in LEBAC issued, called Central Bank Notes (NOBAC). These
15 instruments to date were placed in their adjustable version
10 by CER and, unlike LEBAC, pay a coupon
5 semiannually that accrues on the capital adjusted by the
0 inflation index in accordance with the coefficient mentioned. The
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 emissions made during the month were of the species with
maturity on December 6, 2006 and the accruing coupon is
3% annual. The rate implicit in the last auction carried out in the
year was 6% annual, and the outstanding stock totaled VN$178
million.

**Graph 4.1.3**
Average Cost and Average Life of the portfolio As of December 31, VN $8,123 million of LEBAC issued in
TNA % of LEBAC in pesos Days pesos were in circulation, VN $1,718 million of LEBAC
45 280 adjustable by CER and VN US$85 million of LEBAC
260 denominated in dollars. This, added to the aforementioned
40 NOBAC stock, totals an amount of BCRA securities in
240
35 220 circulation at the end of 2003 of VN$10,268 million. Likewise,
30 200 as seen in Graph 4.1.3, the new placements made during the
25 180 year involved reductions in the average cost of the outstanding
20 160 LEBAC portfolio. Simultaneously, the average life of this
140
15 120 type of instruments increased significantly by virtue of the
100
10 expansion of the type of instruments offered, which implied the
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 launch into circulation of LEBAC of greater duration. Ultimately,
Average cost Average life the average life of LEBAC in pesos went from 103 days at the end
of 2002 to 237 days on the last day of 2003.

**Graph 4.1.4**
Millions of pesos Average daily traded volume Percentage
300 40 On the other hand, as noted in previous reports, the
35 secondary market for BCRA securities increased its magnitude
250 substantially in the course of 2003, especially from
30
200 25 September, when part of the demand for these securities shifted
150 20 from the primary market to secondary trading. In December, the
100 15 average daily amount traded of LEBAC was $169 million,
50 10 12% higher than the previous month and greater than the amount
5
0 0 traded daily in the local stock and future dollar markets
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 (see Graph 4.1.4). It should be noted that the most traded
LEBAC BODEN* MERVAL ROFEX LEBAC Participation (2nd axis) species are those with residual maturity greater than 12 months,
which in December concentrated 76% of transactions.
*For December, data from MAE only are available.

**Graph 4.2.1**
**4.2. Interbank Market**

percentage Interbank Market millions of pesos
9 400 During December, as a counterpart to the excess
8 liquidity existing in the financial system, the average interest
7 300
6 rate for the month of the interbank market practically did not
5 show variations compared to the previous month, standing at 1.6%.
4 , 200
3 With regard to the daily average monthly amount traded, a
2 100 drop of around $50 million (33%) was appreciated in December
1 compared to the previous month.
0 0
Jan-03 Feb-03 Mar-03 Apr-03 May-03 Jun-03 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03
Amount up to 15 days Monthly Average Rate Monthly Average
# 4 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

The behavior of the interbank lending market in December was not unrelated to what was observed for much of the year, especially since April, where it showed little dynamism influenced by the growing liquidity existing in the financial system. Market interest rates reflected this behavior, falling from average levels of almost 10% in March to less than 2% for the last month of the year.

## 4.3. Passive Interest Rates

**Graph 4.3.1** During December, passive interest rates continued to decrease, reflecting the excess liquidity of financial entities. As observed in Graph 4.3.1, the downward trend of these rates began in April, with the greatest declines registered between May and July. From August onwards, a deceleration in the rate of decline is appreciated, although it did not stop. In effect, in December, as in the previous month, interest rates on fixed-term placements were reduced for all terms. In the case of interest rates on deposits over 90 days, the decline was 0.8 p.p., so these rates ended at levels of 4.7%. Interest rates on deposits between 30 and 59 days were reduced by 0.5 p.p., placing themselves around 3.6%. And interest rates on placements between 60 and 89 days decreased 0.4 p.p., closing the year at 4.3%.

**Interest Rate by Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
*Percentage Monthly average weighted by amount traded*

When analyzing the different terms by amount stratum and comparing the months of December and November, a clear downward shift of the yield curves is observed in all cases. As observed in Graph 4.3.2, the lowest interest rates corresponded in both months to placements of amounts exceeding $1,000,000, which represented 53% of the total traded. These deposits are arranged in their majority by large companies, among which are those providing financial services. It should be noted that in general it is observed that interest rates increase as the amount stratum decreases. However, the highest interest rates did not correspond in all cases to deposits of less than $100,000, whose participation in the total traded was 29%, but rather, in the longer terms, they fell on placements between $100,000 and $500,000, which represented 13% of the negotiated volume, although the beneficiaries of both brackets were mainly natural persons, who are characterized by obtaining the best interest rates.

**Graph 4.3.2**
**Yield Curves of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
*Percentage By amount stratum traded in the month*

In the case of deposits between 30 and 59 days, which represented 81% of the volume traded in December, interest rates ranged from 2.9% for placements of more than $1,000,000 to 4.4% for deposits of less than $100,000, with the greatest decline verified in the case of placements between $100,000 and $500,000, whose rate went from 5% in November to 4.3% in December. In the case of placements between 60 and 89 days, interest rates were placed in the range of 3.1% and 4.9%, corresponding to deposits greater than $1,000,000 and between $100,000 and $500,000 respectively. Finally, in the case of longer-term deposits, the dispersion between interest rates according to amount strata was greater, with a rate of 3.6% recognized for the largest placements and 5.8% for deposits between $100,000 and $500,000.

## 4.4. Active Interest Rates
During December, active interest rates continued with the downward trend they have been showing since the beginning of the year, especially from April onwards. The interest rates that registered the largest declines corresponded to the most dynamic loan segments: commercial and consumer loans.

In the case of current account advances, interest rates fell in December by 3.4 p.p., reaching the minimum level of the year, positioned around 25%. The annual evolution of this segment presents two well-differentiated periods, as can be observed in Graph 4.4.1. The first comprises the first three months of the year, during which interest rates remained relatively stable in a band between 50% and 54%, with operated amounts below $2,000 million. The second period began in April, from which point a firm decline in interest rates began to be observed, accompanied by an increase in operated amounts. In this sense, interest rates decreased more than 25 p.p., while the volume operated exceeded $2,500 million.

The interest rates for loans arranged through documents remained relatively stable in December, evidencing a slight decline of 0.2 p.p. with respect to November, to settle around 14.1%. In year-on-year terms, these interest rates registered a decline of approximately 10 p.p. However, as shown in Graph 4.4.2, in this type of loan the behavior of rates was not homogeneous during the year. Until April, they evidenced growth, reaching a maximum of 36% that month. The second stage corresponds to the months between May and August, where this trend reversed and interest rates evidenced a decline of 22 p.p. Finally, the last stage covers the last four months of the year, during which interest rates remained stable around 14%.

Throughout the year an upward trend was appreciated in the operated amount of the same, which went from $120 million in January to $240 million in December.

In the case of personal loans, interest rates registered a decline of 2.8 p.p. in December, positioning themselves around 37.4%, which was accompanied by a monthly increase of 25% in operated amounts. The annual evolution of these interest rates was similar to those of current account advances, as shown in Graph 4.4.3. During the first three months of the year, rates remained stable between 55% and 60%. From April onwards, rates began to evidence a sustained downward trend that continued until December, when they reached their minimum. The interest rates for these lines registered a decline of 20 p.p. during 2003. In relation to operated amounts, a growing pace was observed throughout the year, which consolidated in the last four months of the year, when the largest increases were registered. Thus, in this segment they began negotiating $58 million in January and ended operating $120 million in December.

Regarding the interest rates for financing with credit cards, the latest available data, which correspond to November 2003, reflect a decrease with respect to the previous month of 2.3 p.p. in line with the trend
55 decreasing that they have been registering since June. Until then,

50 these interest rates had remained stable between 64% and

45 67%. If November's rate is compared with the year's maximum

40 verified in May (67%), a sharp decline of more than

35 32 p.p. is observed (see Chart 4.4.4).

30
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 In the case of loans with real guarantee, a decrease of 2 p.p.
 was observed in the interest rates of mortgage lines and a slight
 Chart 4.4.5 increase of 0.6 p.p. in the interest rates of pledge lines,
 which closed the year at levels of 10.3% and 17.5%
 respectively. In the case of mortgage loans, the
 Loans with Real Guarantee
 percentage Weighted average monthly interest rate by amount decrease registered in December confirms the
 26 downward trend that these rates have been registering since April.
 24 Although this market did not have much movement during the year,

 22 with very few new operations being agreed upon, the decline in

 20 rates verified in the same period coincided with the launch of new

 18 products by several financial entities. In the case of

 16 interest rates on pledge credits, as observed in

 14 Chart 4.4.5, they showed an oscillating trend throughout all of

 12 2003. This behavior responded to the occasional participation of

 10 particular entities that influenced the average interest rate,

 8 given the scarce volume traded.
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03
 Mortgage Pledge

 5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity

 5.1. Means of Payment

 The total means of payment in pesos (M2²) increased in
Chart 5.1.1 December by approximately $3,100 million (5%) showing an
 expected behavior in seasonal terms. The last month
Percentage Billions of pesos of the year presents a strong positive seasonality so M2
 M2 private and total pesos seasonally adjusted grew approximately 0.8% (in real terms the
8 monthly real averages seasonally adjusted 65
 60 growth was 0.6%).
6 55
 Practically all of the M2 increase corresponded to the
4 50 private sector ($3,000 million). The private M2 seasonally
 45 adjusted in real terms grew 1.3% in the month in question and
2 reached an increase of 22% for the year (see Chart 5.1.1).
 40
0 35
 M2 was positioned at the end of December slightly above
-2 30 (1%) the upper band of the monetary program, reaching a
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 level equivalent to 16.6% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
 Percentage change M2 private Percentage change M2 total This was due fundamentally to a growth in sight deposits
 M2 private (2nd axis) M2 total (2nd axis) that resulted higher than projected. This behavior is, to a
 large extent, explained by the preference for liquidity that

 2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, sight deposits of the private and public sectors and quasi-monies.

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

 Chart 5.1.2 both companies and families showed. In this sense, the

 Broad Circulation in terms of GDP greater demand for real balances is consistent with the decline in the
8 percentage year-over-year inflation rate which in December was 3.7%, a growth
 lower than predicted in the lower band of the Program (5%).

7
 Of the M2 increase, $1,900 million corresponded to
6 broad circulation held by the public while the rest was due to
 the increase in sight placements. As shown in
5 Chart 5.1.2, its evolution in the second half of the year was

4 fully compatible with the evolution foreseen in the Program.

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03

 Monetary Program Bands Observed

 5.2. Redemption of Quasi-Monies
In December, the redemption of quasi-currencies concluded within the framework of the Monetary Unification Program (P.U.M.). During the month under analysis, VN $1,005 million³ in quasi-currencies were redeemed, which implied an emission of $1,003 million. Of the total redeemed, 57% corresponded to PATACONES (VN $578 million), 42% corresponded to LECOP (VN $421 million) and the remainder to CECACOR (VN $6 million). It should be noted that in the case of the latter, their redemption had concluded in November. However, during the first days of December, some smaller amounts that had been delayed the previous month were redeemed. On the other hand, outside of the P.U.M., in December the Province of Mendoza redeemed approximately VN $1.6 million of PETROM with its own resources. Likewise, at the date of preparation of this report, the Province of La Rioja had redeemed VN $19 million⁴ of Consolidation Bonds Series A and B with resources from the Trust Fund for Provincial Development, remitted to the province in accordance with the agreement signed within the framework of the Orderly Financing Program between the Government of La Rioja and the National Government.

The amount of quasi-currencies out of circulation since April 30, 2003 amounts to VN $7,508 million, which is equivalent to 98% of the stock as of that date⁵. Of the total withdrawn from circulation, VN $7,391 million were redeemed within the framework of the P.U.M., VN $20 million remained subject to exchange for securities, VN $78 million were redeemed by the Province of Mendoza with its own resources and VN $19 million were redeemed by the Province of La Rioja with funds from the Orderly Financing Program. The resulting monetary expansion was $7,198 million, which is equivalent to the amount withdrawn from circulation at redemption value within the framework of the P.U.M. Therefore, the reduction in the Broad Monetary Base associated with the redemption of quasi-currencies totaled $309 million.

Still pending redemption within the framework of the Monetary Unification Program are VN $84 million of LECOP and VN $59 million of PATACONES. While a portion will remain outside of redemption and, consequently, will be exchanged for securities, another portion will be redeemed during the month of January⁶. Outside of the P.U.M., there are pending redemption VN $7 million of PETROM from the Province of Mendoza and VN $16 million of Consolidation Bonds from the Province of La Rioja. In the case of Mendoza, the redemption completion date established by the provincial government is March 30, 2004. In the case of La Rioja, there is not yet a deadline for the redemption of Consolidation Bonds, although the government

---

**Footnotes:**

³ Includes VN $144 million recorded on January 2, 2004.

⁴ Includes VN $3.6 million recorded on January 7, 2004.

⁵ At the end of December 2003, the stock of quasi-currencies was corrected and the corresponding retroactive adjustments were made in the quasi-currencies series published by the BCRA, upon having complete information in that regard.

**Table 5.2.1 Monetary Unification Program - Figures in millions of pesos**
Chart 5.3.2
**Average term of fixed-rate time deposit capture in pesos**

*5-day moving averages*

When disaggregating the amounts traded by term, an increase of 4 percentage points was observed in December in the participation of deposits between 60 and 89 days, to the detriment of those of up to 59 days. Consequently, the average monthly term of deposit capture went from 41 days in November to 44 days during December. In this way, the average term increased 14 days during the year, and reached the highest level since 2001. It should be noted that in November, the BCRA had increased the minimum term of capture of time deposits from 7 to 30 days, which had an influence on the result indicated.

---

⁶ Although the exchange of these quasi-currencies is technically completed, delays originating in operational matters will give rise to accounting registrations associated with it throughout January.

⁷ As of December 15.

---

9 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003
Chart 5.5.1
Liquidity Ratio*
(in percentage of deposits)
2003

As shown in Chart 5.5.1, the total liquidity ratio – defined as deposits in current accounts at the BCRA plus cash in banks with respect to total deposits – remained constant at around 28% during December. In this way, following the increase registered during the two previous months (total liquidity went from around 25.5% in the July-September period to 27.2% in October and 28.2% in November) the ratio stabilized in the last month of the year, with a liquidity level of

---

*Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003*
Cash Current Account BCRA Total Liquidity approximately $25,000 million (approximately $11,000
* The Liquidity ratio is defined as Cash in banks + Current Accounts in the BCRA over total deposits.
Includes pesos and dollars valued at reference exchange rate. million more than at the end of 2002).

If the position of minimum cash in pesos is analyzed, it
Chart 5.5.2 is observed that financial entities reduced only slightly their

in percentage in percentage Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
25 - in percentage of deposits - 12 compliance with respect to the average of the previous month ($140 million), in
24 spite of the fall in the requirement ($900 million) that generated a drop
22 10 of 3 p.p. in the reserve coefficients on sight deposits
21 8 ordered by the BCRA. In such a way, as observed in
19
18 6 Chart 5.5.2, the minimum cash position as a percentage of
16 deposits increased, standing in December at around 9 p.p.
15 4
13 2 (almost 1 p.p. higher than the previous month and 7 p.p. above the
12 one observed at the end of 2002).
10 0
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Finally, it is worth mentioning that if the segment in pesos and
EM Position in $ (2nd axis) EM Requirement in $ EM Compliance in $ in dollars is considered jointly, the excess liquidity
* The December position is estimated. maintained by financial entities stands at around 13 p.p., totaling
approximately $11,500 million.

Chart 6.1 6. Loans
Index 100 = Dec-02 Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
(Monthly Averages) Year 2003
105

100 In December, credits showed an increase of
approximately $270 million on average with respect to the previous month.
95 This increase is mainly explained by the growth of

90 commercial loans and consumer loans, since loans with

85 real guarantees continued showing a negative trend. As

80 observed in Chart 6.1, this behavior is similar to the
one observed in the last 5 months. In effect, since August the
75 commercial and consumer lines began to register positive
Dec-02 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 monthly variations that partially offset the falls registered
Commercial Loans Loans with Real Guarantee Consumer Loans in the first 7 months of the year.

Chart 6.2

Commercial Loans
million Average Variations Commercial loans grew in December by $250
of pesos
January-July August-December Accumulated 2003 million on average, compared to the previous month. Advances
1,000 increased about $210 million in relation to
30
November, continuing with the positive trend that began to
500
630 be registered as of August, linked with the recovery of economic
0 5
activity and with the sustained decrease in interest rates,
-625 -660
mentioned in Section 4.4. The growth of these credit
-500
lines during recent months offset the fall of the first
-1,000 -690 part of the year (see Chart 6.2). In such a way that the balance of the year
shows a slightly positive result.
-1,500
Advances Documents

8 Includes pesos and dollars valued at the reference exchange rate.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

Within commercial lines, those instruments through
documents increased in December by approximately $40
million compared to the previous month. Although
Chart 6.3 discounted and purchased documents showed important
Documents increases, which reached $110 million and $40 million on average
million pesos Average Variations respectively, these were offset by the decrease in documents
400 300 at sole signature, which was approximately $105
million. Throughout the year these loans registered a
200 negative accumulated variation close to $660 million. As
As can be observed in Graph 6.3, documents with single signature were the main responsible parties for this decline, and although these decelerated their decreasing rate starting in August, they did not register positive variations throughout 2003. On the contrary, discounted documents registered monthly increases throughout 2003, accelerating their growth starting in August. These loans accumulated an increase of approximately $300 million during 2003, almost doubling the average stock existing at the end of 2002. Finally, purchased documents, whose average stock was slightly reduced during the first 7 months of the year, began to increase starting in August, to end the year with an average stock approximately $40 million above that of December 2002, which translates into an average year-on-year increase on the order of 20%.

Consumer loans grew in December around $115 million on average compared to November, confirming the growing trend that began in August. Both personal loans and credit card financing registered significant increases since then, on the order of $320 million and $285 million respectively, which offset the declines in the first part of the year (see Graph 6.4).

Personal loans registered an increase in December close to $80 million on average. Although personal lines were among those that led the reactivation of the credit market, through the launch of new products and sustained reduction of their interest rate, the increase verified in recent months, driven by the credit policy of certain national banks and public banks, did not fully compensate for the decline verified in the first part of the year.

In the case of credit card financing, its stock increased in December around $110 million. Although it is true that part of this increase is seasonal, given that due to Christmas holidays and year-end festivities consumption and the use of these payment instruments increases, this increase confirms the growing trend of recent months. It should be noted that the balance of the year proved positive for this type of loans, verifying an increase of $175 million on average, which is equivalent to a year-on-year variation on the order of 10%. As observed in Graph 6.5, between January and August the average stock of these financing lines remained stable. Starting in September, the recovery of these lines became evident as a consequence of lower interest rates, the reactivation of consumption, and the implementation of measures to encourage the use of this payment instrument, among which stand out the possibility of accessing short-term financing plans without interest and the various promotions launched by credit card issuing companies and affiliated merchants.

Loans with real collateral registered in December a decline of approximately $80 million on average compared to November, of which around $50 million corresponded to lines with mortgage collateral and the remainder to lines with pledge collateral. These credits, which represent almost 40% of the total stock...
10,800 1,600 of loans to the private sector, did not show signs of
 recovery during 2003. In effect, the accumulated variation for the
10,400 1,200 year showed a negative balance close to $2,840 million. 70%

10,000 800 of this decline corresponded to mortgage loans, while
 the rest to lines with pledge guarantees. In both types of credit, a
9,600 400 gradual deceleration of the rate of cancellations was observed
 throughout the year, although the variations continued to be negative
9,200 0

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 (see Chart 6.6). The scarcity of new operations in these
 Mortgages Pledges markets means that the natural cancellation of installments has
 a direct impact on stocks.

 Chart 6.7 Finally, loans to the private sector in dollars
 showed an increase of approximately US$15 million on average
 Loans to the Private Sector in Dollars in December compared to the previous month. However, these
millions of dollars Average Accumulated Variation 2003 credits ended the year with a decline close to US$165
 80 70 million on average compared to December 2002, which is equivalent
 60 to a year-on-year negative variation close to 11%. The most dynamic
 40 dollar lines were those related to foreign trade. This type of
 20 10 loans registered a year-on-year increase of approximately US$70
 0 million, equivalent to 12% with respect to the average stock at the
 -20 end of 2002. Credit card financing also showed growth compared
 -40 -20 -10 to the previous year, with an increase of US$10 million. The
 -60 -40 remainder of dollar loans showed year-on-year declines, as
 -80 observed in Chart 6.7.
-100 -85 -90
 Advances Documents Mortgages Pledges Personal Credit Cards Others

 7. Financial Asset Markets

 7.1. Foreign Exchange Market

 In December, the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market9
 returned to showing a surplus result that reached approximately
 Chart 7.1.1 US$735 million, exceeding by $150 million the corresponding to
 BCRA International Reserves* November. This was mainly due to the fact that the monthly flow of
 billions of dollars the merchandise balance increased by a similar magnitude as a
35 result of the combination of higher export collection (US$500
 Sep-01 million) partially offset by higher import payments (US$330
30 million).
 IMF Disbursement
 US$6,000 million
25 22-Feb-02 31-Dec-03 The counterpart to the aforementioned result was the net
 US$14,034 million US$14,119 million purchases of foreign currency from the private sector carried out
20 by the BCRA in the month under analysis, which reached US$718
 million. On the other hand, operations of the public sector that
15 US$14,000 million involved movements of foreign currency implied a decrease in
10 international reserves of approximately $190 million. In short, the
 Jan-03
 Payment to BID and IBRD US$1,300 balance of international reserves at the end of 2003 was US$14,119
 5 million million, US$636 million higher than at the end of November; totaling
 Jan-01 Jun-01 Nov-01 Apr-02 Sep-02 Feb-03 Jul-03 Dec-03 an annual increase of US$3,643 million (35%). As seen in
 Chart 7.1.1, the stock of reserves existing at the end of 2003 once
*Corresponds to the stock of Gold, foreign currency and time placements and includes foreign currency corresponding again exceeded US$14,000 million after 22 months.
 to Government Deposits.

 9 For further details see Report on the Evolution of the Foreign Exchange Market. Period December 2003.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

 In nominal terms, in December the peso depreciated
 Chart 7.1.2 against the currencies of its three main trading partners. In this
 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (basket/$)* respect, the peso registered depreciations of around 7.5%, 2.7% and
 110 Dec-01=100
100 2.3% with respect to the euro, the US dollar and the real
 90 respectively. Likewise, the peso depreciated 1.4% in real terms
 80 with respect to a basket of currencies that includes all

 70 those countries that represent more than 0.5% of the country's exports or
 60 imports that the country maintains with its different trading
 50 partners. With regard to the year 2003, significant
 40 stability of this variable is observed, reflecting an appreciation

 30 of the peso of 0.6%.
 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03
 *Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso

 7.2. Capital Market

 Most of the indicators of the internal capital market
 showed positive results in December. With respect to
 the stock market, it concluded the year becoming one
 of the best investments. For its part, sovereign bonds
 issued post-default became established as one of the
 most liquid instruments; while a good part of the issuers of
 negotiable obligations that had declared themselves in default
 from 2001 onwards initiated the process of restructuring their
 liabilities.

 7.2.1. Stocks

 Chart 7.2.1.1 The monthly return of the internal stock market,
 MERVAL Index measured through the MERVAL index, was 7.6% in December,
1200 Year accumulating a gain in pesos of 104.2% in 2003. For
 2003 the first time since the beginning of its preparation, on December 2
1000 the MERVAL closed above 1,000 points.
800
600 As can be seen in Chart 7.2.1.1, the trend
400 of the stock market was clearly positive in 2003,
200 having been influenced especially by the improvement in the level
 of internal activity, by the restructuring processes that
 0 began and in some cases concluded several of the most
 Jan-92 Jan-94 Jan-96 Jan-98 Jan-00 Jan-02 important companies operating locally and by the decreasing
 MERVAL in dollars MERVAL in pesos interest rates that provided alternative investments.

 In December, the average daily amount traded on the
 MERVAL was $65 million, 50% higher than in November and 54%
 higher than that corresponding to December of the previous year. The
 securities most traded in December were Grupo Galicia,
 Acindar and Petrobras, concentrating 33% of the total amount traded
 in the month.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

 Finally, it should be noted that starting in 2004, Aluar and Atanor
 shares will enter the MERVAL index, while Renault
 will cease to be part of the portfolio that makes up said index. In the
 first quarter of 2004, Grupo Galicia will be the one with the highest
 weighting within this indicator (21%), followed by Acindar
 (17.49%) and Petrobras (13.92%).

 7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds

 In December, the bonds of the National Government presented
 positive variations in their prices, while volumes
 decreased for seasonal reasons.

Chart 7.2.2.1 With respect to the BODEN, both those issued in
 BODEN 12 Performance of the BODEN BODEN 08 pesos and those denominated in dollars showed good
20 14 performance. In the month, the BODEN in dollars stood out,
 TIREA, in percentage for which improvements in parities were reflected in declines in their
19 13 Internal Rates of Return (IRR), having presented the BODEN
18 12 2012 a decrease in its IRR of 270 bps, while for the
 BODEN 2005 the decline in IRR was 615 bps with respect to the end
17 11 of November. Both bonds were favored by the increase
16 10 in demand from both local institutional investors and
15 9 foreign investors. For its part, looking at the data at the end of
 the month, BODEN 2008 registered a decline of only 170 bps in its
14 8 IRR. However, this deceleration in the pace of decline
 30-Sep 10-Oct 20-Oct 30-Oct 9-Nov 19-Nov 29-Nov 9-Dec 19-Dec of its IRR would be linked to the scarce liquidity that characterized
 BODEN 12 BODEN 08 December.
7.2.3. Corporate Bonds

In the same way as occurred throughout the year, in December the number of companies that initiated the process of restructuring their financial liabilities continued to expand.

¹⁰ To date, data on amounts traded on the MAE is only available. The comparison of amounts traded is based on information corresponding to this trading platform only.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

In this regard, Banco Hipotecario announced that on December 29, the completion of its exchange offers directed at holders of its Negotiable Obligations (ON) took place, clarifying that it will accept all validly received offers, which will be settled on January 14, 2004. The bank estimates that the amount of capital of existing securities offered was approximately US$913 million, which represents around 94% of the total capital amount of securities currently in circulation. It also announced that 100% of existing bank debt participated in the simultaneous restructuring of this type of liabilities.

Likewise, after several months of negotiation, Multicanal announced the deadline for its invitation to accept the Preventive Extrajudicial Agreement (APE). In this regard, the company reported that holders of an amount of capital of approximately US$343 million of existing debt had made offers or agreed to participate in the invitation for the Cash Option and in the invitation to accept the APE.

For its part, Metrogas announced on December 23 the extension of the deadline for its invitation to subscribe to an APE to holders of series A, B and C ON and to its bank creditors until January 20, 2004. At the same time, it reported that by that date it had received powers authorizing the subscription of the APE for an amount of approximately US$100 million (22% of its existing debt).

Having surpassed the legal majorities,¹¹ Acindar and its main creditors have subscribed to an APE. According to it, holders of financial debt may choose to receive ON in dollars, participation in a Syndicated Restructured Loan Contract in dollars, Non-Syndicated Restructured Loan Contracts in pesos or a Non-Syndicated Restructured Loan Contract in dollars. The company did not disclose the maturity date of its exchange offer.

During the month, Arte Gráfico Editorial Argentino (AGEA) issued an invitation to its holders of financial debt to subscribe to an APE, through which they may receive ON at 10 years (Par Option) or ON at 7 years and a cash sum (Combined Option) and/or cash payment (Cash Option). As of December 19, the company notified that it had received acceptances from 100% of debt holders subject to restructuring; however, no further details of the operation were disclosed.

## 8. Regulatory Changes with Impact on the Monetary Market

This section summarizes the main regulatory changes of relevance in monetary matters carried out by
11 An APE is a private restructuring agreement between a debtor that is in a situation of default or that has economic or financial difficulties and a certain percentage of its creditors. The Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law requires the debtor to have the support of creditors representing at least two thirds of its total outstanding debt and a majority of its creditors (based on the total number of creditors) in order to obtain judicial approval.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

the BCRA during the month of December 2003. The resolutions explicitly stated in this section completed the set of measures ruled by the BCRA throughout 2003 aimed at normalizing and simplifying the operations of the financial system and thereby contributing to the reestablishment of its function as an intermediary between savings and investment.

It is worth mentioning first of all that the BCRA had issued at the end of last November the Communication "A" 4051 by means of which it reduced, effective from December 1st, the reserve requirement on sight deposits, which went from 23% to 20%.

Likewise, through Communication "A" 4055 issued on December 2nd, the Board approved a set of measures aimed at facilitating the transformation of excess liquidity into new credit to the private sector. The requirements requested for credit securities to be considered as preferred guarantees "A" were relaxed, an increase was provided for in the amounts of new financing that banks can grant to companies classified in category 2 to 5 with a provisioning level equal to credits in normal situation (1%), the term for consideration of mortgages as preferred guarantees was increased by 18 months given the legal impediments for the execution of guarantees, and the increase in the limit (from 12.5% to 20%) in bank participations in the capital of companies taken over in defense of credit was extended for 12 months in order to facilitate the processes of debt refinancing with the financial system.

17 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages and Percentage Variations Average
Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Dec-02 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 46,300 44,813 43,911 35,431 3.3% 3.1% 30.7% 26.1%
Quasi-money (1) 922 1,315 2,181 7,762 -29.9% -30.0% -88.1% -88.5%

Monetary Base 45,378 43,498 41,729 27,669 4.3% 4.1% 64.0% 58.2%
Monetary Circulation 28,716 26,331 25,793 17,766 9.1% 8.8% 61.6% 55.9%
In Public Hands 25,424 23,413 22,937 15,439 8.6% 8.4% 64.7% 58.9%
In Financial Entities 3,292 2,918 2,855 2,327 12.8% 12.6% 41.5% 36.5%
Current Account at the BCRA 16,662 17,167 15,937 9,904 -2.9% -3.1% 68.2% 62.3%

BCRA International Reserves 13,820 13,285 13,247 10,265 4.0% 34.6%

Total Deposits in Pesos (2) 85,492 84,674 82,721 71,478 1.0% 0.8% 19.6% 15.4%

Private Deposits 69,850 69,353 68,519 63,784 0.7% 0.5% 9.5% 5.6%
Current Account 14,746 14,077 13,207 11,177 4.8% 4.5% 31.9% 27.3%
Savings Account 12,848 12,107 11,602 8,243 6.1% 5.9% 55.9% 50.4%
Fixed Term 30,448 31,099 31,391 16,919 -2.1% -2.3% 80.0% 73.6%
Other Deposits 4,837 4,698 4,559 3,972 3.0% 2.7% 21.8% 17.5%
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 1,717 1,738 1,759 3,784 -1.2% -1.4% -54.6% -56.2%
CEDRO including CER 5,255 5,633 6,001 19,689 -6.7% -6.9% -73.3% -74.3%

Public Sector Deposits 14,756 14,557 13,534 7,158 1.4% 1.2% 106.1% 98.9%

Total Deposits in Dollars (2) 1,898 1,743 1,678 834 8.9% 127.7%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (2) 53,063 53,913 54,453 61,923 -1.6% -1.8% -14.3% -17.3%
To the Private Sector 26.842 26.571 26.579 30.700 1.0% 0.8% -12.6% -15.6%
 Advances 4.388 4.173 4.130 4.376 5.1% 4.9% 0.3% -3.3%
 Documents 4.728 4.693 4.685 5.392 0.7% 0.5% -12.3% -15.4%
 Mortgages 9.318 9.368 9.527 11.310 -0.5% -0.7% -17.6% -20.5%
 Pledges 1.271 1.300 1.317 2.118 -2.2% -2.4% -40.0% -42.1%
 Personal 2.350 2.272 2.157 2.662 3.4% 3.2% -11.7% -14.9%
 Credit Cards 2.223 2.114 2.109 2.047 5.2% 5.0% 8.6% 4.8%
 Others 2.564 2.651 2.654 2.794 -3.3% -3.5% -8.2% -11.5%

 To the Public Sector 26.221 27.342 27.874 31.223 -4.1% -4.3% -16.0% -19.0%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (2) 1.445 1.412 1.380 1.543 2.3% -6.4%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 48.821 46.311 44.688 37.134 5.4% 5.2% 31.5% 26.8%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 64.717 61.449 59.267 46.563 5.3% 5.1% 39.0% 34.1%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 115.717 112.673 110.849 93.713 2.7% 2.5% 23.5% 19.1%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 41.092 38.805 38.326 34.377 5.9% 5.7% 19.5% 15.3%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 53.940 50.913 49.927 42.621 5.9% 5.7% 26.6% 22.1%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 94.479 92.343 91.879 83.201 2.3% 2.1% 13.6% 9.5%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2003 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3) Nominal Contribution (3)

 Broad Monetary Base 1.487 3.3% 3.562 8.3% 10.869 30.7% 10.869 30.7%
 Financial Sector -55 -0.1% -200 -0.5% -1.541 -4.3% -1.541 -4.3%
 Public Sector -59 -0.1% 723 1.7% 184 0.5% 184 0.5%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 557 -761 9.050 9.050
 Use of the National Government Account -61 2.269 -934 -934
 External Credit -555 -786 -7.932 -7.932
 Private External Sector 1.832 4.1% 4.299 10.1% 16.537 46.7% 16.537 46.7%
 BCRA Securities -237 -0.5% -1.205 -2.8% -4.918 -13.9% -4.918 -13.9%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money -6 0.0% -75 -0.2% -193 -0.5% -193 -0.5%
 Others (4) 11 0.0% 19 0.0% 890 2.5% 890 2.5%

 International Reserves 535 4.0% 1.366 11.0% 3.555 34.6% 3.555 34.6%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 657 4.9% 1.535 12.3% 5.705 55.6% 5.705 55.6%
 Payment to International Organizations -150 -1.1% -221 -1.8% -2.619 -25.5% -2.619 -25.5%
 Other Public Sector Operations -2 0.0% -3 0.0% -102 -1.0% -102 -1.0%
 Minimum Cash -25 -0.2% -66 -0.5% 359 3.5% 359 3.5%
 Repo Rate Valuation 44 0.3% 74 0.6% 11 0.1% 11 0.1%
 Others 32 0.2% 67 0.5% 220 2.1% 220 2.1%

 (1) At the end of December 2003, the quasi-money stock was corrected and the corresponding retroactive adjustments were made to the quasi-money series published by the BCRA, upon obtaining complete information in this regard.
 (2) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 (3) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 (4) Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.
 18 Monthly Monetary Report – DECEMBER 2003

Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02

Call between Private Banks in pesos
 Rate 1.69 1.65 1.52 1.49 6.52
 Amount 72 99 120 150 87

Time Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 3.71 4.32 4.53 4.49 22.78
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.93 3.55 3.83 3.69 25.10
 60 days or more 4.45 5.16 5.48 5.81 28.65
 In dollars
 30 days 0.58 0.51 0.59 0.59 1.78
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.70 0.76 0.81 0.77 2.25
 60 days or more 0.93 0.79 0.81 0.86 1.97

 Active Interest Rates Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Sep-03 Dec-02

Prime in pesos at 30 days 10.32 10.76 11.18 11.96 33.48
LEBAC Rates in Dollars
1 month | n/d | n/d | 0.00 | 0.00 | -0.01
2 months | -0.06 | 0.00 | -0.03 | n/d | n/d
3 months | -0.04 | 0.00 | n/d | n/d | n/d

## Secondary Market

Amount operated (daily average, millions of pesos) | 169 | 151 | 118 | 82 | 4

---

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Oct-03 | Sep-03 | Dec-02

## Dollar Spot
Wholesale | 2.96 | 2.88 | 2.86 | 2.92 | 3.48
Exchange Houses | 2.95 | 2.88 | 2.85 | 2.92 | 3.50
BCRA Reference | 2.96 | 2.88 | 2.86 | 2.92 | 3.49

## Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month | 2.97 | 2.89 | 2.86 | 2.93 | 3.52
INDOL 1 month | 2.96 | 2.89 | 2.86 | 2.93 | 3.54
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 1
ROFEX 1 month | 2.96 | 2.89 | 2.86 | 2.92 | 3.52
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 38 | 43 | 43 | 42 | 12

Real (Pesos per Real) | 1.01 | 0.99 | 1.00 | 1.00 | 0.96

Euro (Pesos per Euro) | 3.64 | 3.39 | 3.34 | 3.29 | 3.55

---

# CAPITAL MARKET | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Oct-03 | Sep-03 | Dec-02

## MERVAL
Index | 1020 | 950 | 882 | 775 | 506
Operating Volume (millions of pesos) | 65 | 43 | 55 | 53 | 42

## Government Bonds (per each FV 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) | 60.37 | 57.96 | 60.18 | 61.55 | 46.01
BODEN 08 ($) | 86.76 | 82.82 | 80.14 | 76.88 | n/d

## Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond | 1,345 | 1,459 | 1,344 | 1,256 | 1,912
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) | 372 | 405 | 435 | 463 | 842

20
