# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

APRIL 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1 • In April, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA)2 decreased $172 million,
positioning itself at $46,203 million, $70 million below the average
2. Monetary Program 2 balance of December 2003. As in the preceding months, in line with
the 2004 Monetary Program, the BCRA continued with its policy of
3. IMF Monetary Targets 2 monetizing the economy through stable interventions in the foreign
exchange market, offsetting the monetary contraction generated by
4. Interest Rates 3 the public sector and the financial sector.
• Interest rates remained at the low levels reached in previous
4.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 3 months. The implicit interest rates of the last LEBAC auction resulted
between 0.5 p.p. and 1.2 p.p. lower than those of the previous month
4.2. Interbank Market 4 for 3 and 6 month securities respectively, while interest rates for
those of longer duration remained stable. Interest rates for LEBAC
4.3. Passive Interest Rates 4 adjustable by CER decreased between 0.1 and 0.3 p.p.. Passive interest
rates remained at the floor reached the previous month, maintaining
4.4. Active Interest Rates 5 at 2.3% the rate for fixed-term deposits of up to 59 days. The same
occurred with the interbank market interest rate, which remained at its
5. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6 historic floor of 1.2%, and with the rate for advances, while the rate
for documentary loans decreased by 0.2 p.p..
5.1. Monetary Aggregates in • The most liquid monetary aggregates (M2) registered a significant
Pesos 6 increase of $1,050 million (45% y.o.y.), preference for liquidity that was
5.2. Deposits in Dollars 7 accentuated by the upcoming maturity in May of the income tax
corresponding to the 2003 fiscal year. Meanwhile, time deposits
5.3. Banking Liquidity 8 decreased $700 million in April; however, the broader monetary
aggregate (M3) in pesos (which includes the means of payment, time
6. Loans 9 deposits and other deposits) increased $480 million (18% y.o.y.).
• During April, loans in pesos to the private sector grew around
7. Financial Assets Market 10 $670 million (2.5%) on average, registering in the last 12 months an
increase of $360 million (1.3%), being the first positive year-on-year
7.1. Foreign Exchange Market 10 variation since early 2000. The lines that showed greater dynamism
continued being commercial loans, which increased around $510
7.2. Capital Markets 10 million (5.3%), and consumer loans, which grew about $230 million
(4.7%). Among loans with real guarantees, mortgages registered a new
7.2.1. Shares 10 decline –although smaller–, while secured loans (prendarios) grew for
the first time in the last four years.
7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 11 • In April, the peso appreciated in nominal terms with respect to the
real (2.3%), the dollar (2.1%) and the euro (4.3%). In real terms, it
7.2.3. Investment Funds 11 appreciated 3.3% with respect to a basket of currencies of the
country's main commercial partners, and so far this year 5.9%. In
7.2.4. Corporate Bonds 12 the last 12 months, real depreciation reached 3.3%.

8. Monetary and Financial
Indicators 14

1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed
in monthly averages of daily balances.
2 The variations in monetary aggregates take into account the adjustment
made the previous month due to the payment made to the IMF on March
9, which implied accounting variations in said aggregates with no
economic effect. For greater detail, see Monthly Monetary Report –
March 2004.

Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

2. Monetary Program
4.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

**Chart 4.1.1 Unlike what occurred during the last few months, in April there was a fall in interest rates on placements of the shortest duration securities, while those corresponding to LEBACs of more than 6 months of term remained at**
10.1
10 same levels as at the end of the previous month. From the comparison of
 30-Mar-04 8.7
 27-Apr-04 9.9 the implicit interest rates in the last issuance of the month

8 30-Mar-04 CER 7.2 8.3 with respect to those resulting from the last one in March, it emerges that the rates
 27-Apr-04 CER
6 6.8 for instruments of 3 and 6 months decreased by 0.5 and 1.2 p.p.
 5.0
 4.4 respectively. For their part, the interest rates for LEBAC
4 2.9 3.0 issued with CER adjustment decreased between 0.1 and 0.3 p.p. (see
 3.8
 1.5 1.8 Graph 4.1.1). Given the slight movements observed for the
2 2.6 2.5
 1.4 interest rates of longer duration, the implicit inflation in the
 1.2
0 spread between the cut-off rates of LEBAC in pesos and those
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
 duration (in days) adjustable by CER remained at the same levels as in recent
 months, being for the next 12 months of 5.3%. With respect to NOBAC, in the last auction of the month they were placed at
 a rate of 4.97%, 0.2 p.p. lower than that resulting from the last
 auction of this instrument in March.

Graph 4.1.2 During the month an increase in preference was observed for
 Allocation of titles in pesos by term instruments adjusted by CER, which concentrated somewhat more than

 year 2004 50% of the placements made. Among this type of titles stood out
VN billions of $ LEBAC 3 m. LEBAC 6 m. LEBAC 12 m. LEBAC with 24 months to maturity, which
 LEBAC 18 m. LEBAC 24 m. NOBAC pesos
 LEBAC 12 m. adj. CER LEBAC 18 m. adj. CER LEBAC 24 m. adj. CER acquired relevance already from March, the month in which they were
1.8
 NOBAC adj. CER Maturities introduced. In terms of marginal duration, in April the
1.5 participation of LEBAC of up to 6 months term was maintained at only

1.2 20% of the total placed. For their part, in the first four months
 of the year the placement of NOBAC never exceeded 9% of the
0.9 total allocations and was almost entirely explained by the

 Adjustable allocation of NOBAC adjustable by CER, with which the greater
0.6 by CER
 interest was concentrated in LEBAC of medium term, between 12 and
0.3
 Pesos 24 months. (see Graph 4.1.2).

0.0
 January February March April As stated above, the total stock of BCRA securities
 was located at the end of April at VN $13,088 million, of which VN
 $9,272 million corresponded to LEBAC issued in pesos, VN
 $3,026 million were LEBAC adjustable by CER, VN $572 million
 were composed of NOBAC, and the remainder belonged to LEBAC in
 dollars. The average life of the amount in circulation in pesos
 decreased in April by 10 days, being located at 272 days at the end of the month.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

 4.2. Interbank Market

 The interest rates agreed during April in the interbank market
 (call) remained at their floor, while the amounts operated registered a slight increase, while the
 Graph 4.2.1 volatility continued to be very low and the terms extended slightly.
 Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 business day

 %
 12
 The interest rates of call operations for terms
 Monthly average below 15 days remained around 1.2%, being,
 10 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
 as we said in previous reports, the lowest value of the

 8 last decades. The market has presented in recent months a very
 low volatility, of around 0.4 p.p. from August 2003 until

 6 January of this year, and of 0.3 p.p. in the last three months (see
 Graph 4.2.1), which is more a reflection of the abundant liquidity than

 4 of the proper functioning of the call market.
2
The average amounts operated increased by $30 million in April compared to the previous month, remaining at relatively low levels ($160 million). It is worth mentioning that the market presents a marked segmentation, where each entity does not operate homogeneously with all the others, but rather operations between entities of the same subgroup are much more frequent than between entities of different subgroups.

Graph 4.3.1 4.3. Passive Interest Rates
Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in pesos
percentage Monthly average
1000

900 60
During April, passive interest rates remained at the same levels as the previous month. As mentioned in the last Report, it is considered that these rates reached their floor, since they are at historical minimum values (see Graph 4.3.1).

50
800 40
700 30 The average interest rate was positioned at 2.3% for placements between 30 and 59 days, at 2.4% for deposits between 60 and 89 days and at 3.2% for impositions of more than 90 days.
600 20
500 10
400 0 When analyzing these interest rates by bracket of amount operated, in all terms it is observed that the interest rates for

300 Ene-00 Sep-00 May-01 Ene-02 Sep-02 May-03 Ene-04
impositions up to $100,000 presented slight declines that were

200 compensated by mild increases in interest rates for placements of more than $1 million (see Graph 4.3.2).

100 0 In the case of deposits up to $100,000, of which approximately 95% of the total operated corresponds to natural persons, the declining evolution of interest rates continued, being homogeneous for all terms. This led to a new downward shift of the yield curve for this type of placements. In effect, interest rates went from 3% to 2.9% in the 30 to 59 day bracket; from 3.4% to 3.2% in the 60 to 89 day segment; and from 3.9% to 3.6% for terms greater than 90 days.

 Sep-85 Sep-87 Sep-89 Sep-91 Sep-93 Sep-95 Sep-97 Sep-99 Sep-01 Sep-03
Note: From January to March 1990 no fixed-term operations were carried out due to the Bonex Plan.

Graph 4.3.2 On the contrary, in the case of placements of amounts greater than $1 million, of which more than 50% corresponds to financial services providing institutions, a slight upward shift of its yield curve is appreciated, as a result of the increase in interest rates in this segment. This represents a break in the declining behavior that these rates had been registering. However, it still cannot be considered as a change in trend due to being insignificant variations and presumably transitory, associated with the strategy of financial entities to attract funds in order to respond to the expected deposit outflows to meet the maturity in May of the income tax corresponding to the 2003 fiscal year4. In fact, for placements at terms greater than 60 days the rate increased 0.3 p.p., while in the 30 to 59 day bracket the rate remained stable at 1.6%.

Yield Curves of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
By amount bracket

percentage
4.5 MARCH 2004 APRIL 2004
4,0 Up to 100,000
More than 1,000,000
3,5

3,0

2,5

2,0

1,5

1,0
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days

4 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

4.4. Active Interest Rates5

Graph 4.4.1 Commercial Loans During April, active interest rates remained relatively stable at the levels reached the previous month. The interest rates of commercial loans recorded a slight decline (see Graph 4.4.1). The interest rate charged for
Documents advances in current account were placed at 17.1% on average, resulting equal to that of the previous month, while the amounts operated increased by $280 million. As explained in Section 6, most of the financing (86%) was directed to large clients. The interest rate of documentary loans was placed at 9.4% on average, resulting 0.2 percentage points lower than that of the preceding month.

The interest rates of consumer financing remained relatively stable (see Chart 4.4.2). The interest rate of personal loans was placed at 32.4% in April, 0.9 percentage points above that of the previous month, while the amounts operated were reduced by approximately $10 million. In the case of credit card financing, information is not yet available to make an estimate for April; however in March the interest rates showed a slight increase of 1 percentage point, placing themselves at 34.7%.

Financing with real guarantee presents a disparate behavior. In the case of pledged loans the average rate was placed at 13.5% in April, resulting 0.6 percentage points lower than that corresponding to the previous month. The amounts operated totaled $17 million and for the first time since the crisis erupted they exceed amortizations and prepayments, which is why the line presents growth in the month. Regarding mortgage credits, the interest rates were placed at 13.5%, 0.6 percentage points above the previous month, since some entities that do not operate regularly with this type of lines did so in April at rates higher than the rest, raising the average interest rate.

---

**Footnotes:**

4 The transitory nature of the interest rate increase will also depend on other factors such as the expected increase in the international interest rate although a significant effect is not expected.

5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through March, the April values were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

---

# 5. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

## 5.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

In April, the growth of the most liquid monetary aggregates accelerated. To the transfer of time deposits towards sight placements that had been experienced in recent months (see Chart 5.1.1) due to the impact of the tax on bank debits and credits (IDCCB), especially in a context of particularly low interest rates, is added in the last month the greater need for liquidity due to the payment of income tax corresponding to fiscal year 2003 which expires in May. In this way, a strong transfer of fixed-term deposits towards sight placements occurred on the part of companies, in order to obtain liquid resources in order to make said payment.
-50 Although, as noted in Section 2, currency in circulation in the hands of the public increased only $85 million (0.3% monthly and 21% year-on-year), demand deposits of the private sector registered an increase of $1,100 million (3.6% monthly, 48% year-on-year), while demand placements of the public sector decreased in the month by $135 million (1.4%), with an increase of 179% year-on-year.

**Chart 5.1.2 The increase in demand deposits of the private sector**
Monthly variation of demand deposits of the private sector
billions of $ based on monthly averages was explained almost exclusively by the stratum of deposits of more than one million pesos (see Chart 5.1.2), which was in response to the purpose of companies to accumulate liquid resources to meet the maturity in May of the income tax. Thus, they transferred to sight funds previously held at fixed term, or placed their resources in Investment Funds (FCI) of fixed term and money (money market), which in turn deposited these new funds on sight.

Thus, total means of payment in pesos (M2) grew in April around $1,050 million, which is equivalent to a year-on-year variation of 45%. Measured in relation to GDP they remain around 17%, a figure similar to that of the first months of the year, although it is 4 percentage points higher than that of a year ago.

**Chart 5.1.3**
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos** On the contrary, fixed-term placements in pesos
Monthly average balances evidenced a fall averaging close to $700 million (1.8%
billions of $ billions of $
15 25 monthly, 10% year-on-year), of which $320 million corresponded to
More than $1 million payment to IFI adjusted by CER and $380 million to fixed terms, while
More than $1 million corrected other deposits grew $130 million.

Less than $1 million (right axis)
14 24 The segment of fixed-term placements for amounts greater than $1 million was reduced by $40 million. In this bracket, a distinction must be made between operations carried out by the public sector, which registered a large increase associated with the increase in tax collection during the month, and those of the private sector, which fell as a consequence of the aforementioned transfer to sight. On the other hand, deposits of less than $1 million continued to decrease,

13 23 registering a decrease of $340 million (see Chart 5.1.3).

12 22

11 21
Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04

6 In this section, the gross figures of the accounting adjustment for payment to the IFI on March 9 are included in parentheses.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

As has occurred since October of last year, in terms of contractual term, the outflow of placements occurred almost entirely in the up to 59 days bracket, where a contraction of close to $400 million is observed. While the segment of 60 to 89 days remained relatively stable, presenting a reduction of approximately $30 million and impositions of more than 90 days registered an increase of approximately $60 million.

**Chart 5.1.4**
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos** It is worth noting that a large part of the growth that longer-term deposits have been registering is driven by funds from placements of less than 59 days (see Chart 5.1.4). In a context of low interest rates heavily affected by the IDCCB which translates into net returns

billions of $ Monthly average balances billions of $

8 26

7 25

6 24

5 23
60 to 89 days negative for shorter-term time deposits, depositors
4 more than 90 days 22
 up to 59 days (right axis) are incentivized to extend the term of their deposits or turn to
 up to 59 days corrected by IFI payment (right axis) more liquid placements. In this way, the average term of
 3 21
 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 collection rose to 42 days.

 The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) registered a
 growth of $480 with respect to the previous month (18% a.a.). In terms
 of GDP it is located around 28%, a figure that is slightly
 lower than that of the preceding months and 2 p.p. higher than that of a
 year ago.

 5.2. Deposits in Dollars

 The stock of deposits in dollars totals US$2,370 million
 in April, about US$200 million more than the previous month, which
 represents a growth of 123% year-over-year (a.a.). The monthly increase
 in April is the maximum recorded since August 2002 (when
 sustained growth of placements in foreign currency began).

 Graph 5.2.1
 Fixed-Term Deposits in US$
 Monthly Amount Operated Just as it happened in the last two months, in April the

 up to 30 more than 60 30 to 60 deposits in savings accounts had strong participation in the
 millions of US$ Individuals Legal Entities Public Sector monthly increase recorded, showing an increase of around US$140
600 up to 100,000 more than 100,000 million. For their part, time deposits increased in the month
 Type of Depositor Term Amount Stratum by
some US$50 million.
500

400 If the amounts operated by type of depositor are analyzed,

300 in the month a strong increase can be observed in the market participation
 of the public sector which went from representing 4% of
200
 operations in February, to 14% in March and 24% in April.

100 Individuals participate with 50% and private legal entities

 0 with 24%. Among renewals and new placements, US$546 million

 Apr-03 Aug-03 Dec-03 Apr-04 Jul-03 Nov-03 Mar-04 Jun-03 Oct-03 Feb-04were operated, mostly concentrated in the 30 to 60-day bracket and in amounts exceeding US$1,000,000. The average term of
 collection was in the month around 41 days (See
 Graph 5.2.1).

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

 5.3. Banking Liquidity

 With 27.4% of the total deposits held in current accounts
 at the BCRA and in cash by financial entities
 (1.2 p.p. more than the previous month), the level of liquidity existing in the
 Graph 5.3.1 financial system continues to be in April widely in excess.

 Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos
 % of deposits by bank group Broken down the information by bank group can
 of the group
 be observed that the situation of ample liquidity includes both
 12
 Private public and private banks. Specifically with respect to
 10
 Public the position of minimum cash in pesos, public banks
 8 increased their position by approximately 1.3 p.p. which is

 6 explained largely by the (partial) re-entry into the system of

 4 public funds that had been used for payment to the IMF the previous

 2 month. For their part, private banks also increased in

 0 April their liquidity in pesos with a minimum cash position 0.7

 -2 p.p. higher than that of March. As had been mentioned in

 -4 previous reports, with the growing dynamism in the credit market,
 private banks had reduced their liquidity both in
 -6
 Oct-02 Dec-02 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04February and March. The increase in liquidity this month, however,
 should not in principle be interpreted as a change in
 said behavior but rather, on the contrary, would respond to an
 accumulation of funds in April that would be destined in the first
 fortnight of May to the return of deposits given the
 expiration in May of the income tax corresponding
 to the 2003 fiscal year (See Graph 5.3.1).
For the total of the system, the position of minimum cash in pesos is equivalent to around 6.5% of total deposits (approximately $5,600 million of which $2,700 million correspond to public banks and $2,900 million to private ones), which represents an increase of 1 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

In the segment corresponding to dollar deposits, the liquidity in excess of the requirements demanded by the BCRA reached more than 60% of total deposits held in said currency7. In this regard, while the same could be applied by financial entities, as established by the BCRA in Com. A 4015, to export financing, interfinancial loans, BCRA Notes, financial trusts whose underlying assets are loans intended for export financing and loans to producers of final or intermediate goods that have endorsements from exporters, more than 90% of the total dollar deposits currently existing in the system are held in current accounts at the BCRA and in cash (see Chart 5.3.2). Private and public banks participate equitably with 50% participation in dollar liquidity.

Chart 5.3.2 Liquidity in Dollars
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04
% over excess liquidity above deposits required

If both segments are consolidated considering the total minimum cash position, the excess liquidity existing in the system during April was approximately $9,800 million equivalent to 10.5 p.p. of total deposits.

7 According to what was established by the BCRA, the failure to apply the lending capacity in foreign currency verified by financial entities in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement for said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities "truly" have is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement arising from applying legal reserve coefficients to foreign currency obligations is calculated, without considering the increase equivalent to the failure to apply resources.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

# 6. Loans

During April, loans in pesos to the private sector grew around $670 million (2.5%) on average, registering in the last 12 months an increase of $360 million (1.3%), being the first positive year-on-year variation since early 2000. The annualized growth of loans in the first months of the year (14%) is in line with the projections established in the Monetary Program. The lines that showed the greatest dynamism were commercial loans and consumer loans. Among loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans registered a new decline, while pawn loans grew for the first time since the crisis broke out.

Chart 6.1 Commercial Loans
millions of $ Average Monthly Var.

600
500 Documents on signature alone - Advances to large companies
400 Discounted documents - Advances to small customers
300 Documents purchased
200
100
0
-100
-200

In a context where favorable business expectations are maintained and the level of activity continues to increase, commercial loans increased around $510 million. This increase was driven by advances in current account, which in the month under analysis grew about $330 million (7.0%). Although much of this increase is a result of the carryover from the previous month where they registered extraordinary growth, since it is a line that is negotiated daily, this implies the
# Translation to English

-300 constant renewal of financing at the new level. Said financings
 corresponded to large companies for amounts
-400
 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 exceeding one million pesos. Documentary credits
 showed growth of around $180 million (3.9%),
 explained fundamentally by the increase in single
 signature documents (see Graph 6.1).
 Graph 6.2
 Consumer Loans Thanks to the gradual increase in employment, the
millions of $ Avg. monthly var. progressive wage recomposition, and greater labor
 150
 stability, the lines destined for consumption registered
100 in April an increase of $230 million (4.7%). In the case
 of personal loans, the increase was somewhat greater
50 than $110 million (4.3%), continuing with the growing
 0 trend that they have been registering since mid-last
 year. Regarding credit card financing, an increase of
-50
 more than $120 million (5.2%) is observed, also
-100 Personal explained, in part, by the extension until May of the
-150 promotions carried out on installment purchases without
 Credit cards interest that originally ended at the end of March (see
-200 Graph 6.2).
-250
 Credits with real collateral showed in the month under
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 analysis a drop of about $50 million (0.5%), in line
 Graph 6.3 with the declining trend they maintained during recent
millions of $ Real Guarantee Loans months. However, chattel loans experienced their first
 Avg. monthly var. positive average variation since the crisis broke out, which
50 is in line with what we anticipated in the previous
 0 report regarding this line approaching its inflection
 point. In the case of mortgage loans, a decline of
-50
 $65 million (0.7%) on average is observed, a decline
-100 similar to those of the first months of the year but
 considerably less than those of the previous year
-150 Mortgages (see Graph 6.3).
 Chattel loans
-200
-250 Regarding loans in dollars to the private sector, in
 April an increase of around US$25 million (1.9%) was
-300 observed, which was due almost entirely to increases
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 in the lines of advances and other loans.

 9 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

 7. Financial Assets Market

 During the month, the peso appreciated in nominal
 terms with respect to the currencies of the main trading
 partners and, after several months of consecutive increases,
 the MERVAL index yielded a negative result between
 month-end. Regarding sovereign bonds, peso-denominated
 securities were those that showed better performance;
 while in the corporate debt market some companies
 returned to the primary market.

 7.1. Foreign Exchange Market8

Graph 7.1.1

 millions of US$ Daily Foreign Exchange Purchases by BCRA percentage
 In April, BCRA purchases of foreign exchange from
70 20 the private sector reached US$830 million, equivalent
 Net daily foreign exchange purchase to a daily average of US$43 million (see Graph
 Foreign exchange purchases. Monthly moving average 18 7.1.1). Consequently, the balance at month-end of
60 BCRA participation % in total SIOPEL-Forex and Brokers. Monthly moving average (right axis) international reserves stood at US$15,763 million, a
 16
 level that is almost double that recorded at the low
50 14
 reached in January 2003. The average total daily
40 12 volume traded in foreign exchange, considering
 10 operations arranged through SIOPEL and in the
30 8 broker trading room, was 22% higher than March.

20 6
 As for the quotations of futures contracts for the
 4 peso against the US dollar, they decreased slightly for
10
 2
0 0 the terms up to 7 months (between 0.4% and 0.1%) and rose slightly
1-Dec-03 23-Dec-03 15-Jan-04 5-Feb-04 26-Feb-04 18-Mar-04 13-Apr-04 for terms greater than 9 months (between 0.1% and 0.2%). Said reduction
 Chart 7.1.2 in the reference exchange rate implied that yields,
 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Basket/$)* measured as annual nominal rates, rose slightly
 Dec-01=100 between 0.1 p.p. and 0.7 p.p. The amount traded on average in this
110 market9 during April amounted to $68 million daily, resulting in
 approximately 2.5 times higher than a year ago.
100

90 During the month the peso appreciated in nominal terms

80 with respect to the real (2.3%), the euro (4.3%) and the dollar (2.1%). Likewise, if

70 the evolution of the multilateral real exchange rate is considered, the peso
 appreciated 3.3% in real terms with respect to a basket of
60 currencies of the country's main trading partners, accumulating
 in the year a real appreciation of 5.9% and in the last 12 months
50
 a real depreciation of 3.3%. Considering the evolution of this
40
 variable, the real depreciation accumulated since December 2001 is
30
 of 53% (see Chart 7.1.2).
 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03
 *Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso.

 7.2. Capital Market

 7.2.1. Stocks

 For the first time in 8 months, the quotations of local
 stocks, measured through the MERVAL index, showed a balance

 8 For an analysis of the result of the Único y Libre de Cambios Market in March, see the Quarterly Report on Exchange Market
 Evolution that will be published shortly.
 9 Corresponds to operations arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX).

 10 Monthly Monetary Report –APRIL 2004

Chart 7.2.1
 Local Stock Market negative in April. According to this indicator, the price of variable
 MERVAL Index in pesos income securities decreased 10.3% in pesos and 10% in dollars.
 MERVAL millions of $

1,400 200 The potential unfavorable impact on productive processes of

 180 the lack of gas has been the most prominent factor that drove the
1,200 160
 Amount traded (right axis) negative performance of stocks. On the other hand, the possibility
 MERVAL 140 that future increases in interest rates in the
1,000
 120 United States might occur, would have had some influence on the

 800 100 behavior of prices.

 80
 600 60
 In this context, characterized by the fall of all local

 400 40 stock market indices, the amounts traded showed strong

 20 declines. The average daily trading volume of stocks
 200 0 that make up the MERVAL was $48 million, 38% lower than
 Jan-02 Apr-02 Jul-02 Oct-02 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04
 that recorded in March and the lowest so far this year.

 7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds

 Chart 7.2.2.1 Within the group of securities issued after the cessation of
 percentage Yield of BODEN
 payments, the behavior during April of bonds issued in
30
 pesos was well differentiated from those denominated in dollars. The
25 former were especially favored by the rating increase carried out by
 Fitch Ratings. This reclassification implied the
20 increase from CC to B- of the rating granted for long-term
 sovereign debt issued in pesos after the cessation of
15 payments and includes BODEN in pesos and Guaranteed
 Loans. The rating agency reported that the decision was because
10 it recognizes the government's willingness to continue paying the
 services of this debt and the intention to exclude it from the
5 BODEN 08 ($ adjustable by CER) restructuring process. In that sense, both BODEN 07 and
 BODEN 12 (US$) BODEN 08 recorded increases in their quotations, which

 0 implied decreases in their yield rates (measured
 Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 as Internal Rate of Return, IRR) of 1.3 p.p. and 0.5 p.p.

Chart 7.2.2.2
Traded amount of BODEN* respectively. Regarding BODEN in dollars,

millions of $ daily average, year 2004 percentage during the month showed increases in their YTM between 1 p.p. and 3.7
200 BODEN 2008 100
BODEN 2012 p.p.

Participation of BODEN 08 and 12 on total BODEN (2nd axis) 95

150 According to the data available at the moment, the

90 average trading volume of BODEN increased 7% compared to
that recorded the previous month. In April, the increase was
100 85
mainly explained by the increase in negotiations of

80 BODEN 2008, in line with what was mentioned in the previous paragraph.

50 The securities maturing in 2008 and 2012 continue to be

75 the most liquid. Both bonds concentrated more than 85% of the

0 70 transactions of this class of securities so far this year, reaching
January February March April around 95% in April.

*Corresponds to negotiations in the MAE.

7.2.3. Investment Common Funds

So far in 2004, the equity of investment common funds
grew 51%, reaching $6,720 million at the end of April. This increase
confirms the growing trend that this market has been recording since
the beginning of 2003 and consolidates its recovery, although it has
not yet reached pre-crisis levels. It should be noted that this increase
is explained, at least in part,

11 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

by the incidence of IDCCB, from which FCI deposits are
Graph 7.2.3.1 exempt.

Investment Common Funds
billions of $

7 The main increases in equity occurred in funds

Renta Fija (Fixed Income) called "money market", whose portfolio is composed
6 Renta Mixta (Mixed Income)
Renta Variable (Variable Income) of fixed-term deposits, sight deposits (in remunerated accounts) and
Fixed-Term and Money stock market repos and collateral, and in those of variable income, whose
5
investments are oriented towards the stock market (shares

4 mainly). In third place are fixed income funds,

3 which invest in public and private bonds, while the
equity of mixed income funds, which in their portfolio

2 combine different financial assets (bonds, shares and fixed-term
deposits), showed a slight negative variation (see Graph 7.2.3.1).

1 During the month of April, in particular, fixed-term and
money funds ("money market") experienced a strong increase,
0 greater than $600 million, as a product of the inflow of funds from
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 large companies that from mid-month, faced with the
May maturity of the income tax, transferred part
Graph 7.2.3.2 of their resources towards these instruments (see Graph 7.2.3.2). This
Money Market negatively influenced the profitability of these funds, given that when
billions of Equity of investment common funds of fixed-term and money in pesos
$ 5.2 anticipating that these were temporary resources, they were not invested
5.0 in fixed-term deposits, but rather deposited in remunerated sight
accounts. It is expected that the equity increase of these
4.8 funds will reverse during the first half of May, once
that the aforementioned tax payment is carried out, which would imply the
4.6 return to the previous structure of the portfolio of these funds.

4.4 The equity of the remaining investment common funds

4.2 did not present significant variations in April, except for those
of fixed income funds which increased by around $40 million,

4.0 which represents an increase of 26% compared to the previous month. This
1-Mar-04 8-Mar-04 15-Mar-04 22-Mar-04 29-Mar-04 6-Apr-04 15-Apr-04 22-Apr-04 30-Apr-04 growth is related to the good performance of sovereign bonds
in pesos, associated with the aforementioned increase in their
rating, which encouraged investors to place their resources
in this type of funds.

7.2.4. Corporate Bonds
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

During the month, Telefónica de Argentina S.A. announced that it arranged the issuance of the First Class of Negotiable Obligations (ON) for up to $300 million under the Global Program of ON of $1,500 million, in one or several series. In this regard, the company reported that it will conduct the first auction of this class of ON on May 4, where it expects to place $150 million of the so-called LESEP (Letters of the Private Sector). This instrument will be denominated in pesos, with a term of 364 days and will not accrue coupons, paying all capital at maturity. Both the auction mechanism and the characteristics of the LESEP will be similar to those of the LEBAC.

For its part, Petrobras Energía S.A. reported that it launched the expansion of series R of ON for an amount of US$100 million, maturing in October 2013, with a coupon of 9.375% annually, payable semi-annually, with a yield for the investor of 9.15% annually. The company notified that the funds will be applied to the cancellation of existing liabilities.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

Among the most important news in the corporate debt market, it can be mentioned that Banco de Galicia reported that it concluded the exchange offer made to the holders of its Negotiable Obligations (ON) and bank debt. On that occasion, the bank estimated that the total amount of debt capital validly presented for exchange amounted to US$1,328 million. The debt being restructured represents 98.6% of the total amount of capital of existing ON and bank debt subject to restructuring. Likewise, the bank reported that it will accept all existing ON that have been validly presented and expects that the settlement of the offers and the restructuring of bank debt will occur on May 18, 2004.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

**Main Monetary Variables and Financial System** | **Apr-04** | **Mar-04** | **Dec-03** | **Apr-03** | **Monthly Variation** | **Average Last 12 months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| Broad Monetary Base | 46,203 | 44,678 | 46,273 | 38,545 | 3.4% | 2.5% | 19.9% | 16.3% |
| Quasi-money | 111 | 111 | 894 | 7,674 | -0.5% | -1.3% | -98.6% | -98.6% |
| Monetary Base | 46,092 | 44,566 | 45,378 | 30,871 | 3.4% | 2.5% | 49.3% | 44.8% |
| Currency in Circulation | 29,581 | 29,265 | 28,716 | 19,947 | 1.1% | 0.2% | 48.3% | 43.8% |
| In the Hands of the Public | 26,291 | 26,206 | 25,424 | 17,555 | 0.3% | -0.5% | 49.8% | 45.3% |
| In Financial Entities | 3,290 | 3,059 | 3,293 | 2,393 | 7.5% | 6.6% | 37.5% | 33.4% |
| Current Account at BCRA | 16,511 | 15,302 | 16,662 | 10,924 | 7.9% | 7.0% | 51.2% | 46.6% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 15,255 | 13,507 | 13,820 | 10,588 | 12.9% | 44.1% |
| Total Deposits in Pesos (1) | 89,135 | 87,134 | 85,427 | 72,797 | 2.3% | 1.4% | 22.4% | 18.8% |
| Private Deposits | 70,815 | 70,908 | 69,897 | 64,403 | -0.1% | -1.0% | 10.0% | 6.7% |
| Current Account | 16,783 | 15,930 | 14,741 | 10,398 | 5.4% | 4.5% | 61.4% | 56.6% |
| Savings Account | 15,463 | 15,089 | 12,889 | 7,926 | 2.5% | 1.6% | 95.1% | 89.2% |
| Fixed Term | 28,179 | 29,232 | 30,450 | 26,379 | -3.6% | -4.4% | 6.8% | 3.6% |
| Other Deposits | 4,810 | 4,722 | 4,847 | 4,329 | 1.9% | 1.0% | 11.1% | 7.8% |
| Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) | 1,601 | 1,631 | 1,717 | 2,151 | -1.8% | -2.7% | -25.6% | -27.8% |
| CEDRO including CER | 3,980 | 4,303 | 5,254 | 13,220 | -7.5% | -8.3% | -69.9% | -70.8% |
| Public Sector Deposits | 17,405 | 15,509 | 14,633 | 7,968 | 12.2% | 11.3% | 118.4% | 111.9% |
| Total Deposits in Dollars (1) | 2,372 | 2,099 | 1,895 | 1,063 | 13.0% | 123.2% |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1) | 51,598 | 50,361 | 49,962 | 60,182 | 2.5% | 1.6% | -14.3% | -16.8% |
| To Private Sector | 27,769 | 27,098 | 26,826 | 27,408 | 2.5% | 1.6% | 1.3% | -1.7% |
| Advances | 5,035 | 4,706 | 4,386 | 3,783 | 7.0% | 6.1% | 33.1% | 29.1% |
| Documents | 4,944 | 4,762 | 4,727 | 4,756 | 3.8% | 3.0% | 4.0% | 0.9% |
| Mortgage | 8,979 | 9,044 | 9,317 | 10,451 | -0.7% | -1.6% | -14.1% | -16.7% |
| Pledge | 1,251 | 1,234 | 1,270 | 1,607 | 1.4% | 0.6% | -22.1% | -24.5% |
| Personal | 2,691 | 2,580 | 2,333 | 2,230 | 4.3% | 3.4% | 20.7% | 17.0% |
| Credit Cards | 2,407 | 2,286 | 2,227 | 1,872 | 5.3% | 4.4% | 28.6% | 24.7% |
| Others | 2,462 | 2,487 | 2,565 | 2,709 | -1.0% | -1.8% | -9.1% | -11.8% |
To the Public Sector 23.829 23.263 23.136 32.774 2.4% 1.6% -27.3% -29.5%

Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1) 1.333 1.412 1.444 1.405 -5.6% -5.2%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Accounts in Pesos and Dollars) 50.779 49.186 48.724 38.680 3.2% 2.4% 31.3% 27.3%
M2 (M1 + Savings Accounts in Pesos and Dollars) 71.047 68.307 64.646 47.786 4.0% 3.1% 48.7% 44.2%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 120.630 117.879 115.615 98.956 2.3% 1.5% 21.9% 18.2%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Accounts Private Sector) 43.185 42.247 41.059 35.627 2.2% 1.4% 21.2% 17.6%
M2 (M1 + Savings Accounts Private Sector) 58.648 57.336 53.948 43.552 2.3% 1.4% 34.7% 30.6%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 95.616 95.594 94.498 87.480 0.0% -0.8% 9.3% 6.0%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2)

Broad Monetary Base 1.525 3.4% -908 -1.9% -70 -0.2% 7.658 19.9%
Financial Sector -131 -0.3% -341 -0.7% -432 -0.9% -1.515 -3.9%
Public Sector 333 0.7% -2.527 -5.4% -2.877 -6.2% -2.667 -6.9%
Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers -2.499 500 63 5.091
Use of the National Government Account -4 -834 -484 -564
External Credit 2.836 -2.193 -2.456 -7.194
Private External Sector 1.758 3.9% 3.605 7.7% 5.463 11.8% 17.509 45.4%
BCRA Securities -457 -1.0% -1.815 -3.9% -2.392 -5.2% -6.138 -15.9%
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -33 -0.1% -220 -0.6%
Other (3) 22 0.1% 170 0.4% 201 0.4% 5.216 13.5%

International Reserves 1.748 12.9% 771 5.3% 1.435 10.4% 4.667 44.1%
Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 617 0.3% 1.251 -4.8% 1.886 13.7% 6.183 58.4%
Payment to International Organizations 1.026 0.3% -692 -4.8% -757 1.2% -2.189 -20.7%
Other Public Sector Operations 43 0.3% 171 1.0% 169 1.2% 76 0.7%
Minimum Cash 92 0.7% 139 1.0% 171 1.2% 327 3.1%
Repo Rate Valuation -53 -0.4% -110 -0.8% -63 -0.5% -29 -0.3%
Other 23 0.2% 12 0.1% 30 0.2% 318 3.0%

(1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
(2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
(3) Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

Note: Figures not adjusted for the payment to IFI in the month of March.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2004

Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Apr-04 Mar-04 Feb-04 Dec-03 Apr-03

Call Between Private Banks in Pesos
Rate 1.24 1.25 1.29 1.69 6.44
Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 123 90 118 72 220

Time Deposits
In Pesos
30 days 2.14 2.38 2.31 3.71 21.20
30-44 days, more than 1 million 1.57 1.62 1.62 2.93 21.72
60 days or more 2.63 2.64 2.88 4.45 23.24
In Dollars
30 days 0.52 0.55 0.52 0.58 1.10
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.55 0.61 0.63 0.70 1.70
60 days or more 0.90 0.95 0.88 0.93 0.86

Active Interest Rates Apr-04 Mar-04 Feb-04 Dec-03 Apr-03

Prime in Pesos at 30 Days 6.67 7.86 9.50 10.32 28.07

Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 1.98 1.82 1.55 3.33 16.07
Volume traded (total maturities) 65 58 50 63 228

Loans in Pesos (1)
Current Account Overdrafts 17.14 19.90 23.54 54.44
Documents on Signature Only 9.60 10.52 11.03 23.98
Mortgage 12.85 12.25 13.62 22.03
Pledge 14.14 14.25 16.12 17.71
Personal 31.50 34.15 33.55 51.65
Credit Cards 33.02 33.66 34.88 67.03

Reference Rates Apr-04 Mar-04 Feb-04 Dec-03 Apr-03

LIBOR
1 month 1.10 1.09 1.10 1.15 1.31
6 months 1.28 1.16 1.19 1.24 1.28

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.06 1.55 1.71 1.88 1.60
10 years 4.34 3.81 4.06 4.25 3.93

FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25
Secondary Market

Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 87 106 106 169 17

## Foreign Exchange Market Apr-04 Mar-04 Feb-04 Dec-03 Apr-03

**Spot Dollar**
- Wholesale 2.84 2.90 2.93 2.96 2.90
- Exchange houses 2.83 2.90 2.93 2.95 2.90
- BCRA Reference 2.84 2.90 2.93 2.96 2.89

**Forward Dollar**
- NDF 1 month 2.85 2.90 2.93 2.97 2.92
- INDOL 1 month 2.85 2.90 2.94 2.98 2.97
- Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 1 1 1 1 3
- ROFEX 1 month 2.83 2.89 2.93 2.96 2.90
- Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 68 88 55 38 28

**Real (Pesos x Real)** 0.97 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.93

**Euro (Pesos x Euro)** 3.40 3.55 3.71 3.64 3.16

## Capital Market Apr-04 Mar-04 Feb-04 Dec-03 Apr-03

**MERVAL**
- Index 1150 1223 1122 1020 601
- Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 48 77 76 65 55

**Government Bonds (per each Par Value 100)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$) 66.53 66.24 62.93 61.70 52.68
- BODEN 08 ($) 86.64 94.56 92.54 87.72 n/d

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.080 1.044 1.182 1.355 1.472
- EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 414 395 393 372 610

16
