# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

## Monthly Monetary Report

AUGUST 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1
   • In August, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) registered an increase of $12 million compared to the previous month, standing at $46,618 million and showing a year-on-year variation of 8.5%. The BMA adjusted by passive repo operations increased $359 million compared to July (17.7% annual rate), positioning itself near the center of the bands established in the Monetary Program for the third quarter of the year.

2. Monetary Program 2
   • Monetary policy continued to supply liquidity to the economy through the most liquid market, the foreign exchange market –the BCRA's intervention in the exchange market represents in August only 6% of the total volume traded in said market–, thereby offsetting the contractionary effects of the financial system and the public sector.

3. Interest Rates 3
   • The BCRA continued to participate actively in the repo market, with the objective of setting a short-term reference interest rate, conducting both passive and active repo operations. The BCRA's actions had an important spillover effect on the interbank market, which operated around $600 million daily, thereby quadrupling the size of said monetary market compared to the beginning of the year.

3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 3
   • The rates operated by the BCRA (2.5% for passive repos and 3.5% for active repos, both at 7 days) in the repo market established themselves as short-term reference rates. In the interbank market, interest rates for 7-day operations were converging toward the rate corridor established by the BCRA, and around 80% of operations in this segment were agreed at rates between 2.5% and 3.5% (whereas in June only 30% of operations were within the corridor). Passive interest rates rose gradually, especially in the wholesale segment. Meanwhile, active interest rates remained stable.

3.2. Interfinancial Markets 4
   • Total means of payment increased $930 million, registering an increase of 1.2% in the month (40% annual rate). Meanwhile, time deposits increased again in August ($940 million), especially those in the wholesale segment of the private sector, with the increase concentrated in placements adjustable by CER for periods exceeding 90 days. However, for the first time since October of last year, fixed-term deposits of the private sector not adjustable by CER showed a positive average variation of around $30 million. The broadest monetary aggregate (M3) increased $1,460 million (1.2% in the month and 19% annual rate).

3.2.1 Repo Market 4
   • Loans continued to grow during August ($440 million), accumulating in the year an increase of $3,680 million (which implies an increase of 0.7 percentage points in terms of GDP). It is observed that the shortest-term lines (overdrafts and credit cards) have lost participation in August and, thanks to the strong increase in pledge loans, an extension of the terms can be appreciated.

3.2.2 Interbank Market 4
   • The peso depreciated in nominal terms with respect to the real (3.1%), the dollar (1.9%), and the euro (1.3%). The Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index shows that the peso depreciated 2.2% in August, accumulating a real depreciation (gain in competitiveness) of 5.4% in the last 12 months.

3.3. Passive Interest Rates 5

3.4. Active Interest Rates 6

4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 7

4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 7

4.2. Dollar Deposits 9

4.3. Banking Liquidity 9

5. Loans 10

6. Financial Assets Market 12

6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 12

6.2. Capital Markets 13

6.2.1. Stocks 13

6.2.2. Public Securities 14

6.2.3. Investment Funds 14

6.2.4. Private Securities 15

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators 16
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

2. Monetary Program

In August, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) registered an increase of $12 million compared to the previous month, placing itself at $46,618 million and showing an interannual variation of 8.5%. The slight variation in August can be broken down into the increase of $80 million in currency in circulation and the decrease of $68 million in banking reserves in pesos.

Chart 2.1 As explained in the Monthly Monetary Report

Broad Monetary Base Adjusted for Repos and Monetary Program
thousands of corresponding to the month of July, based on the active participation
millions of $ of the BCRA in the development of the local repo market, the most

60 BMA + passive repos appropriate way to evaluate compliance with the Monetary Program

BMA + passive repos - 30-day moving average consists of comparing the trajectory of the BMA adjusted for passive repos

55
Bands Monetary Program with the bands established in said program. In August, the

50 evolution of the BMA plus passive repos for the BCRA was

compatible with that provided for in the Monetary Program, showing an
45 increase of $359 million compared to July (17.7% y-o-y) (see Chart

40 2.1).

Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 The continuation of the process of creating a short-term reference
Source: BCRA interest rate continued to be carried out primarily through the arrangement of passive repos² for the BCRA and, to a lesser extent, through active repo operations for this institution. Both types of transactions involved a decrease in the BMA of $324 million.

As has been observed throughout the year, both the public sector and the financial sector proved to be contractionary factors for the BMA. Financial entities continued canceling rediscounts according to the schedule established in the assistance cancellation scheme for illiquidity, known as "matching," which led to a contraction of the BMA in August of $165 million.

Chart 2.2

Broad Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors
millions of $ (August 2004) Likewise, the financing of payments made to International
2,000 Financial Institutions (IFI) during the month with funds deposited in the financial system caused the public sector to also lead to a reduction

1,500 in the BMA balance ($557 million).

1,000 For its part, the primary placement of LEBAC and NOBAC led to a reduction in the BMA of $173 million.

500

0 Considering that both operations of the public sector and those of the financial sector continued to contract the BMA, the

-500 demand for liquidity continued to be satisfied through the purchase of foreign currency from the private sector. In August, net

-1,000 purchases of foreign exchange from this sector amounted to $1,483 million (see Chart 2.2).

Financial Sector Public Sector Private Sector Titles BCRA External Sector Others BMA

Source: BCRA ² A passive repo for the BCRA is an operation through which it sells a security on a cash basis in exchange for pesos and repurchases it at a future date.

2 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

Chart 3.1.1 3. Interest Rates

TNA, % Interest rates for 12-month LEBAC
40

35 The interest rates operated by the BCRA (2.5% for passive repos and
30 Pesos 3.5% for active repos, in both cases at 7 days) were imposed as short-term reference rates. In the interbank market, there was
25 Adjustable by CER increased activity from when the BCRA began its repo operations.
Inflation 12-month implicit Interest rates for 7-day call operations converged to this corridor of
20 REM Forecast 12-month inflation
15 rates established by the BCRA. Passive interest rates
10

5
0 rose gradually, especially in the wholesale segment. The same occurred with some active interest rates, particularly those of shorter maturity.

-5
 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04

 Source: BCRA

 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

 In the primary market, the interest rates of the LEBAC did not
 Chart 3.1.2 show significant variations with respect to July. The interest rates

 NV, thousands of Placement and Maturity of Securities of the 12-month LEBAC, both those in
 millions of $ (In pesos and adjustable by CER)
 pesos and those of the instruments adjustable by CER, according

2.0 to the result of the last placement of the month, increased around

1.5 0.2 p.p. with respect to the last auction of July. However, the rates

1.0 corresponding to the LEBAC adjustable by CER of longer maturity

0.5 recorded decreases between 0.1 and 0.3 p.p.. Likewise, the implicit

0.0 rate in the auctions of NOBAC adjustable by CER decreased 0.5 p.p.

-0.5 with respect to July, standing at 2.8% at the end of the month. The

-1.0 implicit inflation in the margin between the interest rates of the

-1.5 Maturity LEBAC CER Maturity LEBAC $ LEBAC in pesos and those adjustable by CER of 12 months, stood at
 Adjudication LEBAC $ Adjudication LEBAC CER the end of August at 6.9%, 0.5 p.p. below the forecasts of the
-2.0 Adjudication NOBAC $ Adjudication NOBAC CER
 Net Placement REM for this variable (see Chart 3.1.1).

 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04

 Source: BCRA

 At the end of the month, the total amount in circulation of the
 securities issued by the BCRA was 3% lower than that in effect at the
 end of July and reached NV $13,635 million (see Chart 3.1.2). The
 participation of the instruments adjustable by CER in this total was
 46%, 3 p.p. higher than a month earlier; while the NOBAC and
 LEBAC in pesos represented 52% of the total balance and the LEBAC
 in dollars 1%.

 Chart 3.1.3

 Yield Curves of Securities Issued by the BCRA

 % (Based on secondary market prices)

8 In the secondary market, according to the prices agreed at the end

7 of the month, the rates of LEBAC in non-adjustable pesos declined

6 30 August Pesos homogeneously along the yield curve around 0.5 p.p. with respect

5 30 August adjustable by CER operations agreed of LEBAC adjustable by CER implied to July, while those corresponding to

4 27 July Pesos certain flattening of the curve for this type of instruments, observing
 27 July adjustable by CER a reduction of approximately 0.4 p.p. in the interest rate of the longer

3 LEBAC and a slight increase in the rate of the 12-month LEBAC (see

2 Chart 3.1.3).

1

0

-1
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Source: BCRA duration (days)

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

 3.2.1. Repurchase Agreement Market

 In August the BCRA continued to actively participate in the
 development of the local repurchase agreement market, executing
 Chart 3.2.1.1 operations of both passive and active repurchase agreements. This

 Repurchase Agreement Operations in the Local Market behavior of the BCRA influenced transactions in the interbank

 (Average daily traded on the MAE) market to show higher levels in comparison to the first months
 millions of $
1,200 of the year. Likewise, the average daily traded of call repurchase

 Call agreement operations between private parties increased 24% with respect to
1,000 Repurchase agreements with BCRA the previous month and was more than 6 times higher than that of the
 Repurchase agreements between private parties
 800 first 5 months of the year (see Chart 3.2.1.1).

 600 The average amount of repurchase agreement operations in which

 400 the BCRA intervened was $822 million, 2% higher than that

 Maturity corresponding to July. Unlike the previous month, in August the
 Gains
3.2.2 Interbank Market

The interbank (call) market continued in August to increase its activity, which is a reflection of the normalization process of the monetary market induced by the repo operations implemented by the BCRA. In this way, the amounts traded reached $590 million daily. Simultaneously, interest rates continued to rise. In mid-July interest rates had begun to rise, approaching levels more in line with the short-term reference rate established by the BCRA through its repo operations, a process that continued in August. Thus, interest rates that started the month at around 2% rose to reach 2.5% and then retreated 0.2 percentage points at the end of the month (see Graph 3.2.2.1). On average, the call market interest rate resulted in 2.2% in August, which implies an increase of 0.2 percentage points compared to the previous month.

As we noted in previous reports, the interbank market continued to be a segmented market. By bank group it can be observed that public banks continued consolidating themselves as the main fund providers, concentrating 43% of the amounts granted and taking less than 1% of the funds, a situation originated by the large inflow of public sector deposits derived from government budget surpluses. The main demanders continued to be foreign capital entities, which absorbed 85% and granted 23% of the funds. Domestic private entities had a participation of 34% in the total funds granted and 15% of the amounts demanded.
6 The 7-day segment has seen its relevance increased
 Average
 Average ± 1 Std Dev since repo operations began; the average stock
 5
 represented in August approximately 30% of the total, while
 4 in the previous month operations at terms between 5 and 9 days

 3 represented 20% of the total call stock and in April barely 15%.
 In this segment it is observed that interest rates, which
 2 presented great dispersion in June, had converged by
 mid-July to a range between 2.5% and 3.5% established by
 1 repo operations with the BCRA, and remained on average
 0
 3-May 18-May 2-Jun 17-Jun 2-Jul 17-Jul 1-Aug 16-Aug 31-Aug within this corridor throughout August (see Chart 3.2.2.2).

 Source: BCRA However, some operations agreed at rates outside this range
 are still observed, although such operations represented in
 August only 20% of the amounts and 30% of the operations in
 this segment (while both represented in June
 around 70%).

 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

 Chart 3.3.1 Passive interest rates registered an increasing evolution
 Yield Curves of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos during August. Thus, an increase was observed in the interest
 (By amount bracket) rate in the wholesale segment (placements exceeding $1

 % million) at shorter terms, which generated a spillover effect on the
4.5 JULY 2004 AUGUST 2004
 rest of the passive rates, observing at month-end increases in
 Up to 100,000 all terms, including in the retail segment (operations
 More than 1,000,000
 less than $100,000).

4.0

3.5 Interest rates on placements of amounts exceeding
 $1 million increased 0.6 p.p., observing the most
3.0 pronounced increase in operations agreed at terms exceeding
 90 days (0.7 p.p.) which were agreed at an average rate of 4.4%. For
2.5
 their part, deposits between 30 and 59 days reached 3% and
2.0
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 9030 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 operations between 60 and 89 days 3.1%. In the retail segment,
 days days
Source: BCRA the same behavior was maintained in that interest rates on

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 Chart 3.3.2 placements of shorter terms presented increases smaller than
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-44 days those observed in longer terms. In the bracket up to 90 days,
 (5-day moving average)
 Private Banks Public Banks the interest rate increased only 0.1 p.p. while for the average
 % Less than $100,000 % More than $1,000,000 of terms exceeding 90 days the interest rate increased 0.4 p.p.
4.3 5.0
 and stood at 4.1% (see Chart 3.3.1).
4.1 4.5

3.9 4.0 The shortest term bracket, 30-44 days, continued

3.7 3.5 representing around 70% of total operations³. Wholesale
 3.5 operations in this segment, which in turn represent 70% of
3.0
3.3
 the total of this bracket and are those that show greater
3.1 2.5
 sensitivity to changes in the money market, were those that
2.9 2.0
 registered the greatest growth in terms of yield, in particular,
2.7 1.5
 those carried out by private entities. In fact, the interest rate
2.5 1.0
 paid by privately-capitalized banks increased 1 p.p., placing
2.3 0.5
 itself at 4.2%, while that of publicly-capitalized banks rose only
 E-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04 J-04 J-04 A-04 E-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04 J-04 J-04 A-04
Source: BCRA 0.1 p.p. to stand at 2%. The relatively stable evolution of these
 latter interest rates is related to the comfortable liquidity
 situation faced by public entities, due to the continuous
 inflow of funds originating in

 Chart 3.3.3
# Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-44 days tax collection. For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rates
(Private banks - 5-day moving average) of interest paid by private banks registered an increase of 0.2

% Tax on profits maturity
28 up to $100,000 p.p., positioning itself at 3.2%, while the interest rates offered
 more than $1 million
24 by public banks remained stable at 2.5% (see
% July - August 2004
5.0 Chart 3.3.2).

20
4.0
16 It should be noted that, in the case of private entities, for
3.0
12 the first time since mid-April 2003 the interest rate for

2.0 wholesale placements is higher than that corresponding to
1-Jul-04 20-Jul-04 5-Aug-04 24-Aug-04 retail deposits4. This phenomenon is partly associated with the
8
4 greater stability presented by these latter rates, given that
operations up to $100,000 are of an atomized nature and that the
0 majority of holders of these deposits are private individuals.
8-Jan-03 19-Mar-03 3-Jun-03 14-Aug-03 27-Oct-03 9-Jan-04 19-Mar-04 3-Jun-04 17-Aug-04
 Source: BCRA
 In contrast, the wholesale segment is relatively more concentrated
 and, as noted, more sensitive to variations in interest rates
 from other markets, as its main operators are legal entities and
 institutions providing financial services (see
 Chart 3.3.3).

 Chart 3.4.1
 Commercial Loans
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
60 3.4. Active Interest Rates5

50

 Overdrafts In a context such as the one mentioned so far, of increases
40 Documents both in the interest rates of the call market and those of
 fixed-term deposits, which are being aligned with the short-term
30 reference interest rates set by the BCRA through
 its repurchase operations, it is observed that active interest rates remain
20 stable, registering only slight increases in some short-term
 lines.
10

 0
Source: BCRA Dec-02 Apr-03 Aug-03 Dec-03 Apr-04 Aug-04

 3 Operations adjustable by CER are not included due to lack of data on interest rates operated.
 4 Without considering the payment periods of the balance statement of the corporate income tax return with closing balance in
 December.
 5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to
 June, the values for July and August were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the
 private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report - AUGUST 2004

 In August the interest rates on overdrafts in current
 accounts increased by 0.2 p.p., positioning themselves around
 14.4% (see Chart 3.4.1). By type of client, heterogeneous
 behavior is observed; the interest rates charged for
 overdrafts in current accounts of large clients (companies for
 amounts exceeding $1 million) are those that explain the increase. In
 contrast, the interest rates for small clients (private individuals
 and companies for amounts less than $1 million) fell
 slightly (0.1 p.p.). It should be recalled that the interest rates of the
 first group of clients continue to be below 10%, while
 Chart 3.4.2 that of the rest is around 20 p.p. higher than this. In the case of
 Consumer Loans documents, the increases were somewhat smaller, of 0.1 p.p. on
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) average, positioning themselves in August at 9.9%, and this behavior
70 is homogeneous by type of client.

65 Personal In the case of personal loans, in August a slight decrease
60 Credit Cards of 0.3 p.p. in interest rates was observed, positioning themselves at the
55 levels reached in June, of approximately 27.6%. (see Chart
50 3.4.2). Disaggregated by term, a decrease in the rates of the
45 financings arranged for more than 180 days and an increase in

40 those of loans granted at shorter terms. However, longer-term
 financings represent approximately 90%
35
 of the total of the line. As of the publication date, no new
30 information is yet available on the interest rates applied to
25 financings with credit cards, and the last available information
 Dec-02 Apr-03 Aug-03 Dec-03 Apr-04 Aug-04
Source: BCRA corresponding to June reflects a decline of 1.9 p.p., in
 line with what occurred with interest rates on personal
 loans that month.

 With respect to loans with real guarantees, in August the
 rates on mortgage loans increased by 0.1 p.p. and that of
 pledge loans by 0.2 p.p., standing at 11.9% and 13.6%
 respectively. However, from a longer-term perspective, it is
 observed that during the course of the year interest rates on
 mortgage loans have accumulated a decline of 1.7 p.p. and of 2.5
 Chart 4.1.1 p.p. in the case of pledge loans.

 Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 % (Year-on-year Variation)

50
 M2

45 M3
 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity
40

35

30 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

25

20 The evolution of monetary aggregates continued to be
 positive during August, although a deceleration in its rate of
15
 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 growth is observed in relation to the preceding months. It should

 Source: BCRA be recalled that the strong increases in May and June responded
 mainly to the increase in deposits from the public sector, as
 a consequence of the inflow of extraordinary tax funds, and
 that the increase evidenced last month was of a seasonal
 nature, having been induced in large part by currency in
 circulation in the hands of the public.

 In August, currency in circulation in the hands of the public
 showed a slight increase of close to $80 million, which represented a

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 Chart 4.1.2 variation of 0.3%, which implies a year-on-year variation of 23%,

 thousands of Deposits in Pesos thousands of
 
 millions of $ (Average monthly balances) millions of $ similar to that of last month.
 28 78
 Public Sector
 26 Private Sector (right axis) 76 Sight deposits, for their part, grew by $850

 24 74 million, driven by deposits in savings accounts, which

 22 72 increased by $1,250 million, while resources in current
 accounts decreased by $400 million. Most of the
 20 70 dynamics behind these variations is explained by deposits from the

 18 68 public sector (see Chart 4.1.2). At the beginning of the month an

 16 66 important transfer of public funds was observed from current
 account to savings accounts, as a result of the reallocation of
 14 64 portfolios related to social security. In turn, from mid-month
 onwards, deposits in public savings accounts were fed by the

 12 62
 inflow of funds originating from tax collection. Both
 10 60
 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 movements resulted in an increase of $1,440 million in

 Source: BCRA deposits in savings accounts of the public sector, offset in
 part by a decline of $290 million in current accounts of
 that sector. In the case of the private sector, a transfer of
 funds from current account to savings accounts was also
 evidenced, which took place in the segment of deposits
 exceeding $1 million. This transfer explains the decline of
 $110 million registered in the private current account and
 the increase of $120 million in wholesale private savings
 accounts, which offset in part the decline, of a seasonal
 nature, of $310 million in retail funds (under $1 million) in
 private savings accounts.
 Chart 4.1.3
 The aforementioned increases in transactional deposits
 and currency in circulation in the hands of the public, resulted
 Deposits in Pesos in an increase of $930
 thousands of
 millions of $ (Daily balances)

50
 Sight Time
 48
# Translation to English

46 million of M2, which implied a monthly growth of 1.2%. In

44 year-on-year terms, this aggregate showed an increase of 40%, 4 p.p.
 lower than that of last month.
42

40 On the other hand, fixed-term deposits showed a
 significant increase in August, reaching $940 million (see
38
 Chart 4.1.3), of which $340 million corresponded to

36 resources from the public sector and $600 million belonged to funds
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04
Source: BCRA of the private sector. Most of the operations carried out
 during the month concentrated in the wholesale segment, whose stock
 showed an increase of $950 million. On the contrary, deposits
 of less than $1 million remained relatively
 stable, recording a slight decline of $10 million.

 New placements by the public sector concentrated
 in the 30 to 59 day segment, whose stock increased $500 million
 while most of the deposits by the private sector
 Chart 4.1.4 were made at more than 90 days, in particular in the segment
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos of 180 to 365 days, whose stock rose $450 million, which contributed
 thousands of (Average monthly variation) to a new lengthening of the placement period. This
 millions of $
1.0 Fixed-Term Deposits without CER behavior is explained by the continuity of the preference of

 Fixed-Term Deposits with CER private depositors, in particular legal entities and

0.5 institutions providing financial services, for
 placements adjustable by CER. In fact, in the month under analysis
0.0 an increase of $580 million of this type of deposits was observed,
 although part of this increase corresponds to carryover from the previous
-0.5 month since these placements had grown strongly
 towards the end of July. Nevertheless, it should be noted that for the first time
 since October of last year fixed-term deposits of the private sector not
-1.0 adjustable by CER showed a positive average variation,
-1.5
 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 which was around $30 million (see Chart 4.1.4), a figure that although
 Source: BCRA

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 somewhat modest, being concentrated towards the end of the month its
 effect will be fully appreciated in the next month.

 The increase in fixed-term deposits was partly offset
 by the decrease of $250 million in the stock of CEDRO with CER,
 which resulted in a net increase in time placements of
 $690 million. This increase, added to the variation in other
 deposits and to the aforementioned increase in means of payment,
 resulted in a growth of $1,460 million in the broader monetary aggregate
 in pesos (M3), which reflects an increase of 1.2%,
 while the year-on-year variation stood around 19%.
 Chart 4.2.1
 Dollar Deposits Stock
 Monthly Var. thousands of millions
 millions of US$ of US$

600 6.0
 4.2. Dollar deposits

500 Sight S. Public 5.0

 Time S. Public
400 Sight S. Private 4.0 Dollar deposits registered a monthly growth

 Fixed-Term S. Private of US$110 million. This increase was considerably lower than the
300 Total (2nd axis) 3.0
 US$450 million that on average foreign currency deposits

200 2.0 increased in the previous three months. In this regard, the
 lower growth in August was due to a decrease in the

100 1.0 participation of the public sector, which had notably increased
 its placements in dollars in previous months based
0 0.0 on its greater participation in the foreign exchange market (see
 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04
 Source: BCRA
 Chart 4.2.1).
4.3. Banking Liquidity

The peso liquidity ratio, which measures the relationship between cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos conducted with the BCRA with respect to total deposits in pesos, was in August 22.5%, a level similar to that observed the previous month and 2 percentage points lower than that recorded at the beginning of the year. This behavior shows that excess liquidity immobilized in the system was reduced throughout the year as financial entities diverted it to a lending market that showed increasingly solid dynamism month after month. By bank group, the reduction in the liquidity ratio was greater in private banks (2.6 p.p.) than in public banks (1.7 p.p.) (see Graph 4.3.1).

With respect to the minimum cash position, in August the regulatory changes established by the BCRA entered into effect through Communication "A" 4147 issued on 05/28/04. In this regard, sight deposits that Investment Funds (FCI) must maintain as reserve requirements returned to having a 100% requirement (it had been reduced to 80% as of July 2003) and the rest of the deposits whose holders are FCI came to have a requirement of 25% and 40% in pesos and dollars respectively (see Table 4.3.1). This is because such placements are comparable, for investors, to time deposits agreed at periods shorter than the minimums established by the BCRA for time deposits, 30 days, as evidenced by the sharp 40% decline during the period of tax payment deadlines in the month of May. The aforementioned measure added to that of non-remuneration as of June of excess reserves and to the important development achieved by the repos market caused a wide reduction in the minimum cash position in pesos that this month represented approximately 2% of deposits (6 p.p. less than in December 2003).

Graph 4.3.2 - Minimum Cash Position in Pesos*
% deposits

Integration of MC in $  26
Requirement of MC in $  24
                        22
                        20
Surplus of             18  8.2%
Liquidity              2.0%
                        16
                        14
                        12
                        10
Aug-02 Nov-02 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04

*Data on the minimum cash position observed through the month of July 2004. August figures are estimated. Source: BCRA
Commercial Loans
(Average monthly variation)

[Millions of $ - showing categories: Single-name Documents/Advances large companies, Discounted Documents/Advances small clients, Purchased Documents/Other pawned loans]
-200 commercial loans not classified in another category) that
 grew more vigorously, to the point that in August the growth
-300
 of the latter exceeds both advances and documents (see Chart 5.2). 
-400
 Advances on current accounts
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04grew around $90 million (1.6%), an increase that is explained
 Source: BCRA
 fundamentally by financing to large companies, for amounts
 exceeding one million pesos. Financing instruments through
 documents showed an increase of $40 million (0.7%), constituted
 fundamentally by an increase in discounted documents. "Other
 loans" grew $190 million (6.4%) and these are again short-term
 loans to companies.

 Consumer financing grew again in August, Chart 5.3
 recording an increase of $140 million (2.4%). In line with the
 Consumer Loans
 trend they have been showing since mid-2003, personal loans
 millions of $ (Average monthly variation)
 again showed a significant increase in August, of $160 million
 150
 (5.2%). On the other hand, financing carried out through credit
 100
 cards recorded a slight contraction of $20 million (0.7%) (see
 50
 Chart 5.3), which is explained by a combination of seasonal factors
 0
 typical of August to which is added the effect of the end of the
 -50
 promotional campaign for interest-free installment purchases in
 -100
 June which, as we explained in previous reports, led to an advance
 -150 Personal
 of purchases in that month, implying smaller increases in the
 Credit cards
 -200
 following months.
 -250
 Source: BCRA Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04

 Loans with real guarantees showed another decline in
 August, of about $20 million (0.2%), which turned out to be the
 smallest since June 2001. Thanks to the growth in sales of
 agricultural machinery and the good performance of automotive
 sales which have been at levels above the 2000 annual average
 since May, chattel loans showed, for the fifth consecutive month,
 an increase (see Chart 5.4). On this occasion the increase was
 approximately $35 million which represents more than double the
 increases of the previous four months. On the other hand, mortgage
 loans continue to show net declines, amortizations and Chart 5.3
 prepayments continue to exceed new financing, so a new decrease
 Loans with Real Guarantee
 is observed, this time of $55 million (0.6%), a decline that is
 millions of $
 100
 (Average monthly variation)
 considerably smaller than the $80 million observed on average in
 50
 the first half of the year and the $170 million on average last year.
 0
 This would indicate that the turning point would be closer, so it is
 -50
 expected that in the coming months this line will finally manage to
 -100
 reverse its declining trend.
 Mortgage
 -150
 Chattel
 From what has been mentioned so far, an aspect stands out
 -200
 that is the lengthening of the average terms of financing. From the
 -250
 change in the composition of loan variations, a stretching of terms
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04can be inferred. Given that current account advances (which are
 Source: BCRA
 implemented for only one day) are losing relative importance in
 11 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004
 relation to the rest of the commercial lines, and with personal
 loans (fundamentally agreed for more than 180 days) gaining greater
 weight in relation to credit card financing, and thanks to the
 growth in chattel loans, the average term of the loan portfolio
 would be increasing (something similar to what is happening with
 fixed-term deposits).
Regarding loans in dollars to the private sector, in August an increase of around US$90 million (3.4%) was observed, which was due to increases in documents related to export financing.

**Graph 6.1.1**
**Volume Traded in the Foreign Exchange Market**
millions of US$ %
(30-day moving averages)
Operations Function Transfer 90
Total Volume (SIOPEL+MEC) 80
BCRA Participation (right axis) 70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jul-04 Aug-04
Source: BCRA and MAE

## 6. Financial Assets Market

In August, leading stocks again registered price decreases at month-end, while the market continued to be characterized by its scarce liquidity. In contrast, public securities issued after the cessation of payments continued to increase in price (decrease in their yields). In the private securities market, the completion of the largest corporate debt restructuring process to date in the local market stood out. On the other hand, the peso depreciated 2.2% in real terms.

## 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market⁷

**Graph 6.1.2**
**Quotation of Dollar Futures Contracts**
$/US$ (According to closing prices in ROFEX)
International reserves stood at the end of August at US$18,076 million, a level similar to that recorded at the end of July. The decrease in the rate of growth with respect to what this aggregate had been showing in recent months was due to the combination of lower foreign currency purchases from the private sector with a high concentration of net payments to international organizations during the month. Net foreign currency purchases from the private sector were approximately US$400 million, while, on the other hand, the public sector carried out operations that implied an outflow of around US$470 million, of which US$420 million were associated with net payments to IFIs, while the rest was linked to the payment of interest services on BODEN 12, which matured in early August.

The volume traded on average daily in the spot foreign exchange market increased 10% compared to July, reversing the downward trend of the previous two months. The increase is mainly explained by the growth of operations in the Electronic Foreign Exchange Market (MEC) (19%), although the volume traded in SIOPEL also showed a slight monthly increase (3%). Likewise, the BCRA's participation in total trading decreased from 10% at the end of July to around 6% in the last days of August (see Graph 6.1.1).

In nominal terms, the local currency depreciated against the euro (1.3%), the US dollar (1.9%), and the real (3.1%). Considering the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index⁸, the peso depreciated 2.2% with respect to the basket of currencies that make up the index, accumulating a real depreciation of 5.4% in the last 12 months and 49.3% with respect to the average recorded during convertibility.

**Graph 6.2.1.1**
**Local Stock Market**
millions of $ MERVAL
200 Amount traded (daily average) 1400
180 Maximum/minimum (right axis) 1200
160 Closing (right axis)

Starting from the second week of the month, the quotations of the peso futures contracts against the US dollar fell, partially offsetting the sharp increase they experienced from the latter part of July. The price changes implied a decrease of 1 p.p. in the yield of 1-month contracts, while they translated into increases of

---

⁷ For an analysis of the results of the Unique and Free Foreign Exchange Market in August, see the Quarterly Report on Foreign Exchange Market Evolution that will be published at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/estadis/es030400.asp.

⁸ Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004
140 1000 between 0.3 p.p. and 1 p.p. for longer-term operations. The amount

120 traded daily amounted to $121 million on average, 63%

100 800 higher than that corresponding to July. The largest number of

80 operations was concentrated in contracts with shorter

60 600 duration, with operations maturing at the end of August and

40 400 September encompassing around 90% of the total (see

20 Chart 6.1.2).
 0 200
 Jan-03 May-03 Sep-03 Jan-04 May-04 Aug-04
Source: BCRA and Bloomberg At the end of August, trading in the OCT MAE9 currency
 futures market was enabled, although by the end of the month only
 one operation had been completed.

 6.2. Capital Market

 Chart 6.2.2.1 6.2.1. Shares

 YTM, % Yield Curves of Public Titles in Pesos

 14
 PRO 12
 12 PRE 08 According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in August the

 BOGAR prices of variable income securities decreased 1.4%,

 10 accumulating a loss of 11.2% so far this year. The decline in

 8 prices was influenced by the presentation of the results

 BODEN 08 of the second quarter of the year to the Stock Exchange. In contrast,
 6 the prices of some of the instruments that are not part of the
 aforementioned indicator showed significantly high and positive
 4 July 30 returns, being driven by purchases by some investors
 BODEN 07 August 31 given expectations regarding the imminence of the launch of a
 2
 new stock index that would be composed of a substantially larger

 0 number of shares than those currently included in the

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MERVAL.

 Source: Ministry of Economy duration (in years)

 The average daily amount traded in shares that make up the
 MERVAL was $36 million, 2% higher than that traded in July,
 although it continues to be at the lowest levels of recent months
 (see Chart 6.2.1.1).

 8 For more details on this index, consult http://www.bcra.gov.ar/indicadores/ie010200.asp.
 9 For more details consult http://www.mae.com.ar/OCT/index_oct.asp.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 6.2.2. Public Titles

 During the course of the month, the yield of bonds issued
 after the cessation of payments decreased, especially those
 denominated in dollars, which were favorably influenced by the
 trend in emerging markets and, especially by the good performance
 of bonds issued by Brazil. Among the most liquid, the BODEN 12
 (in dollars) stood out, which registered a decline of 2.8 p.p. in its
 internal rate of return (YTM). For its part, among the CER-adjusted
 peso bonds, the BODEN 08 registered a decrease in its YTM of
 Chart 6.2.2.2 0.5 p.p. between month-end. The remaining CER-adjusted peso
 bonds also registered reductions in their YTM, shifting downward
 Amount Traded of Public Titles the yield curve of public titles compared to July (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

 millions of $ (Daily average)
 300 In terms of sovereign risk, this was reflected in the sustained
 BODEN 12 BODEN 08 PRE 8 PR12 BOGAR decrease in the spread between the yield of BODEN 12 and that
 250 of comparable U.S. Treasury titles, reaching 9.9 p.p. at the end of
 August, the lowest value in the last six months, when an increase
 200 in U.S. Treasury bond yields and particularly in the rates of titles
 150 from emerging markets had occurred due to expectations of future
 increases in the Fed rate. Furthermore, a decrease could be
 100 observed between the risk premium of BODEN 12 and that of
 50 emerging markets in general (excluding Argentina), standing at
 0 6.2 p.p..
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04

 Source: MAE and BCBA.
# Translation to English

The traded amount of the most liquid public securities, considering the daily average, decreased 14%10 compared to July. This decline is explained fundamentally by the lower number of BODEN 12 operations, which showed a decrease of 36% compared to the previous month. However, the amount traded of securities in pesos adjustable by CER remained at a similar level to July (see Graph 6.2.2.2).

Fixed Income Funds
millions of $ (Equity at end of month)

300

250 Aug-04 vs. Dec-03 6.2.3. Investment Mutual Funds11
 +180%

200

150 During August, the equity of Investment Mutual Funds (FCI) remained relatively stable, showing an increase of only $20 million, although not all funds behaved in the same way. In fact, while fixed-term and money market funds and variable income funds (stocks) presented slight negative equity variations, the equity of fixed income funds (bonds) grew significantly.

100

50

0
 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04
Source: BCRA and CAFCI

Fixed income funds exhibited an equity increase of $55 million, which is equivalent to a monthly increase of 24%, and an increase of 2.3 p.p. in their yield, which in August was positioned at 13.2% (see Graph 6.2.3.1). These funds accumulate a growth of 180% since the beginning of the year, standing out for their good performance compared to the rest of the funds, although their participation barely exceeds 6% of the total. The sustained influx of new resources toward these funds concentrated in those whose portfolio contains performing debt adjustable by CER and financial trusts, as a consequence of investors' search for indexed assets, which allow them to hedge against inflation risk and generate positive benefits. The main unitholders are legal entities and financial services provider institutions. It is to be expected that the growing trend of fixed income fund equity will continue to strengthen in the coming months, taking into account the upward trajectory of their yields.

In contrast, money market fund equity suffered a decrease of $22 million, which is equivalent to a negative variation of 0.7%. In a context of increasing passive interest rates and within the framework of the new reserve requirement regime, which significantly affected the remuneration of assets in the portfolio of these funds, the increase in their yield, which was positioned at around 2% in August, was not sufficiently attractive to draw new investors. The majority of these preferred to place their excess resources in fixed-term deposits or in other types of investments.

Finally, variable income fund equity fell for the fifth consecutive month, registering a decline of $23 million (-2.3%). Whereas mixed income funds presented a positive variation, for the second consecutive month, close to $13 million (11%).

Money Market
thousands of % Equity (right axis) millions of $
12 Monthly Yield 5.5 Aug-04
 $3.2 MM
 10 2% 4.5

 8 3.5

 6 2.5
 2.0
 4 1.5

 2 1.0

 0 0.0
 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

6.2.4. Private Securities
Within the framework of the comprehensive restructuring of its financial liabilities, Telecom Argentina S.A. achieved a participation rate of 94% for the signing of the Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement, through which it refinanced its financial debt. The Chart 6.2.4.1 total amount refinanced was US$2,600 million, after recognizing unpaid interest of US$5.8 per each VN US$100 and, constitutes the largest corporate debt restructuring carried out to date. The amounts issued are composed of VN US$727 million in Negotiable Obligations (ON) at par with maturity in 2014 and increasing coupon from 2% to 5.5%, VN US$994 million in ON with discount with maturity in 2011 and coupon of 9% and US$563 million as cash payment.

With respect to the behavior of the secondary market of corporate debt instruments, based on the analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors continue differentiating between debtors who never stopped serving their obligations and those who had to resort to the restructuring of their financial liabilities. In terms of the YTM, the additional premium required for the ON issued after restructuring processes ranges from 5 p.p. to 7 p.p.. For both types of ON, decreases in YTM were observed compared to the end of July (see Chart 6.2.4.1).

15 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System | Monthly Averages |  |  |  | Percentage Variations |  | Average Last 12 Months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Aug-04 | Jul-04 | Dec-03 | Aug-03 | Monthly | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| Broad Monetary Base | 46,618 | 46,606 | 46,273 | 42,967 | 0.0% | -0.3% | 8.5% | 3.1% |
| Quasi-money | 111 | 111 | 894 | 3,993 | 0.0% | -0.3% | -97.2% | -97.4% |
| Monetary Base | 46,507 | 46,495 | 45,378 | 38,974 | 0.0% | -0.3% | 19.3% | 13.3% |
| Monetary Circulation | 32,112 | 32,167 | 28,716 | 24,711 | -0.2% | -0.5% | 29.9% | 23.4% |
| In Public Hands | 28,836 | 28,753 | 25,423 | 21,919 | 0.3% | -0.1% | 31.6% | 25.0% |
| In Financial Entities | 3,276 | 3,414 | 3,293 | 2,792 | -4.0% | -4.4% | 17.3% | 11.4% |
| Current Account at BCRA | 14,395 | 14,328 | 16,662 | 14,263 | 0.5% | 0.1% | 0.9% | -4.1% |
| Stock of Passive Repos | 3,951 | 3,604 | 0 | 0 | 9.6% | 9.2% |  |  |
| Stock of Active Repos | 23 | 0 | 201 | 211 | -89.1% | -89.7% |  |  |
| BCRA International Reserves | 18,062 | 17,922 | 13,820 | 13,402 | 0.8% | 34.8% |  |  |
| Total Deposits in Pesos ¹ | 96,712 | 95,588 | 85,483 | 80,340 | 1.2% | 0.8% | 20.4% | 14.3% |
| Private Deposits | 69,871 | 70,189 | 69,896 | 68,253 | -0.5% | -0.8% | 2.4% | -2.8% |
| Current Account | 16,497 | 16,608 | 14,742 | 12,648 | -0.7% | -1.0% | 30.4% | 23.9% |
| Savings Account | 16,054 | 16,227 | 12,890 | 10,998 | -1.1% | -1.4% | 46.0% | 38.7% |
| Fixed Term | 25,345 | 25,326 | 29,944 | 29,444 | 0.1% | -0.3% | -13.9% | -18.2% |
| Fixed Term Adjustable by CER | 3,443 | 2,868 | 506 | 2,078 | ² 20.1% | 19.7% | 65.7% | 57.4% |
| Other Deposits | 4,941 | 5,009 | 4,845 | 4,561 | -1.4% | -1.7% | 8.3% | 2.9% |
| Exchanged for BODEN (accounted) | 587 | 895 | 1,717 | 1,749 | -34.5% | -34.7% | -66.4% | -68.1% |
| CEDRO including CER | 3,004 | 3,255 | 5,253 | 6,775 | -7.7% | -8.0% | -55.7% | -57.9% |
| Public Sector Deposits | 26,075 | 24,687 | 14,690 | 11,400 | 5.6% | 5.3% | 128.7% | 117.3% |
| Total Deposits in Dollars ¹ | 3,759 | 3,654 | 1,895 | 1,496 | 2.9% | 151.2% |  |  |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos ¹ | 54,035 | 53,622 | 49,953 | 59,191 | 0.8% | 0.4% | -8.7% | -13.3% |
To the Private Sector 30.772 30.266 26.825 26.410 1.7% 1.3% 16.5% 10.7%
 Advances 5.994 5.901 4.386 3.932 1.6% 1.2% 52.5% 44.8%
 Documents 5.586 5.541 4.727 4.687 0.8% 0.5% 19.2% 13.2%
 Mortgage 8.831 8.844 9.317 9.827 -0.1% -0.5% -10.1% -14.6%
 Pledged 1.379 1.316 1.270 1.404 4.8% 4.4% -1.8% -6.7%
 Personal 3.109 2.991 2.337 2.046 3.9% 3.6% 52.0% 44.3%
 Credit Cards 2.764 2.778 2.223 1.897 -0.5% -0.8% 45.7% 38.4%
 Other 3.109 2.894 2.565 2.617 7.4% 7.0% 18.8% 12.8%

 To the Public Sector 23.262 23.356 23.128 32.781 -0.4% -0.7% -29.0% -32.6%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1.538 1.450 1.444 1.379 6.1% 11.5%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 56.501 56.855 48.720 43.453 -0.6% -1.0% 30.0% 23.5%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 83.365 82.018 64.642 56.851 1.6% 1.3% 46.6% 39.3%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 136.401 134.348 115.613 108.869 1.5% 1.2% 25.3% 19.0%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 45.443 45.472 41.060 38.560 -0.1% -0.4% 17.9% 11.9%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 61.497 61.699 53.949 49.558 -0.3% -0.7% 24.1% 17.9%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 98.230 98.157 94.497 92.416 0.1% -0.3% 6.3% 1.0%

 Average Changes
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution 3 Nominal Contribution 3 Nominal Contribution 3 Nominal Contribution 3

 Broad Monetary Base 12 0.0% -615 -1.3% 345 0.7% 3.650 8.5%
 Financial Sector -489 -1.0% -4.434 -9.4% -5.068 -11.0% -5.328 -12.4%
 Public Sector -662 -1.4% -1.410 -3.0% -5.222 -11.3% -4.891 -11.4%
 Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits 726 1.956 2.019 4.467
 Utilization of the National Government Account 128 8 -238 1.859
 External Credit -1.411 -3.105 -6.734 -10.949
 Private External Sector 1.483 3.2% 5.901 12.5% 14.061 30.4% 18.583 43.2%
 BCRA Securities -173 -0.4% -676 -1.4% -3.583 -7.7% -4.940 -11.5%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -33 -0.1% -76 -0.2%
 Other 4 -148 -0.3% 4 0.0% 190 0.4% 302 0.0%

 International Reserves 140 0.8% 1.810 11.1% 4.242 30.7% 4.660 33.7%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 498 2.8% 1.981 12.2% 4.824 34.9% 6.440 48.1%
 Payment to International Organisations -344 -1.9% -750 -4.6% -1.780 -12.9% -3.093 -23.1%
 Other operations of the Public Sector -49 -0.3% -72 -0.4% 2 0.0% -1 0.0%
 Minimum Cash 6 0.0% 456 2.8% 1.108 8.0% 1.070 8.0%
 Valuation Type of Repo -15 -0.1% 63 0.4% -79 -0.6% 12 0.1%
 Other 43 0.2% 116 0.0% 168 1.2% 252 1.9%

 1 Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Corresponds to the stock of time deposits made on the occasion of the de-programming of CEDRO between $42,000 and $100,000 carried out during the months of April and May of 2003.
 3 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
 4 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 2.19 1.87 2.13 1.57 1.38
 Amount traded 595 542 294 111 151

 Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 2.85 2.51 2.49 3.71 4.59
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 3.01 2.46 2.35 2.93 3.64
 60 days or more 3.47 3.02 2.87 4.45 5.95
 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.29 0.34 0.58 0.70
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.28 0.34 0.31 0.70 0.73
 60 days or more 0.61 0.61 0.71 0.93 0.85

 Active Interest Rates Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.79 5.97 6.04 10.32 13.09

 Caucuses in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 4.28 3.57 3.47 3.33 3.40
 Traded volume (total terms) 65 63 64 63 96
# Loans in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in Current Account 14.35 14.10 15.85 23.54 33.19
 Documents on sole signature 9.91 9.82 10.53 11.03 13.54
 Mortgage loans 11.92 11.79 11.93 13.63 17.54
 Pledge loans 13.62 13.41 13.72 16.12 17.62
 Personal loans 27.57 27.89 27.58 33.55 39.62
 Credit Cards 0.00 30.27 34.88 53.56

 International Interest Rates Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 LIBOR
 1 month 1.60 1.41 1.25 1.15 1.11
 6 months 1.94 1.90 1.81 1.24 1.20

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.49 2.61 2.74 1.88 1.82
 10 years 4.27 4.48 4.73 4.25 4.42

 FED Funds Rate 1.43 1.25 1.01 1.00 1.00

 SELIC (at 1 year) 16.00 16.00 16.00 17.07 23.50

 (1) Data up to June correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, and those from July and August are estimations
 based on SISCEN 18.

 17 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2004

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 7 days 2.50 2.50 2.51 n/a n/a
 Assets 7 days 3.50 n/a n/a n/a n/a

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 2.23 2.06 2.10 n/d n/d
 7 days 2.51 2.50 2.50 n/d n/d

 Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 844 822 210 n/d n/d
 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 9 months 6.73 n/d n/d n/d n/d
 12 months 6.85 6.39 6.39 8.99 14.10
 18 months 7.45 n/d 7.13 10.80 15.80
 24 months 8.70 9.00 9.53 n/d n/d
 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER (1)
 12 months -0.08 0.08 0.88 3.71 8.45
 18 months 0.90 1.09 1.88 5.46 8.94
 24 months 1.81 2.34 3.15 n/d n/d
 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER (1) 3.00 3.29 4.49 6.65 n/d

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) (2) 79 78 113 169 31

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.01 2.95 2.96 2.95 2.93
 BCRA Reference 3.01 2.96 2.96 2.96 2.93

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.04 2.97 2.98 2.97 2.95
 INDOL 1 month 3.03 2.96 2.96 2.96 2.93
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 1 3
 ROFEX 1 month 3.02 2.96 2.96 2.96 2.93
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 122 75 96 38 40

 Real (Pesos per Real) 1.01 0.97 0.95 1.01 0.98

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 3.68 3.63 3.60 3.64 3.27

 Capital Market Aug-04 Jul-04 Jun-04 Dec-03 Aug-03

 MERVAL
 Index 954 967 927 1020 716
 Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 36 37 40 65 36

 Government Bonds (per 100 face value)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 68.87 68.30 66.14 61.92 58.98
 BODEN 08 ($) 99.25 98.68 94.88 87.73 76.47

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,091 1,183 1,252 1,355 1,380
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 410 452 481 372 507

 (1) Correspond to primary market auctions.
 (2) Corresponds to the secondary market.

 18
