# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

 Monthly Monetary Report

JULY 2004

 CONTENTS 1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1 • In July, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) decreased by $1,489 million,
2. Monetary Program 2 positioning itself 8% above the level of July of the previous year. However,
 the BMA adjusted by passive repo operations increased $1,580 million
3. Interest Rates 3 in July, 16.5% year-over-year (y.o.y.), placing itself within the guidelines
 established in the Monetary Program for the third quarter of the year.
 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA 3 • Monetary policy continued to supply liquidity to the economy through
 the most liquid market, the foreign exchange market – the BCRA's
 3.2. Interfinancial Markets 4 intervention in the foreign exchange market represents, on average, 10% of
 the total volume traded in said market –, thereby counteracting the
 3.2.1 Repo Market 4 contractionary effects of the financial system and the public sector.
 • The BCRA continued to participate actively in the repo market, with
 3.2.2 Interbank Market 5 the objective of setting a short-term reference rate. The permanent
 adjustment in the banks' liquidity policy implied an accounting reduction
 3.3. Passive Interest Rates 5 of the BMA of $3,070 million in the month. The BCRA's actions had
 significant impact on the interbank market, which operated around $550
 3.4. Active Interest Rates 6 million daily, thus tripling the size of said monetary market.
 • The rates operated by the BCRA (2.5% for 7-day passive repos) in the
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 7 repo market are gradually becoming a pivot for the interest rate structure.
 In the interbank market, interest rates for 7-day operations were adjusting
 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in toward the floor established by the BCRA, and about 80% of operations
 Pesos 7 in this range were agreed at rates above 2.5%. Passive interest rates rose
 gradually, especially in the longer-term range and in the wholesale segment.
 4.2. Dollar Deposits 8 In contrast, active interest rates maintained the downward trend they had
 been observing since June (recording year-to-date an average decrease of
 4.3. Bank Liquidity 9 6.3 percentage points).
 • Total means of payment increased $2,240 million, registering an
5. Loans 10 increase of 3% in the month (0.7% without seasonality and 43% y.o.y.).
 For its part, time deposits increased again in July ($440 million),
6. Financial Assets Market 12 especially those of the public sector and the private wholesale segment,
 concentrating the increase in placements adjustable by CER for periods
 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 12 exceeding 90 days (the latter recorded an increase of $680 million). In this
 way, the broadest monetary aggregate (M3) increased $2,670 million
 6.2. Capital Markets 13 (2.2% and 19% y.o.y.) and the placement period of deposits was extended.
 • Loans continued to grow during July, showing for the fourth consecutive
 6.2.1. Equities 13 month an increase of around $700 million, reaching an annualized growth
 rate of 35% in said period. Commercial lines showed the greatest
 6.2.2. Public Securities 14 dynamism, followed by consumption lines.
 • The peso depreciated in nominal terms with respect to the real (2.7%)
 6.2.3. Investment Funds 14 and the euro (0.9%); while it appreciated with respect to the dollar (0.1%).
 The BCRA's Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index shows that the peso
 6.2.4. Private Securities 15 depreciated in July 1.1% against the currencies of our trading partners,
 accumulating a real depreciation (competitiveness gain) of 5.7% in the
7. Monetary and Financial last 12 months.
 Indicators 16

 1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as
 monthly averages of daily balances.
# Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

## 2. Monetary Program

The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) decreased during the month by $1,489 million (3.1%), reaching a balance of $46,606 million. This level implies an interannual growth of 8.1%. Its monthly variation can be decomposed into a growth of broad circulation in the hands of the public of $1,313 million (4.8%) and a reduction in bank reserves in pesos of $2,802 million (13.6%).

**Chart 2.1**

Broad Monetary Base Adjusted by Reverse Repos and Monetary Program

The BCRA continued with the process of generating a short-term reference interest rate, which allows it to reduce the volatility of interest rates and efficiently regulate the liquidity of the money market. To this end, it has intensified its participation in the reverse repo market with LEBAC. This policy implied a monetary contraction of $3,070 million, given that passive reverse repos were carried out in a scenario characterized by financial entities with high levels of excess liquidity. Therefore, the most appropriate way to monitor compliance with the Monetary Program is to compare short-term monetary liabilities, defined as the BMA plus passive reverse repos for the BCRA, with the bands established in the Program as explained in the Third Quarter 2004 Inflation Report (Section 3). In this way, it can be observed that in July, the evolution of the BMA adjusted by reverse repos was compatible with the trajectory outlined in the Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1), registering a variation of $1,580 million with respect to June (16.5% i.a.).

With respect to the other factors of BMA variation, during July, both the financial sector and the public sector continued to be contractionary (See Chart 2.2). Financial entities continued canceling rediscounts within the framework of the scheme known as "matching," which led to a decline in the BMA of $175 million.

**Chart 2.2**

Broad Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors

For its part, public sector operations implied a slight decline in the BMA of $85 million, as a consequence of financing, with resources deposited in financial entities, of payments made to International Financial Institutions (IFI).

Accompanying the process of generating reference interest rates, LEBAC and NOBAC continued to be placed through weekly auctions. As a result of these operations, the BMA was reduced by $140 million during the month analyzed.

Taking into account the contractionary impact of the aforementioned factors, the demand for pesos continued to be supplied through net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector. These operations involved an increase in the BMA of $1,971 million.

---

²A passive reverse repo for the BCRA is an operation through which it sells a security spot in exchange for pesos and repurchases it in the future.

---

## 3. Interest Rates

**Chart 3.1.1**

Yield Curves of Securities Issued by the BCRA

% (As of July 27)

The interest rates on securities adjustable by CER issued by the BCRA registered a new decline, while those not adjustable showed slight increases. The BCRA continued with the policy of deepening the local reverse repo market, so in July there was a significant increase in operations in this market, both those arranged with the BCRA and those conducted between banks. In turn, this encouraged the growth of activity in the interbank loan market, which showed...
1 Primary pesos Primary CER in July somewhat more active. Passive interest rates also

 Secondary pesos Secondary CER registered increases, especially in the longer-term segment and in
 0
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 the wholesale segment. In contrast, active interest rates
 -1 duration (days)
 Source: BCRA maintained their downward trend.

 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

 In the primary market, the interest rates of securities
Chart 3.1.2 issued by the BCRA in pesos showed behavior
 different from those corresponding to LEBAC and NOBAC

 Placement and Maturity of Adjustable Titles adjusted by CER. The rates of securities awarded with CER
VN, thousands of (In pesos and adjustable by CER)
millions of $ CER adjustment continued the downward trend that they have shown for
2.0
 several months, with decreases of 0.4 p.p. and 1.1 p.p. having occurred
1.5 compared to the end of June for 18 and 24-month LEBACs
1.0 respectively. Likewise, at the end of July a new NOBAC security was
0.5 placed, with maturity on July 25, 2007, in its CER-adjusted version,
0.0 at an interest rate of 3.3%, 0.8 p.p. lower than that corresponding to
 the last auction held for this type of securities the previous month. As
-0.5 regards securities denominated in pesos, demand was concentrated in
-1.0 12-month LEBAC, for which a slight increase in interest rate was
-1.5 Maturity LEBAC CER Maturity LEBAC $ confirmed, of 0.6 p.p. compared to June. The implicit inflation
 Placement LEBAC $ Placement LEBAC CER from the margin between the interest rates of LEBAC in pesos and
 Placement NOBAC $ Placement NOBAC CER those adjustable by CER for 12 months was around 7% at the end
-2.0 Net Placement
 of the month, 0.5 p.p. below market expectations projections (REM –
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Market Expectations Survey). The placements in the primary auction
 Source: BCRA were in line with operations conducted in the secondary market (see
 Chart 3.1.1).

 During the month there were maturities of both LEBAC in pesos
 and those adjustable by CER, with a net amount placed similar to the
 previous month, but significantly lower than that of the first months of
 the year (see Chart 3.1.2).

 Chart 3.1.3

 Amount Traded in the LEBAC Secondary Market

 thousands of
 millions of $ millions of $ The total amount in circulation of securities at the end of July was VN
3.0 Up to 6 months Between 6 and 12 months 150 $14,002 million, of which 56% was comprised of non-adjustable
 More than 12 months Daily average (right axis) instruments denominated in pesos, 43% were LEBAC and NOBAC
2.5 120
 adjustable by CER, while the remaining 1% was comprised of LEBAC
2.0 90 in dollars.
1.5 60 During July, the average daily amount traded in the secondary
1.0 market was 30% lower than that corresponding to the first half of the
 30 year. If the traded securities are considered according to their
0.5 residual duration, in July operations were distributed equitably
0.0 0 between LEBAC of less than 6 months and those of more than 12
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 months. This distribution differs from that evidenced in the last two
 Source: BCRA and MAE months, when transactions of securities with less than 6 months
 duration had prevailed and securities with residual maturity between
 Chart 3.2.1.1 6 and 12 months had a participation of around 25% of total traded
 (see Chart 3.1.3).
 Repo Operations in the Local Market
 millions of $ (daily average traded on MAE)
1,200
 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

1,000
 3.2.1. Repo Market
 Call
 800 Repos against BCRA

 Repos between private parties
 600

 400

 Maturity
 200 Gains

 0
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04
Source: BCRA and MAE

As mentioned in Section 2, the BCRA continued with the policy of deepening the local repo market. As a result, in July there was a significant increase in operations in this market, both those arranged with the BCRA and those carried out between third parties. In turn, this encouraged growth in activity in the interbank lending market.

**Chart 3.2.1.2 Repo Operations by Asset**

The repo operations in which the BCRA participated continued to represent a high percentage of the total with an average daily amount negotiated by this institution of $798 million (see Chart 3.2.1.1). In this way, the stock of passive repos for the BCRA at the end of July was $3,603 million, $2,659 million higher than that in effect at the end of June. However, most of the increase occurred during the first half of the month, given that later a decrease was observed associated with the recomposition of minimum cash positions and the application in alternative investments. On the other hand, there were no active repos in effect at the end of July.

Analyzing the arranged operations, it is observed that the securities issued by the BCRA continue to be the most used as underlying assets with a participation of 97% in the total of operations carried out. It should be recalled that operations in which the BCRA participates are carried out only with the application of LEBAC in non-adjustable pesos, which explains, to a large extent, the high participation of these instruments. The bonds most used as underlying assets for the rest of the transactions are BODEN 12, PRO 12, PRE 08 and BODEN 08, chosen because they have greater liquidity in the local secondary market for public securities (see Chart 3.2.1.2).

**Chart 3.2.1.3 Interest Rates of Repo Operations**

Regarding interest rates, the BCRA continued to focus on the 7-day term to establish a short-term reference interest rate. Although the operations carried out were only passive for this institution and were concluded at 2.5%, the BCRA also offers to provide funds at 3.5%, thus defining an interest rate corridor. As will be detailed in the next Section, interest rates in the interbank lending market showed some convergence toward these interest rate levels (see Chart 3.2.1.3).

**3.2.2 Interbank Market**

Thanks to the incipient normalization of the monetary market induced by the new repo operations implemented by the BCRA, which has managed to reduce some of the excess liquidity that some entities had, the interbank market (call) showed itself in July significantly more active than last month. The amounts operated hovered around $540 million daily (see Chart 3.2.2.1), values comparable to those observed in May and much higher than those of the rest of the months of the year. Interest rates, which began the month at 1.6%, rose gradually until reaching slightly higher than 2% by the end of the month (which is more consistent with a 7-day repo rate in a band between 2.5% and 3.5%). On average, the interest rate was 1.9% in the month, being 0.3 p.p. lower than that of June.

**Chart 3.2.2.1 Call Operations**
(millions of $ TNA, % - Maturity Gains - Amount (Left Axis) - Rate (Right Axis))

The interbank market continues to be a market
300 2 segmented, where not all entities operate among themselves, but

200 many generally operate with entities from their same
 1
100 subgroups. By bank group, it is observed in the month that the

 0 0 main demanders continue to be foreign capital entities,

Source: BCRA 1-Mar 15-Mar 29-Mar 15-Apr 29-Apr 13-May 28-May 11-Jun 28-Jun 13-Jul 27-Jul who absorbed 87% of the funds, while they granted 23% of the funds. Public banks consolidated themselves as the main fund suppliers, concentrating 42% of the amounts granted and taking only 1% of the funds. Private national entities had a participation of 35% in the total funds granted and 12% of the amounts demanded.

In the 7-day segment, whose amount represents approximately 20% of the total call, it is observed that the interest rates that were highly dispersed in the last week of July have converged to the rates operated by the BCRA (see Chart 3.2.2.2). However, some operations agreed at interest rates that fall outside the corridor are still observed. Operations agreed above the upper band would be indicating that there are some entities that instead of taking funds from the BCRA at 3.5%

Chart 3.2.2.2 through an active repo, chose to take call from another financial entity at a higher rate. The rates agreed below the corridor reflect that there are entities that instead of placing their excess funds at the BCRA through a passive repo at 2.5%,

6 Average

5 Average ± 1 std deviation preferred to lend it in the interbank market at a lower rate. However, operations agreed at rates outside the corridor become less frequent towards the end of July, representing in the 4 month 22% of the total operated in this segment compared to 62% in June.

3 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

2 Passive interest rates remained on average at levels similar to the previous month; however, in some segments they registered positive variations. In turn, by amount bracket, significant increases are observed in the placement segment greater than $1 million, which were driven by private banks.

1 5 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

0 Chart 3.3.1 In the case of placements between 30 and 59 days and 60 and 89

Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos days, the interest rates remained at 2.6% and 2.85%
Monthly average by amount operated
% respectively. However, for deposits with terms greater
30 up to 29 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days than 90 days, the average interest rate grew 0.43 percentage points, positioning itself at 4.0%

Year 2004

25 3.6% (see Chart 3.3.1). It should be noted that in this case, it is
placements of legal entities.

3,6

20 3,2 Public banks continued offering lower rates than private

banks, consolidating the segmented interest rate scheme that
15 2,8 began in May, which reflects the contrast in terms of liquidity

2,4 between both groups of entities. The 30 to 44-day segment, which

10 2,0 is the most dynamic, encompassing more than 75% of the total

Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 operated, represents the best example of said phenomenon (see

5 Chart 3.3.2).

0 In the wholesale segment, the average interest rate of
private entities increased 0.3 percentage points, positioning itself at 3.2%, while that of public banks remained stable at
Ene-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 1.9%, which yields an average spread of 1.3 percentage points. The increase in the rate offered by private banks was related to the need to capture

Source: BCRA

Chart 3.3.2
# Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-44 Days (5-Day Moving Average) Funds to cover the outflow of corporate deposits due to the payment of bonuses.
Private Banks Public Banks
% Below $100,000 % Above $1,000,000

4.3 5.0 In the retail segment, interest rates remained
4.1 4.5 stable at the same levels as the previous month, standing at 3% the
3.9 4.0 average interest rate paid by private banks and at 2.5%
3.7 the one offered by public banks.
3.5
3.5 3.0

3.3
3.1 2.5

2.9 2.0

2.7 1.5

2.5 1.0 3.4. Active Interest Rates³

2.3 0.5
E-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04 J-04 J-04 E-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04 J-04 J-04
Source: BCRA

Following the temporary increases observed in some of the active interest rates during May, they maintained their decreasing trends resumed in June.

The interest rates on advances in current accounts were positioned in July at 13.8%, which implies a reduction of 1.7 percentage points with respect to June, accumulating a decline of 8.8 percentage points for the year. In the case of loans implemented through documents, in July they registered a decline in their interest rates of 1 percentage point, ending at 9.6% (see Graph 3.4.1). This behavior is the result of heterogeneous behavior by type of client: while the rate charged to legal entities decreased, that of physical persons rose slightly, although financing of this type of client represents only 4% of the total.

Graph 3.4.1
Commercial Loans
TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
60

50 Advances

40 Documents

30

20

10

0
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04
Source: BCRA

With respect to the interest rates on personal loans, after having declined last month, in July they remained relatively stable at 29.2% (see Graph 3.4.2). If disaggregated by term, a slight increase is observed in the rates of financing arranged up to 180 days term and a maintenance of the rates on loans granted for more than 180 days term, which represent 87% of the total of this line.

As of the publication date, new information is not yet available regarding the interest rates applied to credit card financing.

In relation to the interest rates on mortgage loans, in July they were positioned at 11.7%, which is 0.4 percentage points lower than that of the previous month and 1.9 percentage points lower than that of late 2003. In the case of the interest rate on chattel mortgage loans, in July they were reduced by 0.3 percentage points to stand at 12.1%, which is 4 percentage points lower than that of December of last year.

Graph 3.4.2
Consumer Loans
TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
70

65 Personal

Charge Cards
60

55

50

45

40

35

30

25
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04
Source: BCRA

---

# 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

## 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

During July the monetary aggregates again reflected significant growth, fed both by cash in circulation and by total deposits. In particular, the transactional aggregates of the private sector evidenced an important increase due to seasonal reasons related to the collection of bonuses and the winter recess. An increase in deposits of the public sector was also observed which, as in previous months, responded to the important tax collection and was concentrated mainly in sight deposits.

³ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to May; the values for June and July were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004
Cash in circulation held by the public registered an increase of $1,310 million (5%). This growth reflects greater cash usage at this time of year, such that, if its variation is considered in seasonally adjusted terms, a decline of 1.4% is observed.

Chart 4.1.1
Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

On the other hand, sight deposits grew by $930 million, of which $210 million corresponded to deposits in current accounts and $720 million to savings account placements. In the case of the former, the increase was due entirely to deposits from the public sector, which increased by $670 million, due to tax collection, and was offset by the decrease of $450 million in private sector placements, which in the face of rising passive interest rates shifted part of their funds toward time deposits. By contrast, in the case of savings account deposits, the increase was driven by the private sector, whose deposits evidenced an increase of around $790 million, related to the receipt of bonuses, and was reduced by the placements of the public sector, which presented a decline of $80 million.

The increases in transactional deposits and cash in circulation held by the public resulted in an increase of $2,240 million in total M2⁴, which implied a monthly increase of 3% (43% year-over-year, 3 percentage points lower than the year-over-year growth rate of the previous month). However, the seasonally adjusted increase was considerably smaller, reaching 0.7%, due to the aforementioned strong positive seasonality that the real balances present in the month under analysis.

⁴ Includes cash in circulation held by the public and deposits in current accounts and savings accounts of the private and public sectors.

7 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

Fixed-term deposits also increased in July, although to a lesser extent, registering an increase of $440 million, of which $260 million corresponded to public sector resources and $180 million belonged to private sector funds. The majority of operations carried out during the month were concentrated in the wholesale segment, whose stock evidenced an increase of $380 million, driven in part by the public sector and in part by legal entities and financial service provider institutions, which in the face of sustained increases in passive interest rates, transferred part of their liquid resources toward time deposits in search of greater positive returns.

Chart 4.1.2
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
(Monthly Average Balances)

Deposits under $1 million also increased, registering a positive variation of $60 million (see Chart 4.1.2).

In terms of contractual maturity, the same phenomenon as the previous month is observed, that is, new placements were again made in the most liquid segment and, above all, in the longer-term segment. In the case of deposits of 30 to 59 days, whose stock increased by around $100 million, the new fixed-term deposits were made entirely by the public sector. While in the case of deposits of more than 90 days, which grew by $540 million, the resources came primarily from the private sector, which continues with the trend of lengthening the maturity of its deposits. This is consistent with the decrease of $210 million that occurred in the segment of placements of 60 to 89 days and corresponded to private deposits.
The preference for longer terms by the private sector is accompanied by the intention of banks to cover the mismatch between their assets and liabilities adjustable by CER by offering indexed liabilities. In fact, in July non-adjusted deposits presented a decline of $490 million, while fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER registered an increase of $670 million,

**Graph 4.1.3**
**Private Sector Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
**(Average monthly variation) in thousands of millions of $**

Fixed-Term Deposits without CER
Fixed-Term Deposits with CER

consolidating a trend that began to be observed at the end of last year (see Graph 4.1.3). So far in 2004, these placements increased $2,370 million.

The rise in fixed-term deposits was offset by the decrease of $300 million in the stock of CEDRO with CER, which resulted in a net increase in fixed-term placements of $140 million. Said increase, added to the variation of other deposits and to the aforementioned increase in means of payment, led to the broadest monetary aggregate (M3)5 growing $2,670 million, which reflects a rise in the month of 2.2% (19% annualized). In seasonally adjusted terms, the variation was lower, standing at 0.9%.

Nov-03  Dec-03  Jan-04  Feb-04  Mar-04  Apr-04  May-04  Jun-04  Jul-04

Source: BCRA

## 4.2. Dollar Deposits

Dollar deposits continue to show a sustained upward trend that has intensified in recent months due to greater participation by the public sector. The increase in July (US$300 million) was somewhat lower than the peaks observed in May and

5 Includes M2 and fixed-term deposits of the private and public sectors.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

**Graph 4.2.1**
**Dollar Deposits**
**in thousands of millions of US$**

Public
Private

June (US$450 million) but, like in those months, was explained largely by public sector deposits.

Specifically, the monthly growth of public deposits was observed in savings accounts and was US$230 million, while those of the private sector increased US$70 million. Of the latter, US$50 million were also explained by an increase in savings account placements while US$20 million was in fixed-term deposits. It should be noted that the increase recorded in the fixed-term segment is composed of an increase of US$30 million in placements of more than 90 days that was partially offset by a decline in shorter-term placements, thus evidencing the lengthening of terms that has been observed in the peso segment.

May-03  Jul-03  Sep-03  Nov-03  Jan-04  Mar-04  May-04  Jul-04

Source: BCRA

In this manner, the stock of dollar deposits reached US$3,600 million accumulating so far this year an increase of more than 90%, with more vigorous growth of public sector deposits observed in recent months and a leveling off of private sector placements.

## 4.3. Bank Liquidity

**Graph 4.3.1**

**Effective Minimum Position in Pesos***
**% deposits**

Liquidity Ratio (includes repos)
Integration of EM in $
Requirement EM in $
Surplus Liquidity

In July, bank liquidity has remained at the high levels that have been observed for several months. The liquidity ratio in pesos, defined as the relationship between cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and passive repos performed with the BCRA with respect to total deposits in pesos, was 22.7% in July. It should be noted, however, that while it still remains at elevated levels, bank liquidity shows a declining trend and, so far this year, the liquidity ratio has decreased more than 1.5 p.p.. The growing dynamism observed in the
Jul-02 Oct-02 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 loan market is essentially the counterpart of this
*Data on the minimum cash position observed until May 2004. June and July figures are
estimated. Source: BCRA behavior.

The position corresponding to the minimum cash regime
also reflected this situation with a surplus position in
pesos for the system total that reached in July 3.2% ($3,000
million), 3 percentage points less than last month (see Graph 4.3.1). It should be
noted that the surplus position of minimum cash was
widely reduced in July based on the development achieved by
Graph 4.3.2 the repo market to which progressively financial institutions
were channeling their excess liquidity. By bank group
% deposits Minimum Cash Position in Pesos a monthly reduction of approximately 6 percentage points is
(By bank groups) observed in the position of public banks and around 0.7
12 Private percentage points in that of private
10 Public banks (see Graph 4.4.2). So far this year, the
8 decreases are 7 percentage points and 2 percentage points,
6 respectively.
4
2 For its part, in the dollar deposits segment, the
0 minimum cash position shows no significant changes as it
-2 continues to show strong over-integration.
-4 Specifically, financial institutions maintained in the month of
-6 July 90% of their foreign currency deposits immobilized
in cash and in current accounts at the BCRA while what is
Oct-02 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 required by the BCRA as minimum cash is approximately
Source: BCRA 35% (see Graph 4.3.3). It should be noted that financial
9 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004 institutions can only apply their lending capacity in foreign
currency to destinations specifically authorized by the BCRA
while the application defect that they verify in a
given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the
requirement of minimum cash for that period6. In July the BCRA
Graph 4.3.3 expanded these destinations, through Communication A 4168,
including among them debt securities or participation certificates
Minimum Cash Position in Dollars in financial trusts issued in foreign
currency and with public offering authorized by the National
% deposits Total Deposits Securities Commission whose underlying assets are constituted by
100 US$ 3,600M documents purchased by the fiduciary in order to finance
90 operations linked to exports under the terms and
80 conditions established for them by said communication7.
70
60 If the peso and dollar segments are consolidated, the existing
50 liquidity (including dollars at free exchange rate) reaches
40 $31,000 million pesos (29.6% of total deposits) which
30 represents approximately $8,800 million (8.5 percentage points) surplus
20 with respect to what is required by the BCRA as minimum cash.
10
0
*Estimated data.
Source: BCRA

5. Loans

Loans continued growing during July,
showing for the fourth consecutive month an increase of around $700
Graph 5.1 million, so the increase of these last four months is equivalent to
millions of pesos Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos an annualized growth rate of 35%. As in previous
(Average monthly change) months, commercial lines are those that showed greater
700 dynamism, followed by consumer lines (see Graph 5.1). For their
600 Commercial loans part, pawn loans grew again for the fourth consecutive
500 Consumer loans month, while mortgage loans registered
400 Loans with real guarantee another decline, although on this occasion the decrease was
300 half of the average decline for the rest of the year.
200
100 During the last two months there have been some
0
-100
-200
-300 accounting movements, caused fundamentally by

-400 transfers between the loan portfolio of banks and financial
-500 trusts. At the moment of the formation of a financial
-600 trust with a loan portfolio of a bank, a certain part of the
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 loan portfolio is removed from the balance sheet and transferred to the
Source: BCRA trust. Similarly, when loans are transferred from a trust to the loan portfolio of a bank, the transferred loans are recorded on the balance sheet. All variations in the loan amounts mentioned in this section are adjusted by this type of operation, which while altering accounting balances, do not affect the stock of financing granted⁸. Such is the case of mortgage loans which, in this way, in July

⁶ For this reason, the requirement that financial entities actually accredit is greater than the one mentioned in this section in which only the requirement arising from applying legal reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the increase in the same equivalent to the defect in resource application.

⁷ Communication A 4168 establishes that the lending capacity in foreign currency is defined as the sum of total deposits and interbank loans that financial entities receive, net of the proportion of said deposits that must be integrated as a minimum cash requirement, and that the authorized destinations to apply said lending capacity are, in addition to the recently incorporated, export financing, interbank loans, BCRA Bills, financial trusts whose underlying assets are loans destined to finance exports and loans to producers of final or intermediate goods that have guarantees from exporters.

⁸ Different is the case of the daily series published by the BCRA which, by definition, do not take into account said adjustments.

10 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

Chart 5.2 decreased on average $40 million and if these adjustments were not made they would show a decline of only $20 million.

Commercial Loans
millions of $ (Avg. monthly var.)

500 Single-signature DocumentsLarge company advances
400 Discounted DocumentsSmall client advances Commercial loans increased around $590 million in July. This
Purchased DocumentsOthers increase was led by current account advances that grew around
300 $270 million (4.8%). The increase in advances is explained, to a
200 large extent, by the statistical carry-over from June, since as we
100 mentioned in the previous report, in that month this line had
experienced sharp increases associated with companies' cash needs
0 to face tax payments and bonuses. Nevertheless, being a one-day
-100 maturity line, the existence of statistical carry-over implies the
-200 renewal of the advances. Said financings corresponded to large
-300 companies, for amounts exceeding one million pesos. For its part,
-400 the financings carried out through documents showed an increase
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 close to $180 million (3.3%), constituted fundamentally by an
Source: BCRA increase in discounted documents (see Chart 5.2). The rest of the commercial financings, grouped in "other loans", increased again, this time by $140 million (5%), these are again short-term loans to companies.

Chart 5.3

Consumer Loans The lines destined for consumption recorded in June a
millions of $ (Avg. monthly var.)

150 new increase, this time of $190 million (3.4%). In accordance with the
100 trend that has been evident since mid-last year,
personal loans grew more than $110 million (4%). In
50 contrast, financing through credit cards recorded an

0 increase in July of $80 million (2.8%) (see Chart 5.3),

-50 an increase that is less than half of what was observed in June,
the month in which the promotion on installment purchases
-100
finally concluded without interest with this type of instrument. As
-150 Personal we mentioned in the previous report, the June increase had been the

Credit Cards
-200 largest observed during the promotion's validity and this

-250 was explained by the advancement of installment purchases that, if
the promotion were to continue, would have been made in the future. Thus,
Fuente: BCRA Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 part of the increase in credit card financing amounts in July
is due to the statistical carryover from June. Although some merchants
have chosen to maintain the promotion by absorbing the financial cost,
it is expected that the growth of this loan line will be somewhat lower
in the coming months.

Loans with real collateral showed a new decline
in July, of around $30 million (0.3%), which is the smallest decline since
Chart 5.4 June 2001. Favored by higher sales of agricultural machinery
Loans with Real Collateral that is accompanying the sector's growth and by good
millions of $ performance in automotive sales which have been since
50 (Average monthly var.) May at levels higher than the 2000 year average, pledge loans
showed, for the fourth consecutive month, a positive variation
0 (see Chart 5.4). In contrast, in the case of mortgage loans,
amortizations and prepayments continue to exceed new financing,
-50 so we observe, as we mentioned, a decline, this time of $40 million
(0.5%) on average, a decline that is much lower than the $80 million
-100
observed on average in the rest of the year. This indicates to us that
-150 Mortgage the inflection point would be somewhat closer, so it is expected that in
Pledge the coming months this line will finally manage to reverse its
-200 downward trend.
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04
Source: BCRA
Another encouraging piece of data regarding this line is that if
we analyze the composition of new mortgage loans by term
Chart 5.5 we can see that although disbursements are concentrated in
New Mortgage Loans financing with a term of less than 5 years, in recent months
millions of $ (Composition by term - monthly average)
450 the importance of longer-term financing has grown (see Chart 5.5),
More than 10 years which went from representing a 26% of the total in January
5 to 10 years
400 Up to 5 years to 42% in May.

millions of $ 80
350 70

60
300 50 Regarding loans in dollars to the private sector,
40 in July an increase of around US$41 million was observed
250 30
(3.4%), which was due to increases in documents related to
20 export financing.
200 10

0
0 J-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04
150

100

50

0
1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 J-04 F-04 M-04 A-04 M-04
Source: BCRA

6. Financial Assets Market
The most liquid financial assets showed good performance in July. The leading stocks in the local market registered increases in their quotations after three consecutive months of showing losses. For their part, public securities issued after the cessation of payments showed decreases in their yields, while sovereign risk continued decreasing. With regard to the corporate debt market, some companies continued their process of restructuring financial liabilities, while the yields of Negotiable Obligations (ON) in the secondary market showed declines compared to June. On the other hand, the peso depreciated in real terms 1.1% with respect to a basket composed of the currencies of its main trading partners.

## 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market9

The BCRA's international reserves accumulated an increase of US$626 million in July, continuing in this way with the path of sustained growth that has been maintained since the end of last year. As was the case in previous months, the factor that best explains the increase in reserves in July was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector (US$645 million). For its part, while the increase in deposits in dollar current accounts of financial entities increased international reserves by US$114 million, net payments made by the public sector to international organizations implied a net outflow of foreign currency in a similar amount (US$137 million). Other operations involved an increase in reserves of US$3 million. In this way, the stock of reserves totaled US$18,068 million in July, reaching the highest level since November 2001 and reflecting an increase of more than 25% in what has gone by of 2004 (see Chart 6.1.1).

The volume traded in the foreign exchange market decreased again in July, registering a daily average 18% lower than last month. The decline was evident mainly in operations arranged through SIOPEL (22%) although those conducted in the MEC session also decreased (11%). With regard to the BCRA's participation in the foreign exchange market, it continued to be located at approximately 10% (see Chart 6.1.2).

In nominal terms, the peso depreciated with respect to the real and the euro, 2.7% and 0.9% respectively; while it showed a slight appreciation with respect to the dollar, of 0.1%. According to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index10 the peso showed a real depreciation of 1.1%, accumulating in the last 12 months a depreciation of 5.7% and a gain in competitiveness of 54% as of the flotation of the local currency.

In keeping with the behavior of the spot exchange rate, the quotations in the forward dollar market reversed the trend they had since the end of May and, as of the second half of the month, the quotation of the peso per dollar contracts began to increase. This evolution implied the increase in yields for operations of shorter terms, where
2.85 recorded increases of 1 p.p. up to 2.5 p.p. However, for
 August 2004 Maturity
 September 2004 Maturity contracts lasting more than 6 months, yields

2.80 remained stable (see Chart 6.1.3).
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04

Source: BCRA

 6.2. Capital Markets

 6.2.1. Shares

 After three consecutive months of recording losses, local
 shares showed gains between end of month. According to the
 evolution of the MERVAL index, in July the quotations of these
 securities increased 2.2%, although they continue accumulating a
 Chart 6.2.1.1 decline of 9.9% so far this year. The quotations had less
 Local Stock Market
 millions of $ MERVAL volatility than during previous months, when investors were
200 1400 speculating about the possibility that international interest rates
 Amount traded (daily average)
180 Maximum / minimum (right axis) 1200 would rise more than initially expected. Once the magnitude of
160 Closing (right axis) the increase in interest rates in the United States was known, the
140 1000 reaction was favorable for stock prices, although subsequently
120 profit-taking occurred that reversed part of the increase in the
100 800 first days of the month. (see Chart 6.2.1.1).

80
60 600 Likewise, the stock market continued to be characterized by a
40 400 reduced level of liquidity. The volume traded on average daily
20 of the securities included in the MERVAL index was $39 million,
 0 200 38% lower than that corresponding to the first half of the current
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04
 Source: BCRA and Bloomberg year. This fact reflects an apparent deterioration in investor
 interest in variable income assets. In turn, this behavior could be
 associated with caution regarding the entry into the Stock Exchange
 of the second quarter balance sheets in the coming days.

 10 For more details on this index consult http://www.bcra.gov.ar/indicadores/ie010200.asp.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004

 Chart 6.2.2.1 6.2.2. Public Securities

 YTM, % BODEN Yield

30
 During the course of the month, the behavior of bonds
25 issued after the cessation of payments was independent of the
 currency in which they are denominated. Among the most liquid,
20 the BODEN 12, in dollars, registered a decrease in its internal
 rate of return (YTM) of 0.5 p.p. between end of month,
15 accompanying the evolution of securities from other emerging
10 markets. Although the trend for this variable until day 20 was
 downward, from then on there was a sharp fall in the prices of

 5 BODEN 08 ($ adjustable by CER) the United States Treasury securities, which had a general impact on
 BODEN 12 (US$) the bonds of emerging markets and in particular on local sovereign

 0 debt instruments, raising their yield, but without managing to
 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04
Source: Ministry of Economy compensate for its initial decline. In terms of sovereign risk, this
 was reflected in the temporary increase in the spread between the
 yield of BODEN 12 and that of comparable United States Treasury
 securities. In the last days of the month, part of this increase was
 reversed, after the monetary authorities of that country declared
 that future increases in interest rates would be made in a moderate
 manner. In short, this spread decreased compared to June, continuing
 with its declining trajectory following the overreaction observed in
 May

Chart 6.2.2.2

 Yield Differential Spread
 p.b. (spread over US Treasury securities) p.b.
1.700 increase correlation with other 550
markets emerging reflecting the adequacy of expectations regarding the increase of
1.600 BODEN 12 Fed Meeting Fed Meeting 500 the Federal Reserve interest rate. With respect to BODEN 08, in
1.500 EMBI+ ex-Arg.(right axis)
 450 pesos, showed a decrease in its YTM of 0.9 p.p. with respect to end

1.400 of June (see Charts 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2).

1.300 400

1.200 350 Both the quotation of bonds in dollars and those

1.100 denominated in pesos, were favored by the demand of
 300
1.000 local banks and Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

 900 250 (AFJP). The latter, for several months have been
 reallocating their investment portfolios in favor of titles issued
 800 200
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jul-04 after the cessation of payments and, to the detriment of Global bonds.
Source: Bloomberg and others
 The traded volume of public securities in the local market
 decreased 20% in July11. To explain this result it is necessary to
 take into account that from this month, the AFJPs and Investment
 Common Funds (FCI) must process operations for
 amounts less than $5 million in the secondary market of public
 securities through the third-party account and order modality12.
 Chart 6.2.2.3 Given the importance of these investors, especially the AFJPs, in
 Amount Traded of BODEN the secondary trading of sovereign bonds, the implementation
 millions of $ (daily average, year 2004)

150 BODEN 08 of this mechanism implied transitory decreases in the amounts

 BODEN 12 traded during some days. To this is added the impact of the

120 July 5 holiday in the United States, which usually implies

 a decrease in operations in the rest of the world's markets
90 (see Chart 6.2.2.3).

60

30 6.2.3. Investment Common Funds13

 0
 January February March April May June July The evolution of the assets of Investment Common
 Source: MAE
 Funds (FCI) during July was not homogeneous. Although the funds

 11 According to provisional data for transactions agreed in the Electronic Open Market.
 12 According to MAE Circular 64 and General Resolution No. 463 of the National Securities Commission.
 13 The figures in this section correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report –JULY 2004

 Chart 6.2.3.1 of fixed-term deposits and money (money market), which constitute 70% of the
 Money Market total, presented a negative equity variation, variable income funds
 % millions of $ and mixed income funds remained relatively
 12 5.500 Equity (right axis)
 Monthly Return 5.000 stable, while fixed income funds showed a slight

 10 4.500 equity increase.

 4.000
 8 3.500 Despite presenting increasingly higher returns, the

 3.000 money market saw its equity reduced by $280 million, which
 6
 2.500 represents a month-over-month decline of around 8% (see Chart

 4 2.000 6.2.3.1). This behavior is related to the sustained increase

 1.500 in interest rates for fixed-term placements recorded during

 2 1.000 July. In fact, this increase drove the growth of the

 500
 returns of these common funds, at the same time that
 0 0
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 it encouraged some investors to shift their resources toward

 Source: BCRA and CAFCI fixed-term deposits, which generated the aforementioned equity reduction of money market funds. As mentioned in previous reports, this behavior is logical in a context of rising passive interest rates and is expected to continue until the spread between the returns of both assets equals the liquidity premium of investors.
6.2.4. Private Securities

In the primary market for corporate debt, there were no major developments during July. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that within the framework of the comprehensive restructuring of its financial liabilities, Telecom Argentina S.A. extended once again the period for its creditors to manifest acceptance of the exchange proposal until July 30. Similarly, Metrogas S.A. postponed the expiration of its exchange offer until August 2. The company reported that as of July 16, it had received adhesion contracts for an amount of approximately US$102 million of existing debt capital.

With respect to the behavior of the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, based on the analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors clearly differentiate between debtors who never ceased to service their obligations in a timely manner and those who had to resort to restructuring their liabilities to regularize their situation. In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs issued by virtue of restructuring processes ranges from 5 p.p. to 8 p.p. For both groups of securities, decreases in YTM were observed compared to the end of June, although the reduction would have been greater for ONs originating from restructurings (see Chart 6.2.4.1).

---

# 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

| Principal Monetary and Financial System Variables | Jul-04 | Jun-04 | Dec-03 | Jul-03 | Monthly Variation Nominal | Monthly Variation Real | Last 12 Months Variation Nominal | Last 12 Months Variation Real |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Broad Monetary Base | 46.606 | 48.094 | 46.273 | 43.100 | -3,1% | -3,5% | 8,1% | 3,0% |
| Quasi-currencies | 111 | 111 | 894 | 5.124 | 0,0% | -0,5% | -97,8% | -97,9% |
| Monetary Base | 46.495 | 47.984 | 45.378 | 37.977 | -3,1% | -3,5% | 22,4% | 16,7% |
| Monetary Circulation | 32.167 | 30.759 | 28.716 | 23.656 | 4,6% | 4,1% | 36,0% | 29,6% |
| In the Hands of the Public | 28.751 | 27.437 | 25.423 | 20.919 | 4,8% | 4,3% | 37,4% | 31,0% |
| In Financial Entities | 3.416 | 3.322 | 3.293 | 2.737 | 2,8% | 2,4% | 24,8% | 18,9% |
| Current Account at the BCRA | 14.328 | 17.225 | 16.662 | 14.321 | -16,8% | -17,2% | 0,0% | -4,7% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 17.922 | 17.240 | 13.820 | 12.774 | 4,0% | 40,3% | — | — |
| Total Deposits in Pesos¹ | 95.104 | 93.770 | 85.483 | 79.160 | 1,4% | 1,0% | 20,1% | 14,5% |

---

**Chart 6.2.3.2 - Variable Income Funds**
*Millions of $ (Assets at end of month)*
*Daily Assets - July 2004*

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

**Chart 6.2.4.1 - Corporate Bond Yield Curves**
*YTM, %*

*Non-restructured* (June 30)
*Restructured* (June 30)
*Non-restructured* (July 30)
*Restructured* (July 30)

*Corresponds to securities from issuers that have not incurred payment default.*
Duration (years)

Source: Bloomberg and others

15 Monthly Monetary Report – JULY 2004
Private Deposits 69.922 69.576 69.896 67.518 0.5% 0.0% 3.6% -1.3%
 Current Account 16.487 16.950 14.742 11.706 -2.7% -3.2% 40.8% 34.2%
 Savings Account 16.198 15.396 12.890 9.847 5.2% 4.7% 64.5% 56.8%
 Fixed Term 25.361 25.852 29.944 29.260 -1.9% -2.3% -13.3% -17.4%
 Fixed Term adjustable by CER 2.866 2.196 506 3.633 ² 30.5% 29.9% -21.1% -24.8%
 Other Deposits 4.895 4.711 4.845 4.294 3.9% 3.4% 14.0% 8.6%
 Exchanged by BODEN (accounted for) 860 916 1.717 1.752 -6.2% -6.6% -50.9% -53.2%
 CEDRO including CER 3.256 3.554 5.253 7.026 -8.4% -8.8% -53.7% -55.8%

 Public Sector Deposits 24.460 23.552 14.690 10.978 3.9% 3.4% 122.8% 112.3%

 Total Deposits in Dollars 1 3.619 3.322 1.895 1.386 8.9% 161.2%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 13 53.662 52.966 49.953 60.091 1.3% 0.8% -10.7% -14.9%

 To the Private Sector 30.302 29.474 26.825 26.518 2.8% 2.3% 14.3% 8.9%
 Advances 5.906 5.630 4.386 3.752 4.9% 4.4% 57.4% 50.0%
 Documents 5.570 5.362 4.727 4.704 3.9% 3.4% 18.4% 12.8%
 Mortgage 8.844 8.865 9.317 9.995 -0.2% -0.7% -11.5% -15.7%
 Pledge 1.316 1.292 1.270 1.463 1.9% 1.4% -10.0% -14.3%
 Personal 2.997 2.872 2.337 2.032 4.4% 3.9% 47.5% 40.5%
 Credit Cards 2.776 2.700 2.223 1.935 2.8% 2.3% 43.5% 36.7%
 Others 2.894 2.754 2.565 2.637 5.1% 4.6% 9.7% 4.6%

 To the Public Sector 23.360 23.492 23.128 33.572 -0.6% -1.0% -30.4% -33.7%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1.450 1.366 1.444 1.441 6.2% 0.6%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 56.675 55.153 48.720 42.393 2.8% 2.3% 33.7% 27.4%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 81.549 78.498 64.642 54.324 3.9% 3.4% 50.1% 43.0%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 133.794 130.226 115.612 107.301 2.7% 2.3% 24.7% 18.8%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 45.348 44.498 41.060 37.748 1.9% 1.4% 20.1% 14.5%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 61.546 59.894 53.949 47.595 2.8% 2.3% 29.3% 23.2%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 97.924 96.207 94.497 91.808 1.8% 1.3% 6.7% 1.6%

 Average Changes
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution 4 Nominal Contribution 4 Nominal Contribution 4 Nominal Contribution 4

 Broad Monetary Base -1.489 -3.1% 403 0.9% 333 0.7% 3.505 8.1%
 Financial Sector -3.246 -6.7% -4.149 -9.0% -4.582 -9.9% -5.128 -11.9%
 Public Sector -167 -0.3% -1.683 -3.6% -4.560 -9.9% -4.191 -9.7%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 754 1.230 1.293 3.834
 Use of the National Government Account -33 118 -366 495
 External Credit -806 -2.867 -5.323 -8.357
 Private External Sector 1.971 4.1% 7.115 15.4% 12.578 27.2% 17.994 41.7%
 BCRA Titles -140 -0.3% -1.015 -2.2% -3.410 -7.4% -5.382 -12.5%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -33 -0.1% -85 -0.2%
 Others 5 93 0.2% 135 0.3% 339 0.7% 298 0.7%

 International Reserves 681 4.0% 2.667 17.5% 4.102 29.7% 5.148 40.3%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 667 3.9% 2.439 16.0% 4.325 31.3% 6.259 49.0%
 Payment to International Organizations -212 -1.2% -679 -4.4% -1.436 -10.4% -2.446 -19.1%
 Other Public Sector Operations -3 0.0% -118 -0.8% 51 0.4% 70 0.5%
 Minimum Cash 162 0.9% 930 6.1% 1.101 8.0% 1.074 8.4%
 Valuation of Pass Type 23 0.1% 0 0.0% -64 -0.5% -24 -0.2%
 Others 44 0.3% 95 0.6% 125 0.9% 232 1.8%
1 Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Corresponds to the stock of fixed-term deposits made due to the de-programming of CEDRO between $42,000 and $100,000 carried out during the months of April and May 2003.
 3 Accounting data that differ from those presented in the body of the report, since the latter include adjustments for analytical purposes.
 4 The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report –JULY 2004

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 1.81 2.11 3.27 1.60 2.32
 Amount traded 486 256 507 84 157

 Fixed-term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 2.51 2.49 2.45 3.71 6.06
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.45 2.35 2.33 2.93 5.10
 60 days or more 3.02 2.87 2.85 4.45 8.00
 In dollars
 30 days 0.29 0.34 0.50 0.58 0.76
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.34 0.31 0.56 0.70 1.05
 60 days or more 0.61 0.71 0.90 0.93 0.88

 Active Interest Rates Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.97 6.04 6.33 10.32 16.64

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 3.57 3.47 4.75 3.33 4.47
 Volume traded (total terms) 63 64 70 63 217

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Advances 13.82 15.47 15.72 22.59 35.93
 Documents on signature only 9.60 10.61 10.89 11.03 16.09
 Mortgages 11.73 12.11 12.20 13.63 13.33
 Pledges 12.15 12.49 13.61 16.12 13.21
 Personal 29.59 29.46 31.25 33.55 43.71
 Credit Cards n/d n/d 32.12 34.88 60.82

 Reference Rates Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 LIBOR
 1 month 1.41 1.25 1.10 1.15 1.11
 6 months 1.90 1.81 1.51 1.24 1.12

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.61 2.74 2.50 1.88 1.46
 10 years 4.48 4.73 4.70 4.25 3.95

 FED Funds Rate 1.25 1.01 1.00 1.00 1.00

 SELIC (at 1 year) 16.00 16.00 16.00 17.07 25.52

 (1) Data through May correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 and for the latest months correspond to estimates based on SISCEN 18.

 17 Monthly Monetary Report –JULY 2004

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Securities issued by the BCRA Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 Primary Market

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 2.66
 2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d 3.69
 3 months n/d n/d 1.13 2.30 4.52
 6 months 2.69 2.86 2.52 4.38 7.85
 12 months 6.39 6.39 6.59 8.99 14.63
 18 months n/d 7.13 8.20 10.80 16.95
 24 months 9.00 9.53 9.75 n/d n/d

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months 0.08 0.88 1.21 3.71 8.70
 18 months 1.09 1.88 2.27 5.46 9.30
 24 months 2.34 3.15 3.63 n/d n/d

 NOBAC rate in pesos n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 3.29 4.49 4.79 6.65 n/d

 LEBAC rates in dollars
 1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 0.00
 2 months n/d n/d n/d -0.06 n/d
 3 months n/d n/d n/d -0.04 n/d

 Secondary Market

 Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 71 101 92 169 32

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.95 2.96 2.92 2.95 2.80
 BCRA Reference 2.96 2.96 2.92 2.96 2.80

 Dollar Forward
 NDF 1 month 2.97 2.98 2.95 2.97 2.82
 INDOL 1 month 2.96 2.96 2.93 2.96 2.81
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 1 1 3
 ROFEX 1 month 2.96 2.96 2.93 2.96 2.81
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 75 96 91 38 27

 Real (Pesos x Real) 0.97 0.95 0.94 1.01 0.97

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.63 3.60 3.51 3.64 3.19

 Capital Market Jul-04 Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jul-03

 MERVAL
 Index 967 927 954 1020 732
 Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 37 40 57 65 37

 Government Bonds (per VN 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 67.07 63.32 61.19 60.37 59.05
 BODEN 08 ($) 86.23 83.87 82.23 86.76 77.16
# Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 1.183 1.252 1.325 1.355 1.328
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 450 478 515 372 523

18
