# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

MARCH 2004

CONTENTS 1. Summary 1
1. Summary 1 • In March, the significant monetary contraction generated by the public
 sector and the financial sector led the BCRA to continue with its policy of
2. Monetary Program 2 neutralizing such forces by supplying the monetization of the economy through
 stable interventions in the foreign exchange market.
3. Interest Rates 3 • The distortions of the staggered payment to the IMF produced strong variations
 3.1. Securities Issued by the (accounting) of the monetary aggregates that make necessary an adjustment of the
BCRA 3 same in order to compare them with the Monetary Program targets. In
 this way, the adjusted Broad Monetary Base (BMA) decreased $625 million
 3.2. Interbank Market 4 in March, bringing it to values of $46,375 million which implies still
 a positive year-over-year variation of 21.8%.
 3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4 • The downward trend of interest rates continued, which is a reflection
 of high liquidity levels. The implicit interest rates of the last
 3.4. Active Interest Rates 5 LEBAC auction resulted between 0.7 p.p. and 0.4 p.p. lower than those of the previous
 month for securities at 12 and 18 months, reaching levels of 7.2% and 8.7% at the end
 of the month respectively, while interest rates for shorter
4. Means of Payment, Deposits and duration remained stable. With passive interest rates something
Liquidity 6 similar occurred; interest rates on deposits for
 longer terms continued to fall slightly (between 0.4 p.p. and 0.3 p.p.), while for
 4.1. Means of Payment 6 deposits of less than 60 days the interest rate showed no variations, remaining at
 2.3%, a figure similar to year-over-year retail inflation. The interest rate of the
 4.2. Time Deposits 7 interbank market also remained at its level, which had reached the previous
 month its historical floor (1.2%), while interest rates on current account
 4.3. Dollar Deposits 7 overdrafts and personal loans, which are the most dynamic lines,
 presented new declines.
 4.4. Bank Liquidity 8 • Means of payment in pesos (M2) adjusted increased $880 million
 (43% y.o.y.). This increase in preference for liquidity can be explained by the
5. Loans 9 greater incidence of the tax on bank debits and credits (IDCCB)
 on the returns of time deposits in a context of falling interest rates. These
6. Financial Assets Market 10 placements decreased $730 million in March; however, the monetary aggregate
 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 10 M3 (adjusted) in pesos (which includes means of payment, time placements and
 other deposits) increased $220 million (18.6% y.o.y.)
 6.2. Capital Markets 11 • Loans in pesos to the private sector grew on average
 around $580 million, which implies a monthly variation of 2.2% ($790
 6.2.1. Stocks 11 million considering end-of-month balances) resulting in the largest increase since
 March 1998. Growth was led by current account overdrafts (11% improvement
 6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 11 with respect to February), followed by discounted documents and consumer
 financing which also grew although to a lesser extent. Loans with real
 6.2.3. Corporate Bonds 12 guarantee continued to contract, but the decrease in the rate of decline,
 particularly of pledge loans, would indicate that they would be approaching an
7. Monetary and inflection point.
Financial Indicators 13 • The peso in March appreciated in nominal terms with respect to the real
 (0.4%), the dollar (1.2%) and the euro (4.2%). In real terms, in March it appreciated 2.5%
 with respect to a basket of currencies of the country's main trading partners,
 and so far this year by 3%. In the last 12 months, however, the
 gain in competitiveness reached 4.8%, and compared to December 2001 it stands
 at 55%.
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT – MARCH 2004

1. Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are
 expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

 2. Monetary Program

 During the month of March, the evolution of monetary
 aggregates was significantly influenced by accounting movements
 associated with payments made by the National Government
 to IFIs, which were financed in part with public funds
 Figure 2.1 coming from the local financial system. In particular, the payment
 made to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on March 9th

 One-Day Call Operations generated a temporary contraction of BMA of $3,300 million

millions of $ Amount (Left Axis) Period associated with IFI operations during two weeks, until the moment of
300 Rate (Right Axis) 1.8
 disbursement by said
 1.6 organization, restoring, then, public placements in the
250
 1.4 banking system – although only in part since the National Government
 paid off temporary advances for an amount greater than what it had
200 1.2
 received when making the payment.
 1.0
150 This temporary decline in monetary aggregates
 0.8
 represents an accounting variation without economic effect,
100 0.6
 both for the design and for the execution of monetary policy.
 0.4
50 In a context of constant demand for real balances, a
 0.2 monetary contraction of such magnitude would have generated an

 0 0.0 important increase in the cost of money. Nevertheless, the decline in
 2-Jan-04 13-Jan-04 22-Jan-04 2-Feb-04 11-Feb-04 20-Feb-04 2-Mar-04 11-Mar-04 22-Mar-04 31-Mar-04
 the balances of the financial system represented rather a temporary decline
 in demand for money by the public sector, which combined with the
 comfortable liquidity situation of the financial system in general and of
 Figure 2.2 public banks in particular resulted in a withdrawal of public deposits

 Broad Monetary Base of such importance not altering monetary equilibrium, as evidenced by

 thousands of millions of $ the evolution of the various interest rates during the last weeks of March

50 (see Figure 2.1).

49
 In this manner, the evolution of average BMA was cleaned
48
 (and other monetary aggregates) of this temporary contraction,
47 presenting an adjusted BMA as if the IMF disbursement had occurred
46 on the same day of payment, as was foreseen in the agreement (see
45 Figure 2.2). In this way, in the analysis that follows, the levels and

 Observed variations of the variables included in it are purified of the
44 30-day moving average
 Lower Band mentioned contraction. For comparison, in parentheses the
43 Upper Band gross figures of said accounting adjustment are included.

 Observed corrected
 30-day corrected moving average The BMA registered in March an average level of $46,375
42 million ($44,678 million), which implies a decline in the month of
31-Dec-03 30-Jan-04 1-Mar-04 30-Mar-04 28-Apr-04 27-May-04 25-Jun-04 29-Feb-04
 $625 million ($2,322 million) and a year-over-year variation of 21.8%
 (17.3%). The monthly variation can be broken down into a
 decrease of approximately $825 million ($2,500 million)
 in broad banking reserves and an increase in broad currency in circulation
 of around $200 million. In this way, the Monetary Program was met for the third consecutive quarter.

 The BCRA continued supplying the monetization of the
 economy through the foreign exchange market since both the
 public and financial sectors as well as the placement of BCRA
 securities proved to be contractionary for BMA (See Figure 2.3). The public
 sector was the one with the greatest contractionary effect, $1,056 million ($2,754
 million) as a consequence of payments made to IFIs
 during March.

 For its part, operations linked to the financial sector
 originated a reduction in BMA of $48 million, linked to the

 2 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004
3.1. Titles Issued by the BCRA

**Chart 3.1.1**

**Yields of BCRA titles - TNA, %**

As mentioned, the BCRA developed a policy aimed at strengthening the titles it issues, whose yields currently represent reference rates in the asset market. In the primary market of BCRA titles, the interest rates of longer duration instruments continued to decline. While the yields of 3 and 6 month LEBAC remained at levels similar to those recorded at the end of February, those of 12 and 18 month LEBAC showed monthly declines of 0.7 p.p. and 0.4 p.p. respectively. During the month, 2-year duration LEBAC denominated in pesos and adjustable by CER were introduced to the market, which registered yields of 10.1% and 4.4% at the end of the period. This resulted in the lengthening of the average life of the titles in pesos in circulation (including those with CER adjustment), which went to 282 days on the last day of March, 28 days more than a month earlier. For its part, NOBAC in pesos had a yield of 11.3% at the end of March, while in the last placement of the month NOBAC issued with CER adjustment were awarded at an interest rate of 5.2% (see Chart 3.1.1).

**Chart 3.1.2 - Percentage points 12-month Inflation**

The interest rates corresponding to LEBAC adjustable by CER registered variations of similar magnitude to that mentioned for titles issued in pesos. Consequently, the inflation implicit in the margin between the interest rates of titles issued in pesos and those adjustable by CER remained at similar levels (5%) to those it has been showing in recent months.

---

² Regulation of Chapter II of Decree 739/2003.
³ Figures adjusted for foreign currency purchases in the market by the Public Sector.

3 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004
10 months, resulting in 2 p.p. lower than the forecasts disseminated through the REM for price growth in the next 12 months (see Graph 3.1.2).

---

**3.2. Interbank Market**

**Graph 3.2.1** The interest rates agreed upon in the interbank market (call) remained at their historical floor reached in the month of February, and registered a slight decline in the amounts operated, while volatility continued to be very low. This was the case despite the sharp monetary contraction implied by the payment of the National Government to the IFI which, as we have noted, did not disturb monetary equilibrium.

The interest rates on call operations for terms of less than 15 days remained around 1.2%, being, as we said last month, the lowest value of the last decades. The market has presented in recent months very low volatility, of around 0.4 p.p. from August 2003 until January of this year, and dropping to 0.3 p.p. in the last two months (see Graph 3.2.1).

The amounts operated were reduced by $30 million in March compared to the previous month, remaining at relatively very low levels, which is a reflection of abundant liquidity.

---

**3.3. Passive Interest Rates**

**Graph 3.3.1** During March, passive interest rates remained relatively stable compared to the previous month. Although the downward trend in this market is maintained, the pace of the decline has decelerated in recent months, considering that they have reached a floor since they present historical minimum levels. In the case of longer-term placements, interest rates showed slight declines going from 2.7% to 2.4% for deposits between 60 and 89 days and from 3.6% to 3.2% for deposits greater than 90 days, while the average interest rate for placements of 30 to 59 days did not vary in relation to February, placing itself at 2.3% (see Graph 3.3.1) coinciding with inflation of the last 12 months.

Within each term, the highest interest rates continued to correspond to placements of smaller amounts carried out by individuals, while wholesale deposits made by large companies and, in particular, financial service-providing institutions continued to receive the lowest interest rates. As already mentioned in previous reports, this phenomenon is due to the customer loyalty policy being carried out by financial entities, implemented through the offer of higher interest rates to small depositors in relation to large ones. Indeed, the spread between placements of less than $100,000 and more than $1 million remained around 1.6 p.p. on average.

Similarly, the spread between deposits corresponding to individuals and those made by financial service-providing institutions continued at 1.4 p.p. (see Graphs 3.3.2 and 3.3.3)

When analyzing interest rates by type of depositor, in the bracket of deposits of 30 to 59 days, which represents 81% of the total amount operated, the average interest rate received by individuals was located around 2.8% while the average rate

---

**4 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004**
# Performance of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos received by Financial Service-Providing Institutions
By type of depositor

percentage reached 1.1%. In both cases, the interest rates resulted
FEBRUARY 2004 MARCH 2004 Natural Persons
5 slightly lower than those agreed upon in February. On the contrary, in
Financial Services
4 Legal Entities the case of legal entities the average interest rate did not change

4 compared to that of the previous month, hovering around 2.2%.

3

3

2 3.4. Active Interest Rates⁴.

2

1

1 During March the downward trend of active interest rates was
0 maintained.
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90
days days
The interest rates on commercial loans registered a slight
Graph 3.4.1 decline (see Graph 3.4.1). The interest rate charged for

percentage Commercial Loans overdrafts on current accounts was positioned at 18.9% on average,
Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount 1.5 p.p. below that of the previous month, while the amounts
60 operated increased by $406.5 million, thus producing the

50 Overdrafts largest growth in loans recorded since March 1998, as explained
below. For financing through overdrafts on current accounts, a clear
40 Documents market segmentation is observed according to the type of client,

financing large enterprises at lower interest rates that paid 17.3% on
30 average, while small clients financed themselves at interest rates
of 38.9% on average. To large clients, as we will see below, the

20 majority of financing was directed. The interest rate on documentary
loans was positioned at 9.7% on average, being 0.8 p.p. lower than

10 that of the preceding month, while amounts operated increased by

0 $68 million.
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04
The interest rates on consumer financing continued declining
(see Graph 3.4.2). The interest rate on personal loans was positioned
at 30.9% in March, 3.1 p.p. below that of the previous month, while
the amounts operated increased by $19 million.

In the case of credit card financing, there is still no information

⁴ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through
February; the March values were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in
Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

⁵ Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

Graph 3.4.2 available to make an estimate for March; however in February the
interest rates showed a slight decline of 0.7 p.p., positioning themselves
percentage Consumer Loans at 33.7%. This decrease was accompanied by an increase of about
70 Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount $20 million in the amount operated.

65

60 Financing with real collateral are the only ones that
Personals experienced an increase in their rates. In the case of pledged
55 Tarjetas loans the average rate was positioned at 15.3% in March,

50 resulting 0.8 p.p. higher than that corresponding to the previous
month, due to the fact that entities offering loans at higher rates are
45 those that granted the most financing in March, raising the average
rate. Regarding the interest rates on mortgage loans, the rates
40
remained stable in relation to the previous month, around 12.4%.
35

30

25

20
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04

4. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity⁵
Total deposits in pesos remained relatively stable in March, registering a positive variation of $20 million ($1,600 million). Given the growth in currency in circulation mentioned, the monetary aggregate M3⁶ registered an increase close to $220 million (a decline of $1,400 million). In year-on-year terms, this aggregate showed an increase of approximately 18.6%. It should be noted that in the month under analysis, a change was observed in the composition of funds deposited in the financial system, given that there was a significant transfer from time deposits to demand deposits. This resulted in a significant increase in M2⁷.

## 4.1. Means of Payment

**Graph 4.1.1 Total means of payment in pesos (M2) increased approximately $880 million (a decline of $410 million) reaching Demand and Time Deposits in Pesos a growth in the last 12 months of 43% (40%). This Average monthly variation - March 2004**
millions of $

800 Demand Deposits preference for liquidity that has increased in recent
 months can be explained largely by the increasingly greater impact
400 Time Deposits of the IDCCB on the returns of time deposits in a context of
 historically low interest rates (see Graph 4.1.1).
0

-400 The monthly variation of M2 was mainly explained by the
 increase in demand deposits, which amounted to around $680
-800 million (a decline of $610 million). In this regard, this increase
-1,200 originated in the placements of the private sector, with 60%
 corresponding to savings accounts deposits and the rest to current
-1,600 accounts. Likewise, if the variation between the end of February
 Variation (original) and March of demand deposits in that sector is considered, the
 Variation (adjusted for IFI payment) increase reaches double the amount mentioned.

Current Account Savings Account Fixed Term CEDRO with CER

⁵ This section includes in parentheses the gross figures of the accounting adjustment for the payment to the IFIs on March 9.
⁶ Includes currency in circulation, total deposits in pesos from the private and public sectors and quasi-money.
⁷ Includes currency in circulation, demand deposits in pesos from the private and public sectors and quasi-money.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

For its part, currency in circulation also showed an increase of 1% which, in seasonally adjusted terms, was 3%.

## 4.2. Time Deposits

Time deposits in pesos registered in March an average decline of approximately $730 million ($1,060 million), of which $410 million ($740 million) corresponded to fixed terms and $320 to CEDRO adjusted by CER. As mentioned, a large portion of these funds were transferred to demand deposits due to the negative impact of the IDCCB (see Graph 4.1.1.).

**Graph 4.2.1 Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos
Average monthly variation - March 2004**
millions of $

100 When decomposing the decline in fixed terms by contractual term,
 it is observed that the largest decline occurred in the 30 to 59 day
0 segment, which decreased by $370 million ($700 million). Placements
 between 60 and 179 days also showed a negative variation, although
-100 smaller, reaching $160 million. On the other hand, deposits of more
-200 than 180 days increased by $110 million (see Graph 4.2.1). The
-300 majority of the new operations for more than 180 days were carried
-400 out by individuals and, to a lesser extent, [text incomplete]
-500 measure, by the financial services lending institutions. In both groups a preference is observed for deposits with longer -600
 Original Variation
 Variation corrected by payment to IFI term, to the detriment of placements with short terms. Legal entities, on the other
-700 hand, were not associated with this behavior, maintaining their placement structure equal
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days 90 to 179 days 180 to 365 days more than 366 days
 to the previous month.

 Regarding the size of deposits, the largest part of the fixed-term deposit contraction concentrated in placements of less than $1 million, which decreased by $270 million, continuing with the declining trajectory they have maintained since mid-last year. Deposits of more than $1 million completed the decline, recording a drop of around $140 million ($460 million). These deposits correspond mostly to large companies and financial services lending institutions, which in March decreased their participation in the amount operated by 5 p.p., representing 45% of the total.

 Chart 4.3.1 4.3. Deposits in Dollars

 Deposits in Dollars
 Average monthly variation thousands of millions
 millions of US$ of US$
 The dollar deposit segment registered an increase 250 2.5
 Fixed Term Fixed Term Corrected in the month of March that reached US$100 million (US$50

200 Sight Stock Total (2° axis) 2.0 million), continuing in this way with the growth trend that
 Total Corrected
 has been evident since late 2002. Contrary to what had been

150 1.5 recorded in previous months, this month (and as also happened in February), deposits in savings accounts had an
 important participation in the monthly increase with a rise that

100 1.0 reached US$49 million. Fixed-term deposits, for their part,
 showed an increase of US$44 million (decline of US$5

 50 0.5 million) (see Chart 4.3.1) while the average stock of dollar deposits amounted to US$2,160 million (US$2,100

 0 0.0 million).

 -50 -0.5
 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04

 In this way, the stock of deposits in dollars increased by 14% (11%) so far this year and 113% (108%) compared to the same month last year.

 As in previous months, operations concentrated in the 30 to 60 day bracket, with the average term of the month's collection being around 44 days. Regarding the amounts of operations carried out, more than half concentrated in deposits of less than US$100,000 and were made by individuals.

 4.4. Banking Liquidity
 Chart 4.4.1

 Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos
 % of deposits by bank group The situation of ample liquidity existing in the system

 of the group
12 was also sustained during the month of March despite the

10 Private considerable contraction that resulted from the temporary withdrawal of funds

8 Public for payment to the IFIs. In this regard, financial entities

6 maintained in the month 26.4% of their deposits in cash and in current accounts at the BCRA (2 p.p. less than last month).

4
2 The position corresponding to the minimum cash regime

0 reflected this situation with an excess position in pesos for the total of the system that reached in March 5.5 p.p. (2.5 p.p. less than

-2 last month). If the minimum cash position is analyzed by
-4 bank group, a reduction of approximately

-6
-8
Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-044.5 percentage points in the position of public banks (explained by payments to the IFIs) and around 0.5 percentage points in that of private banks (see chart 4.4.1). It is worth mentioning that private banks had

Chart 4.4.2 also reduced their liquidity position during February (-0.6 percentage points compared to January), which shows that the positive evolution of the

% on Dollar Liquidity credit market is influencing this behavior (see Loans Section).

100

90

80 The excess liquidity over the requirements demanded by the BCRA is even more pronounced in the segment corresponding to dollar deposits. Over the last twelve months, the integration of minimum cash in foreign currency exceeded 90% of existing deposits in the system in said currency, which more than triples the legal requirements⁸ (see Chart 4.4.2).

70

60

50

40

30

20

10 If both segments are consolidated considering the position of total minimum cash, the excess liquidity existing in the system during the month of March was approximately $8,700 million equivalent to 9.5 percentage points of total deposits.

0

 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04

⁸ In accordance with what was established by the BCRA, the failure to apply the lending capacity in foreign currency verified by financial entities in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement for said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities "legally" accrue is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement arising from applying legal reserve coefficients to obligations in foreign currency is computed, without considering the increase in the same equivalent to the failure to apply resources.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

5. Loans
Chart 5.1

millions of pesos Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
500 Average Monthly Variation During March, loans in pesos to the private sector grew by approximately $580 million on average. When comparing the stock at the end of the month, the increase is even more significant, having reached $790 million and representing the largest positive variation recorded since March 1998. The lines that showed the greatest dynamism were commercial ones, especially advances in current account, and to a lesser extent consumption loans, while loans with real guarantees continued to contract (see Chart 5.1).

400 Commercial Loans
300 Loans with Real Guarantees Commercial loans increased by approximately $520 million on average. This increase was driven by advances in current account, which in the month under analysis grew $470 million on average. If the variation in stocks between the end of the month is considered, the increase is even greater, totaling more than $620 million.

200 Consumption Loans

100

0

-100

-200

-300

-400

-500

-600

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04

Chart 5.2

millions of $ Commercial Loans

600 Average Monthly Variation Said financing corresponded to legal entities, particularly large companies (for amounts exceeding one million pesos), and were carried out mainly by domestic private entities and by branches of foreign banks. The rest of the commercial lines, represented by documented credits, evidenced growth of $50 million on average.

500 Documents at Sole SignatureAdvances Large Companies
400 Discounted DocumentsAdvances Small Clients All the increase is explained by the growth of discounted documents (see Chart 5.2).

300 Purchased Documents

200

100

0 The lines intended for consumption, for their part, registered in
6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

In March, BCRA purchases of foreign exchange from the private sector reached US$460 million. On the other hand, operations by the public sector, fundamentally linked to IFI payments, implied a decrease in international reserves of approximately US$500 million. Consequently, the balance at the end of March of international reserves stood at a level similar to that of a month earlier (US$15,003 million).

During the month the peso appreciated in nominal terms with respect to the real (0.4%), the euro (4.2%) and the dollar (1.2%). Likewise, if the evolution of the multilateral real exchange rate is considered, the peso appreciated 2.5% in real terms with respect to a basket of currencies of the country's main trading partners, accumulating an appreciation of 3% in the year and a competitiveness gain of 4.8% in the last 12 months (see Graph 6.1.2).
**Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (basket/$)*** In line with the variation between late March and February of the
Dic-01=100 reference exchange rate, the quotations of peso futures contracts
110 against the US dollar decreased 2% in March. Said reduction in prices
100 implied that yields, measured as annual nominal rates, decreased around
90 0.3 percentage points for contracts of longer duration, while for those
80 agreed at shorter terms, yields remained stable compared to late
70 February. The amount traded on average daily in this market10 during
60 March almost tripled that recorded the previous month, reaching $88
50 million.
40

30
Dic-99 Jun-00 Dic-00 Jun-01 Dic-01 Jun-02 Dic-02 Jun-03 Dic-03
*Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso.

9 For an analysis of the result of the Single and Free Exchange Market in March, see the Quarterly Report on Evolution of the Exchange Market that will be published shortly.
10 Corresponds to operations arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX).

10 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

**6.2. Capital Market**

**6.2.1. Stocks**

According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in March the
prices of stocks traded in the local market showed an appreciation of Graphic 6.2.1.1
1.6%, accumulating a gain of 12% for the year. The behavior of Local Stock Market
variable income securities was influenced by investor expectations MERVAL index in pesos
MERVAL millions of $ regarding negotiations with international organizations that occurred
1400 200 during the month. During the first days of March and until there was
180
1200 certainty that payment to the IMF would be made, the prevailing Traded amount (right axis) 160
MERVAL 140 uncertainty caused the stock market to show successive losses. However,
1000 120 once said payment was made, the improvement observed more than
80 compensated the result of the previous days, with the maximum monthly
600 100 closing value (1,275) of the MERVAL index being recorded on March 80
60 19. From then until the end of the month an alignment with the rest of
400 40 the world's stock exchanges was observed, which implied a partial
20 reversal of the aforementioned increases (see Graphic 6.2.1.1).
200 0
Ene-02 Abr-02 Jul-02 Oct-02 Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04

On the other hand, as occurs at the beginning of each quarter,
the composition of the MERVAL index was updated. Banks maintained
the highest percentage in the portfolio with 31%, although 3 percentage
points less than in the previous quarter; followed by securities of steel
companies, which concentrate 27% of participation, 1 percentage point
more than in the first three months of the year.

Regarding the traded volume, the daily average for March was
slightly higher than February ($77 million), although it more than
doubled the amount traded in the same month of the previous year.

**6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds**

In March, the securities issued by the national government after Graphic 6.2.2.1
the cessation of payments showed good performance. Among the BODEN Yield of the BODEN
BODEN denominated in pesos with CER adjustment, the BODEN 08 percentage
30 recorded a decrease in its yield (measured as internal rate of return,
25 IRR), of 0.9 percentage points compared to late February; while the
BODEN 07 showed an increase in its IRR of 0.4 percentage points,
20 although it should be remembered that it is one of the securities with
15 less liquidity within this type of bonds. It is worth mentioning that on
10 March 31 the payment of the first installment of amortization of the
BODEN 08 was made, which implied a reduction of its residual value
5 of 10%. On the other hand, all BODEN issued in dollars registered
BODEN 08 IRR falls between month-end, with the largest being those for the
BODEN 12 BODEN 05 and 12, which reached 1.4 and 1.3 percentage points
respectively. Although in general the monthly balance was positive, [text continues...]
In the second part of March, a profit-taking was observed, which
25-Sep-02 25-Dec-02 25-Mar-03 25-Jun-03 25-Sep-03 25-Dec-03 25-Mar-04
 led to prices declining slightly (see Chart
 6.2.2.1).

 11 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

 Chart 6.2.2.2 Performing bonds continue to be preferred in the
 local market. As can be seen in Chart 6.2.2.2, which shows
 Volume traded of most negotiated securities in the local market*
 millions of pesos March 2004 the total amounts traded in March11, BODENs are those that

2500 have the greatest liquidity, and among them BODEN 12 and 08, which
 concentrate around 60% of the negotiation of sovereign securities
2000
 (LEBACs are not included). Then, other public securities in pesos

1500 issued also after the suspension of payments follow. In
 the same chart the amount traded in LEBACs can be seen and the degree
 of depth that the market for this type of securities has acquired can be
1000
 appreciated in relative terms, being surpassed only by that of BODENs.

500

 0

 *Correspond to provisional data of amounts traded in the Electronic Open Market.
 
 6.2.3. Corporate Bonds

 In the corporate debt market, the advance of processes for
 regularization of liabilities continued and after several months new
 issuances were again completed, although mainly short-term.

 Within the group of companies currently undergoing debt
 restructuring is Metrogas, which announced the extension of the
 deadline for subscribers of its Negotiable Obligations (ON) and
 bank creditors to accept the APE until April 14. It also reported that
 as of March 9 it had received powers authorizing the APE subscription
 for an amount of US$109 million of existing debt capital.

 For its part, Banco de Galicia y Buenos Aires also notified
 the extension of the expiration date of the exchange offer made to
 ON holders until April 15.

 In a primary market characterized by its scarce activity,
 Tecpetrol, a company dedicated to the exploitation and exploration
 of hydrocarbon deposits, announced that given that it considers
 current conditions favorable, it decided to begin the subscription
 period for Class V ONs for up to US$20 million under the Program of
 simple ONs, non-convertible into shares for a maximum amount of NV
 US$400 million.

 Banco Río announced the issuance and subscription of Series
 63, 64 and 65 of ONs within the framework of the Short-Term Debt
 Securities Program for an amount of US$500 million. The amount
 issued for the first of the series was US$7.12 million, while for
 Series 64 and 65 the amounts issued were US$75.35 million and
 US$82.47 million respectively. All series were placed at 99.7% of
 nominal value and mature in June 2004.

 11 Based on provisional data corresponding to operations in the Electronic Open Market.

 12 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators12

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Changes Average
 Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System Mar-04 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-04Dec-03Mar-03
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Broad Monetary Base 44,678 46,999 46,273 38,080 -4.9% -5.5% 17.3% 14.7%
 Quasi-money 111 114 894 7,692 -2.9% -3.5% -98.6% -98.6%

 Monetary Base 44,566 46,885 45,378 30,388 -4.9% -5.5% 46.7% 43.4%
 Monetary Circulation 29,265 28,935 28,716 19,280 1.1% 0.5% 51.8% 48.4%
 In the hands of the Public 26,218 26,013 25,424 17,017 0.8% 0.2% 54.1% 50.6%
 In Financial Entities 3,047 2,921 3,293 2,263 4.3% 3.7% 34.7% 31.7%
 Current Account at the BCRA 15,302 17,950 16,662 11,108 -14.8% -15.3% 37.8% 34.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 13,507 15,009 13,820 10,373 -10.0% 30.2%

 Total Deposits in Pesos (1) 86,741 88,913 85,427 72,951 -2.4% -3.0% 18.9% 16.3%
# Private Deposits 70.913 71.495 69.897 64.693 -0.8% -1.4% 9.6% 7.2%
 Current Account 15.930 15.616 14.741 10.599 2.0% 1.4% 50.3% 46.9%
 Savings Account 15.087 14.675 12.889 8.068 2.8% 2.2% 87.0% 82.8%
 Fixed Term 29.236 30.179 30.450 23.053 -3.1% -3.7% 26.8% 24.0%
 Other Deposits 4.725 4.739 4.847 4.237 -0.3% -0.9% 11.5% 9.0%
 Exchanged for BODEN (recorded) 1.631 1.662 1.717 2.189 -1.8% -2.4% -25.5% -27.2%
 CEDRO including CER 4.303 4.624 5.254 16.547 -6.9% -7.5% -74.0% -74.6%

 Public Sector Deposits 15.108 16.614 14.633 7.899 -9.1% -9.6% 91.3% 87.0%

 Total Deposits in Dollars (1) 2.097 2.062 1.895 1.014 1.7% 106.8%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1) 50.280 49.463 49.962 60.637 1.7% 1.0% -17.1% -18.9%

 To Private Sector 27.015 26.444 26.826 28.039 2.2% 1.6% -3.7% -5.8%
 Advances 4.704 4.237 4.386 3.726 11.0% 10.4% 26.2% 23.4%
 Documents 4.744 4.693 4.727 4.869 1.1% 0.5% -2.6% -4.7%
 Mortgage Loans 9.043 9.129 9.317 10.702 -0.9% -1.5% -15.5% -17.4%
 Pledge Loans 1.232 1.240 1.270 1.683 -0.6% -1.2% -26.8% -28.4%
 Personal Loans 2.580 2.524 2.333 2.309 2.2% 1.6% 11.7% 9.2%
 Credit Cards 2.280 2.264 2.227 1.948 0.7% 0.1% 17.1% 14.5%
 Other 2.431 2.357 2.565 2.801 3.1% 2.5% -13.2% -15.1%

 To Public Sector 23.265 23.020 23.136 32.598 1.1% 0.5% -28.6% -30.2%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1) 1.404 1.459 1.444 1.426 -3.8% -1.5%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 48.823 50.261 48.724 38.467 -2.9% -3.4% 26.9% 24.1%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 67.926 68.637 64.646 47.610 -1.0% -1.6% 42.7% 39.5%
 M3 (M2 + Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 117.492 119.400 115.615 98.602 -1.6% -2.2% 19.2% 16.5%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account S. Private) 42.259 41.744 41.059 35.309 1.2% 0.6% 19.7% 17.0%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account S. Private) 57.346 56.419 53.948 43.377 1.6% 1.0% 32.2% 29.3%
 M3 (M2 + Fixed Term Deposits S. Private + CEDRO with CER S. Private) 95.610 95.961 94.498 87.213 -0.4% -1.0% 9.6% 7.2%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2)

 Broad Monetary Base -2.322 -4.9% -1.595 -3.4% -1.595 -3.4% 6.597 17.3%
 Financial Sector -48 -0.1% -301 -0.7% -301 -0.7% -1.520 18.9%
 Public Sector -2.754 -5.9% -3.210 -6.9% -3.210 -6.9% -2.886 18.9%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 2.999 2.561 2.561 7.185
 Use of National Government Account -222 -480 -480 -45
 External Credit -5.530 -5.291 -5.291 -10.025
 Private External Sector 813 1.7% 3.706 8.0% 3.706 8.0% 16.421 43.1%
 BCRA Securities -430 -0.9% -1.935 -4.2% -1.935 -4.2% -5.845 -15.3%
 Difference Between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money -3 0.0% 0 0.0% -33 -0.1% -220 -0.6%
 Other (3) 100 0.2% 146 0.3% 179 0.4% -2.193 -5.8%

 International Reserves -1.502 -10.0% -313 -2.3% -313 -2.3% 3.134 30.2%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 279 -12.1% 1.269 -12.9% 1.269 9.2% 5.797 55.9%
 Payment to International Organizations -1.822 -12.1% -1.784 -12.9% -1.784 0.9% -3.250 0.3%
 Other Public Sector Operations 24 0.2% 126 0.9% 126 0.9% 35 0.3%
 Minimum Cash 47 0.3% 79 0.6% 79 0.6% 280 2.7%
 Repo Rate Valuation -69 -0.5% -11 -0.1% -11 -0.1% 23 0.2%
 Other 38 0.3% 7 0.1% 7 0.1% 268 2.6%

 (1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 (2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
 (3) Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
12 The figures for the month of March correspond to observed data and therefore include the accounting effect associated with the payment made to the IMF on March 9 with government funds from the local financial system, which due to its transitory nature did not disturb monetary equilibrium.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

Call between Private Banks in pesos
Rate 1.25 1.29 1.44 1.69 8.88
Amount 90 118 74 72 155

Fixed-Term Deposits
In pesos
30 days 2.38 2.31 2.81 3.71 22.33
30-44 days, more than 1 million 1.62 1.62 2.06 2.93 24.31
60 days or more 2.64 2.88 3.52 4.45 25.37
In dollars
30 days 0.55 0.52 0.57 0.58 1.04
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.61 0.63 0.71 0.70 1.48
60 days or more 0.95 0.88 0.90 0.93 0.85

Active Interest Rates Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

Prime in pesos at 30 days 7.86 9.50 9.90 10.32 27.84

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 1.82 1.55 1.90 3.33 16.60
Volume traded (total terms) 58 50 52 63 188

Loans in pesos (1)
Current Account Advances 20.45 21.71 23.47 57.27
Documents on signature 10.52 11.64 11.03 26.76
Mortgages 12.27 13.28 13.62 22.28
Pledges 14.48 15.63 16.12 14.63
Personal loans 34.05 32.46 33.55 54.51
Credit Cards 33.66 34.34 34.82 66.62

Reference Rates Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

LIBOR
1 month 1.09 1.10 1.10 1.15 1.30
6 months 1.16 1.19 1.19 1.24 1.27

US Treasury Bond
2 years 1.55 1.71 1.72 1.88 1.55
10 years 3.81 4.06 4.12 4.25 3.79

FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 16.39 16.50 16.50 17.07 26.50

(1) The data correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2004

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Securities issued by the BCRA Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

Primary Market

LEBAC Rates in pesos
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 7.69
2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d
3 months 1.53 1.64 1.79 2.30 22.20
6 months 2.98 3.11 3.37 4.38 30.24
12 months 7.31 7.72 8.09 8.99 36.21
18 months 8.93 9.31 9.72 10.80 n/d
24 months 10.29 n/d n/d n/d n/d

LEBAC Rates in pesos adjustable by CER
12 months 1.94 2.21 2.58 3.71 13.58
18 months 3.28 3.65 4.12 5.46 n/d
24 months 4.62 n/d n/d n/d n/d

NOBAC Rate in pesos 11.28 n/d 12.55 n/d n/d

NOBAC Rate in pesos adjustable by CER 5.16 5.25 5.73 6.65 n/d

LEBAC Rates in dollars
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d -0.04
2 months n/d n/d 0.00 -0.06 n/d
3 months 0.00 n/d 0.00 -0.04 n/d

Secondary Market

Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 114 106 168 169 6

Foreign Exchange Market Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 2.90 2.93 2.89 2.96 3.07
Exchange houses 2.90 2.93 2.90 2.95 3.08
BCRA Reference 2.90 2.93 2.89 2.96 3.07

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 2.90 2.93 2.90 2.97 3.09
INDOL 1 month 2.90 2.93 2.90 2.96 3.11
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1 1 0 1 2
ROFEX 1 month 2.89 2.93 2.89 2.96 3.08
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 88 55 40 38 29

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.00 1.00 1.02 1.01 0.89

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.55 3.71 3.66 3.64 3.31

Capital Market Mar-04 Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Mar-03

MERVAL
Index 1223 1122 1185 1020 573
Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 77 76 83 65 36

Government Bonds (per VN 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 63.52 61.94 63.67 60.37 n/d
BODEN 08 ($) 92.14 91.55 91.12 86.76 n/d

Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,044 1,182 1,171 1,355 1,825
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 401 393 341 372 701
15
