1. Summary 1

• In May, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased $1,030 million (16.4% year-on-year), reaching $47,232. As in the preceding months, and in line with the 2004 Monetary Program, the BCRA continued with its policy of monetization of the economy through stable interventions in the foreign exchange market, offsetting the monetary contraction generated by the public sector, by the financial sector and the net placement of BCRA securities.

• May was a month marked by distortions caused by the heavy concentration of tax payment deadlines, with a visible impact on almost all monetary aggregates and on passive interest rates.

• Both the means of payment and the broadest monetary aggregate (M3)

2. Monetary Program 2

3. Interest Rates 3

3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA 3

3.2. Interbank Market 4
verified significant increases in May, of $2.520 billion and $2.890 billion
3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4 (21% p.a. and 31% p.a.) respectively. These increases are explained fundamentally
by inflows of resources from abroad to cover the payment of income taxes,
3.4. Active Interest Rates 6 and can be broken down into an increase in currency in circulation held by the public
of $520 million, a growth in deposits from the public sector ($2.540 billion
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6 on demand and $940 million at term) and a decline in private deposits ($540 million on
demand and $570 million at term and CEDRO).
4.1. Monetary Aggregates in • Loans in pesos to the private sector grew in May around
Pesos 6 $670 million (2.4%) on average. The variation over the last three months shows an
annualized growth rate of 32%. As in the preceding months, the
4.2. Dollar Deposits 8 lines with the greatest dynamism continue to be commercial lines.
4.3. Banking Liquidity 8 • During May, the liquidity existing in pesos continued at widely
surplus levels. However, tax payments implied an increase in liquidity for
5. Loans 9 public banks and a decline in private ones, placing themselves, in proportion to
deposits, at 25% and 20% respectively.
6. Financial Assets Market 10 • This redistribution of resources was partially reallocated through a
more active call market (the amounts traded went from an average of $164
6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 11 million in April to $560 million in May), which had as its counterpart an
increase in interest rates (from 1.2% to 3.3% on average). Passive interest rates
6.2. Capital Markets 12 were also affected by tax expenditures, as the
banks that suffered larger fund outflows for this reason raised the interest rates
6.2.1. Shares 12 on their deposits in order to restore their liquidity. The average interest rate
for wholesale fixed-term deposits of 30 to 44 days went from 1.6% the previous month to
6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 13 2.3% in May. Interest rates also rose on some
commercial lines, a movement explained, in part, by the cash needs of
6.2.3. Investment Funds 14 companies to be able to meet the tax commitments of the month.
6.2.4. Corporate Bonds 15 • During May, the equity of the Investment Funds in pesos decreased by around $2.550
million. This decline was almost entirely due to the equity reduction of the
7. Monetary and fixed-term and money funds, caused by the payment of taxes for the month.
Financial Indicators 16 • Towards the end of May, the BCRA began to actively participate in the
repurchase agreement market applying LEBAC, with the objective of encouraging its development. This will
allow it in the future to have a short-term reference interest rate
as a monetary policy instrument.
• The peso appreciated in nominal terms with respect to the real (3.3%) in May,
while it depreciated against the dollar (3%) and the euro (3.3%). The Multilateral
Real Exchange Rate depreciated slightly (0.2%), accumulating in the last 12
months a real depreciation (improvement in competitiveness) of 1.4%.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are
expressed in monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

2. Monetary Program

In line with the 2004 Monetary Program, the average of the
Chart 2.1 Broad Monetary Base (BMA) in May was located at $47.232 billion
Broad Monetary Base
billions of $ (see Chart 2.1), which implies an increase in the month of $1.030
50 billion (2.2%) and a year-on-year variation of 16.4%. From the point
49 of view of its components, the monthly change of the BMA was
48 explained by the growth of banking reserves of $510
47 million and currency in circulation held by the public of $520 million.

46 The operations of the public sector implied a
45 decrease of $935 million of the BMA, which was mainly

Observed the result of the use of funds deposited in the financial
44
30-day moving average system to attend to the payment of the first capital installment of the
43 Band Monetary Program BODEN 05 and the maturities of capital and interest with international
Observed corrected
42 30-day corrected moving average organizations.

31-Dec-03 29-Jan-04 26-Feb-04 25-Mar-04 27-Apr-04 26-May-04 24-Jun-04

The financial sector led to a reduction of the BMA by
Graph 2.2 $202 million, as a consequence fundamentally of the payment of the
Monetary Base and Explanation Factors third installment of rediscount cancellation within the scheme
known as "matching"2.

millions of $ May 2004
3,000
The placements of LEBAC and NOBAC, for their part,
2,500 generated a monetary contraction of $512 million during
2,000 May, and as will be seen in the next section, it was product
1,500 mainly of the increase in the amount in circulation of securities
1,000 denominated in pesos adjustable by CER.
500 Contractive Factors

0 Therefore, given the behavior of all the factors
-500 mentioned above, once again the liquidity needs were
-1,000 supplied through the private external sector. The purchase of foreign
currency from this sector implied an increase of the BMA of $2,697 million and
-1,500
Financial Public External BCRA Other Monetary was approximately 50% higher than that observed in April. To a large extent
Sector Sector Private Base this is explained by the increase in the demand for pesos
Sector Broad channeled through repatriation of investments by residents
Graph 2.3 carried out from late April and during the first part of May
Monetary Base and Explanation Factors to attend to the maturity of income tax and by the
Accumulated 2004 record level reached in May by the liquidation of exports
millions of $ since the establishment of the Single and Free Exchange Market. (see
10,000 Graph 2.2).

8,000
6,000
4,000
3. Interest Rates
2,000 Contractive Factors

0 In May, interest rates were affected by the
-2,000 redistribution of liquidity of resources that implied the payment of
-4,000 income taxes corresponding to the fiscal year 2003.
Financial Public BCRA Quasi-currencies External Other Base As will be noted in Section 4.1, the payment of the tax meant a
Sector Sector Private Sector withdrawal of deposits by companies and an increase in deposits
Broad Monetary of the public sector. Although this did not affect the total liquidity
of the system, it caused an internal redistribution that manifested
itself mainly in the interfinancial market and in the interest rates
of time deposits at wholesale rates, and, to a lesser extent, affected
some active rates. Thus, unlike the fiscal distortions of

2 See BCRA Communication A 3941.

2 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

March (due to the payment to the IMF) that caused a fall in liquidity
with no impact on rates, the fiscal distortions of May triggered
a rise in interest rates without a change in liquidity, making
evident, once again, the concentration of liquidity surpluses
in public banking and its impact on the functioning of the
monetary market.

3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA
Graph 3.1.1
Yield curves of BCRA securities
TNA, %
12 With the exception of the rates of LEBAC adjustable by CER
of 12 and 18 months duration, all interest rates resulting
10
from the primary award of BCRA securities at the end of May remained
27-Apr 9.9
at levels similar to those recorded at the end of April.
18-May 8.1
8 8.3
27-Apr CER 6.6 In the case of instruments of 12 and 18 months indexed by
26-May CER inflation, the cut-off rates decreased 0.4 p.p. and 0.7 p.p.
6 6.8
5.0
3.8 respectively (see Chart 3.1.1).
 4 4.8
 2.5 2.5 3.6
 2 1.1 2.6 1.4 The aforementioned behavior was a consequence of the
 2.2 lower demand that BCRA securities had, evidenced both
 1.2 1.2
 0 in the reduction of the total amount offered by investors to
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 purchase securities, as well as in the fall of the ratio between this value and the
 Duration (days)
 awards made, which resulted in the marked reduction
 in the net amount placed during the month. This had its origin in the
 impact on the liquidity of financial entities, as explained
 in section 4.1, from the outflow of funds from the private sector
 to cover the tax payment deadlines in May. Likewise, the
 
 Chart 3.1.2 participation of legal entities in the total awarded increased,

 Net placement of BCRA securities in pesos who during the course of the period purchased approximately 50% of
 
 VN, billions of dollars the securities. In the group of this type of investors, the
 $
 1.2 1.2 participation of the Pension and Retirement Fund Managers
 Banks
 1.0 Legal entities 1.0 (AFJP) stood out, which according to the available data until the
 
 Change in AFJP holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis) moment³, would have acquired approximately 70% of the amount placed
 
 0.8 0.8 among legal entities during the month (see Chart 3.1.2).

 0.6 0.6
 For several months, LEBACs have begun to serve
 0.4 0.4
 as an underlying asset in reverse repurchase operations; however, the
 
 0.2 0.2 number of transactions carried out was not very significant. Given
 
 0.0 0.0 that the BCRA considers the development of this market to be of interest, as
 from May 21st it began to participate actively in it⁴. The
 
 -0.2 -0.2 development of the reverse repurchase market is due to the need to
 January February March April May
 establish a short-term reference interest rate as
 an instrument to regulate liquidity that allows gradually abandoning
 monetary quantity guidelines, in the transition toward
 a formal inflation targeting scheme.

 In principle, all financial entities can access the
 reverse repurchase market as an alternative to meet their
 liquidity needs or place their excess funds. In the event that the
 counterparty is the BCRA, the operations must be agreed with
 application of LEBAC in pesos not adjustable by CER and can
 be arranged for 1, 7 or 30 days. Within this framework, in the
 last days of May, reverse repurchase operations for the BCRA
 were mainly executed at 1 day term and the average interest rate
 agreed was set at 2.75% nominal annual. With the objective

 ³ At the time of preparation of this report, AFJP portfolio data are available through May 15.
 ⁴ For further details see Communication A 4143.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report –MAY 2004

 of being allocated to passive reverse repurchase operations, a proportion of
 the LEBAC issuances are reserved for direct placements, which
 will be held in the BCRA's portfolio. Within this framework, in the
 last days of May, the BCRA increased the stock of securities in its
 portfolio by expanding the securities maturing on September 29
 and October 28, for a total of VN $237 million.

 On the other hand, the monthly increase experienced by the
 total stock of securities through auctions was entirely
 explained by the net placements of instruments adjustable by
 CER, which totaled VN $525 million. Considering the securities held
 by banks, legal entities, natural persons and in
 the BCRA's portfolio, the total amount in circulation amounted to end of
 May to VN $13,718 million, of which VN $9,395 million
 corresponded to instruments in pesos, VN $4,096 million were
 LEBAC and NOBAC adjustable by CER and the residual amount corresponded to
 LEBAC issued in dollars.

 3.2. Interbank Market

 Chart 3.2.1 During May the interbank market (call) was affected
millions of $ TNA, %
900 Call Operations 7 strongly affected by the liquidity redistribution that implied the
 Maturity
800 Gains tax payment mentioned, which was reallocated, in part, through
 6
 Amount (Left Axis) this market.
700
 Rate (Right Axis) 5
600 The interest rates that were positioned at 1.2% at the beginning of

500 4 the month increased until reaching a peak of 5.8%, to then

400 3 descend and end the month at 2.8%. Thus, they presented in May an
 average of 3.3% having been 1.2% in the three preceding months
300
 2 (See Graph 3.2.1). The amounts traded also suffered sharp
200 increases, going from an average traded of $164 million in

100 1 April to $560 million in May, with days where operations almost

 0 0 reached $900 million, a fact that had not occurred since April of

 1-Mar 10-Mar 19-Mar 30-Mar 13-Apr 22-Apr 3-May 12-May 21-May 2002.
 Graph 3.2.2

 millions of $ Call Market By group of banks we see that foreign entities
400 Net Position Monthly and weekly average were net takers of funds and those of national capital
 300
 net providers, while public banks did not present

200 very active operations. During May, the entities of foreign capital
100 were those that experienced the greatest liquidity needs
- while the entities of national capital and public
 banks were those that provided it (See Graph 3.2.2). It
-100 can be observed that when foreign entities began to
-200 Foreign require funds, the entities of national capital were those who
 Priv. Nat. initially supplied them in greater measure. Only in the fourth
-300
 Public week of May the public banks, which had seen their liquidity
-400 increased, equaled the entities of national capital in terms of

-500 the magnitude of funds provided, and from then on,
 January February March April May 1st Week May 2nd Week May 3rd Week May 4th Week interest rates began to decline.

 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

 During May the passive interest rates were also influenced
 by the redistribution of funds resulting from the payment of

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

 income tax, registering positive variations in all
 brackets. The average interest rates went from 2.1% to 2.5%
 for placements between 30 and 59 days, from 2.4% to 2.6% for
 deposits between 60 and 89 days and from 3.1% to 3.3% for
 deposits of more than 90 days (see Graph 3.3.1). In all cases the most
 Graph 3.3.1 important increases took place around the middle of the month, the moment when
 Interest rate for time deposits in pesos the tax payment period ended, producing a slight adjustment
percentage Monthly average by amount traded towards lower levels in the last days of May. It should be noted
30 up to 29 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days that the most significant increases occurred in the segment of
 placements greater than $1 million, which meant that for the first
 Daily interest rate time since April of last year, the average rate of private wholesale
25 4 5-day moving average time deposits equaled that of deposits less than
 3.5
20 $100,000 (see Graph 3.3.2).
 3
15 2.5 As a consequence of the tax payment, most of

2
10 1.5 private banks saw their deposits reduced. This prompted them to
 Apr-04 May-04
 offer higher passive interest rates in order to capture resources
 5 to cover their liquidity needs. On the other hand, public banks
 experienced an important inflow of funds that led them to maintain their
 0
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 interest rates at similar levels, and even slightly lower in some cases,
 compared to the previous month. This situation resulted in the
 Graph 3.3.2 segmentation of interest rates offered in the fixed-term deposit market.
 
 Interest rates for private fixed-term deposits in pesos
percentage Monthly average weighted by amount
25 In fact, when analyzing interest rates in the 30 to 44-day segment,
 Up to $100 thousand
 More than $1 million which concentrates more than 75% of total operations, stronger increases
30
 are observed in the case of private banks than in the system total,
20 especially in the wholesale segment, which is where entities resort to
 obtain funding quickly.
15 The average interest rate for placements of more than $1 million
 paid by private banks increased 1.6 p.p., reaching 3.2%, while the
10 average interest rate granted by public banks declined 0.1 p.p., placing
 itself at 1.2%. This resulted in an interest rate for the total system
 5 higher than 2.2%, when the previous month it was around 1.6%. In turn,
 in the case of private banks a convergence of interest rates granted to
 0
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 different types of depositors was observed, which reflects the
 indifference of this group of entities regarding the origin of the funds,
 Graph 3.3.3 due to the uncomfortable liquidity situation they were experiencing. In
 Interest rates for fixed-term deposits between 30 and 44 days the case of public banks it can be seen that both the interest rates paid
 of more than $1 million to individuals and legal entities declined in the month, with the spread
percentage between both having fallen slightly (see Graph 3.3.3). Given that public
 4 banking is not an important recipient of deposits from financial service
 TOTAL SYSTEM PRIVATE BANKS PUBLIC BANKS
3.5 provider institutions, for the financial system as a whole it is observed
 that, unlike what had been happening in recent months, the interest
 3 rate operated by this type of depositor exceeded that of individuals and
2.5 legal entities.
 
 2 In the case of deposits up to $100,000, also within the 30 to 44-day
1.5 segment, the average interest rate of the system remained at the same
 levels as the previous month, placing itself at 2.8%. While the rate paid
 1 by private banks increased 0.1 p.p. reaching 3%, the rate granted by
 public entities declined 0.2 p.p., placing itself at 2.5%. Although in this
0.5 case, the spread between both rates was smaller, the liquidity need of
 Individuals Financial Services Legal Entities private banks arising from resource redistribution is also observed.

 0
 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

 3.4. Active Interest Rates5

 During May, active interest rates presented heterogeneous behavior: short-term
 commercial lines increased slightly, while consumption rates
 and financings with real guarantee declined.

 Graph 3.4.1
 The interest rates on commercial loans registered a slight increase
 percentage Commercial Loans (see Graph 3.4.1). The interest rate charged for
60 Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount overdraft advances was located at 16.9% on average,
 resulting 1.1 p.p. higher than the previous month. As explained...
# 50 Advances in Section 5, the majority of financing (85%)
was allocated to large clients and the increases in the month, both in
amounts and interest rates, are explained, in part, by the financing
40 of companies' cash needs to be able to make

30 tax payments. For its part, the interest rate of documentary
loans was positioned at 11.3% on average, resulting 1.2 p.p.

20 higher than that of the previous month. The amounts
operated increased by approximately $40 million.

10
The interest rates of consumer financing
0 presented a new decline (see Graph 3.4.2). The interest
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 rate of personal loans was positioned at 31.7% in May, 0.4
p.p. below that of the previous month, while the amounts
Graph 3.4.2 operated remained at around $110 million. In the case
percentage Consumer Loans of credit card financing, information for May is not yet available;
70 Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount however in April interest rates
65 showed a slight decline of 0.4 p.p., positioning itself at 32.5%.
60
Personal Financing with real guarantees showed a slight
55 Cards decline in both lines. In the case of chattel mortgages the
50 average interest rate was positioned at 13.5% in May, resulting 0.3
45 p.p. lower than that corresponding to the previous month. The amounts
40 operated totaled $20 million and again exceed amortizations and
35 prepayments, so the line shows growth in the month. Regarding mortgage
30 credits, interest rates were positioned at 12.3%, 0.5 p.p. below the
25 previous month, while the volumes operated exceeded $20
20 million.

Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04

# 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

## 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

In May both means of payment and the broader
aggregate M3 grew. In both cases, the increase was driven by
the increase in public sector deposits, both sight and term, fed
mainly by record income received by the treasury due to the
expiration of the income tax. To make this payment, individuals

5 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through April, the values for May were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

and companies resorted to their existing deposits in local entities, which
implied a transfer of placements from the private sector
towards the public sector, and a repatriation of investments from abroad
(see Graph 4.1.1).

Graph 4.1.1

Deposits in pesos Monthly average balances billions of $
Billions of $ 22 72

Public Sector In the case of sight deposits, placements in
20 Private Sector (right axis) 70 checking accounts and savings accounts of the private sector showed
18 68 a decline of $540 million (2% increasing 43% y.o.y.), which was
16 66 mainly explained by the movement of the deposit stratum of
Deposits Daily - May 2004 more than one million pesos. That is, deposits of companies or
25 76
14 64 Fixed-term Common Investment Funds (FCI) and money
23 74
21 72 market funds that had been transferred to sight deposits last month, in
12 62 May were applied to payment of the aforementioned tax, driving
19 70
10 17 68 60
15 66 simultaneously with the increase in public sector deposits.
 1-May-04 7-May-04 13-May-04 19-May-04 25-May-04 31-May-04
8 58 For this sector, sight deposits grew $2,540
 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04
 million, equivalent to an increase of 27% monthly and 169% y.o.y..

 On the other hand, as mentioned in section 2, the
 Chart 4.1.2 currency in circulation held by the public increased in May by $520 million (2%
 Fixed-term deposits in pesos
 Average monthly balances monthly and 21% y.o.y.), which resulted in a monthly growth of
 billions of $ billions of $$2,520 million of M2, which implied a year-on-year increase of
15 25
 More than $1 million (adjusted for IFI payments)45%.

 Less than $1 million (right axis)

14 24 In the case of time deposits, the phenomenon is similar
 to that of sight deposits, that is, companies did not renew
 some of their time deposits and withdrew resources that they maintained

13 23 placed in the money markets, so that fixed-term deposits
 from the private sector were reduced by approximately $430 million,
 while placements from the public sector rose by more than

12 22 $940 million. It should be noted that a large part of the increase in
 time deposits from the public sector is due to carryover from the
 previous month, since these deposits had also grown during
11 21 April as a consequence of tax collection from that month,
 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04
 as mentioned in the previous report. In short, the increase in
 time deposits from the public sector net of the decline from the private sector
 Graphic 4.1.3 resulted in a net positive balance for the total system
 of $510 million, which was concentrated in the bracket of more than $1 million
 Fixed-term deposits in pesos (see Chart 4.1.2). The retail segment, for its part, remained

 billions of $ Average monthly balances billions of $
8 26 relatively stable, showing a decrease of only $30
 million.

7 25
 In terms of contractual maturity, the new placements,
 which mostly corresponded to the public sector, were
6 24
 made in the bracket of more than 90 days, where an
 increase close to $650 million is observed. While deposits
5 23 included in the segment of 60 to 89 days presented a
 reduction of approximately $40 million and deposits up to 59
4 22 days decreased $100 million (see Chart 4.1.3). In this way,
 60 to 89 days
 more than 90 days the average collection period rose to 43 days.

3 up to 59 days (adjusted for IFI payments, right axis) 21
 Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04
 The increase in time deposits, which taking into
 account the decrease of $140 million of CEDRO adjusted by
 CER, reached $370 million added to the aforementioned increase of
 M2, drove the monthly growth of $2,890 million of the broader
 aggregate (M3), which implied a year-on-year increase of 31%.

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

 4.2. Dollar deposits

 Dollar deposits continue to show
 sustained growth that has been accentuated since April by greater
 participation from the public sector and in May, in particular, by the
 constitution of deposits linked to the collection of the first installment of
 Chart 4.2.1 amortization of BODEN 05 in the first days of the month. In this
 way, the increase in May reached almost US$400 million and was the

millions of U$S Dollar deposits maximum increase since foreign currency deposit growth
3,000 began at the end of 2002.

 Vista Públicos
2,500 Plazo Fijo Públicos
 The increase recorded in May was distributed equitably
 Vista Privados
2,000 Plazo Fijo Privados between public and private deposits, and was concentrated mostly in
 sight deposits that increased US$280 million in the month.
1,500 In this regard, while private deposits show a homogeneous increase in sight and term placements, the

1,000 increase in public sector deposits concentrated basically in savings account deposits (See Chart 4.2.1).

500 Among renewals and new placements, the amount operated6 in the dollar term deposit market was US$580 million (similar to that of April) which concentrated in the 30 to 60 day bracket and in amounts less than one million dollars. The average placement term was around 43 days in the month.
0 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04

Chart 4.3.1

% of deposits Liquidity ratio in pesos
30 May 2004 -by bank group-
4.3. Banking Liquidity
25.3
25 +3p.p.
-3p.p.
20 Liquidity in pesos7 existing in the financial system during May continued at widely excess levels, standing at around 23% of deposits, a figure similar to that
19.8
15 April observed in April. As a result of the redistribution of deposits between public and private banks that resulted from the payment of income tax, the group of public banks increased liquidity in proportion to their deposits by almost 3 p.p., standing at 25%, while private banks reduced this ratio to 20% (see Chart 4.3.1).
10

5 Chart 4.3.2 If dollar liquidity valued at the reference exchange rate is added, the total liquidity ratio reaches 29% of the system's total deposits in May.
0 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos

% of deposits by bank group By its part, the minimum cash position in pesos reflected in an analogous manner the redistribution of resources from private banking to public banking. Specifically, public banks increased their minimum cash position in pesos in May by 2.8 p.p. while private banks reduced it by 2.3 p.p. of their deposits (See Chart 4.3.2). For the system total, the liquidity surplus above the requirements established by the BCRA remained at the April level, at around 6.4% of total deposits, equivalent to approximately $5,700 million, of which $4,000 million correspond to public banks and $1,700 million to private ones.

12
Private
10
8 Public
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04

6 Based on information from the daily SISCEN 02 requirement, with deposit data from Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.
7 Comprises the cash held by financial entities and their checking account deposits at the BCRA in pesos.

8 Monthly Monetary Report –MAY 2004

The minimum cash position in dollars continues to evidence a strong excess of integration that has been expanded in May by the greater growth recorded in recent months in dollar deposits. In this regard, the liquidity excess above the minimum cash requirements in dollars was approximately 68% of deposits (8 p.p. more than in April)8. In the dollar segment, public and private banks present a similar participation over liquidity.

If the minimum cash position in pesos and dollars is consolidated, the liquidity surplus existing in the system during May was approximately $11,000 million equivalent to 11.5% of total deposits.
The BCRA modified its minimum cash policy⁹, establishing, as of 06/01/04, a decrease of 2 p.p. in the requirements for sight placements in pesos (18%), maintaining at 20% those corresponding to sight deposits in foreign currency. It also established that as of August 2004 the requirements in foreign currency would increase, reaching 30% for sight placements and moving to 35%, 28%, 20%, 10% and 6% for the residual terms of up to 29 days, 30 to 59 days, 60 to 89 days, 90 to 179 days and 180 to 365 days respectively. On the other hand, sight deposits that FCIs must maintain as reserves will have a 100% reserve requirement (20 p.p. higher than current), and the remainder of deposits whose holders are FCIs will have a requirement of 25% and 40% in pesos and foreign currency respectively.

Finally, the guidelines for reserve remuneration were modified; only amounts corresponding to legal requirements will be remunerated, ceasing to remunerate reserves in excess of said requirement. In this way, the cost for financial entities of maintaining immobilized excess liquidity as currently exists will be increased, which is expected to generate greater incentives for these funds to continue (at an increasing pace) being directed to the loan market.

**Graph 5.1**

**Loans to the Private Sector**
thousands of millions of $ Year-on-year variation percentage

**5. Loans**

Nominal variation 50
Percentage variation (right axis) The average monthly growth of private loans during the first 5 months of 2004 is around $400 million, and that of the last 3 months is equivalent to an annualized growth rate of 32%. During May, loans in pesos to the private sector grew around $670 million (2.4%) on average. The lines that showed greater dynamism were commercial and consumer loans. Among loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans registered a new decline, while pawn loans resumed growth. Likewise, the recent regulatory changes aimed at raising the opportunity cost of maintaining liquid resources of banks in their accounts at the BCRA, and reducing some reserves in pesos will help support loan growth in the near future.

**Graph 5.2**
millions of $ **Commercial Loans**

Commercial loans increased around $530 million in May. This increase was driven by advances in current account, which in the month under analysis grew about $240 million (4.8%), which responded, in part, to the cash needs of companies to make income tax payments.

Said financing corresponded to large companies, for amounts exceeding one million pesos. Documentary credits showed growth of around $130 million (2.7%),

---

⁸ According to what was established by the BCRA, the default in the application of the foreign currency lending capacity verified by financial entities in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement for said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities "truly" have is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement arising from applying legal reserve coefficients to foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the increase in the same equivalent to the default in the application of resources.

⁹ For further details see Communication A 4147.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004
-100 explained fundamentally by the increase in discounted documents
 (see Chart 5.2). A significant increase in other loans is also observed,
-200 which shows a growth of $160 million (6.4%), it is mainly short-term
 loans
-300
-400 to companies.
 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04
 Thanks to the gradual increase in employment, to the gradual
 Chart 5.3 wage recovery, and to greater labor stability, the lines
 Consumer Loans designed for consumption registered in May a new increase, this
 millions of $ Avg. Var. monthly
 time of $200 million (4%). For personal loans, the
150
 increase was somewhat more than $90 million (3.3%), continuing
100 with the growing trend they have been registering since mid-
50 last year. In the case of financing through credit cards,
 an increase close to $110 million (4.6%) is observed,
0 explained, in part, by the extension until June of the promotions
 carried out on installment purchases without interest (see Chart 5.3).
-50

-100 Personal

-150 Credit with real guarantees showed in the month under
 Credit cards analysis a decline of about $60 million (0.6%), in line with the
-200 downward trend they maintained during recent months.

-250 Nevertheless, for the second consecutive month, pawn loans
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 showed a positive average variation. This
 behavior is influenced by the increase in automotive sales
 Chart 5.4 that would have reached in May their highest level since
 2000 and higher sales of agricultural machinery that is
millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee accompanying the sector's growth. In the case of mortgage loans,
 50 Avg. monthly Var. amortizations and early payments continue
 to exceed new financing, so a decrease
0 of $75 million (0.8%) is observed on average, a decline similar to those in the
 early months of the year but quite lower than those of the previous year
-50
 (see Chart 5.4).

-100
 With regard to dollar loans to the private sector,
-150 Mortgage in May a decline of around US$7 million (0.6%) was observed,
 Pawn which was due to declines in documents and other
-200 loans.

-250
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04

 6. Financial Assets Market

 In May, both equities and sovereign bonds suffered the
 unfavorable impact of expectations of increases in international
 interest rates. The peso depreciated in nominal terms against the
 dollar and the euro, while it appreciated 3.3% against the Brazilian

10 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

 real. Notwithstanding, the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate remained
 relatively stable. The assets of mutual investment funds in pesos
 decreased approximately $2,550 million, which is fundamentally due
 to the payment of income tax.

 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market10

 In May, the BCRA accumulated international reserves of
 US$942 million. The factor of greatest magnitude that explained this
 Chart 6.1.1 behavior was the purchase of foreign currency by the BCRA from the
 Daily Purchase of Foreign Currency by the BCRA private sector, which on average was US$45 million daily and
 millions of US$ percentage reached a total of US$849 million in the month (see Chart 6.1.1). The other
70 20
18 item that implied growth of reserves, by US$509
60 Net daily purchase of foreign exchange
 Foreign exchange purchases. Monthly moving average millions, was the increase in dollar current accounts of
 16
50 BCRA participation % in total SIOPEL-Forex and Brokers. Moving avg. banks in this institution, linked mainly to the rise in
 14
 deposits in this currency in financial entities, as explained in
40 12
 Section 4.2. Part of the foreign exchange income mentioned was
 10
30 offset by the decrease attributable to public sector operations,
 8
 which made payments to international organizations and
20 6
 canceled part of the capital of BODEN 05, issued in dollars, which
 4 caused a fall in international reserves of US$493
10
 2 million. Ultimately, the balance of international reserves at the end of
 0 0 May was US$16,705 million, the highest level reached by
 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Apr-04 May-04
 this variable in the last two and a half years.

 The average daily volume of foreign exchange negotiated,
 considering operations carried out through SIOPEL and in the
 brokers' trading session was 1% lower than in April, due to the
 decrease in the amount traded in the last mentioned trading venue.

 Chart 6.1.2 In nominal terms, the peso depreciated against the US dollar
 (3%) and against the euro (3.3%), while showing an appreciation against
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Basket/$)* the real of 3.3%. On the other hand, considering the evolution of the
 Dec-01=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index11, the peso depreciated
110
 slightly (0.2%) against the currencies of the main trading partners,
100 accumulating in the last 12 months a real depreciation of 1.4%. The
90 real accumulated depreciation since the peso float in January 2002
80 is 53% (see Chart 6.1.2).
70
 Quotations in the future dollar market presented important
60 variations during May, continuing with the upward trajectory of
50 April and reversing the trend that was evident in the first three
40 months of the year. Prices rose compared to the end of April between
30 4.5% for 1-month contracts up to 9% for operations agreed for 9
 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 months. In terms of return, this resulted in increases in implicit
*Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso. interest rates of 3 p.p. up to 5 p.p., thus, for example, in the case of
 6-month operations, the return (measured as annual nominal rate)
 went from 3% at the end of April to 8% on the last business day of
 May. This behavior was accompanied by an increase of

 10 For an analysis of the results of the Single and Free Exchange Market in March, see the Quarterly Report on Evolution of the Exchange
 Market that will be published at www.bcra.gov.ar.
 11 For more details on this index consult the BCRA website: www.bcra.gov.ar

 11 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

 Chart 6.1.3 33% of the average amount traded daily with respect to the previous
 Quotation of dollar future contracts month, reaching in May US$91 million (see Chart 6.1.3).

 $/US$ according to closing prices at ROFEX

3.4
 In addition to the futures markets that currently operate,
3.3 at the end of May a trading venue was created called OCT MAE
 August 2004 Maturity for the execution of forward financial operations,
 June 2004 Maturity which will have as their general modality their settlement
3.2
 without delivery of the underlying asset negotiated. The settlement
3.1 of these Forward Offsetting Operations (OCT) will be through
 the payment in pesos of the difference between the forward price
3.0 of the underlying asset agreed between the parties and the price
 of the same asset on the settlement date of the operation.
2.9
2.8 Initially, operations will have as their purpose the purchase and sale of United States dollars, although it is planned that other assets such as euros, reals or interest rates may be traded. In this market, all agents of the Electronic Open Market (MAE) and the BCRA will be able to conduct operations through screen trading between agents or with Transfer Function. This last possibility was introduced by BCRA Communication A 4146, through which the Transfer Function is implemented with the objective of allowing the closing of operations that show identical terms (term, type of asset, amount and prices) and remain open on screen without being completed due to lack of operating margin between the participating entities. In this way, when the counterparties decide to do so, the BCRA may purchase from the selling entity and simultaneously conduct a sale operation with equal conditions to the purchasing entity. The Transfer Function will apply to the conclusion of operations in United States dollars, euros and reals to be settled no later than 105 calendar days after conclusion. The development of a deep market for currency futures is a necessary condition for the normal functioning of the floating exchange regime, since it provides hedging for the different economic agents that are exposed to fluctuations in the peso. For this reason, the BCRA has decided to be a protagonist in this launch stage.

6.2. Capital Market

6.2.1. Equities

For the second consecutive month, local equities registered losses between the end of the month. According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, the prices of these securities decreased 12% in May and have accumulated a decline of 11% so far this year. As occurred in April, the evolution of variable income instruments was influenced by both external and internal factors. Specifically, the expectations of increases in international interest rates and their impact especially on the economy of one of the main trading partners, Brazil, were the external events of greatest relevance in the month, especially during the first few days. On the other hand, the announcement of the increase in retentions on oil and gas exports and, in general, the impact of the energy crisis, were the main local events that resulted in lower equity prices. In the latter part of the month, a certain reversal of losses was observed, which would have been encouraged both by the recovery in neighboring stock markets, as well as by the increased demand from AFJPs (see Graph 6.2.1.1).

Unlike the previous month, the volume traded in equities grew in this context of price declines, given that the sharp increase in volatility during May would have driven the reallocation of portfolios of participants in this market. The daily average traded reached $57 million and was 19% above the value recorded in April.

6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds

During the first few days of the month, the most liquid securities issued by the national government after the declaration of payment cessation also suffered the impact, already mentioned in the previous section, of expectations of increases in interest rates in the United States. Both pesos bonds and those issued in dollars were affected, and although the price variations between the end of the month were not as pronounced, the increase in interest rates (YTM) was up to 4 p.p. for the first ten days
6.2.3. Mutual Investment Funds

During May, the equity of mutual investment funds in pesos decreased approximately $2,550 million, which represents the most significant decline in recent months. This decline was almost entirely due to the equity reduction of fixed-term and money market funds, which reached $2,360 million (45% of equity at the end of April).

The reduction in equity experienced by these funds placed them at levels similar to those of mid-July 2003 (see Chart 6.2.3.1). The majority of this decline was due to the withdrawal of funds made by large companies for the payment of income tax during the first half of the month. This equity deterioration was partly foreseeable, given that most of the resources that had entered in April were of a temporary nature, as noted in the previous report.

The remainder of the decline occurred in the second half of the month and can be explained by the increase in passive interest rates previously mentioned. While this increase positively influenced the yield of money market funds, which increased 0.48 p.p., reaching 1.08% (nominal annual) at the end of May (see Chart 6.2.3.2), most of the quota holders—fundamentally individuals, who
percentage are not subject to the Tax on Debits and
10
Credits in Bank Accounts (IDCCB)- was attracted by the fixed-term
9
interest rates, which in some cases exceeded 3%,
8
shifting its funds towards time deposits. It should be noted that
7
this behavior is normal in a context of rising passive interest
6
rates, since the performance of fixed-term funds
5
shows a lag compared to the performance of time deposits,
4
characteristic of the composition of its portfolio, which includes fixed terms
3
made at earlier lower interest rates. This generates

2
a transfer of funds from money market to fixed terms,
1
which extends until the spread between returns

0
equalizes with the liquidity premium. The inverse occurs in a scenario
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04
of declining passive interest rates.
Chart 6.2.3.3
Variable Income Funds in pesos and MERVAL
Common variable income investment funds also
MERVAL Index millions of $
presented a negative equity variation although of lesser
1,400 1,400
extent, having decreased $190 million, which represents a

1,300 1,300
15% decline compared to the previous month. The evolution of the equity
1,200 1,200
of these funds was in May intimately linked to that of the MERVAL index.
Usually these two variables present the same
1,100 1,100
cycles. However, until the end of April, the trend of the equity
1,000 1,000
of the funds was increasing, while that of MERVAL was stable.
900 900
During May, both trends became negative, from which it is
800 800
deduced that the equity reduction of variable income funds is
MERVAL Index
due mostly to the decrease in the price of its quotas
700 Equity of Variable Income Funds (right axis)700
due to the decline in MERVAL performance (see Chart 6.2.3.3).

2-Ene-04 23-Ene-04 16-Feb-04 8-Mar-04 29-Mar-04 22-Abr-04 14-May-04
Finally, mixed income and fixed income funds
remained relatively stable during May, showing an increase of $2 million and a decrease of $4 million respectively.

14 Monthly Monetary Report –MAY 2004

6.2.4. Corporate Bonds

As we had anticipated in the previous report,
Telefónica de Argentina S.A. carried out the first auction of
securities with characteristics similar to LEBACs in pesos,
called LESEPs (Letters of the Private Sector). On May 4, the
company received offers from funds to purchase this security for
FV $361 million, of which it accepted FV $163 million. 38% of
this amount was acquired by banks, 36% by AFJPs, 21% by
insurance companies and the rest by other investors, including
retail investors. The cutoff rate for the 364-day LESEP was
placed at 8.05% annually (1.2 percentage points above the rate paid by the BCRA).

After having closed the offer to exchange its
financial liabilities in April, Banco Galicia reported the final amounts
of securities issued under this framework. The same is
comprised of FV US$214 million of subordinated ON, FV
US$350 million of ON maturing in 2010 and, FV US$452
million of ON maturing in the year 2014. Likewise, the bank
received authorization to issue an additional amount of FV US$25
million of ON, 75% composed of 2014 ON and 25% by
2019 ON, which will be available to be delivered to all
creditors who may present themselves requesting the delivery of securities
in cancellation of their credits.

For its part, Metrogas extended once again the term of its
invitation to the holders of its ON and its banking creditors
to subscribe to the Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement until July 1.

15 Monthly Monetary Report –MAY 2004

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Variables

| May-04 | Apr-04 | Dec-03 | May-03 | Monthly Variation | Real | Last 12 months Nominal | Real |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|-------------------|------|------------------------|------|

**Broad Monetary Base** 47.232 46.203 46.273 40.585 2.2% 1.5% 16.4% 11.6%
**Quasi-Money** 111 111 894 7.480 0.0% -0.7% -98.5% -98.6%

**Monetary Base** 47.122 46.092 45.378 33.105 2.2% 1.5% 42.3% 36.5%
**Monetary Circulation** 29.978 29.581 28.716 20.425 1.3% 0.6% 46.8% 40.8%
In the Public's Hands 26.816 26.292 25.423 18.067 2.0% 1.2% 48.4% 42.4%
In Financial Entities 3.162 3.289 3.293 2.358 -3.8% -4.5% 34.1% 28.6%
Current Account at BCRA 17.144 16.511 16.662 12.680 3.8% 3.1% 35.2% 29.7%

**International Reserves of BCRA** 16.252 15.255 13.820 11.087 6.5% 46.6%

**Total Deposits in Pesos (1)** 91.001 89.297 85.484 74.485 1.9% 1.2% 22.2% 17.2%

**Private Deposits** 69.326 71.212 69.897 64.514 -2.6% -3.4% 7.5% 3.1%
Current Account 16.739 17.063 14.742 10.703 -1.9% -2.6% 56.4% 50.0%
Savings Account 15.132 15.508 12.890 8.193 -2.4% -3.1% 84.7% 77.2%
Fixed Term 27.827 28.241 30.449 30.778 -1.5% -2.2% -9.6% -13.3%
Other Deposits 4.788 4.815 4.845 4.269 -0.6% -1.3% 12.2% 7.6%
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 999 1.602 1.717 1.794 -37.7% -38.1% -44.4% -46.6%
CEDRO including CER 3.841 3.982 5.254 8.777 -3.6% -4.3% -56.2% -58.0%

**Public Sector Deposits** 21.005 17.358 14.690 9.417 21.0% 20.1% 123.1% 113.9%

**Total Deposits in Dollars (1)** 2.768 2.381 1.895 1.180 16.2% 134.6%

**Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1)** 52.147 51.598 49.953 60.227 1.1% 0.3% -13.4% -16.9%

**To Private Sector** 28.444 27.771 26.825 27.086 2.4% 1.7% 5.0% 0.7%
Advances 5.273 5.032 4.386 3.729 4.8% 4.0% 41.4% 35.6%
Documents 5.080 4.947 4.727 4.744 2.7% 2.0% 7.1% 2.7%
Mortgages 8.903 8.978 9.317 10.207 -0.8% -1.6% -12.8% -16.3%
Pledges 1.266 1.251 1.270 1.547 1.2% 0.5% -18.1% -21.5%
Personal 2.781 2.691 2.337 2.137 3.3% 2.6% 30.1% 24.8%
Credit Cards 2.522 2.411 2.223 1.948 4.6% 3.9% 29.5% 24.2%
Other 2.617 2.461 2.565 2.774 6.4% 5.6% -5.6% -9.5%

**To Public Sector** 23.704 23.828 23.128 33.141 -0.5% -1.2% -28.5% -31.4%

**Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1)** 1.318 1.333 1.444 1.410 -1.1% -6.5%

## Total Monetary Aggregates

**M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-Money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars)** 53.353 50.880 48.721 40.211 4.9% 4.1% 32.7% 27.3%
**M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars)** 74.283 71.232 64.642 50.046 4.3% 3.5% 48.4% 42.4%
**M3 (M2 + Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER)** 124.981 120.818 115.613 101.582 3.4% 2.7% 23.0% 18.0%

## Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

**M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-Money + Current Account, Private Sector)** 43.665 43.466 41.060 36.250 0.5% -0.3% 20.5% 15.5%
**M2 (M1 + Savings Account, Private Sector)** 58.797 58.974 53.950 44.442 -0.3% -1.0% 32.3% 26.9%
**M3 (M2 + Fixed-Term Deposits, Private Sector + CEDRO with CER, Private Sector)** 95.254 96.013 94.498 88.267 -0.8% -1.5% 7.9% 3.5%

## Average Variations

| Variation Factors | Monthly | Contribution (2) | Quarterly | Contribution (2) | Accumulated 2004 | Contribution (2) | Last 12 months | Contribution (2) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Broad Monetary Base** | 1.030 | 2.2% | 233 | 0.5% | 959 | 2.1% | 6.648 | 16.4% |
| **Financial Sector** | -203 | -0.4% | -381 | -0.8% | -634 | -1.4% | -1.449 | -3.6% |
| **Public Sector** | -935 | -2.0% | -3.356 | -7.1% | -3.812 | -8.2% | -3.610 | -8.9% |
| Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers | 0 | | 500 | | 63 | | 3.775 | |
| Use of National Government Account | 238 | | 12 | | -246 | | -194 | |
| External Credit | -1.173 | | -3.867 | | -3.629 | | -7.190 | |
| **Private External Sector** | 2.697 | 5.8% | 5.268 | 11.2% | 8.160 | 17.6% | 17.910 | 44.1% |
| **BCRA Securities** | -512 | -1.1% | -1.399 | -3.0% | -2.907 | -6.3% | -6.479 | -16.0% |
| Difference Between Redemption Value and Par Value of Quasi-Money | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | -33 | -0.1% | -219 | -0.5% |
| **Other (3)** | -17 | 0.0% | 100 | 0.2% | 185 | 0.4% | -21.026 | -51.8% |
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES AND MONETARY FACTORS

International Reserves 997 6.5% 1,243 8.3% 2,432 17.6% 5,165 46.6%
Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 956 6.3% 1,852 12.3% 2,843 20.6% 6,320 57.0%
Payment to International Organizations -272 -1.8% -1,068 -7.1% -1,030 -7.5% -2,161 -19.5%
Other Public Sector Operations -95 -0.6% -28 -0.2% 74 0.5% 223 2.0%
Minimum Cash 481 3.2% 620 4.1% 652 4.7% 730 6.6%
Valuation Type of Repo -78 -0.5% -200 -1.3% -142 -1.0% -140 -1.3%
Others 22 0.1% 83 0.6% 52 0.4% 229 2.1%

(1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
(2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
(3) Includes the variation of quasi-currencies without monetary effect.

Note: Figures not adjusted for the payment to IFI for the month of March.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

Call between Private Banks in pesos
Rate 3.00 1.24 1.25 1.69 4.24
Amount 365 123 90 72 153

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 2.45 2.14 2.38 3.71 13.47
30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.32 1.57 1.62 2.93 12.63
60 days or more 2.85 2.63 2.64 4.45 17.06
In dollars
30 days 0.50 0.52 0.55 0.58 0.92
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.56 0.55 0.61 0.70 1.23
60 days or more 0.90 0.90 0.95 0.93 1.07

Active Interest Rates May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.33 6.67 7.86 10.32 24.54

Collateral in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 4.75 1.98 1.82 3.33 11.33
Traded volume (total terms) 70 65 58 63 236

Loans in pesos (1)
Overdrafts on Current Account 15.74 16.63 23.54 50.28
Documents on signature alone 10.08 10.62 11.03 23.26
Mortgages 12.73 12.85 13.62 20.59
Pledges 13.82 14.14 16.12 19.13
Personal loans 32.08 31.63 33.55 50.62
Credit Cards 32.51 32.92 34.88 66.49

Reference Rates May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

LIBOR
1 month 1.10 1.10 1.09 1.15 1.32
6 months 1.51 1.28 1.16 1.24 1.23

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.50 2.06 1.55 1.88 1.38
10 years 4.70 4.34 3.81 4.25 3.53

FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 16.00 16.09 16.39 17.07 26.50

(1) The data correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 reporting requirement.

17 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2004

Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Securities issued by the BCRA May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

Primary Market

LEBAC rates in pesos
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 6.81
2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d 8.62
3 months 1.13 1.32 1.53 2.30 10.85
6 months 2.52 2.72 2.98 4.38 14.61
12 months 6.59 6.91 7.31 8.99 19.11
18 months 8.20 8.44 8.93 10.80 23.34
24 months 9.75 9.99 10.29 n/d n/d

LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
12 months 1.21 1.57 1.94 3.71 8.32
18 months 2.27 2.67 3.28 5.46 10.00
24 months 3.63 4.03 4.62 n/d n/d

NOBAC rate in pesos n/d 11.23 11.28 n/d n/d

NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 4.79 5.04 5.16 6.65 n/d

LEBAC rates in dollars
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 0.00
2 months n/d -0.65 n/d -0.06 n/d
3 months n/d n/d 0.00 -0.04 n/d

Secondary Market

Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 92 87 106 169 25

Foreign Exchange Market May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 2.92 2.83 2.90 2.95 2.84
BCRA Reference 2.92 2.84 2.90 2.96 2.84

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 2.95 2.84 2.90 2.97 2.87
INDOL 1 month 2.93 2.83 2.90 2.96 2.85
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1 1 1 1 5
ROFEX 1 month 2.93 2.83 2.89 2.96 2.85
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 91 68 88 38 28

Real (Pesos x Real) 0.94 0.97 1.00 1.01 0.96

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.51 3.40 3.55 3.64 3.30

Capital Market May-04 Apr-04 Mar-04 Dec-03 May-03

MERVAL
Index 954 1150 1223 1020 645
Traded Volume (millions of pesos) 57 48 77 65 43
# Government Bonds (per VN 100)

BODEN 2012 (US$) 61.19 65.44 63.52 60.37 51.66
BODEN 08 ($) 82.23 82.51 92.14 86.76 77.47

Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,317 1,080 1,044 1,355 1,451
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 499 414 395 372 536

18
