# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

JUNE 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Program 2
3. Interest Rates 2
   3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA 3
   3.2. Repo Market 3
   3.3. Interbank Market 4
   3.4. Passive Interest Rates 5
   3.5. Active Interest Rates 6
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 7
   4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 7
   4.2. Dollar Deposits 8
   4.3. Bank Liquidity 8
5. Loans 9
6. Financial Assets Market 10
   6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 11
   6.2. Capital Markets 11
      6.2.1. Equities 11
      6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 12
      6.2.3. Mutual Funds 13
      6.2.4. Corporate Bonds 13
7. Monetary and Financial Indicators 15

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• In June, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased $862 million (14% y.o.y.), reaching $48,094 million. The BCRA continued with its monetary expansion policy of the economy through stable interventions in the foreign exchange market, offsetting the monetary contraction generated by the public sector, through the net placement of BCRA securities and by the financial sector.

• In order to accelerate the normalization of the monetary market, the BCRA continued its policy of deepening the repo market, whose development will allow it in the future to have a reference interest rate as a monetary policy instrument. The outstanding stock of passive repos for the BCRA at the end of June reached $944 million and the interest rate for 7-day operations was 2.5%.

• Means of payment increased by $2,170 million (46% y.o.y.), while the broadest monetary aggregate (M3) showed growth of $2,970 million (19% y.o.y.). This behavior was dominated by movements in the public sector which, as a result of tax collection, increased its placements ($920 million on demand and $810 million on time deposits). It is worth noting that for the first time since January 2004, there was an increase in private fixed-term deposits, which amounted to $220 million on average (0.8%) and reached $780 million considering month-end balances (2.8%).

• In June, the largest monthly growth of loans to the private sector was recorded since September 1998, with an increase of $790 million on average. The average monthly growth of the last three months is around $700 million (similar to the average monthly growth in the 1997-98 period), which equals an annualized growth rate of 35%. As in previous months, the lines with greater dynamism continue to be commercial loans.

• In June, the downward trend in interest rates was observed again, some of which had suffered transitory increases last month associated with the concentration of tax payments. Interest rates on securities issued by the BCRA continued to decline, especially those adjustable for inflation. Both the interest rate in the interfinancial market and that of time deposits and shorter-term financing (especially advances) showed declines in June from their peaks recorded in May, averaging levels of 2.1%, 2.6%, and 15.7% respectively, being higher than those prevailing in the preceding months.

• In June, the peso depreciated in nominal terms both against the real (0.6%) and against the dollar (1.4%) and the euro (2.5%). Observing the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate, it is noted that the peso depreciated slightly (1.4%), accumulating in the last 12 months a real depreciation (gain in competitiveness) of 3.4%.

---

¹ Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed in monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

## 2. MONETARY PROGRAM

**Graph 2.1** In June, the average value of the BMA was within the limits set out in the 2004 Monetary Program, reaching
(in billions of $) Broad Monetary Base

50 $48,094 million. With respect to the previous month, this variable showed an
# Translation to English

49 increase of $862 million (2%), while in year-on-year terms it registered
 growth of 14%. The monthly variation
 48
 can be broken down into the increase of $621 million (2%) of the
 47
 broad monetary base of the public sector and $241 million (1%) of
 46 bank reserves in pesos (see Graph 2.1).

 45 Observed
 30-day Moving Average The liquidity needs of the public sector were again
 44 2004 Monetary Program Bands governed by debt maturities with international
 43 Corrected 30-day Moving Average organisms. Consequently, given the net payments
 42 made, their operations involved a contraction of $499
31-Dec-03 31-Jan-04 29-Feb-04 31-Mar-04 30-Apr-04 31-May-04 30-Jun-04
 Source: BCRA million of the BMA.

 During the month, the BCRA continued with the policy of
 deepening the market of the titles it issues, as evidenced
 Graph 2.2 in the primary placements. By virtue of these, an
 absorption of $363 million took place.
 Monetary Base and Explanatory Factors
 millions of $ June 2004 Unlike the previous months, the financial sector was
3.000 the one that led to greater contraction of the BMA balance. In addition to the
2.500 collection of the installment corresponding to the redemption cancellation
 scheme, known as "matching", financial institutions
2.000
 arranged repos operations with the BCRA, which together
1.500 implied a reduction of $701 million of the BMA.
1.000
 Contractionary Factors
 500 As has been occurring for several months, and given that both
 0 the operations of the public sector and those of the financial sector
 continue to cause a decrease in the quantity of pesos available in the
 -500 economy, the demand for money continued to be satisfied through
 the private external sector. Thus, net purchases of foreign currency from the
-1.000 private sector reached $2,448 million in June, a value 15%
 Financial Public External BCRA Other Monetary Base higher than that registered a year earlier (see Graph 2.2).
 Sector Sector Sector
 Private Broad

 3. Interest Rates

 During June, the downward trend of interest rates was observed
 again, some of which had suffered temporary increases last month
 associated with the concentration of tax payments. The interest rates
 of the titles issued by the BCRA continued to decline, especially
 those species adjusted by inflation. Both the interest rate of the
 interfinancial market, as well as that of time deposits and that of
 shorter-term financing (advances and documents) showed in June
 respective declines from their peaks registered in May, ending in all cases
 at levels higher than those prevailing in the previous months. For its
 part, the BCRA continued its policy of deepening the repo market,
 whose development will allow it in the future to have a reference
 interest rate as an instrument of monetary policy.

 2 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 3.1. Titles issued by the BCRA

 Graph 3.1.1 In June, almost all of the interest rates of the titles
 Interest rates in the primary market issued by the BCRA continued with the downward trend that
 % annual nominal rates they have shown for several months. In the case of LEBAC
10 denominated in pesos, the largest decline was experienced by
 9 those issued with 18 months duration, whose cutoff rate decreased
 18-May 8 by 1.9 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate of the 6-month LEBAC
 26-May CER
 7 showed a slight reversal in its trend, increasing around
 29-Jun 6 0.6 p.p. with respect to May. With regard to the interest rates
 29-Jun CER
 5 corresponding to LEBAC awarded with CER adjustment,
 4 they decreased around 0.4 p.p. for all species. Likewise,
 3 the result of the NOBAC auctions with CER adjustment clause
 2 implied that its implicit interest rate fell 0.7 p.p. with respect to
 1 the end of the previous month (see Graph 3.1.1).
 0
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
 duration (days)
 The demand for securities issued by the BCRA showed a
 return to the liquidity conditions prevailing before May, the month in which financial entities were affected, as
 Chart 3.1.2 mentioned in the previous report, by high tax
 maturities. As a consequence, the funds offered by

 Demand for LEBAC and NOBAC investors to purchase LEBAC and NOBAC were the largest so

 thousands of millions of $ Allocation Pesos Rejected Offers Pesos far this year and although a high amount of maturities

 Allocation CER Rejected Offers CER concentrated during the month, net placement was similar to that of the

 Maturities first months of the year (see Chart 3.1.2).

As of the end of June, the total amount in circulation reached VN
 $13,751 million, of which 60% was composed of securities
 in pesos (compared to 68% at the end of May), 39% by LEBAC and
 NOBAC adjustable by CER and the residual by LEBAC denominated
 in dollars.

 0
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04

 3.2. Repo Market

 Chart 3.2.1 During the course of the month the BCRA continued with the policy of
 deepening the repo market with LEBAC, whose development will
 Repos arranged by the BCRA allow it in the future to have an interest rate reference

 millions of $ number of entities as a monetary policy instrument. The operations in which
1,000 12 it participated in this period were passive2 for this institution and

 900 represented an important percentage of the total operations
 800 10 arranged in the local repo market. The average daily amount

 700 Amount traded traded for transactions in which the BCRA intervened was
 Stock
 Participants 8 $190 million, which represented approximately 60% of the total
 600
 amount traded in the Electronic Open Market (MAE). The number
 500 6 of banks that decided to allocate their excess liquidity to this

 400 market varied throughout the month and at the end of June, the repo
 300 4 stock was distributed among 11 entities. The current stock of

 200 passive repos for the BCRA at the end of June reached $944
 2
 100 million (see Chart 3.2.1)3.
 0 0
 28-May 2-Jun 7-Jun 10-Jun 15-Jun 18-Jun 24-Jun 29-Jun

 2 Through a passive repo operation for the BCRA, it receives pesos in exchange for a sale of a security, with a
 commitment to purchase in the future, at a pre-established price. On the contrary, through an active repo operation for the BCRA, it
 delivers pesos in exchange for a purchase of a security, with a commitment to sell in the future, at a predetermined price.
 Defined in this way, a passive repo contracts the BMA, while an active repo expands it.
 3 The BCRA publishes daily on its website (http://www.bcra.gov.ar/polmon/pm080100.asp) information about the repo
 operations arranged.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 Although the BCRA began to actively participate in the
 Chart 3.2.2 local repo market from the end of May, for some
 months the securities it issues have begun to be used as
 Repo operations by species underlying assets for these operations. In this way, they were

 millions of $ gaining presence over the rest of the securities used,

500 With other securities mainly securities from the national government, and in the first 5

450 With LEBAC and NOBAC months of the year they were used to carry out approximately 60%
 Amount traded by BCRA
 of the transactions. The operations in which the BCRA is
400
 counterparty are executed only with application of LEBAC in
350
 non-adjustable pesos, with which these instruments encompass a
 Monthly 300
 significant portion of the assets used to arrange repos. If
 averages
250 repos executed with NOBAC as underlying asset are also
 considered, the securities issued by the BCRA were used
50 to achieve, on average, 90% of repo operations

 0 during June (see Chart 3.2.2).

 Jan-04 May-04 4-Jun 10-Jun 16-Jun 23-Jun 29-Jun
 Chart 3.2.3 With respect to interest rates, until the first part of

 Interest rates on repo operations the month, repo operations with the BCRA were

 % weighted average rate by amount
 executed for 1 day and their implicit interest rate evidenced a
3.0
 reduction of 0.5 p.p. between the end of May and June 10 (the
2.9 interbank market interest rates, where the most traded maturity
2.8 Call was also 1 day, showed similar behavior, having
 Average I-Q-04 1.25
2.7 Maximum Value II-Q-04 5.82 decreased in the same period 0.6 p.p.). From then on, the
 7-day repos
 II-Q-04 (30-Jun) 2.50 BCRA concentrated on the 7-day maturity, maintaining the interest
2.6
 rate constant at 2.5% until the end of the period (see Chart 3.2.3).

2.5

2.4 1-day repos

 7-day repos
2.3
 28-May 2-Jun 7-Jun 10-Jun 15-Jun 18-Jun 24-Jun 29-Jun3.3. Interbank Market

 Source: BCRA
 Chart 3.3.1

millions of $ TNA, %Call Operations
900 6
 Maturity During June the interbank market (call) began to
800 Earnings normalize after the significant activity recorded in May.
 Amount (Left Axis) Recall that due to the high concentration of tax payments
 5
700 Rate (Right Axis) in that month, an internal redistribution of resources occurred
600 4 that had to be reallocated, in part, through this market.

500 Although there were new tax payments in June, this time the
 3 liquidity redistribution was considerably less than in May
400
 and did not imply a rise in interest rates.

300 2
 The interest rates that had reached a peak of 5.8% in

200 May, began the month at 2.9% evidencing sustained
 1
100 decline until stabilizing at the end of June at 1.7% (See Chart

 0 0 3.3.1), levels nonetheless higher than the floor reached from February to
 1-Mar 19-Mar 13-Apr 3-May 21-May 11-Jun April (1.2%). Thus, they presented in June an average of 2.1%
 Chart 3.3.2 having been 3.3% in May. The amounts traded also
 suffered notable declines, going from an average traded of

 millions of $ Call Market $560 million in May to $290 million in June. These levels, however,

400 Average net position monthly and weekly are higher than those of early in the year, where the
 call market presented scarce activity, in a context of
300
 abundant and generalized liquidity.

200
 By bank group we see that foreign entities, which were
100 the main net demanders of funds during the past month,
- gradually reduced the amounts taken in the first two weeks of June.
-100 Nevertheless, from mid-month the market recovered some activity due
-200 to June tax payment maturities. On both occasions funds were
-300 Foreigners supplied by both entities of national capital and public banks
 Private Nat. (See Chart 3.3.2). The latter acquired greater prominence in the market
-400 Public
 thanks to the influx of funds derived from exceptional tax collection.
-500

-600 3.4. Passive Interest Rates
 January February March April May 1st May 2nd May 3rd May 4th June 1st June 2nd June 3rd June 4th
 Week Week Week Week Week Week Week Week

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 During the first half of June passive interest rates continued
 to register relatively high levels, similar to those at the end of May,
 and then declined stabilizing at levels higher than those of early
 in said month, except in the case of longer-term deposits. As a
 result, increases are observed in the average interest rates of
 placements of 30 to 59 days, which went from 2.5% to 2.6%, and
 Chart 3.4.1 deposits of 60 to 89 days,
3.5. Active Interest Rates⁴

**Commercial Loans**

*Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount*

Following the temporary increases observed last month, explained by the high tax concentration of that month, in June the active interest rates returned to their downward trend.

During June the interest rates on commercial loans showed a slight decline, remaining, however, at levels still somewhat higher than those observed in April (see Chart 3.5.1). The interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts was 15.7% on average, which implies 0.4 p.p. below that of May but similar to that of April. Disaggregated by type of client it is observed...
# Translation to English

Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 uneven behavior. The interest rates charged to
 large companies (legal entities for amounts exceeding $1
 Chart 3.5.2 million) showed high sensitivity to greater demand for
 funds related to cash requirements to meet tax
% Interest Rate for Current Account Overdrafts
35 TNA avg. rolling 5 days - Capital and GBA % payments, rising more than 3 p.p. in May to decline
in June, partially reversing the increase. The rate for small
30 Large companies
 Small clients clients continued, without major changes, its downward
25 trend although from much higher levels (See chart
20 3.5.2). However, as in the preceding months,
 approximately 86% of financing corresponds to the first
15
 group. Similarly, the interest rate on documentary loans
10 was located at 10.4% on average, resulting 0.5 p.p.
 5 higher than in May but 0.2 p.p. higher than in April. The
 amounts operated were reduced around $30 million.
0
 1-Apr 15-Apr 26-Apr 5-May 14-May 26-May 4-Jun 15-Jun 25-Jun

 The interest rates of consumer financing
 Chart 3.5.3 presented a new decline (see Chart 3.5.3). The interest
 Consumer Loans rate on personal loans showed a significant
percentage Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount
70 decline, reaching 27% in June, 4.7 p.p. below that of the
65 previous month, while the amounts operated increased
 Personal around $15 million. In the case of credit card financing,
 Credit Cards
60 although information for June is not yet available, it is
55 observed that in May the downward trend of previous
50 months was maintained, decreasing 0.2 p.p. to reach 32.1%.
45
40
 In the case of loans with real collateral, while the interest
35 rate on pledge loans showed a new decline, this time of
30 1.3 p.p., that of mortgage loans remained practically
25 unchanged, reaching 12.3% and 12.2% respectively. The
20 amounts operated exceeded $20 million in both cases
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 and in the case of pledge loans again exceed amortizations
 and prepayments so the line shows growth in the month.

 4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information
 through May, the June values were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private
 sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in pesos

 Chart 4.1.1 In June the monetary aggregates again showed significant
 Deposits in pesos growth driven by the increase in public sector
 thousands of millions of $ Monthly average balances thousands of millions of $
24 74 deposits. Both sight deposits and time deposits were
 Public Sector nourished by the inflow of tax revenues from the payment
22 Private Sector (right axis) 72 of the first installment of income tax corresponding to
20 70 fiscal year 2004. As in the previous month, this implied the
 transfer of deposits from the private sector to the public
18 68 sector (see Chart 4.1.1), although it was less pronounced
16 66 and did not significantly affect private placements, which
 Daily Deposits - June 2004 on average remained at levels similar to those of the
26 70 previous month, given that part of the tax maturities
 25 69 were financed with other sources (current account
14 64 overdrafts, inflow of funds from abroad).
 24 68
23 67
12 62
 22 66
4.2. Deposits in dollars
The stock of dollar deposits rose in June to US$3,266 million. The monthly increase was US$400 million (15%), similar to that observed in May, the month in which the maximum increase was recorded since the growth of foreign currency deposits began at the end of 2002.

**Chart 4.2.1**
**Dollar Deposits**
*billions of US$*

Public Sight Deposits
Public Fixed-Term Deposits
Private Sight Deposits
Private Fixed-Term Deposits

Like that month, the June increase was driven by sight deposits of the public sector (especially savings account deposits) which grew US$325 million. Private sector deposits, for their part, increased in the month by US$91 million, concentrating the increase in fixed-term placements (US$75 million).

Between rollovers and new placements, the amount operated⁵ of fixed-term dollar deposits was US$542 million (similar to that of May) which concentrated in the 30 to 60-day bracket. Likewise, of the total operated, somewhat more than 60% involved amounts under one million dollars, with the average placement term of 45 days.

The dollar deposits segment continues, in this way, on a path of sustained growth that has already accumulated an increase of 72% in what has elapsed of the year.

## 4.3. Bank Liquidity

Bank liquidity –defined as the sum of deposits in current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks and repos conducted with the BCRA– continued at elevated levels in June 2004. For the total system, existing peso liquidity reached $21,080 million (22.8% of deposits).

Notwithstanding the above, based on the growing dynamism that the credit market has shown in what has elapsed of the year, bank liquidity in pesos maintained by financial entities has been reducing. Specifically, while much of 2003 and the first months of 2004 were characterized by a bulky excess liquidity (coming from a continuous inflow of deposits to the system) that was applied by financial entities mostly to acquire LEBACs or increase their current accounts at the BCRA, in recent months, based on the growing reactivation of the loan market, financial entities have begun progressively to apply their funds to alternative destinations. In this regard, Chart 4.3.1 shows the gap opened in recent months regarding the aligned behavior previously evidenced by bank liquidity and LEBACs held by banks relative to deposits entering the system.

**Chart 4.3.1**
*Thousands of millions of $*
**Average Monthly Variation**

Loans
Deposits Total
Bank Liquidity + LEBACs
Payment to IFI

Specifically, in what has elapsed of the year, the peso liquidity ratio (bank liquidity over deposits) decreased by 1.1 p.p.

Likewise, the minimum cash position in pesos, while continuing to be in surplus relative to what is required by the BCRA, decreased 1.4 p.p. during 2004. In this way, it reached in June, around $6,000 million, which represents 6.5 p.p. of deposits (see Chart 4.3.2).

**Chart 4.3.2**
**% of Deposits**
**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos***

Integration in $
EM Requirement in $
Excess Liquidity

In the dollar deposits segment, the minimum cash position continues showing strong over-integration, with almost 60% of foreign currency deposits maintained by financial entities in cash and in their current accounts at the BCRA⁶. If both segments are consolidated, existing liquidity (including dollars at free exchange rate) reaches $29,600

---

⁵ Based on information from daily requirement SISCEN 02, with data from deposits in Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

⁶ Monthly Monetary Report –JUNE 2004
14 million pesos (29% of total deposits) which represents approximately $11,000 million (10.8 p.p.) surplus with respect to what is required by the BCRA as minimum cash.

10

Jul-02 Oct-02 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04

*Data on the minimum cash position observed until May 2004. June figures are estimated.

5. Loans

Graph 5.1

Loans to the Private Sector During June the growth rate that credit has been showing accelerated. Loans registered an increase of
billions of $Year-over-year variation of monthly averages percentage
15 30 $790 million (2.8%), the largest average increase since September

10 Nominal Percentage (right axis) 20 1998, although part of the larger increase responds to seasonal

5 10 matters of the month. In this way, the average monthly growth of
private loans during the last 3 months amounts to around $700
0 0 million, which is equivalent to an annualized growth rate of 35%. As
has been happening throughout the year, commercial lines and
-5 -10 consumer lines are those that presented greater dynamism. For their
part, mortgage loans continued registering declines and secured
-10 -20 loans grew again for the third consecutive month.

-15 -30

-20 -40
Apr-97 Jan-98 Oct-98 Jul-99 Apr-00 Jan-01 Oct-01 Jul-02 Apr-03 Jan-04

Commercial loans increased by around $610 million in June. This increase was led by advances on current account that grew by around $300 million (5.7%), due fundamentally to cash needs of companies to

6 In accordance with what is established by the BCRA, the defect in application of lending capacity in foreign currency that financial entities verify in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement of said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities "truly" accredit is lower than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement that emerges from applying legal reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the increase in the same equivalent to the defect in application of resources.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

Graph 5.2 pay the new tax payments for the month and the Christmas
millions of pesos Loans to the Private Sector in pesos bonus. These financings corresponded to large companies, for
700 Average monthly variation amounts exceeding one million pesos. The financings
600 Commercial loans instruments made through documents showed an increase
500 Consumer loans close to $180 million (3.6%), constituted fundamentally
400 Loans with real guarantee by an increase in documents on signature only (see Graph 5.3). The
300 rest of the commercial financings, grouped under "other loans",
200 increased again, this time by $130 million (4.9%), these are again
100 short-term loans to companies.

0

-100 In a context where formal employment and wage mass continue
-200 gradually rising, and greater labor stability is observed, the lines
-300 destined for consumption registered in June a new increase, this
-400 time of $240 million (4.3%). In line with the growing trend that
-500 personal loans have been showing in recent months, they grew by
-600 more than $70 million (2.5%). In June finally concluded the promotion
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jun-04 on purchases

Graph 5.3

millions of $ Commercial Loans
600 Avg. Monthly variation
# 500 in installments with no interest using credit cards. Financing
 Documents on signature onlyAdvances to large companies through credit cards registered the highest increase since the 1
400 Discounted documents Advances to small clients
 Purchased documents Others promotion has been in effect, with an increase close to $170
300
 million (6.7%) (see Chart 5.4).
200

100 In line with the trend that has been evident in recent

 0 months, in June, loans with real guarantees showed a

-100 new decline of approximately $60 million (0.6%). However, thanks to the

-200 increase in automobile sales that have been at their highest levels since 2000 since last month, and greater

-300 sales of agricultural machinery that is accompanying the growth
 of the sector, for the third consecutive month loans with chattel mortgages
-400
 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 showed a positive variation (see Chart 5.5). On the other hand, in the
 Chart 5.4 case of mortgage loans, amortizations and
 Consumer Loans
 millions of $ Avg. Monthly Var. prepayments continue to exceed new financing,
150
 which is why a decline of $105 million (1.2%) is observed on
100 average, a decline similar to those of the first months of the year but
 50 quite lower than those of the previous year. Since during June there
 was a transfer of $50 million from the mortgage loan portfolio to a
 0 financial trust, which is part of a $500 million program for issuing
-50 mortgage bonds, if this transfer is considered the decline would be somewhat lower.

-100
 Personal

-150
 Credit Cards With respect to dollar loans to the private sector, in June a
-200 decline of around US$4 million (0.6%) was observed, which was due to declines in
-250
 documents and other loans.
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04
 Chart 5.5

millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 Avg. monthly var.
 50

 0

-50 6. Financial Assets Market

-100 In June, the peso depreciated against the currencies of its
 main trading partners in both nominal and real terms. The stock market
-150 Mortgage once again registered a negative result in terms of the price evolution of
 Chattel mortgages leading securities. For its part, the behavior of sovereign bonds was
 mixed, although the variations of the most liquid securities between the end
-200 of the month were slight.

-250

 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04

 10 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 Chart 6.1.1 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market7
 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Basket/$)*
Dec-01=100
110

100 In June, the balance of BCRA international reserves
 continued the sustained growth it has shown since the
 90 latter part of last year. The accumulation of reserves during the
 month totaled US$738 million and again, as a counterpart to the
 80 surplus in the Free and Unified Exchange Market, the factor that
 explained most of this increase was the net purchase of
 70 foreign currency from the private sector, which reached US$760 million. The other
 factor that implied a growth in reserves was the increase in
 60 deposits in current accounts in dollars that financial entities
 50 maintain at the BCRA, which amounted to US$240 million.
 40 On the other hand, the net payments made by the public sector to
 30 international organizations implied a net outflow of foreign currency,
 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 which reduced the stock of reserves by US$273 million.

*Increase (decrease) implies appreciation (depreciation) of the peso.
 Considering the rest of the operations that implied movement of
 Chart 6.1.2 international reserves during the month, they led to

 Nominal exchange rates
 $/USD $/EUR $/REAL
4.0 1.1 that the balance of the same at the end of June was US$17,443
 $/US$ million, the highest level since November 2001, accumulating a
3.8 $/Euro
 $/Real (right axis) growth of 24% for the first half of the year.
3.6
 1.0

3.4 The trading volume in the foreign exchange market showed a
 reduction for the second consecutive month, having registered a
3.2
 0.9 daily average 14% lower than that corresponding to May. However,

3.0 this time the decline was made up of both operations arranged

2.8 through SIOPEL, as well as those conducted through the broker
 wheel, which showed decreases of 10% and 19% respectively.
2.6 0.8
 Jun-03 Ago-03 Oct-03 Dic-03 Feb-04 Abr-04 Jun-04

 Chart 6.1.3 In nominal terms, in June the peso depreciated on

 Quotation of dollar futures contracts average with respect to the real (0.6%), the euro (2.5%), and the U.S.
 $/US$ according to closing prices on ROFEX dollar (1.4%). Likewise, if the evolution of the

3.05 Multilateral Exchange Rate Index8 is considered, the local currency showed
 a real depreciation of 1.4%, accumulating over the last 12 months

3.00 a depreciation of 3.4% and, of 54% since the exchange rate floating
 regime was established (see Chart 6.1.1 and Chart 6.1.2).

2.95
 The quotations at the end of June of the dollar futures

2.90 contracts were lower by up to 2% compared to those in effect at
 the end of May, the downward trend having been consolidated

2.85 August 2004 Maturity that began to become evident in the second part of that month. This
 June 2004 Maturity
 behavior resulted in a decrease in implicit yields, between 1 p.p. for

2.80 1-month contracts to 2 p.p. for those of longer maturity (see Chart 6.1.3).

 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04

 6.2. Capital Market

 6.2.1. Stocks

 For the third consecutive month, local stocks registered
 losses between month-end, although to a lesser extent than in the

 7 For an analysis of the Single and Free Exchange Market result in June, see the Quarterly Report on Foreign Exchange Market
 Evolution that will be published at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/estadis/es030400.asp .
 8 For more details on this index consult http://www.bcra.gov.ar/indicadores/ie010200.asp.

 11 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

 previous months. According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in
 June the quotations of these securities decreased 0.8%,
 accumulating a decline of 11.8% in the first half of the year. However,
 the quotations did not have a uniform trend during the entire period,
 given that in the first half of the month successive reductions in
 closing prices were verified, which followed the evolution of the rest
 Chart 6.2.1.1 of the world stock exchanges, where investors speculated about the

 Local Stock Market possibility that international interest rates would rise more than

 MERVAL Index in pesos expected. Later, in the second half of June, there was a certain
 MERVAL millions of $ reversal of the losses, when some investors took advantage of the

1,400 200 low prevailing prices.

 180
1,200
 Likewise, the trading volume of stocks continues showing

 160 a downward trend, registering during the month a daily average of
1,000
 $40 million, equivalent to only 12% of the total amount traded on
 120 the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) and 40% lower than that

 800 100 traded daily in the five previous months.

 80

 600 Within the framework of the quarterly change in the composition of

 60 the MERVAL, as of July a new portfolio of stocks was formed, whose

 40 members went from 14 to a historical minimum9 of 12 securities.
400
 20 This circumstance generated high volatility in some securities
 depending on whether their entry or exit from the portfolio was
200 0
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 estimated.

 Chart 6.2.2.1
percentage Return of BODEN index10. Considering the new distribution by sectors, the

30 banking sector is the one that holds the largest participation, with 35% of the
25 index, 4 p.p. more than in the previous quarter.

20

15

6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds

10

During the course of the month, the behavior of bonds
5 BODEN 08 ($ adjustable by CER) issued after the cessation of payments was differentiated depending
BODEN 12 (US$) on the currency in which they are denominated. Among the most liquid, the
BODEN 12, in dollars, registered a decrease in its internal rate
0
Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 of return (IRR) of 0.6 p.p. between end of month, having been
demanded both by foreign investors and by local banks,
Chart 6.2.2.2 and accompanying the evolution of securities in other emerging markets.
With regard to BODEN 08, in pesos, its IRR showed an increase of 0.4 p.p.
millions of $ Amount traded of BODEN* with respect to end of May, which was mainly the result of the trajectory
average daily, year 2004 of the second half of the month, when these bonds were affected by
250 portfolio reallocation (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

200 BODEN 2012 BODEN 2008 2007 2013 2005 Secondary trading of these securities returned to the levels
registered before May and the average daily amount operated
150 of all BODEN species in circulation increased 20%, placing it at $184 million11.
The most traded bond and the one that experienced the greatest growth
100 during the month was BODEN 12, which explained 85% of the total increase.
However, part of the increase was explained by price increases, given
50 that considering the volume traded in nominal values, the increase in
transactions is reduced to 8%. With regard to participation by species,
0 BODEN 12 and BODEN 08 continue to concentrate around 90% of
Enero Febrero Marzo Abril Mayo Junio BODEN traded operations (see Chart 6.2.2.2).
*Corresponds to negotiations in the MAE.

9 The Merval index is prepared quarterly based on the volumes traded by species during the previous six months, in
decreasing order until covering 80% of the total.
10 The Merval index is taken into account by institutional investors when assembling their portfolios simulating its composition.
11 According to provisional information available for operations arranged in the MAE.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

6.2.3. Investment Funds

During June, the assets of the Investment Funds (FCI) recovered
part of the decline suffered in May, registering an increase of
$600 million (See Chart 6.2.3.1).
Chart 6.2.3.1 Given that the funds withdrawn the previous month were used
Investment Funds mostly for the payment of tax obligations, the partial
thousands of millions $ reconstitution of fund assets is not surprising. In fact, it is to be
7 Fixed Income expected that total recovery will take place gradually, as own
6 Mixed Income income from commercial activity is generated and is again placed
Variable Income in these instruments.
5 Fixed Term and Cash

4 Just as the patrimonial reduction had been concentrated in fixed
3 term and money funds, the reconstitution of assets also occurred in
these funds. During the first half of the month, the assets of money
2 market funds grew around $900 million, which is equivalent to 40%
1 of the loss experienced in May. However, this increase was not
maintained throughout the month, given that in the last 15 days
0 there was a patrimonial reduction of around $250 million, associated
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 with the disbursement of the first advance of the income tax
corresponding to the fiscal year
Chart 6.2.3.2
# Money Market vs. Fixed Term Deposits 2004 and the payment of annual supplementary salary by companies; with which, the net equity increase of these funds during June was approximately $650 million. On the other hand, the yield of said funds continued to increase, reaching 1.4% at the end of the month, which represents an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to May. Given that passive interest rates reflected a slight decline in June, the spread between both yields was reduced, returning to April levels (see Chart 6.3.2.2).

The equity of the rest of the mutual investment funds experienced insignificant variations during June. Variable income funds saw their equity decrease by around $60 million, while the equity of fixed income funds increased by approximately $15 million. This increase was related to the increase in the yield of these funds, which went from 1.4% in May to 8.75% in June, associated with the good performance of sovereign bonds in pesos during said month. Finally, the equity of mixed income funds remained in June at the same levels as the previous month.

## 6.2.4. Corporate Bonds

Within the framework of the comprehensive restructuring of its financial liabilities, Telecom Argentina S.A. initiated on June 22 the period for its creditors to express acceptance of the exchange offer proposal, which will extend until July 21, 2004. Creditors may choose between three options: a par bond maturing in 2014 with increasing coupon, a discount bond maturing in 2011 with increasing coupon, and a cash payment with discount. The three alternatives contemplate a cash payment for unpaid interest from January 2004 until the issuance date.

After having issued and delivered shares and securities corresponding to the exchange offer, Autopistas del Sol concluded and completed the Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement, through which it restructured its financial debt, on June 24. The issued amounts are comprised of: VN US$215 million Negotiable Obligations (ON) maturing in 2014, VN US$112 million of ON maturing in 2009, VN US$49 million maturing in 2009, and the issuance of 53 million ordinary class D shares.

For its part, Banco Hipotecario, as trustee and assignor of the underlying mortgage portfolio, launched a program of mortgage certificates of up to VN $500 million, which implies the securitization of residential mortgages originally denominated in pesos or that have been pesified (95% are at fixed rates with an average remaining life of 5.5 years and an average amount of $20,433). In this first stage, on June 25, mortgage certificates were issued for a total of VN $50 million, composed of two classes of fiduciary securities. On one hand, VN $40 million of Senior Argentine Mortgage Certificates (CHA) were placed, which yield 8% annual income payable monthly and mature in 2010 and; on the other hand, the trustee decided to receive CHA Class B fiduciary securities for VN $5 million, which pay 11% annual income monthly and whose maturity is in 2012 and CHA participation certificates for VN $5 million as partial payment of the Mortgage Notes portfolio. The first two were rated by Standard & Poor's, which assigned the raAAA rating to the first and raBBB to the second.

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages - Percentage Variations - Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Variables Jun-04 May-04 Dec-03 Jun-03 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real
# Broad Monetary Base 48.094 47.232 46.273 42.174 1.8% 1.3% 14.0% 8.7%
Quasi-money 111 111 894 6.013 0.0% -0.6% -98.2% -98.2%

Monetary Base 47.984 47.122 45.378 36.160 1.8% 1.3% 32.7% 26.5%
Monetary Circulation 30.759 29.978 28.716 21.671 2.6% 2.0% 41.9% 35.3%
In the Hands of the Public 27.436 26.818 25.423 19.092 2.3% 1.7% 43.7% 37.0%
In Financial Entities 3.323 3.160 3.293 2.579 5.2% 4.6% 28.9% 22.8%
Current Account at the BCRA 17.225 17.144 16.662 14.489 0.5% -0.1% 18.9% 13.3%

International Reserves of the BCRA 17.240 16.252 13.820 11.763 6.1% 46.6%

Total Deposits in Pesos (1) 93.539 91.309 85.484 77.443 2.4% 1.9% 20.8% 15.1%

Private Deposits 69.402 69.356 69.897 65.882 0.1% -0.5% 5.3% 0.4%
Current Account 16.835 16.900 14.742 11.186 -0.4% -0.9% 50.5% 43.4%
Savings Account 15.385 15.125 12.890 8.454 1.7% 1.2% 82.0% 73.4%
Fixed Term 28.045 27.825 30.450 32.725 0.8% 0.2% -14.3% -18.3%
Other Deposits 4.664 4.667 4.845 4.264 -0.1% -0.6% 9.4% 4.3%
Exchanged for BODEN (recorded) 917 999 1.717 1.761 -8.1% -8.6% -47.9% -50.3%
CEDRO including CER 3.555 3.840 5.253 7.493 -7.4% -7.9% -52.5% -54.8%

Public Sector Deposits 23.496 21.279 14.690 10.971 10.4% 9.8% 114.2% 104.1%

Total Deposits in Dollars (1) 3.267 2.833 1.895 1.302 15.3% 150.9%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1) 52.954 52.143 49.953 60.044 1.6% 1.0% -11.8% -16.0%

To the Private Sector 29.467 28.440 26.824 26.849 3.6% 3.0% 9.7% 4.6%
Advances 5.620 5.275 4.386 3.808 6.6% 6.0% 47.6% 40.7%
Documents 5.369 5.070 4.727 4.720 5.9% 5.3% 13.8% 8.4%
Mortgage Loans 8.865 8.904 9.317 10.103 -0.4% -1.0% -12.3% -16.4%
Pledge Loans 1.291 1.267 1.270 1.500 2.0% 1.4% -13.9% -17.9%
Personal Loans 2.871 2.780 2.337 2.080 3.3% 2.7% 38.0% 31.6%
Credit Cards 2.696 2.526 2.223 1.938 6.7% 6.1% 39.1% 32.6%
Other 2.753 2.619 2.565 2.700 5.1% 4.5% 2.0% -2.8%

To the Public Sector 23.487 23.703 23.128 33.195 -0.9% -1.5% -29.2% -32.6%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1) 1.365 1.318 1.444 1.386 3.6% -1.5%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Acct. in Pesos and Dollars) 55.004 53.552 48.721 41.235 2.7% 2.1% 33.4% 27.1%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 78.191 74.926 64.642 51.587 4.4% 3.8% 51.6% 44.5%
M3 (M2 + Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 129.829 125.483 115.612 104.446 3.5% 2.9% 24.3% 18.5%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Acct. Private Sector) 44.381 43.829 41.060 36.291 1.3% 0.7% 22.3% 16.5%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 59.766 58.954 53.950 44.746 1.4% 0.8% 33.6% 27.3%
M3 (M2 + Fixed Term Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 96.031 95.286 94.497 89.226 0.8% 0.2% 7.6% 2.6%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2)

Broad Monetary Base 862 1.8% 233 0.5% 983 2.1% 5.921 14.0%
Financial Sector -701 -1.5% -381 -0.8% -1.244 -2.6% -1.948 -4.6%
Public Sector -581 -1.2% -3.356 -7.1% -4.044 -8.6% -4.060 -9.6%
Temporary Advances + Transfer of Profits 476 500 976 3.287
Use of the National Government Account -87 12 -683 44
External Credit -888 -3.867 -4.255 -7.309
External Private Sector 2.448 5.2% 5.268 11.2% 8.749 18.6% 18.230 43.2%
BCRA Securities -363 -0.8% -1.399 -3.0% -2.691 -5.7% -6.435 -15.3%
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -13 0.0% -152 -0.4%
Other (3) 60 0.1% 100 0.2% 226 0.5% 285 0.7%

International Reserves 988 6.1% 1.243 8.3% 2.756 19.0% 5.477 46.6%
Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 815 5.0% 1.852 12.3% 3.022 20.9% 6.380 54.2%
Payment to International Organizations -194 -1.2% -1.068 -7.1% -1.159 -8.0% -2.116 -18.0%
Other Operations of the Public Sector -20 -0.1% -28 -0.2% 56 0.4% 144 1.2%
Minimum Cash 288 1.8% 620 4.1% 907 6.3% 954 8.1%
Valuation Exchange Rate Type 55 0.3% -200 -1.3% -134 -0.9% -88 -0.8%
Other 29 0.2% 83 0.6% 63 0.4% 222 1.9%
(1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
(2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
(3) Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

Note: Figures not adjusted for the payment to IFI in the month of March.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and Informative Regime SISCEN.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

Call between Private Banks in pesos
Rate 2.17 3.00 1.24 1.69 3.58
Amount operated (daily average) 183 365 123 72 211

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 2.49 2.45 2.14 3.71 10.27
30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.35 2.33 1.57 2.93 10.08
60 days or more 2.87 2.85 2.63 4.45 12.19
In dollars
30 days 0.34 0.50 0.52 0.58 0.89
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.31 0.56 0.55 0.70 1.15
60 days or more 0.71 0.90 0.90 0.93 1.04

Active Interest Rates Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.04 6.33 6.67 10.32 20.32

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 3.47 4.75 1.98 3.33 8.79
Volume operated (total terms) 64 70 65 63 248

Loans in pesos (1)
Overdrafts on Current Account 15.72 16.12 15.74 23.55 44.44
Documents with single signature 10.42 10.89 10.07 11.03 18.58
Mortgage loans 12.21 12.20 12.73 13.63 16.43
Pledge loans 12.30 13.61 13.82 16.12 17.18
Personal loans 26.56 31.25 32.08 33.55 47.22
Credit Cards 32.12 32.51 34.88 63.11

Reference Rates Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

LIBOR
1 month 1.25 1.10 1.10 1.15 1.16
6 months 1.81 1.51 1.28 1.24 1.09

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.74 2.50 2.06 1.88 1.21
10 years 4.73 4.70 4.34 4.25 3.33

Other Reference Rates
USA: FED Funds Rate 1.01 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.20
Brazil: SELIC (at 1 year) 16.00 16.00 16.09 17.07 26.28

(1) Data up to May correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to May, the values for June were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2004

Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Securities issued by the BCRA Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

Primary Market

LEBAC rates in pesos
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 5.30
2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d 5.86
3 months n/d 1.13 1.32 2.30 6.83
6 months 2.86 2.52 2.72 4.38 12.43
12 months 6.39 6.59 6.91 8.99 18.80
18 months 7.13 8.20 8.44 10.80 21.38
24 months 9.53 9.75 9.99 n/d n/d

LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
12 months 0.88 1.21 1.57 3.71 n/d
18 months 1.88 2.27 2.67 5.46 9.40
24 months 3.15 3.63 4.03 n/d n/d

NOBAC rate in pesos n/d n/d 11.23 n/d n/d

NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 4.49 4.79 5.04 6.65 n/d

LEBAC rates in dollars
1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d 0.00
2 months n/d n/d -0.65 -0.06 n/d
3 months n/d n/d n/d -0.04 n/d

Secondary Market

Amount operated (daily average, millions of pesos) 107 92 87 169 36

Foreign Exchange Market Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 2.96 2.92 2.83 2.95 2.81
BCRA Reference 2.96 2.92 2.84 2.96 2.81

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 2.98 2.95 2.84 2.97 2.84
INDOL 1 month 2.96 2.93 2.83 2.96 2.83
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 1 1 1 1
ROFEX 1 month 2.96 2.93 2.83 2.96 2.82
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 96 91 68 38 27

Real (Pesos x Real) 0.95 0.94 0.97 1.01 0.97

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.60 3.51 3.40 3.64 3.28

Capital Market Jun-04 May-04 Apr-04 Dec-03 Jun-03

MERVAL
Index 927 954 1150 1020 751
Volume Operated (millions of pesos) 40 57 48 65 59

Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 63.32 61.19 65.44 60.37 58.66
BODEN 08 ($) 83.87 82.23 82.51 86.76 76.44
# Risk Country (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.252 1.325 1.080 1.355 1.282
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 473 511 425 372 518

 17
