# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

JANUARY 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

2. Monetary Program 2

3. IMF Monetary Targets 2

4. Interest Rates 3

4.1. BCRA Securities 3

4.2. Interbank Market 4

4.3. Passive Interest Rates 4

4.4. Active Interest Rates 5

5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity 6

5.1. Means of Payment 6

5.2. Fixed-Term Deposits 7

5.3. Dollar Deposits 8

5.4. Banking Liquidity 8

6. Loans 9

7. Financial Assets Markets 11

7.1. Foreign Exchange Market 11

7.2. Capital Market 12

7.2.1. Equities 12

7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 12

7.2.2. Corporate Bonds 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 14

---

## 1. Summary

• The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased $839 million in January (equivalent to 1.8% for the month and 26% in year-on-year terms). Given the current balance of the BMA and its seasonal behavior, this variable is evolving in accordance with what was established in the 2004 Monetary Program.

• Interest rates continued with the downward trend they have been registering for several months, as a result of the comfortable liquidity situation maintained by financial entities. In the interbank market, interest rates fell 0.2 percentage points, recording the lowest value in recent decades (1.4%). Passive rates decreased almost 1 percentage point for all terms, with the rate for placements between 30 and 59 days standing at 2.7%. Active rates showed declines for all credit lines, especially commercial ones, which stood at 10.5% (registering a reduction of 3.6 percentage points). In the LEBAC market, negative variations in interest rates were also observed, especially for longer terms. Starting in January, LEBACs began to be quoted on the Stock Exchange, thus incorporating a new venue for secondary trading of these instruments.

• Total deposits maintained the upward trend they have been registering for several months: peso placements increased 2% for the month and 23% in year-on-year terms, while dollar deposits grew 5%.

• Total fixed-term deposits in pesos increased $480 million in January, in accordance with the seasonal behavior that characterizes this type of placements in the first month of the year.

• The increase in means of payment in pesos (M2) was $1,800 million (2.8% in January and 37% in year-on-year terms). This total can be broken down into the increase of $1,960 million in demand deposits and $560 million in currency in circulation held by the public, partially offset by the decline of $755 million in the stock of quasi-money. Demand deposits of the public sector in pesos explained an important part of the increase in means of payment ($600 million), which is explained largely by the increase in tax revenues.

• Loans to the private sector in pesos fell $200 million (0.7%) in January. Loans to the private sector in pesos designated for consumption experienced significant dynamism during January, with an increase of $160 million. However, this rise did not offset the decline recorded by commercial and secured credit lines. In the dollar segment, commercial loans decreased, while the rest of the financing showed positive variations.

• During January, the peso depreciated slightly in nominal terms against the euro and the Brazilian real (0.4% in both cases), while it appreciated 2% against the United States dollar. The multilateral real exchange rate reflected an appreciation of 0.5% of the peso against a basket of currencies of the main commercial partners.

• The stock of BCRA international reserves increased US$801 million, standing at US$14,920 million at the end of January, the highest level of the last two years.

---

1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004
# 2. Monetary Program

## Graph 2.1

As happened in the previous year, the 2004 Monetary Program
established bands within which the values of the main monetary
variables are expected to be found, although in this case these are
average values. Given the current balance of the BMA and its
seasonal behavior, this variable evolves in accordance with what was
established in the 2004 Monetary Program (See Graph 2.1).

The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) increased on average $839
million (1.8%) in January and 26% in year-on-year terms (See
Graph 2.2). The monthly increase can be broken down into an
increase of $1,105 million in the balance of current accounts
of entities at the BCRA, an increase of $489 million in monetary
circulation and a decline of $755 million in quasi-monies. In real
terms, the BMA increased 1%.

## Graph 2.2
Broad Monetary Base
Year-on-Year Change in percentage

The BCRA continued with the policy of meeting demand for
liquidity through the external sector, and as occurred during 2003,
the main expansion factor of the BMA was the net purchase of
foreign currency from the private sector. In January, the increase in
the BMA linked to these operations was $1,859 million.

The remaining factors that affect the evolution of the BMA had a
contractionary effect. The placement of BCRA securities was the one
with the greatest magnitude and caused a monetary contraction of
$577 million.

For its part, public sector operations implied a decrease of $350
million in the BMA. This decline is explained by the use of funds to
settle obligations with international organizations and by the effect
that the cancellation of temporary advances made at the end of December
had on the January average.

## Table 2.1
Monthly Flows, in millions of pesos - JANUARY 2004 | Average | End of Period
---|---|---
Broad Monetary Base | 839 | 433
Quasi-monies | -755 | -169
Monetary Base | 1,594 | 602
Monetary Circulation | 489 | 2,372
In the hands of the Public | 566 | -1,080
In Financial Entities | -77 | -690
Current Account at the BCRA | 1,105 | 2,372

Regarding movements linked to the financial system, the
cancellation of active repos by financial entities and accrued
interest on rediscounts resulted in a contractionary monetary
effect of $92 million average in the month.

## Factors in the Variation of the Broad Monetary Base

| | |
---|---
Financial Sector | -92 | -205
Public Sector | -350 | -65
Temporary Advances + Transfers of profits | -437 | 0
Use of the National Government Account | 350 | -939
External Credit | -263 | 874
Private External Sector | 1,859 | 1,628
BCRA Securities | -577 | -932
Monetary Effect of Quasi-money Redemption | -19 | 0
Other | 18 | 8

For its part, the redemption of quasi-monies had minimal impact
on the variation of the BMA ($18 million). Within the framework of
the Monetary Unification Program (PUM), Patacones and LECOPs came
out of circulation, whose redemption value is identical to face value.
Outside of that program, Mendoza continued redeeming PETROM and La
Rioja continued advancing with the redemption of Consolidation Bonds
(series A and B), informally called "Evita".

# 3. Monetary Targets IMF

## Table 3.1
Monetary targets: December 2003 | In millions | On average
Currency | As of 15-Jan | Target | Deviation¹
Net Domestic Assets | Pesos | 56,050 | 62,443 | -6,393

Within the framework of the agreement signed with the IMF in September,
Net International Reserves Dollars -3,158 -5,060 1,902 the balances recorded by the variables to be monitored between December 16
Broad Monetary Base (indicative) Pesos 46,892 47,770 -878 and January 15 were used to calculate compliance
1 Deviation: In NIA and Monetary Base the negative sign (-) indicates over-compliance.
In NIR the positive sign (+) indicates over-compliance. with the monetary targets for December 2003.

Measurement between December 16 and January 15.

2 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

Taking into account the amortization payments to the IDB and IBRD
made as of September 1st, the targets were adjusted and
placed at the levels shown in Table 3.1. As
observed, the targets were exceeded with considerable
leeway for the three variables considered. The next targets were
Chart 4.1.1 set for the month of March.

percentage, AYR
Yield Curves of BCRA Securities

11
10
9
8 4. Interest Rates
7 Implied
6 Inflation
5 5.3%
4
3 During the month of January, interest rates continued
2 reflecting the abundant liquidity situation of financial
1
0 institutions, with new reductions occurring in those

0 200 400 600 800 1,000days corresponding to securities issued by the BCRA, in the
30-Dec-03 27-Jan-04 CER 30-Dec-03 CER 27-Jan-04 interbank markets, fixed-term deposits and loans.

Chart 4.1.2

percentage LEBAC Cutoff Rate and Inflation 4.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

40

35

30 Continuing with the trend initiated in mid-2003,

25 the interest rates implicit in the placements of BCRA securities

20
 continued to fall during January. Those that showed the greatest decline
15
10 (considering the results of the last auction of the first month

5 of the year compared to the end of 2003) were the cutoff rates for

0 12 and 18 months, which decreased by 0.8 and 0.7 p.p. respectively.
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Interest rates on CER-adjusted securities decreased

12-month Inflation Average monthly AYR cutoff rate, 6-month LEBAC between 0.6 and 0.8 p.p. while the inflation implicit in the margin
between the cutoff rate for LEBAC in pesos and that
Chart 4.1.3 corresponding to CER-adjusted ones remained around 5%

billions of $, for 12 months (See Charts 4.1.1 and 4.1.2).
BCRA Securities by term and by currency
Face Value
January 31, 2003 January 31, 2004 At the end of January, the amount of LEBAC in circulation in pesos
was FV $10,746 million, of which FV $2,141 million
corresponded to letters adjustable by CER. In turn, the stock of
NOBAC amounted to FV $327 million, and FV US$79
million of LEBAC issued in dollars were circulating. The year-on-year growth of the
BCRA securities stock occurred through the placement of
longer-duration debt (Chart 4.1.3). On the last day of January, securities
with contractual terms exceeding 12 months represented 35%
Pesos Dollars CER-Adjusted Pesos Dollars CER-Adjusted of the total amount issued and around 70% of total stock in
circulation had a residual term exceeding 6 months.
Less than 6 months Between 6 and 12 months More than 12 months

Chart 4.1.4 As of January, LEBAC began to be traded on the

Average Daily Trading in the Secondary Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA), incorporating a
millions of $ Market for BCRA Securities* 188
200 169 new secondary trading venue for these securities, in addition

175 151 to the Electronic Open Market (MAE). In its first month of

150 118 operations, the amount of transactions in the new market

125 represented 2% of the total traded on the MAE. In January, the

100 82 average daily total traded reached $188 million, 12%

75 higher than the previous month and substantially greater than the $5 million

50 36 32 31 traded daily a year earlier (See Chart 4.1.4). Also as
25 17 25 5 5 6 of January, NOBAC began to be traded, although their

0
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 participation in the total negotiated is still small.
 *Includes negotiations in the MAE and in the BCBA

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

 4.2. Interbank Market

 The interest rates agreed in the interbank market
 showed a decline with respect to December. A
 decrease in the number of participating entities was also observed, although the
 amount operated remained relatively stable.

 Chart 4.2.1 The average monthly interest rate went from 1.6% in

 Call in pesos up to 15 days December to 1.4% in January, reaching the minimum level of the last
percentage Average nominal annual rate monthly.
300 decades (See Chart 4.2.1). Volatility, measured through the
 percentage
 10 coefficient of variation, also decreased, going from 0.16 in
250 8
 December to 0.09 in January.
200 6
 4
 2 1.4% In January only 50% of banking entities participated in
150
 0 this market, when in December they represented approximately 60%
100 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04
 of the total system. Of those participating in January, 50% intervened

50 as lender, 30% as borrower and the remainder performed in
 both roles.
 0
 Jan-83 Nov-84 Sep-86 Jul-88 May-90 Mar-92 Jan-94 Nov-95 Sep-97 Jul-99 May-01 Mar-03
 Finally, the monthly average of daily
 amounts operated decreased somewhat less than 5% with respect to the previous month,
 placing itself at approximately $105 million. The limited dynamism
 of this market is mainly due to the excess liquidity that
 financial entities have maintained since mid last year.

 4.3. Passive Interest Rates

 Chart 4.3.1 Passive interest rates continued to decrease,
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos registering in all terms an average monthly decline of 0.9
 percentage Weighted monthly average by amount operated
 30 percentage points, in a context where entities continued with their policy

 25 of offering higher interest rates on small deposits in
 relation to large ones.
 20

 15 In the case of deposits between 30 and 59 days, the interest

 10 rate average went from 3.6% in December to 2.7% in January. In the
 same way, the average interest rate of placements between
 5 60 and 89 days fell from 4.3% to 3.4% and the average interest rate
 of deposits of more than 90 days dropped from 4.7% to 3.8% (See Chart
 0 4.3.1.).
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04
 up to 29 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days

 When analyzing the interest rate structure of deposits
 Chart 4.3.2 according to the type of depositor and the amount bracket, in all

 cases a downward shift of the yield curves is observed for placements in January compared to December,
 Yield Curves for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos as observed in Charts 4.3.2 and 4.3.3. Likewise, a
 By type of depositor slight flattening of these curves is appreciated (except for the

 percentage DECEMBER 2003 JANUARY 2004 one corresponding to financial services providers).
 6

 5 In the analysis by type of depositor this flattening is

 4 perceived especially in placements from natural persons, who

 3 are the beneficiaries of the highest interest rates, which reached
 in January a level of almost 5% in the case of deposits of more than 90
 2
 days, while the average interest rate for this type of
 1 deposits received by legal persons and institutions
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days
 providing financial services (AFJP, FCI, etc.) hovered around 3%. The

 Natural Persons Financial Services Legal Persons participation of these depositors in the amount operated
 increased in January, reaching 54% of the total negotiated.
 Chart 4.3.3
 Yield Curves for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos When observing the yield curves by amount bracket,
By amount stratum, deposits of less than $500,000 are those that show a greater

DECEMBER 2003 JANUARY 2004 flattening percentage, which is consistent with what was previously stated,
6
since the majority of placements by individuals
5 would be in this stratum. The yield curve for deposits

4 exceeding $1,000,000 also shows a certain flattening,
recording the lowest interest rates. It should be noted that in January,
3
these deposits represented more than 55% of the total operated.

2

1
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days
 Up to 100,000 Between 100,000 and 500,000
 Between 500,000 and 1,000,000 More than 1,000,000 4.4. Active Interest Rates².

 Chart 4.4.1 During January, the downward trend in active
 Commercial Loans interest rates was maintained.
 percentage Weighted average monthly interest rate by amount operated
 60
 In the case of commercial loans, the largest decline was
 50
 recorded in the interest rates of documentary loans.
 40 These rates decreased 3.6 p.p. in relation to December, placing them

 30 at 10.5%. The amounts operated in these loans, for their part,
 continued to increase, totaling approximately $260 million in
 20
 January. In contrast, overdrafts on current accounts showed
 10 a lower level of dynamism compared to the previous month,

 0 with the operated amount reduced by almost $360 million, to
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 place itself at approximately $2,100 million. This
 Overdrafts Documents behavior responds mainly to seasonal reasons
 Chart 4.4.2 related to lower economic activity associated with the summer
 Consumer Loans months. However, the interest rate for this type of loans
percentage Weighted average monthly interest rate by amount operated continued to decrease, passing from 25.1% in December to 23.9% in
70 January (See Chart 4.4.1).

65

60 Regarding credits intended for consumption, in January a

55 new decrease in interest rates is observed in personal loans,

50 which passed from 37.4% in December to 36.3% in the month

45 under analysis. In relation to the amounts operated in this type of

40 lines, a slight decrease is observed compared to December (in

35 January approximately $100 million were negotiated). In the case of
 financing with credit cards, data for January is not yet available;
30 however, in December a slight increase in interest rates was
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04
 Personal Cards observed of 0.2 p.p., placing them at 34.8% at the end of the
 Chart 4.4.3 month. This increase was accompanied by an increase of more than $100
 Loans with Real Guarantee million in the operated amount, as a result of the usual increase in the use
 percentage Weighted average monthly interest rate by amount operated of this payment method due to the increase in consumption for the
 30
 Christmas and year-end holidays (See Chart 4.4.2).

 25

 20 Finally, the interest rates on loans with real guarantee
 did not register significant variations during January. In the
 15
 case of mortgage lines, a slight decrease in the interest rate is
 observed, which passed from 10.4% in December to 10% in January.
 10
 However, due to the scarce amount operated (approximately $6
 5 million) and the few entities participating in this market
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04
 Mortgages Pledges (approximately 10% of the total system), this decrease is minor

 ² The information for preparing this section arises from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the
 private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires, with the exception of credit card interest rates, which come from the
 monthly requirement SISCEN 08

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004
representative. On the other hand, the interest rates on financings with pledge guarantee were reduced by 0.7 p.p. in January compared to December, standing at 16.8%. As in the case of mortgage loans, the traded volume of these credits is very low, as it reached only $10 million in January. (See Graph 4.4.3)

5. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity

Total deposits in pesos increased by approximately $1,800 million in the month. This amount translated into an increase in bank reserves in pesos of around $1,000 million. Also, total deposits in dollars continued with the growing trend and increased by US$97 million.

5.1. Means of Payment

Graph 5.1.1 Total means of payment in pesos (M23) increased approximately $1,800 million (2.8%). This behavior is compatible with the positive seasonality that characterizes this percentage M2 Total billions of $ aggregate in the first month of the year. On the other hand, in real deseasonal average monthly figures terms 65 desasonalized, the M2 fell 0.1% (See Graph 5.1.1).

6 60
4 55 Following the seasonal pattern, and always considering average
2 50 figures, currency in circulation grew by $560 million in January. As
0 45 mentioned in Section 2, quasi-currencies were redeemed for $755
-2 40 million, while sight deposits increased by $1,960 million.
-4 35
-6 30 An important contribution to the growth of sight deposits in the
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 month was a consequence of the actions of the public sector.
 Monthly Variation Stock (right axis) Considering average figures, the sum of variations in placements in
 current account and savings account in pesos of this sector was
 around $600 million (7%), and if end-of-month data are considered,
 the increase amounts to approximately $1,900 million (22%). This result
 was linked to the increase in tax collection recorded in January and
 the redemption of provincial and national bonds ("quasi-currencies").

The impact of quasi-currency redemption on the composition of M2 is estimated to have varied over time. As the redemption process advanced, quasi-currencies came to be in greater proportion in companies that used them in their business operations, or in public entities that had received them as payment for taxes. In any case, the quasi-currencies were held in custody in financial entities, so, as they were redeemed, they remained as sight placements.

3 Includes currency in circulation, sight deposits from the private and public sectors and quasi-currencies.

6 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

This allows us to infer that much of the counterpart of the quasi-currencies that left circulation has gone to increase sight account balances, both from the private and public sectors.

In that sense, transactional deposits explained practically all of the increase in private sector deposits, which in January was approximately $800 million.

5.2. Time Deposits

Private sector time placements in pesos increased in January, on average, around $80 million compared to December. If CEDROs are considered, the variation is negative, given that their average stock decreased approximately $370 million.

Graph 5.2.1 As can be seen in Graph 5.2.1, the behavior billions of $ Fixed-Rate Time Deposits in Pesos billions of $ of deposits was different according to their size. Deposits of less
15 Private Sector 25 than $1 million decreased around $450 million, while placements of
12 22 more than $1 million increased approximately $530 million. The fall in
9 19 deposits of smaller amounts could be associated with the low level of interest
 rates, which may have led retail depositors to
6 16 prefer sight deposits over term deposits.

3 13 The increase in larger amount deposits was driven
 mainly by financial service provider institutions

0 10 (AFJP, FCI, etc.), which due to restrictions linked
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 to the composition of their portfolios turned to this type of
 More than $1 million Less than $1 million (right axis)
 placements.

 In line with the aforementioned, in terms of amounts traded,
 an increase is observed in financial service provider institutions
 (AFJP, FCI, etc.) in the participation of total traded,
 which went from concentrating 13% in the last months of 2003 to
 more than 16% in January. Legal entities concentrated 38%
 of total traded, a level similar to that which they had registered in
 November. For their part, individuals decreased their
 participation to 46% of total traded, this being the lowest
 concentration registered since March 2003.

 Although the average term of capture of placements
 Chart 5.2.2 showed a slight decrease in January, going from 44 to 42 days,
 Private Sector Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos it is 9 days longer than that registered in the same month of the previous year. The
 thousands of millions of $ Monthly average stock by capture terms
35 lengthening of terms is also reflected in the structure by
 $30.3 MM capture term of the fixed-term deposit stock. When comparing the
30 18%
25 months of January of this year and of the previous year, it is observed that there was
 $19.3 MM 17% a shift of deposits towards longer terms. (See
20 6%
15 13% Chart 5.2.2) The segment of placements of more than 90 days is the
10 one that shows the greatest growth in terms of participation
 68% 65%
 5 over the total, going from 6% in January 2003 to 18% in January

 13% 2004. In the case of placements between 60 and 89 days, an
 -
 Jan-03 Jan-04 increase in their participation in total stock is also
 observed, although
 up to 29 30 to 59 60 to 89 + of 90 less than the previous one, concentrating 17% of total
 term deposits in January 2004. Finally, shorter
 term placements (between 30 and 59 days), whose stock showed important
 growth in the last 12 months, decreased their participation in
 the total stock, going from 68% in 2003 to 65% in 2004. It should be
 noted that at the end of November 2003, the BCRA increased the
 minimum term for capture of fixed-term deposits from 7 to 30 days,
 with which a large part of these deposits went on to form part of
 placements between 30 and 59 days.

 For their part, term placements of the public sector
 showed an increase of $400 million as a consequence of
 the new placements made by fiduciary funds.

 Taking into account what was commented in Section 5.1 and in
 this one, it is appreciated that the total of deposits in pesos registered in January
 an increase of approximately $1,800 million (2%).

 Chart 5.3.1 5.3. Deposits in Dollars

 millions of US$ Deposits in Dollars millions of US$
 (Monthly Average Variation) 1,995
160 2,000 The average stock of deposits in dollars in January reached
 1,600 almost US$ 2,000 million, which more than doubles the deposits
120 existing in that currency in the same month of the previous year.

 1,200
80 842 Deposits in dollars experienced continuous
 800 growth throughout all of 2003 (See Chart 5.3.1).
40 400 Continuing with this trend, in January they registered an increase
 0 0 of US$97 million (5%), which, as in previous
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 months, was driven mainly by the increase in
 Var. Fixed-Term Var. Total Stock Total Stock (right axis) term deposits, which represented more than 80% of the month's increase.
# Graph 5.3.2 Fixed-Term Deposits in Dollars

Between renewals and new operations, approximately US$460 million was traded in the market during the month, practically equal to the volume of operations in December. Once again, operations were concentrated in the 30 to 60-day bracket, with the average collection term for the month of around 42 days. Regarding the amounts of operations carried out, they were generally concentrated in deposits of less than US$100,000 and more than US$1,000,000, at 44% and 38% of the total traded, respectively. Likewise, 46% of said operations were carried out by natural persons while legal entities and financial services participated in a more or less uniform manner in the remainder of the operations (See Graph 5.3.2).

**Participation on the total amount traded in January 2004**

| Type of Depositor | Amount Bracket | Term |
|---|---|---|
| Natural Persons | 44% up to 100,000 | 30 to 60 d. |
| Legal Entities | 28 | 60 d. to 1M |
| Financial Services | 38 | More than 1 M |
| Natural Persons | 46 | - |

---

# Graph 5.4.1

## 5.4. Bank Liquidity

Bank liquidity remained at high levels during January, in line with what occurred in previous months. As observed in Graph 5.4.1, the liquidity ratio, defined as the relationship between total bank reserves and total deposits, reached almost 29% in the month (half a percentage point above the December level and 7 p.p. more than in the same month of the previous year).

**Percentage of Total Liquidity* Deposits Jan-04**

- Jan-03: 28.7%
- Jan-03: 21.7%
- Jan-02: 13.6%

*Includes pesos and dollars valued at the free exchange rate.

Specifically, bank reserves in pesos grew by $1,000 million in January, which is explained essentially by the increase in current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA. If we consider the increase of $1,800 million registered in deposits during January (see section 5.1), financial entities would have maintained as bank reserves almost 60% of the new deposits entered into the system that month.

---

# Graph 5.4.2

Although the credit market only in the last quarter of 2003 began to show signs of incipient recovery, expectations about its future are optimistic, so financial entities continue with their policy of accumulating lending capacity, with the prospect of future placements.

Regarding the minimum cash position in pesos, Graph 5.4.2 shows the legal requirement together with the integration carried out by financial entities in cash and in the current accounts they hold at the BCRA, both expressed as a percentage of deposits. Given that a large part of the increase in deposits registered in January was maintained by entities in their accounts at the BCRA, integration as a percentage of deposits registered an increase of 0.6 p.p. in the month. In this way, the over-integration in pesos carried out by financial entities was located in January at around 9 p.p. (approximately $7,200 million).

**Percentage of Minimum Cash Position* Deposits in Pesos Integration Variance +0.6pp.**

- Requirement EM in $ | Integration in $
- Surplus of Liquidity

*Data on minimum cash position observed through December 2003. January figures are estimated.

---

# Graph 5.4.3

## In Dollars

The dollar segment did not present significant changes as it continues to be characterized by strong over-integration due to the still scarce applications of resources in foreign currency carried out by financial entities⁴. Graph 5.4.3 shows the aligned behavior evidenced by deposits

**Millions of US$ Integration of Minimum Cash and Deposits**

[Chart showing values ranging from 1,200 to 2,000 million US$]

---

8 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004
1,000 totals and the integration of minimum cash in dollars which resulted in
a substantial liquidity surplus that, for January, is located at
800 above the US$1,300 million mark5.

600
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04
Deposits in US$ Integration MC in US$ From the consolidation of both segments, results in a total
liquidity that exceeds in the first month of the year $26,000 million,
while the liquidity requirements legally required by
the BCRA through the Minimum Cash Regime total
approximately $15,000 million, the difference being the surplus
Chart 6.1 position.

Index 100 = Dec-02 Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
(Monthly Averages)
105

100

95
6. Loans
90

85

80 Among loans to the private sector in pesos, those
destined for consumption were the ones that showed the most dynamism
75 during the analyzed period (See Chart 6.1). However, despite its
Dec-02 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03
Commercial Loans Loans with Real Guarantees Consumption Loans

4 The BCRA establishes as authorized destinations for the application of the lending capacity derived from foreign currency
resources the financing of exports, interbank loans, BCRA Letters, financial trusts whose underlying assets are loans destined
to finance exports and loans to producers of final or intermediate goods that have guarantees from exporters.

5 The default in the application of the lending capacity in foreign currency that financial entities verify in a given
period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement of said period. For this reason, the excess
liquidity that financial entities "legally" accrue is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the
requirement corresponding to the application of legal reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering
the increase of the same equivalent to the default in the application of resources.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

good performance did not compensate for the decline experienced by the
commercial lines and those with real guarantees.
Chart 6.2 Consumption loans grew around $160
Consumption Loans million in January, which is equivalent to 2% of the average stock of
millions of $ Monthly average stock
2,700 December. Both personal lines and credit card
2,600 financing showed increases during the month under analysis,
2,500 while the category of other loans registered a
2,400 negative variation. In the case of personal loans, the increase
2,300
2,200 was around $80 million, with mainly private banking entities

2,100 of national capital being those that continue promoting
2,000 this type of credit since mid-last year. In the case of
1,900 credit cards, the increase exceeded $130 million. As
1,800 noted in previous reports, the launch of promotions
Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 to buy in up to 6 interest-free installments and the reduction in the interest rate
Personal Loans Credit Cards for plans with more installments and for the financing of
pending balances encouraged the use of credit cards as
a payment instrument, giving rise to sustained growth in
the average stock since September of last year (See Chart 6.2).
7.1. Exchange Market
# Translation to English

In January, the Single and Free Exchange Market6 once again showed a surplus, which reached approximately US$625 million. This result was basically a combination of a surplus in the merchandise balance of around US$1,200 million, which was partially offset by payments of rents and capital (approximately US$500 million). The merchandise result, almost US$300 million higher than the previous month, was mainly linked to lower import payments; while export revenues remained at levels similar to December. However, in year-on-year terms the net result is similar, although the total payments and revenues for operations linked to the purchase and sale of merchandise were approximately US$400 million lower a year ago.

Graph 7.1.1 As a counterpart, the BCRA's net purchases of foreign currency
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (basket/$)* from the private sector during the month were US$563 million. For its
Dec-01=100
110 part, the public sector registered a net inflow of foreign currency,
100 with which international reserves increased by US$801 million,
90 reaching a level of US$14,920 million at the end of January.
80
70 In nominal terms, the peso depreciated slightly with respect to
60 the currencies of its two main trading partners, the Brazilian real
50 (0.4%) and the euro (0.4%); while taking into account the average
40 monthly quotation of the reference exchange rate, the peso showed an
30 appreciation of 2% with respect to the US dollar. On the other
Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 hand, in January, the peso appreciated slightly (0.5%) in real terms,
*Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso. with respect to a basket of currencies that includes all main trading
partners (see Graph 7.1.1).

6 For greater detail see Report on the Evolution of the Foreign Exchange Market. Period January 2004.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

7.2. Capital Markets

7.2.1. Shares

In January, the quotations of shares in the local market continued with the upward trend they have shown almost uninterruptedly since mid-last year. Measuring its evolution through the MERVAL index, the stock market registered a monthly increase of 6.4%.

The prolonged downward trajectory of interest rates on alternative investments, the stability of the peso with respect to the US dollar, and the consolidation of the debt restructuring process of listed companies, contributed to the stock market index registering, on January 20, the highest historical closing value, reaching 1,260 points. The company with the largest price increase was Telecom (21%), which as will be described in the section on Corporate Bonds, announced its proposal for the comprehensive restructuring of its financial debt.

Graph 7.2.1.1 The volume traded in the month was characterized by a
Average Daily Volume Traded on the MERVAL significant increase in the liquidity of this market. The average daily
millions of $
90 volume traded reached $83 million, 28% higher than the previous
80 month and substantially greater than the volumes registered in the
70 last two years (See Graph 7.2.1.1). This evolution could be attributed
60 to the greater interest demonstrated by institutional and some retail
50 investors in this class of investment given that, as mentioned before,
40 the returns on alternative investments continue to be at low levels.
30 The most traded securities were those of Grupo Galicia and Acindar,
with a monthly total of $269 million and $211 million respectively.
20 first of these companies announced during the course of the month the
Ene-02 Abr-02 Jul-02 Oct-02 Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 issuance of preferred shares within the framework of the restructuring of
its external debt; while Acindar offered in preferential subscription to its
shareholders holding ordinary Class A and B shares a total of US$80
million in Subordinated Convertible Negotiable Obligations.

 Chart 7.2.2.1 7.2.2. Sovereign Bonds
 Performance of BODEN
BODEN 08 TIREA, in percentage BODEN 12
10 17.5
 The bonds that make up the national public debt issued
9 16.5 after the cessation of payments registered improvements driven by the
8 15.5 increase in demand from institutional investors and local
 banks.
7 14.5

6 13.5 The BODEN in pesos adjustable by CER were those that
 showed the best performance during the month, with the internal
5 12.5 rates of return (IRR) of BODEN 08 and BODEN 07 being reduced by 240
 31-Dec-03 8-Jan-04 12-Jan-04 16-Jan-04 20-Jan-04 24-Jan-04 28-Jan-04 bps and 320 bps respectively. However, BODEN issued
 BODEN 08 BODEN 12
 in dollars also showed IRR reductions at the end of
 January compared to those in effect on the last day of the previous year,
 although of lesser magnitude (See Chart 7.2.2.1).

 12 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

 According to the information available at the date of
 preparation of this report, the daily average traded of
 BODEN in the domestic market was 8% lower than in December,
 with BODEN 12 concentrating 60% of the operations
 executed and BODEN 08 27%7.

 7.2.3. Corporate Bonds

 In the first month of 2004, corporate developments
 continued to develop around the processes of
 restructuring of liabilities of issuing companies.

 Telecom Argentina announced its proposal for
 restructuring of all its financial debt through an Extrajudicial
 Preventive Agreement (APE). Three options of consideration were offered
 to the debt holders of the company for every 1.058 of
 debt pending denominated in pesos, dollars, euros, or yens8. The
 first of these assumes a combination of (1) 169 of capital amount of
 negotiable obligations (ON) at variable rate for 4 years with
 maturity in 2008 (2) 730 of capital amount in ON
 structured "step up" type for 10 years with maturity in 2014 and,
 (3) 159 of capital amount in ON of payment in kind for 13 years
 with maturity in 2017. The second of the options consists of the
 combination of (1) 541 of capital amount of ON at fixed rate for 5
 years with maturity in 2009 and (2) a cash payment of 338. Finally,
 the pending debt holders may opt for cash payment of not more than
 75% nor less than 65% of 1.058 to be
 determined under a modified Dutch auction process. It should be
 noted that as of September 30, 2003, the pending debt payment
 of the company was equivalent to approximately US$2,627
 million, including accrued but unpaid interest and
 increases in interest rates following the default.
 Simultaneously, its subsidiary Telecom Personal S.A. is
 proposing to restructure all of its debt which as of September 30,
 2003 amounted to US$590 million.

 Cablevisión communicated that as of January 28, holders of
 approximately 38% of its corporate debt capital included
 in the restructuring process, had accepted the exchange offer presented
 by the company. Likewise, it announced the extension of
 the deadline for offers until February 4.

 Finally, Banco Hipotecario made known the details
 of the new securities issued within the framework of the restructuring of
 its liabilities. The bank reported that from the exchange carried out,
 securities denominated in United States dollars will circulate with
 maturity in the year 2013 for US$411 million, securities
 denominated in euros with maturity in 2013 for €256 million and
 guaranteed securities with maturity in 2010 for US$108 million.
7 This paragraph is based on provisional information from the MAE.
8 The proposal contemplates that a portion of the accrued and unpaid interest on financial debt of each holder for the period
from June 25, 2002 to December 31, 2003, will be capitalized and restructured. As a result of the capitalization of interest,
for each 1,000 of denomination in United States dollars, euros or yen of financial debt capital amount, a holder will have
1,058 of denomination of United States dollars, euros or yen, as applicable, of financial debt to be restructured under the
APE.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Jan-04 Monthly Last 12 monthsDec-03Nov-03Jan-03
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Broad Monetary Base 47,140 46,301 44,814 37,409 1.8% 1.4% 26.0% 22.6%
 Quasi-Money 167 922 1,315 7,814 -81.9% -82.0% -97.9% -97.9%

 Monetary Base 46,973 45,378 43,498 29,595 3.5% 3.1% 58.7% 54.5%
 Monetary Circulation 29,205 28,716 26,331 18,755 1.7% 1.3% 55.7% 51.6%
 In the hands of the Public 25,989 25,423 23,413 16,398 2.2% 1.8% 58.5% 54.3%
 In Financial Entities 3,216 3,293 2,918 2,356 -2.3% -2.7% 36.5% 32.9%
 Current Account at the BCRA 17,767 16,662 17,167 10,840 6.6% 6.2% 63.9% 59.5%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 14,484 13,820 13,285 9,933 4.8% 45.8%

 Total Deposits in Pesos (1) 87,253 85,498 84,666 71,586 2.1% 1.6% 21.9% 18.6%

 Private Deposits 70,633 69,850 69,365 63,489 1.1% 0.7% 11.3% 8.3%
 Current Account 15,303 14,743 14,076 11,111 3.8% 3.4% 37.7% 34.1%
 Savings Account 13,578 12,852 12,108 8,324 5.7% 5.2% 63.1% 58.8%
 Fixed Term 30,530 30,450 31,103 19,165 0.3% -0.2% 59.3% 55.0%
 Other Deposits 4,636 4,835 4,708 4,138 -4.1% -4.5% 12.0% 9.0%
 Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 1,704 1,717 1,738 2,267 -0.7% -1.1% -24.8% -26.8%
 CEDRO including CER 4,882 5,254 5,633 18,483 -7.1% -7.5% -73.6% -74.3%

 Public Sector Deposits 15,690 14,763 14,532 7,553 6.3% 5.8% 107.7% 102.2%

 Total Deposits in Dollars (1) 1,995 1,899 1,741 842 5.1% 137.0%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1) 50,238 49,963 52,504 61,926 0.5% 0.1% -18.9% -21.0%

 To the Private Sector 26,630 26,828 26,577 29,413 -0.7% -1.2% -9.5% -11.9%
 Advances 4,066 4,387 4,181 4,128 -7.3% -7.7% -1.5% -4.1%
 Documents 4,807 4,728 4,688 5,090 1.7% 1.3% -5.6% -8.1%
 Mortgages 9,225 9,318 9,374 11,082 -1.0% -1.4% -16.8% -19.0%
 Pledges 1,249 1,270 1,298 1,878 -1.6% -2.1% -33.5% -35.3%
 Personal Loans 2,489 2,333 2,270 2,608 6.7% 6.2% -4.6% -7.1%
 Credit Cards 2,290 2,227 2,117 1,932 2.8% 2.4% 18.5% 15.4%
 Others 2,506 2,566 2,651 2,694 -2.3% -2.7% -7.0% -9.5%

 To the Public Sector 23,608 23,135 25,927 32,513 2.0% 1.6% -27.4% -29.3%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1) 1,433 1,445 1,412 1,414 -0.8% 1.3%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-Money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 49,643 48,825 46,283 38,485 1.7% 1.2% 29.0% 25.6%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 66,552 64,731 61,422 47,852 2.8% 2.4% 39.1% 35.4%
 M3 (M2 + Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 117,457 115,724 112,659 96,280 1.5% 1.1% 22.0% 18.7%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-Money + Current Account Private Sector) 41,459 41,089 38,805 35,324 0.9% 0.5% 17.4% 14.2%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 55,037 53,941 50,913 43,647 2.0% 1.6% 26.1% 22.7%
 M3 (M2 + Fixed-Term Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 95,084 94,479 92,357 85,434 0.6% 0.2% 11.3% 8.3%

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date 2004 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2) Nominal Contribution (2)
Broad Monetary Base 839 1.8% 3.228 7.4% 839 1.8% 9.731 26.0%
 Financial Sector -92 -0.2% -245 -0.6% -92 -0.2% -1.592 -4.3%
 Public Sector -350 -0.8% -548 -1.2% -350 -0.8% -337 -0.9%
 Temporary Advances + Transfer of Profits -437 1.415 -437 6.167
 Use of the National Government Account 350 350 350 -421
 External Credit -263 -2.312 -263 -6.083
 Private External Sector 1.859 4.0% 5.409 12.3% 1.859 4.0% 16.243 43.4%
 BCRA Securities -577 -1.2% -1.326 -3.0% -577 -1.2% -4.965 -13.3%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Face Value of Quasi-monies -19 0.0% -62 -0.1% -19 0.0% -220 -0.6%
 Others (3) 18 0.0% 0 0.0% 18 0.0% 601 1.6%

 International Reserves 664 4.8% 1.237 9.3% 664 4.8% 4.551 45.8%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 634 4.6% 1.892 14.3% 634 4.6% 5.697 57.4%
 Payment to International Organizations -89 -0.6% -771 -5.8% -89 -0.6% -1.714 -17.3%
 Other Public Sector Operations -2 0.0% -5 0.0% -2 0.0% -104 -1.0%
 Minimum Cash 32 0.2% -39 -0.3% 32 0.2% 379 3.8%
 Valuation of Repo Rate 49 0.4% 82 0.6% 49 0.4% 65 0.7%
 Others 25 0.2% 82 0.6% 25 0.2% 231 2.3%

 (1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 (2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.
 (3) Includes the variation of quasi-monies without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 14 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

Call between Private Banks in pesos
 Rate 1.44 1.69 1.65 1.52 5.47
 Amount 74 72 99 120 113

Time Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 2.81 3.71 4.32 4.53 18.00
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.06 2.93 3.55 3.83 18.38
 60 days or more 3.52 4.45 5.16 5.48 23.03
 In dollars
 30 days 0.57 0.58 0.51 0.59 1.58
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.71 0.70 0.76 0.81 2.23
 60 days or more 0.90 0.93 0.79 0.81 2.00

 Active Interest Rates Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

Prime in pesos at 30 days 9.90 10.32 10.76 11.18 27.49

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 1.90 3.33 3.71 3.94 11.55
 Volume traded (total terms) 52 63 63 59 139

Loans in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on Current Account 22.41 24.48 24.78 56.15
 Documents at sole signature 11.48 10.94 12.77 23.90
 Mortgages 14.23 14.52 16.22 21.74
 Pledges 16.02 16.25 17.72 18.94
 Personal Loans 34.18 34.52 34.98 56.67
 Credit Cards 34.83 34.60 36.96 63.93

 Reference Rates Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

LIBOR
 1 month 1.10 1.15 1.12 1.12 1.36
 6 months 1.19 1.24 1.24 1.21 1.37

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.72 1.88 1.90 1.72 1.71
 10 years 4.12 4.25 4.28 4.27 4.02

FED Funds Rate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 16.50 17.07 18.45 19.68 25.20

(1) The data correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2004

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Securities issued by the BCRA Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

Primary Market

LEBAC Rates in pesos
 1 month n/d n/d n/d 0.60 8.19
 2 months n/d n/d n/d 2.01 9.73
 3 months 1.79 2.30 2.65 2.98 11.93
 6 months 3.37 4.38 5.29 5.94 36.22
 12 months 8.09 8.99 10.30 11.82 43.66
 18 months 9.72 10.80 11.99 13.89 n/d

LEBAC Rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months 2.58 3.71 5.63 6.63 n/d
 18 months 4.12 5.46 7.13 8.00 n/d

NOBAC Rate in pesos 12.55 n/d n/d n/d n/d

NOBAC Rate in pesos adjustable by CER 5.73 6.65 n/d n/d n/d

LEBAC Rates in dollars
 1 month n/d n/d n/d 0.00 0.00
 2 months 0.00 -0.06 0.00 -0.03 n/d
 3 months 0.00 -0.04 0.00 n/d n/d

Secondary Market

Amount traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 178 169 151 118 5

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 2.89 2.96 2.89 2.86 3.26
 Exchange Houses 2.90 2.95 2.88 2.85 3.27
 BCRA Reference 2.89 2.96 2.88 2.86 3.26
# Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.90 2.97 2.89 2.86 3.29
 INDOL 1 month 2.91 2.98 2.89 2.87 3.37
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 1 1 2 2
 ROFEX 1 month 2.89 2.96 2.89 2.86 3.29
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 40 38 43 43 15

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.02 1.01 0.99 1.00 0.95

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.66 3.64 3.39 3.34 3.46

 Capital Markets Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Oct-03 Jan-03

MERVAL
 Index 1185 1020 950 882 565
 Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 83 65 43 55 35

Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 65.65 61.70 58.92 60.27 n/d
 BODEN 08 ($) 92.08 87.72 83.36 80.60 n/d

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,171 1,355 1,447 1,366 1,860
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 341 372 405 435 784

 16
