# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

FEBRUARY 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

2. Monetary Program 2

3. Interest Rates 2
   3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA 3
   3.2. Interbank Market 3
   3.3. Passive Interest Rates 3
   3.4. Active Interest Rates 4

4. Means of Payment, Deposits and Liquidity 5
   4.1. Means of Payment 5
   4.2. Fixed-Term Deposits 6
   4.3. Deposits in Dollars 7
   4.4. Bank Liquidity 7

5. Loans 8

6. Financial Asset Markets 9
   6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 9
   6.2. Capital Market 10
      6.2.1. Stocks 10
      6.2.2. Sovereign Bonds 10
      6.2.2. Corporate Bonds 11

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators 12

## 1. SUMMARY

• The Broad Monetary Base (BMA) decreased $112 million in February (0.2%), which implies an year-on-year increase of 26%. The decline in the last month is fundamentally due to seasonal factors and is in accordance with what was established in the 2004 Monetary Program.

• The downward trend in interest rates continues, which reflects the high levels of liquidity of financial institutions. The implicit rates from the last LEBAC auction in February for the 6 and 18-month terms were between 0.5 p.p. and 0.6 p.p. lower than those of the previous month, while for the remaining terms they remained at the same levels. In the interbank market, interest rates fell 0.1 p.p., standing at 1.2%, being the lowest value recorded in recent decades.

• Interest rates on fixed-term deposits registered a monthly decline of 0.5 p.p. on average, standing at 2.4%. Of the active interest rates, those on loans with real guarantee were the ones that experienced the greatest decline, with decreases of 2.6 p.p. for pledged assets and 1 p.p. in the case of mortgages, standing at 14% and 9.1% respectively.

• Means of payment in pesos (M2) increased by $1,900 million in February (42% y-o-y), driven by the increase in private sight deposits, explained in part by a transfer of fixed-term deposits toward sight placements in response to the low level of interest rates. The increase in cash in circulation was $30 million despite the negative seasonality that this component of M2 usually registers in February, with its year-on-year variation of 54%, which was influenced by the impact of the check tax.

• The total of deposits in pesos increased $1,600 million in the month (1.8%), registering a year-on-year increase close to 23%, while deposits in foreign currency grew US$65 million, maintaining the trend observed in recent months. Fixed-term deposits in pesos fell $140 million.

• Loans to the private sector in pesos increased $190 million on average in February. Comparing stocks at the end of the month, the variation is $350 million, being the largest increase recorded since the end of 1999. The engine of this growth was overdrafts on current accounts that increased $180 million on average ($400 million between end of month).

• In nominal terms, the peso depreciated slightly against the euro and the dollar in February (1.4% in both cases), while it appreciated against the Brazilian real (1.5%). On average, the peso depreciated slightly (0.3%) in real terms, compared to a basket of currencies that includes the main trading partners. The gain in competitiveness in the last 12 months reached 5.6%.

• International reserves increased US$83 million, reaching a level of US$15,003 million at the end of the month, the highest value of the last two years.

---

¹ Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004
3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA

**Graph 3.1.1**
percentage, TNA Yield Curves of LEBAC

In February, the implicit interest rates in the auctions of BCRA securities
continued to decrease although to a lesser extent than in the previous
months. Considering the last auction of the month with respect to that of
late January, the interest rates for LEBAC in pesos of 6 and 18 months
decreased by 0.5 and 0.6 percentage points respectively, while the rates
corresponding to 3
Implicit inflation and 12 months remained at the same levels as a month ago.
4 5.4% Likewise, the implicit inflation rate in the margin between the
 cutoff rates of LEBAC in pesos and those corresponding to titles
2 adjustable by CER remained around 5% for both 12 and

0 for 18 months. With respect to NOBAC, only one

 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 placement was made during February, which yielded an interest rate of
 days
 27-Jan 24-Feb 27-Jan CER 24-Feb CER 5.25%, slightly lower than that resulting at the end of January
 (0.1 p.p.) (See Chart 3.1.1).

 The total stock of outstanding titles at the end of February
 amounts to VN $11,925 million, of which VN $9,140 million
 correspond to LEBAC in pesos, VN $2,187 million to LEBAC
 adjustable by CER, VN $383 million to NOBAC and the rest to LEBAC
 issued in dollars. The total circulating amount increased
 approximately VN $600 million (5%) compared to the previous month,
 of which 70% was allocated to banks and the rest to legal entities.

 3.2. Interbank Market

 The interest rates agreed in the interbank market
 (call) showed a slight decline accompanied by an increase
 Chart 3.2.1 in the amounts operated.

 Call in pesos up to 15 days
 percentage Annual nominal interest rate and average amounts The interest rates for call operations for terms
9 400
 of less than 15 days decreased by an average of 0.1 p.p. in February,
8 350
7 remaining at 1.2%, being the lowest value in recent decades.
 300
6 250

5 The amounts operated increased by $50 million in
 200
4 February compared to the previous month, although they remain at
3 150
 100 relatively very low levels, which reflects abundant liquidity.
2
1 50
0 0 78% of the funds taken in February are concentrated in only

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 three wholesale banks that present high levels of
 Amount (right axis) Rate (left axis) liquidity, and would be using the interbank market to finance
 their trading activities.

 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

 The interest rates for fixed-term deposits continued
 decreasing, registering a monthly decrease of 0.5 p.p. on
 average.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

 Chart 3.3.1 Financial entities continued with their customer
 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 percentage monthly average weighted by amount fidelization policy, offering higher interest rates to
25 small depositors in relation to large ones, as can

20 be seen in Chart 3.3.1. For deposits made for amounts
 less than $100 thousand, an average interest rate of 3.2% was paid,
15 while for larger amounts the interest rate paid was 1.6 p.p. lower.

10

5 This same behavior can be seen when analyzing what

0 occurred with interest rates for fixed-term deposits by type

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 of depositor (see Chart 3.3.2). It is individuals who

 Up to $100 thousand More than $1 million received higher rates, 3.1% on average. They are followed by legal
 Chart 3.3.2 entities who received an average rate of 2.2% and finally
 financial service providers with a rate of 1.3%. In

 percentage Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos all cases the rates were between 0.4 p.p. and 0.5 p.p. lower
30 monthly average weighted by amount than those of the preceding month.

25
 Analyzing the rate structure by amount stratum (see
20
 Chart 3.3.3) we can observe that the yield curves of
15 fixed-term deposits shifted slightly downward and

10 resulted somewhat flatter in relation to the previous month – with
5 exception of the curve corresponding to placements for amounts exceeding one million pesos-.

0
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04
Individual Persons Financial Services Legal Entities The segment that experienced the greatest decline in interest rates is that of deposits between $500 thousand and $1 million which for terms between 120 and 180 days fell 1.1 p.p., and for terms greater than 180 days 1.9 p.p.. The only interest rate that did not decline is the one corresponding to deposits of more than $1 million for terms exceeding 180 days. This is due to the fact that within this bracket placements at longer terms (with higher interest rates) made by institutional depositors (AFJP, ART, FCI, etc) increased, with which, both the average term and the average interest rate of this bracket resulted higher. Once corrected for these issues, it is observed that the interest rate for a year or more of term also shows a slight decline.

Chart 3.3.3
Fixed-Term Deposit Yield Curves in Pesos
By amount bracket
percentage JANUARY 2004 FEBRUARY 2004
7
6
5
4
3
2
1

From 30 to From 60 to From 90 to From 120 to More than From 30 to From 60 to From 90 to From 120 to More than
59 days 89 days 119 days 180 days 180 days 59 days 89 days 119 days 180 days 180 days
Up to $99 thousand From $100 thousand to $499 thousand
From $500 thousand to $1 million More than $1 million

3.4. Active Interest Rates²

Chart 3.4.1
Commercial Loans
percentage Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount

60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04
Overdrafts Documents

During February, the downward trend in active interest rates was maintained.

The interest rates of commercial loans registered a slight decline in February (see Chart 3.4.1). The interest rate charged for overdrafts in current account stood at 22.4% on average, 1.3 p.p. below that of the previous month, while the amounts operated increased by $212 million. The rate of documentary loans stood at 9.8% on average, resulting 0.8 p.p. lower than that of the preceding month, while the amounts operated increased by $119 million.

² The information to prepare this section comes from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires, with the exception of credit card interest rates, which come from the monthly requirement SISCEN 08.

4 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

Chart 3.4.2
Consumer Loans
percentage Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04
Personal Credit Cards

The same did not occur with the interest rates of consumer financing (see Chart 3.4.2). The interest rate of personal loans stood at 39.2% in February, 2.7 p.p. above that of the previous month, while the amounts operated decreased by $9 million. In this market, the average interest rate is very sensitive to variations of individual entities (in particular, the variation observed in February for the average rate is explained by changes in the commercial policy of some entities).

In the case of credit card financing, information for February is not yet available; however in January the interest rates showed a slight decline of 0.3 p.p., standing at 34.5%. This decline was accompanied by an increase of approximately $70 million in the amount operated.

Chart 3.4.3
Loans with Real Guarantee
percentage Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount
30
25
20
15
10

The interest rates of credits with real guarantee also declined. In the case of pledge loans the average rate stood at 14.0% in February, resulting 2.6 p.p. lower than that corresponding to January. Regarding mortgage loans in February a decline of 1.0 p.p. was registered with respect to the previous month, remaining at 9.1% (see Chart 3.4.3).
4.2. Time Deposits

Time deposits of the private sector in pesos showed in February a decline close to $340 million on average. When also considering CEROs, the decline reaches around $560 million.

**Graph 4.2.1**

**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector Thousands of millions of $, Monthly Average Balances, Thousands of millions of $**

As can be seen in Graph 4.2.1, 70% of the decrease in fixed-term deposits was concentrated in placements greater than $1 million, which mostly correspond to large companies and institutional investors. Given the sustained decline in interest rates, already mentioned in Section 3.3, these depositors moved part of their funds to sight accounts.

Time deposits of less than $1 million showed a reduction of around $100 million, which denotes a deceleration in the rate of decline that these placements have been registering since mid-last year.
Jul-03 Aug-03 Sep-03 Oct-03 Nov-03 Dec-03 Jan-04 Feb-04
 More than $1 million Less than $1 million When analyzing the variations in deposits by
 contractual term, a shift of funds toward longer terms is observed. In
 effect, placements between 30 and 59 days decreased around $490
 million on average, while deposits of more than 90 days increased
 approximately $160 million.

 Chart 4.2.2 In terms of amounts operated, a greater
 concentration in individuals is observed in all terms and a
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos decrease in the participation of financial service-providing institutions
 Participation of depositors in amounts operated and legal entities, in relation to the previous month. In the segment
 percentage JANUARY 2004 FEBRUARY 2004 of 30 to 59 days, which represented 83% of total operated, individuals
100 concentrated 46% of total traded and legal entities 38%. In the bracket

80 of 60 to 89 days, which constituted 11% of traded volume, the
60 participation of individuals was even greater and registered a significant
 increase, rising from 59% in January to 67% in February. For their
40
 part, legal entities and financial service-providing institutions
20 decreased their participation in this bracket, having operated less
 0 than 25% and less than 10% of the total in February respectively.
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days Finally, in the case of placements greater than 90 days, individuals
 Individuals Financial Services Legal Entities also increased their participation, rising from conducting 51% of operations in
 January to 60% in February, to the detriment of legal entities and
 6 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004 financial service providers (see Chart 4.2.2).

 On the other hand, fixed-term deposits of the public sector in
 pesos continue to increase, having registered in February an increase
 of approximately $200 million on average. This phenomenon is
 related to the rise in tax collection and the placement of public trust
 funds.

 4.3. Deposits in dollars

 Chart 4.3.1 The segment of deposits in dollars registered a monthly
 Deposits in Dollars increase of around US$65 million, one of the lowest increases of
millions of US$ millions of US$
200 Average monthly variation 2,500 recent months. Contrary to what had been occurring, this month it was
 savings account deposits that drove the growth of deposits in foreign
150 2,000 currency with a monthly increase of US$40 million. Although the
 increase in fixed-term deposits was lower than in previous months, it
100 1,500 is worth mentioning that some time deposits that matured in the last
 days of the month were temporarily deposited as immobilized
50 1,000 balances and are expected to be renewed again as fixed-term deposits
 (see Chart 4.3.1).
0 500
 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Continuing with the increasing trend, the average stock of
 Fixed-Term Sight Deposits Total Stock (2nd axis) deposits in dollars rose to US$ 2,060 million, which more than
 doubles the deposits existing in that currency in February of last year.

 Among renewals and new operations, approximately US$360
 million were traded in the month. Again, operations concentrated in
 the 30 to 60 day bracket, with the average capture term of the month
 being around 41 days. Regarding the amounts of operations carried
 out, approximately half concentrated in deposits of less than
 US$100,000 and were carried out by individuals.

 4.4. Banking liquidity

 Chart 4.4.1 The liquidity existing in the financial system continues at
 elevated levels. In the month of February, the liquidity ratio, defined
as a percentage of Total Liquidity* defined as the relationship between total banking reserves and total deposits, it reached 28.5% (0.2p.p. lower than last month).

Total banking reserves increased approximately $260 million during the month, basically due to the increase in dollar liquidity which rose $380 million, while reserves in pesos fell $120 million.

In this way, the liquidity existing in the system totaled around $26,500 million in February, which represents an increase of more than 70% compared to the same month of the previous year (see Graph 4.4.1). If the information is broken down by bank group, it is observed that public banks largely explain the

7 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

Graph 4.4.2 growth of systemic liquidity evidenced during 2003 and the first two months of the present year. Regarding the minimum cash position in pesos of the bank group, while private banks maintained more or less constant their position since the end of 2002, public banks were gradually reversing the deficit position recorded in the last months of 2002 and first half of 2003 to move toward an increasingly surplus position toward the end of 2003 and first months of the present year (See Graph 4.4.2).

Specifically, in the month of February financial entities slightly reduced their integration as a percentage of deposits in pesos (0.4p.p.) while the requirement remained approximately constant compared to the previous month. Consequently, the minimum cash position of the month as a percentage of deposits in pesos was reduced by somewhat more than half a percentage point, standing at around 8p.p.

If the segment in pesos and dollars is considered jointly, the excess liquidity maintained by financial entities is located around 13p.p., totaling approximately $11,000 million.

5. Loans

During February loans in pesos to the private sector grew around $190 million on average. When comparing the stock between end of month, the increase is even more significant, having reached $350 million and representing the largest positive variation recorded since the end of 1999. The most dynamic lines were commercial ones, especially overdrafts on current accounts, and consumer loans, while loans with real guarantee continued to contract.

Graph 5.1 Commercial loans increased around $160 million on average. As can be observed in Graph 5.1 Commercial Loans, this increase was driven by overdrafts on current accounts, which during the month under analysis grew $180 million on average. If the variation between stocks at end of month is considered, the increase is even greater, totaling more than $400 million. The greater demand for this type of financing corresponded to legal entities, in particular large companies, and was satisfied mainly by national private entities and by branches of foreign banks. The rest of the commercial lines, represented by documented credits, showed a negative variation of $25 million on average. Although discounted documents increased around $25 million, this increase was not enough to offset the reduction in the average stock of documents on sole signature and purchased documents ($15 million and $33 million respectively).
6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

In February the Unified and Free Exchange Market again yielded a surplus that reached US$380 million. The result was the product of a surplus in the merchandise balance of around US$540 million, which was partially offset by...
6.2.3. Corporate Bonds

In February, the news linked to the corporate debt market were scarce and were once again linked to the restructuring of the liabilities of the issuing companies.
Cablevisión reported the modification of its offer to exchange
negotiable obligations (ON)5. The company communicated that it considers
that the offer was improved and extended its expiration date until
March 2. The modifications made include the modification
of the consideration for which creditors can exchange their
existing debt, modifications to the terms of the new securities
and to the model of the Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement (APE). The company
proposed to exchange each US$1 of existing ON for one of the
following options: a) the capital amount of US$0.698 of securities
with discount at seven years (Short-Term Bonds Option); b)
the capital amount of US$1 of securities at par at ten years (Long-Term
Bonds Option); c) ordinary class B shares, at a par value of $1 per share (Capital Option); d) US$0.4 in cash
(Cash Option).

Multicanal announced that on February 13 the deadline for
objections to the APE expired, although so far it has not provided more details
regarding the operation.

4 This paragraph is based on provisional information from the MAE. It does not include volumes traded on the Buenos
Aires Stock Exchange.
5 For details of the previous offer, see Monthly Monetary Report of September 2003.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Principal Monetary and Financial System Variables Feb-04 Monthly Last 12 monthsJan-04Dec-03Feb-03
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 46,999 47,111 46,273 37,234 -0.2% -0.3% 26.2% 23.4%
Quasi-money 114 138 894 7,814 -17.3% -17.4% -98.5% -98.6%

Monetary Base 46,885 46,973 45,378 29,420 -0.2% -0.3% 59.4% 55.8%
Money Circulation 28,935 29,205 28,716 18,818 -0.9% -1.0% 53.8% 50.4%
In the Hands of the Public 26,017 25,987 25,423 16,541 0.1% 0.0% 57.3% 53.8%
In Financial Entities 2,918 3,218 3,293 2,277 -9.3% -9.4% 28.2% 25.3%
Current Account at the BCRA 17,950 17,767 16,662 10,603 1.0% 0.9% 69.3% 65.6%

International Reserves of the BCRA 15,009 14,484 13,820 9,652 3.6% 55.5%

Total Deposits in Pesos (1) 88,704 87,246 85,497 72,112 1.7% 1.6% 23.0% 20.3%

Private Deposits 71,480 70,633 69,849 64,431 1.2% 1.1% 10.9% 8.5%
Current Account 15,597 15,298 14,742 10,767 2.0% 1.9% 44.9% 41.7%
Savings Account 14,651 13,585 12,852 8,212 7.9% 7.7% 78.4% 74.5%
Fixed Term 30,190 30,530 30,450 21,355 -1.1% -1.2% 41.4% 38.2%
Other Deposits 4,741 4,634 4,835 4,171 2.3% 2.2% 13.7% 11.2%
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 1,663 1,704 1,717 2,179 -2.4% -2.5% -23.7% -25.4%
CEDRO including CER 4,637 4,882 5,254 17,746 -5.0% -5.1% -73.9% -74.4%

Public Sector Deposits 16,423 15,683 14,763 7,227 4.7% 4.6% 127.2% 122.2%

Total Deposits in Dollars (1) 2,060 1,995 1,899 916 3.3% 124.9%

Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos (1) 49,688 50,201 49,961 61,463 -1.0% -1.1% -19.2% -20.9%

To the Private Sector 26,644 26,615 26,826 28,931 0.1% 0.0% -7.9% -9.9%
Advances 4,247 4,065 4,387 3,876 4.5% 4.4% 9.6% 7.1%
Documents 4,693 4,807 4,728 4,998 -2.4% -2.5% -6.1% -8.2%
Mortgage 9,132 9,225 9,318 10,947 -1.0% -1.1% -16.6% -18.4%
Pledge 1,240 1,249 1,270 1,802 -0.7% -0.8% -31.2% -32.7%
Personal 2,522 2,484 2,333 2,514 1.5% 1.4% 0.3% -1.9%
Credit Cards 2,262 2,295 2,227 1,955 -1.4% -1.5% 15.7% 13.2%
Other 2,549 2,489 2,564 2,839 2.4% 2.3% -10.2% -12.2%

To the Public Sector 23,044 23,585 23,135 32,532 -2.3% -2.4% -29.2% -30.7%

Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars (1) 1,458 1,433 1,445 1,442 1.8% 1.1%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 50,036 49,597 48,796 37,837 0.9% 0.8% 32.2% 29.3%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 68,392 66,514 64,702 47,171 2.8% 2.7% 45.0% 41.8%
M3 (M2 + Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 119,189 117,418 115,694 97,190 1.5% 1.4% 22.6% 19.9%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
# M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 41.729 41.423 41.060 35.122 0.7% 0.6% 18.8% 16.2%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 56.380 55.008 53.911 43.334 2.5% 2.4% 30.1% 27.2%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 95.948 95.054 94.450 86.607 0.9% 0.8% 10.8% 8.3%

## Average Variations
| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2004 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (2) | Nominal | Contribution (2) | Nominal | Contribution (2) | Nominal | Contribution (2) |
| **Broad Monetary Base** | -112 | -0.2% | 2.215 | 4.9% | 727 | 1.6% | 9.765 | 26.2% |
| **Financial Sector** | -162 | -0.3% | -308 | -0.7% | -254 | -0.5% | -1.651 | 0.7% |
| **Public Sector** | -107 | -0.2% | -515 | -1.1% | -456 | -1.0% | 262 | 0.7% |
| Temporary Advances + Transfer of Utilities | 0 | | 120 | | -437 | | 3.363 | |
| Use of National Government Account | -608 | | -319 | | -258 | | -133 | |
| External Credit | 501 | | -316 | | 238 | | -2.968 | |
| **Private External Sector** | 1.034 | 2.2% | 4.724 | 10.5% | 2.892 | 6.3% | 16.278 | 43.7% |
| **BCRA Securities** | -928 | -2.0% | -1.742 | -3.9% | -1.505 | -3.3% | -5.422 | -14.6% |
| Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money | -10 | 0.0% | -6 | 0.0% | -30 | -0.1% | -220 | -0.6% |
| **Others (3)** | 61 | 0.1% | 62 | 0.1% | 79 | 0.2% | -2.583 | -6.9% |
| **International Reserves** | 525 | 3.6% | 1.724 | 13.0% | 1.189 | 8.6% | 5.357 | 55.5% |
| Intervention in Foreign Exchange Market | 355 | 2.5% | 1.647 | -0.8% | 991 | 7.2% | 5.736 | 59.4% |
| Payment to International Agencies | 104 | 0.7% | -112 | -0.8% | 38 | 0.3% | -975 | -10.1% |
| Other operations of Public Sector | 104 | 0.7% | 99 | 0.7% | 102 | 0.7% | 9 | 0.1% |
| **Minimum Cash** | 0 | 0.0% | 7 | 0.0% | 32 | 0.2% | 337 | 3.5% |
| **Repo Rate Valuation** | 11 | 0.1% | 102 | 0.8% | 58 | 0.4% | 88 | 0.9% |
| **Others** | -48 | -0.3% | 1 | 0.0% | -31 | -0.2% | 182 | 1.9% |

(1) Provisional figures, subject to revision.
(2) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
(3) Includes variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

Rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates | Feb-04 | Jan-04 | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Feb-03

**Call between Private Banks in pesos**
Rate | 1.29 | 1.44 | 1.69 | 1.65 | 6.60
Amount | 118 | 74 | 72 | 99 | 170

**Time Deposits**
*In pesos*
30 days | 2.31 | 2.81 | 3.71 | 4.32 | 19.53
30-44 days, more than 1 million | 1.62 | 2.06 | 2.93 | 3.55 | 20.89
60 days or more | 2.88 | 3.52 | 4.45 | 5.16 | 23.62

*In dollars*
30 days | 0.52 | 0.57 | 0.58 | 0.51 | 1.06
30-44 days, more than 1 million | 0.63 | 0.71 | 0.70 | 0.76 | 1.99
60 days or more | 0.88 | 0.90 | 0.93 | 0.79 | 1.22

## Active Interest Rates | Feb-04 | Jan-04 | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Feb-03

**Prime in pesos at 30 days** | 9.50 | 9.90 | 10.32 | 10.76 | 27.43

**Collateralized loans in pesos**
Gross interest rate at 30 days | 1.55 | 1.90 | 3.33 | 3.71 | 14.74
Volume traded (total terms) | 50 | 52 | 63 | 63 | 164

**Loans in pesos (1)**
Overdrafts in Current Account | 22.29 | 23.46 | 24.50 | 52.83 |
Documents at sole signature | 11.54 | 11.01 | 10.94 | 30.13 |
Mortgage | 13.84 | 13.62 | 14.52 | 23.47 |
Pledged | 15.57 | 16.11 | 16.25 | 18.71 |
Personal | 33.35 | 33.34 | 35.32 | 55.81 |
Credit Cards | 34.50 | 34.82 | 34.67 | 64.71 |

## Reference Rates | Feb-04 | Jan-04 | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Feb-03

**LIBOR**
1 month | 1.10 | 1.10 | 1.15 | 1.12 | 1.34
6 months | 1.19 | 1.19 | 1.24 | 1.24 | 1.34

**US Treasury Bond**
2 years | 1.71 | 1.72 | 1.88 | 1.90 | 1.61
10 years | 4.06 | 4.12 | 4.25 | 4.28 | 3.90

**FED Funds Rate** | 1.00 | 1.00 | 1.00 | 1.00 | 1.25

**SELIC (at 1 year)** | 16.50 | 16.50 | 17.07 | 18.45 | 25.95

(1) Data correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2004

Rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

## Securities issued by BCRA | Feb-04 | Jan-04 | Dec-03 | Nov-03 | Feb-03

**Primary Market**

**LEBAC rates in pesos**
1 month | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | 9.12
2 months | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | 11.72
3 months | 1.64 | 1.79 | 2.30 | 2.65 | 22.00
6 months | 3.11 | 3.37 | 4.38 | 5.29 | 29.80
12 months | 7.72 | 8.09 | 8.99 | 10.30 | s/o
18 months | 9.31 | 9.72 | 10.80 | 11.99 | s/o

**LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER**
12 months | 2.21 | 2.58 | 3.71 | 5.63 | 15.00
18 months | 3.65 | 4.12 | 5.46 | 7.13 | s/o
NOBAC Rate in pesos n/a n/a n/a n/a 12.55

NOBAC Rate in pesos adjustable by CER 5.25 5.73 6.65 n/a n/a

LEBAC Rates in dollars
1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a 0.00
2 months n/a 0.00 -0.06 0.00 n/a
3 months n/a 0.00 -0.04 0.00 n/a

Secondary Market

Amount Traded (daily average, millions of pesos) 106 168 169 151 5

Currency Market Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Feb-03

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 2.93 2.89 2.96 2.89 3.16
Exchange Houses 2.93 2.90 2.95 2.88 3.17
BCRA Reference 2.93 2.89 2.96 2.88 3.16

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 2.93 2.90 2.97 2.89 3.19
INDOL 1 month 2.94 2.91 2.98 2.89 3.27
Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1 0 1 1 1
ROFEX 1 month 2.93 2.89 2.96 2.89 3.18
Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 55 40 38 43 23

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.00 1.02 1.01 0.99 0.88

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.71 3.66 3.64 3.39 3.41

Capital Markets Feb-04 Jan-04 Dec-03 Nov-03 Feb-03

MERVAL
Index 1122 1185 1020 950 578
Volume Traded (millions of pesos) 76 83 65 43 35

Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 62.93 65.65 61.70 58.92 n/d
BODEN 08 ($) 92.54 92.08 87.72 83.36 n/d

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,182 1,171 1,355 1,447 1,657
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 393 341 372 405 781

14
