# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

OCTOBER 2004

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Program 2
3. Interest Rates 2
   3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 3
   3.2. Interfinancial Markets 3
   3.2.1 Repo Market 3
   3.2.2 Interbank Market 4
   3.3. Passive Interest Rates 5
   3.4. Active Interest Rates 6
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 7
   4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 7
   4.2. Dollar Deposits 8
   4.3. Banking Liquidity 9
5. Loans 10
6. Financial Assets Market 11
   6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 11
   6.2. Capital Markets 12
   6.2.1. Shares 12

## 1. Summary

• In October, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) showed an increase of $225 million compared to the previous month, reaching $46,671 million and displaying a year-over-year variation of 6%. The BMA adjusted by passive repo operations continued to fall within the bands established in the Monetary Program. The public and financial sectors continued to generate BMA contractions while net purchases of foreign currency in the foreign exchange market were the main source of expansion. As in the previous month, in October, BCRA securities maturities exceeded placements, resulting in a BMA increase.

• The BCRA continued to actively participate in the repo market, with the objective of setting a short-term reference interest rate. The reference rate corridor was narrowed, decreasing the interest rate on active repos to 3% while the passive rate remained at 2.5%. The daily volume traded in this market increased 27% compared to September, and operations were mainly passive repos for the BCRA, and some active transactions for this institution.

• Interest rates in the interbank loan market (call) continued to be aligned with the short-term reference rate. In October, approximately $600 million were traded daily in that market, a level similar to the previous month. For their part, passive interest rates showed slight increases, particularly in terms exceeding 90 days. In contrast, active interest rates remained relatively stable, with the exception of pawn loans which experienced a significant decline (1.6 p.p.).

• Total means of payment showed a modest increase ($160 million), reaching, in year-over-year terms, growth of 35.2%, which was 2.7 p.p. lower than the previous month, which evidences the deceleration that this aggregate has been registering since mid-year. Fixed-term deposits in pesos increased strongly for the second consecutive month ($1,520 million in the month, 13% y.o.y.). It should be noted that fixed-term placements in pesos by the private sector showed an increase of $570 million, which breaks down into an increase of $370 million of those adjusted by CER and $200 million of non-adjustable placements. In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) increased $1,010 million while maintaining its year-over-year growth of approximately 21%.
6.2.2. Public Securities 12 • Loans to the private sector in pesos acquired renewed dynamism,
 growing in October $890 million (2.8% in the month, 20.5% y.o.y.). The most active credit lines, as in September, were documents and
 6.2.3. Institutional Investors 13 personal loans, the latter reaching the highest monthly growth of
 the last 10 years (6.5%). Credit card financing resumed
 6.2.3.1 Administrators of growing after 2 months of stagnation. Loans with real guarantees
Pension and Retirement Funds 13 continued showing slight declines, however, pawn loans accumulated 8
 consecutive months of sustained increase.
 6.2.3.2 Mutual Investment • The peso appreciated in nominal terms against the dollar (0.9%), while
 Funds 15 it showed depreciation in relation to the real (0.5%) and the euro (1.4%). The
 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index shows that the peso depreciated
 6.2.4. Private Securities 16 0.4% in October, accumulating real depreciation (competitiveness gain) of
 5.5% in the last 12 months.
7. Monetary and Financial
 Indicators 18
 1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are
 expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Program

 Factors Explaining the Broad Monetary Base
 thousands of (October 2004 - average monthly flows)
 millions of $
2.0 In October, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) registered a level
 of $46,671 million, $225 million above that corresponding
1.5
 to the previous month and 6% higher than that in effect one year
1.0 earlier. The observed increase corresponded entirely to the growth of
 bank reserves, since currency in circulation held by the public
0.5
 remained at the same level as September.
0.0

-0.5 In general, no significant changes were observed regarding

-1.0 the factors of variation of the BMA. Thus, during the course of
 October, the market for repo operations with the BCRA continued
-1.5
 to deepen, which implied a contraction of the BMA of
 Private Sector Public Sector Securities S. External Other BMA
 $810 million. Similarly, financial entities continued canceling
 Financial BCRA rediscounts within the framework of "matching," which
 Source: BCRA also resulted in a contractionary effect on the BMA of $131
 million.

 For its part, operations of the public sector with impact
 on the BMA, which were associated with debt maturities with
 International Financial Institutions (IFI), also resulted
 Chart 2.2 contractionary. The government's use of its deposits in local
 Broad Monetary Base and Monetary Program banks to meet these payments resulted in a decline of $476
 thousands of million of the BMA.
 millions of $

 58 Observed (BMA + Passive Repos)

 56 Observed - 30-day Moving Average As occurred in September, the net placement of LEBAC and
 Monetary Program Bands 2004 NOBAC was negative, with which the released funds represented
 54
 a monetary expansion of $144 million.
 52

 50 The factor that implied the greatest increase of the BMA was the

 48 net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector, which
 during the month amounted to $1,391 million (see Chart 2.1).
 46

 44
 The advancement of the development of the repo market through
 42 the participation of the BCRA and its accounting impact on the
 Dec-03 Feb-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 balances in the current accounts of financial entities makes necessary
 Source: BCRA the monitoring of compliance with the Monetary Program through
 the monitoring of short-term liabilities of the BCRA, defined as
 the sum of the BMA and passive repos agreed by this institution.
 In this way, the trajectory of the BMA adjusted by repos continued
 to be framed within the bands set in the Monetary Program
 (see Chart 2.2).

 Chart 3.1.1
Performance of LEBAC and NOBAC Securities
 APA, % 3.1. Interest Rates
 9 8.45

 8
 6.60 6.79 8.00
 7
 6.92 The reference interest rate corridor was reduced and the
 6
 5.80 6.05 BCRA proceeded to arrange passive and active operations at 7 days at 2.5%
 5
 and 3% respectively. The rates of the interbank market
 4 4.58
 2.85 continued aligned with the reference rates. While the rates of
 3
 26-Oct $ 26-Oct CER passive interest showed slight increases, in particular in the brackets
 2 1.40 2.63
 1.00 exceeding 90 days of maturity, the rates of active interest
 1 28-Sep $ 28-Sep CER

 0.00 remained relatively stable, with the exception of pawn loans
 0
 -0.10 which experienced a significant decline.
 -1
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000

 Source: BCRA duration (days)

 2 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Chart 3.1.2 3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA

 thousands of Amounts Offered in Auctions

 millions of $ (includes LEBAC and NOBAC)
 7 The interest rates resulting from the auctions of LEBAC and
 Maturity of securities in pesos
 6 Maturity of securities adjustable by CER NOBAC at the end of October showed decreases with respect to those

 Amount offered of securities in pesos paid in the last placement of September. The largest declines were
 5 Amount offered of securities adjustable by CER
 observed in LEBAC in pesos not adjustable by CER, for which

 4 reductions of interest rates between 0.7 p.p.
 were verified

 3 and 1 p.p. On the other hand, the yields of the awards of
 securities adjustable by CER showed slight decreases, not
 2
 exceeding 0.2 p.p. The margin between the interest rates for

 1 instruments adjustable by CER and those not adjustable

 0 reflected a decrease in the implicit inflation expected for the

 Mar-02 Jun-02 Sep-02 Dec-02 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 next 12 months of 0.6 p.p., which was placed at 6.2%, 0.9 p.p.

 Source: BCRA below the REM forecasts for this variable (see Chart
 3.1.1).

 The differentiated behavior for the types of
 instruments mentioned responded in good measure to the
 dissimilar conduct that the demand for each of them had. During the month, there was a significant increase in the demand
 for securities in pesos, while the demand for LEBAC and NOBAC
 Chart 3.2.1.1 adjustable by CER decreased. Likewise, not only in absolute value

 Rates Agreed in the Repo and Call Market was there an improvement in favor of securities in pesos, but also the ratio

 APA, % between the amount offered and maturities increased during the month for these

 1 day REPO Round 7 day REPO Round types, going from 76% in September to 192% in October (see

 BCRA Passive 1 day BCRA Passive 7 days Chart 3.1.2).
 4.0 BCRA Active 7 days
 At the end of October, the total amount in circulation of
 1 day Call 7 day Call securities issued by the BCRA was VN $14,251 million and was
 3.5
 composed of 50% by LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos not adjustable

 3.0 by CER, 49% by instruments adjustable by CER and the remainder

 2.5 by LEBAC denominated in dollars.

 2.0

 1.5

 1.0
 1-Jun 17-Jun 6-Jul 23-Jul 10-Aug 27-Aug 14-Sep 30-Sep 19-Oct

 Source: BCRA and MAE
 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

 3.2.1. Repo Market

 During the course of October, the BCRA continued operating at 7
 days of maturity in both passive and active operations. It carried out
 passive operations at 2.5% and active at 3.5% until the 26th, and toward
 Chart 3.2.1.2 the end of the month the reference rate corridor tightened,

 Repo Operations in the Local Market decreasing the interest rate of active repos to 3%. Given the

 millions of $ high participation of the BCRA in this market, the interest rate

1,600 (daily average negotiated) for 7 days is practically defined by the interest rates at which
 1,400 this entity operates. On the other hand, operations at 1 day

1,200 showed high volatility, which is related to the low
Call volume traded in this section. However, in the second part
1,000 Repos with BCRA
 Repos between private entities of the month showed a certain downward trend (see Chart 3.2.1.1),
 800
 which was significantly influenced by exceptional operations

 600 by a financial institution.

 400 Maturity
 Gains
 The volume traded in repos with the BCRA continued

 200 to increase in October, while the amounts negotiated

 0 by banks among themselves remained at levels similar to those of the
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04
Source: BCRA and MAE.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Chart 3.2.2.1 previous month. The amount traded on average daily by the

millions of $ %Call Operations BCRA was $1,200 million, 27% more than in September (see

900 6 Chart 3.2.1.2). In the month under analysis, mainly passive

800 repos operations were carried out for the BCRA, but additionally some
 Amount traded between private entities 5
700 Amount traded with public active transactions were arranged for this institution. At the end

 Interest rate between private entities of October, the stock of passive repos was $6,331 million, 59%
600 Interest rate with public entities 4
 above the amount in effect one month earlier. Likewise, the BCRA had active

500
 3 repos pending maturity for $133 million.
400

300 2 Considering that the BCRA conducts repo operations

200 using as underlying only the securities it issues, LEBAC and NOBAC
 1 continued to be the most used instruments
100

 0 0 in this market. However, in October a greater

 02-Jan23-Jan13-Feb05-Mar26-Mar21-Apr12-May03-Jun 25-Jun 19-Jul 09-Aug31-Aug21-Sep13-Oct participation of other public securities was observed in operations arranged
Source: BCRA
 between banks. This behavior was a reflection of the increase in preference

 for BODEN 12, which is associated with the significant
 increase in the amount traded that occurred during the month.

 3.2.2 Interbank Market

 Chart 3.2.2.2

 millions of $ Call Market In October the interest rates of the interbank market

300 (average amount traded) (call) continued aligned with the short-term reference interest rates

200 established by the BCRA through its repo operations,

100 averaging 2.3% during the month, similar to that of September. The

 0 daily amounts traded were also similar to those of the previous month,
 standing at $600 million.
-100

-200 Granted public Analyzing by group of banks, a change in

 Taken public
-300 behavior was observed: while the interest rate of operations
 Granted Priv. Nat.
-400 Taken Priv. Nat. arranged between private banks remained on average unchanged,

 Granted foreign the interest rate agreed with public banks increased
-500 Taken foreign slightly as of October 20, with the latter surpassing the rate

 agreed between private entities (see Chart 3.2.2.1). Likewise, the daily
-600
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Until From amounts traded between private banks showed an increase
Source: BCRA 20-Oct 21-Oct compared to the previous month, going from $234 million to $270 million
 in October, while the amounts traded with public entities
 decreased slightly from $340 million last month to
 $329 million in the latest month.

 This change in behavior determined that, as of
 that same date, the group of public banks lost participation
 in the market as the main net lender (see Chart 3.2.2.2),
 going from granting more than 46% of the funds until October 20
 to 36% from then on. As a counterpart it can

 Chart 3.2.2.3 be seen that foreign entities reduced their borrowing position

 % Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 business day in the last days of October, going from absorbing 84%

 7 of the funds in September and early October, to 80%

 6
Daily average in the last part of this last month.
 5
 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation

 4 In the 1 business day term segment, which continues to be the
 most traded (62% of stock in October), interest rates
 3 remained relatively stable around 2.25%. It is worth

 2 noting that on the date when the behavior change of public
 entities occurred, a slight increase in the interest rate was

 1 observed (from 2.2% to 2.3%), while an increase in volatility
 was experienced, a phenomenon that persisted

 0 around one week and managed to dissipate in the last days of the
 03-May-04 24-May-04 15-Jun-04 07-Jul-04 29-Jul-04 20-Ago-04 10-Sep-04 01-Oct-04 25-Oct-04
 Source: BCRA month (see Chart 3.2.2.3).

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Chart 3.3.1
 Monthly Fixed-Term Deposit Yield vs. Savings Account OCTOBER 2004
 % (5 business days moving average)
0.30 Savings Account *Elimination of Tax on Bank Debits and
 Fixed-Term Deposit 30-44 days (net of taxes)
 Credits

0.25

0.20 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

0.15

0.10
 Passive interest rates continued showing slight increases in
 October. Unlike what happened during previous months, the more
0.05
 significant increases occurred in longer-term brackets, while in
 shorter-term maturities interest rates remained relatively stable.
0.00

-0.05 In the 30-44 day bracket, the average interest rate stood at
 8-Ene-04 24-Feb-04 14-Abr-04 1-Jun-04 20-Jul-04 6-Sep-04 22-Oct-04
 3.1%, being only 0.1 p.p. higher than in September. In the case
* For the IDCB calculation, the tax rate of 0.1% is used (as these are short-term operations).
Source: BCRA of placements greater than $1 million, the average interest rate
 increased 0.2 p.p. and was driven by public entities, whose
 interest rate went from 2.1% to 2.3%, while the interest rate of
 private banks stood at 4.4%, a level similar to that of September.
 The relative stability evidenced by this interest rate would be
 related to the higher net yield of fixed-term placements resulting
 Chart 3.3.2 from the elimination of the tax on bank debits and credits on that
 type of deposits, which generated a change in depositors'
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-44 days preferences, who allocated part of their demand deposits towards
 (5-day moving average)
 Private Banks Public Banks fixed-term placements, reducing pressure on banks' liquidity (see
 % Lower than $100,000 % Higher than $1,000,000 Chart 3.3.1). For its part, the interest rate on placements lower
4.3 5.0
4.1 than $100,000 remained at 3%. In this case, both the interest rates
 4.5
3.9 4.0 of public banks and those of private banks continued at the previous
 3.7 3.5 month's levels (2.5% and 3.4%, respectively) (see Chart 3.3.2).
3.5 3.4
 3.0
3.3
3.1 2.5
 When defining more broadly the shortest-term bracket,
2.9 2.0
 including placements up to 59 days, and taking into account all
2.7 1.5
 amount strata, a relative stability is also observed
2.5 1.0
# Translation

2.3 0.5 stability of interest rates. When analyzed by type of
 Jan-04 Mar-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04Jan-04 Mar-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04
Source: BCRA depositor, it is observed that both individuals and
 financial service providing institutions received the same
 average interest rate as the previous month, 3.2% and 4.5%
 respectively. In contrast, corporate depositors
 obtained an average interest rate 0.2 p.p. higher than that of
 September, in the order of 3.4%. In the 60 to 89 day bracket, average
 interest rates similar to those of the previous
 month are also noted. In this case, the only increase corresponded to the average interest rate
 received by individuals, which rose from 3.5% to 3.6%
 (see Chart 3.3.3).
 Chart 3.3.3
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 Monthly average by amount traded
 % On the contrary, in the longer-term bracket, which encompasses
 30 to 29 days 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days
 operations greater than 90 days, average interest rates

 25 % Year 2004 4.7 recorded significant increases. This behavior is primarily due
 4.8
 4.4 to the expectations of financial institutions
 20 4.0
 3.6 3.5 regarding their liquidity needs toward year-end. Given that in

 3.2
 2.8 3.2 the months of December and January there is a significant seasonal
 15
 2.4
 2.0 decline in deposits, the capturing of medium-term
 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04
 10 funds that allows them to secure resources for said period became more
 important in the month under analysis, driving interest rates
 5
 upward. The most significant increases were seen in the case of

 0 corporate deposits, whose average interest rate grew 0.5

 Jan-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04p.p., reaching 5.1%, and in the case of placements for
 Source: BCRANote: Does not include fixed-term operations adjustable by CER
 Source: BCRA

 5 Monthly Monetary Report –OCTOBER 2004

 Chart 3.4.1 individuals, whose average interest rate increased 0.4
 Commercial Loans
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) p.p., reaching 4.6%; while, in the case of

 55 financial service providing institutions, the average interest rate

 50 remained at levels similar to those of the previous month.

 45 Finally, with respect to deposits adjustable by CER,

 40 Advances nominal interest rates continued to be in the range
 Documents
 35 between 0% and 2%.

 30

 25

 20 3.4. Active Interest Rates2
 15.4
 15
 10.7
 10

 5 During October, active interest rates remained
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04relatively stable, with the exception of pawn loans
 Source: BCRA
 which experienced a considerable decline.

 The interest rate for loans arranged through
 purchase or discount of documents continues at the levels
 reached at the end of last year, standing in the month around
 10.7%, a level that is 0.2 p.p. lower than that of September. For its
 
 Chart 3.4.2 part, the interest rate for overdrafts in current accounts

 % %Interest Rates for Overdrafts in Current Accountincreased slightly, averaging the month at 15.4%, which implies an
26 (5-day moving average - by type of client) 42
 increase of 0.5 p.p. from the previous month. Analyzing by type of
24 40 client, differentiated behavior is observed. While the

22 38 interest rate corresponding to large companies (legal entities

20 36 with amounts exceeding $1 million) increased

18 34 slightly, that of small clients decreased slightly.

16 Large companies 32 Consequently, although the interest rate that the latter
 Small clients (right axis) 14 30 must pay is still considerably higher than that which
12 28 large clients (31.7% compared to 9.2%) the spread between these has
 been reduced by around 10 p.p. so far this year (see Chart
10 26
 3.4.2).
8 24

6 22 In the case of interest rates on personal loans,
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04
Source: BCRA after having suffered an almost uninterrupted decline during the year, in the
 last month they would have risen slightly 0.4 p.p. placing themselves at
 24.3%. In this way it accumulated a decline of more than 9
 p.p. during the year. With respect to credit card financing, information is not yet
 available to estimate the average interest rate for October, but according to the
 latest available information, corresponding to August, it registered a slight decline of
 
 Chart 3.4.3 0.2 p.p. in that month.
 Loans with Real Guarantee
 TNA, % (Average weighted monthly interest rate by amount)
 30 On the other hand, while the interest rate on
 mortgage loans remained invariant at around 12.1%,

 25 Mortgages that of pledge loans suffered a significant decline (1.6

 Pledge Loans p.p.) compared to the previous month, thus ending at 11.1% (see Chart

 20 3.4.3). This important decline would be explained by the policy of
 some financial companies linked to automotive companies

 15 that consists of granting financing at zero rate for the purchase of

 12.1 vehicles manufactured by the automotive company of the group, in order to
 stimulate their sales.
 10 11.1

 5
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04
 Source: BCRA

 2 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through
 July, the values for August and September were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted
 to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 In October the total monetary aggregates showed
 behavior similar to that of the previous month. The broadest aggregate
 (M3) continued with the upward trend of the preceding months
 Chart 4.1.1 and the means of payment showed almost no variations in

 Monetary Aggregates in Pesos comparison with the previous month. This is explained once again by the

 % (Year-on-year variation) transfer of transactional funds towards time deposits, which

50 M2 M3 in the month under analysis occurred mainly in the case of the

45 M2 Private M3 Private private sector. For its part, in October the private monetary aggregates

40 remained stable.

35

30 Transactional deposits showed an increase of
 $170 million, which resulted from the net between the decrease of $510 million
25
 of resources in savings accounts and the growth of $690 million
20
 of funds in current accounts. The evolution of both types of
15 deposits was completely different from that of the previous month. In the

10 case of the current account, the increase is explained mainly

5 by the inflow of $610 million of resources from the public sector, which
 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04
 Source: BCRA was accompanied by the inflow of $80 million from the private sector.
 In the case of savings accounts, placements by the private sector
 showed a decline of $50 million that contrasts sharply
 with the increase close to $380 million presented in September.
 This phenomenon responds to the transfer of funds towards
 time placements that took place as a consequence of the increase in the
 net return on time deposits when the tax on bank
 credits and debits was eliminated, mentioned in section 3.3. On the other hand, there is a decline of $460 million in
 the case of savings account deposits of the public sector, that
 Chart 4.1.2 is also associated with the transfer of funds towards fixed-term deposits.
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos thousands of The circulating currency in the hands of the public, for its part, did not present
millions of $ millions of $
20 29 variations in October compared to September. However, in
 More than $1 million seasonally adjusted terms this instrument showed an increase
19 Less than $1 million (right axis) 28
18 27 of around 1.4%.

17 26
 As a consequence of the insignificant variations of
16 25
 its components, which practically offset each other, the total M2
15 24 remained relatively stable, presenting an increase

14 23 close to $160 million. In year-over-year terms, this aggregate

13 22 registered an increase of 35.2%, 2.7 p.p. lower than last month. In this
 way, the deceleration of its year-over-year growth rate continues to be
12 21 evident, which began in the middle of the year (see

11 20 Chart 4.1.1). In the case of M2 private, no variations are appreciated
 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 with respect to the previous month, registering a year-over-year increase of around
 Source: BCRA 24.1%.

 For its part, fixed-term deposits presented, for the second
 consecutive month, an important increase that reached $1,520
 million. The majority of the month's growth was concentrated in public
 banks ($950 million) and, therefore, in the wholesale segment, whose
 stock showed an increase of $1,560 million, while deposits under $1
 million registered a slight decrease of around $40 million. However, it
 should be noted that the aforementioned increases are on average and
 therefore contain an important carry-over factor, since

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 considering end-of-month figures, fixed-term deposits in the public
 sector only increased around $120 million, while fixed-term placements
 in the private sector showed an increase of more than $1,000 million,
 being the most significant since June 2003. (see Chart 4.1.2).

 The entirety of the variation in fixed-term deposit stock was
 Chart 4.1.3 observed at maturities exceeding 60 days. Thus, $800 million were
 made in the 60 to 89-day segment and $790 million were made at
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos more than 90 days, while the average stock of deposits up to 59 days
millions of $ millions of $
12,000 more than 90 days 26,000 decreased by $70 million. Once again, it is necessary to note that between
11,000 60 to 89 days 25,000 end-of-month figures the numbers are different. In fact, shorter-term
 30 to 59 days
10,000 24,000 deposits showed an increase close to $220 million, which corresponds to
 the transfer of funds from demand placements already mentioned.
9,000 23,000
 Meanwhile, deposits in the 60 to 89-day segment increased by $390
8,000 22,000
 million and placements of more than 90 days grew by $510 million (see
7,000 21,000 Chart 4.1.3).

6,000 20,000
 In the case of the private sector, the average increase of fixed-term
5,000 19,000
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04deposits is composed of an increase of $370 million in CER-indexed
Source: BCRA deposits and an increase of $200 million in non-indexed deposits.

 The increase in fixed-term placements was partly offset by the
 decrease of $310 million in the stock of CEDRO with CER, which resulted
 in a net increase in fixed-term deposits of $1,210 million. Said increase
 together with the decrease of $360 million in other deposits and the
 slight increase in means of payment led to an increase of $1,010 million
 in the broadest monetary aggregate (total M3). In year-over-year terms,
 the variation was 0.5 p.p. lower than the previous month, standing at
 around 20.5%. Private M3 remained relatively stable, registering a year-
 over-year growth of 8.6%, similar to that of the preceding months.

Chart 4.2.1

 Monthly Var. Deposits in Dollars Stock
 millions of US$ thousands of millions
 640 of US$
 6.4
560 Public Sight Deposits 5.6

480 Public Term Deposits 4.8

400 Private Sight Deposits
Private Fixed Term Deposits 4.0 4.2. Dollar Deposits

320 Total (2nd axis) 3.2

240 2.4
Dollar deposits did not register significant changes in October
160 1.6
compared to September. The monthly increase was US$30 million,
80 0.8
with a stock of US$3,800 million that doubles the amount existing at
0 0.0 the end of 2003. In this regard, after four months (between April and

-80 -0.8 July) of important monthly growth due to greater participation by
Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04
 Source: BCRA the public sector in the market, as of August dollar placements
resumed their normal course showing a slightly increasing trend.

If analyzed by type, private sector deposits registered an
increase of US$50 million that was concentrated in sight
placements. For its part, public sector sight deposits registered a
decline of US$60 million due to the "statistical drag" of payments
to IFI's that were made in the second half of September while term
deposits showed an increase of US$40 million (see Chart 4.2.1).

8 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

4.3. Bank Liquidity

The bank liquidity ratio (defined as the sum of cash in banks,
current accounts at the BCRA, and reverse repos for the BCRA)
was 23.5% in October. Contrary to the declining trend observed in
Chart 4.3.1 the liquidity maintained by financial entities in the first months of
% of deposits Bank Liquidity in Pesos* the year (it fell from 24.5% in January to 22.6% in April,

26 Jan-04 remaining at that level thereafter), in October the liquidity ratio
24.5% Oct-04 registered an increase of 0.8 p.p. This increase is explained by an
24 23.5% increase in liquidity maintained by private banks (it increased almost
Apr-04 2 p.p. compared to September) while public banks maintained their
22 +0.8 p.p.
ratio at levels similar to last month. Specifically, the greater
% of deposits Bank liquidity in pesos funding in October of private banks came from the inflow of deposits
28 and the net cancellation of LEBAC holdings, which was maintained
by bank group 20 26
at almost 70% in bank reserves and in repos with the BCRA.
24
22 1.9 p.p.
20
18 18 Simultaneously, regarding the minimum cash position in pesos,
14 Private Public private banks registered a slight increase in their position (due to
16
an increase in integration) while public banks maintained it
14
Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 relatively constant compared to September. In this way, the excess
16
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 liquidity in pesos existing in the system in October remained at
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos carried out with the BCRA.approximately 1.6 p.p. of deposits, distributed by bank group at
Source: BCRA 2.1 p.p. for private banks and 1.1 p.p. for public banks. Compared to
2003, excess funds in the current accounts of banks at the BCRA
decreased by 76%, about $5,000 million that were gradually
directed by financial entities to the repos and loans market.

Chart 4.3.2

% deposits Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
of the group By bank group By contrast, in the dollar deposits segment, the excess
12 System liquidity continues to be very broad and in October totaled around
10 Private US$2,000 million³. This is a consequence of the fact that month
8 Public after month approximately 90% of foreign currency deposits that
6 enter the system is maintained by financial entities in their current
4 accounts at the BCRA⁴. Until now, the application of foreign
2 currency resources has been [text continues...]
0 limited to pre-financing and financing linked to exports (95% of total applications) which were mostly carried out by private banks (they concentrated 75% of total applications made in October). It is worth mentioning, however, that although the surplus of liquidity in foreign currency is still very ample, if compared with the beginning of 2004, applications in foreign currency increased by more than 140%.

3 In accordance with what was established by the BCRA, the default in the application of the lending capacity in foreign currency verified by financial entities in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement for that period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities legally accrue is less than that mentioned in this section, in which only the requirement that arises from applying reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the equivalent increase in the same due to the default in the application of resources.

4 According to Communication A 4168, banks could alternatively apply such funds to export financing, interbank loans, BCRA Letters in dollars, financial trusts whose underlying assets are loans intended for export financing, loans to producers of final or intermediate goods that have guarantees from exporters and debt securities or participation certificates in financial trusts issued in foreign currency and with public offering authorized by the National Securities Commission whose underlying assets are constituted by documents purchased by the trustee in order to finance operations linked to exports.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

Graph 5.1
millions of pesos Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos 5. Loans5
700 (Average monthly variation)

600

500 Commercial loans

400 Consumer loans In October, loans in pesos to the private sector
300 Loans with real guarantees acquired renewed dynamism, showing an increase of
200
$890 million (2.8%), the largest since June 1998. As in
100
0 previous months, commercial loans continue to be the main drivers

-100 of growth, followed by consumer loans, which have shown a very

-200 significant increase (see Graph 5.1).

-300

-400

-500 Commercial loans increased by $560 million (3.7%) in
-600 October. Unlike what happened during the first half of the year,
Ene-03 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04
 since last month the line showing the highest growth is the one
Source: BCRA
 associated with operations with documents, which showed in October an increase of $420 million (7.2%), of which $280 million correspond to single-signature documents, $100 million to discounted documents and $40 to purchased documents (see Graph 5.2). However, approximately two-thirds of the increase shown on average in October corresponds to "carryover" from the previous month. In contrast, current account advances showed more modest growth in October, of $70 million (1.2%). This change in the composition of new financing, with less prominence of advances, implies a lengthening of the loan portfolio terms.

Graph 5.2
millions of $ Commercial Loans
(average monthly variation) In Graph 5.3, the evolution of the stock of commercial
500
 Single-signature documents Advances large companies loans and that of the Monthly Activity Estimator are
400 Discounted documents Advances small clients shown.
300 Purchased documents Others

200

100
Economic (EMAE). There it can be seen that, broadly speaking, credit accompanies the fluctuations presented by the activity index, although with some lag. It should be taken into account that credit is a stock, which means it takes time to adjust, so this temporal gap does not imply a sense of causality. In any case, activity indices could be interpreted as leading indicators of the future evolution of the credit stock. In this sense, the good performance of EMAE allows for optimism regarding the growth of commercial loans in the coming months.

In a context of improvement in formal employment and good consumer expectations, personal loans continue to accelerate their growth rate, registering an increase of $210 million (6.5%) in October (see Chart 5.4), which is the maximum increase of at least the last ten years. Added to this is an increase in credit card financing of $120 million (4.4%). This latter line had stopped increasing in the two previous months due to the end of purchase promotions in up to six interest-free installments, which reappeared during October to take advantage of a month of seasonally elevated consumption due to Mother's Day. In this way, the total consumer financing in October amounted to an increase of $330 million (5.6%).

Like in the preceding months, thanks to higher sales of agricultural machinery and the very good performance of automobile sales, which have been at levels above the average for the year 2000 since May, pledge loans continue to recover in a sustained manner, showing for the eighth consecutive month an increase, on this occasion of $45 million (3.1%). By contrast, mortgage loans continue to show net declines (see Chart 5.5), on this occasion of $50 million, because amortizations continue to exceed new financing (0.6%).

6. Financial Assets Market

In general, financial assets markets showed good performance during the month, with equity securities standing out, whose prices reached maximum levels, and sovereign bonds, whose prices continued to rise. Likewise, in the corporate debt market, there were issuances in pesos and dollars. On the other hand, the peso depreciated in real terms by 0.5% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners.

6.1. Foreign Exchange Market⁶

In October, the main factors affecting the evolution of international reserves behaved similarly to the previous months. In this way, public sector operations with an impact on reserves continued to be linked mainly to debt payments with IFI, and involved outflows of foreign currency. On the other hand, the Single and Free Exchange Market once again showed a surplus, which was largely due to

---

⁵ Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of financial trusts, which although they affect the balances in this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted.

¹⁰ Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004
-250 counterpart in foreign currency purchases from the private sector carried out
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04
Source: BCRA by the BCRA. The magnitude of the latter exceeded those of the government
 and the balance of international reserves rose to $18,587 million,
 $363 million higher than that corresponding to the end of September (see
 Chart 6.1.1).

 The volume traded in the foreign exchange spot market registered an
 increase of 18%, having grown both the amount negotiated in the
 Electronic Exchange Market (MEC) and the amount traded in
 Chart 6.1.1 SIOPEL. The BCRA's participation in the total traded rose

 thousands of slightly, encompassing around 7% of transactions in
 millions of US$ International Reserves of the BCRA
 October.

 26 As occurred in the previous month, in October the peso showed
 a nominal appreciation against the dollar, which this month resulted

 22 in 0.9%. On the other hand, the local currency depreciated, also in
 nominal terms, against the real (0.5%) and the euro (1.4%). In
 18
 accordance with the evolution of the Real Exchange Rate Index

 14 Multilateral (ITCRM), in October the peso depreciated 0.4% against
 the basket of currencies that make up the mentioned indicator,

 10 accumulating a real depreciation of 5.5% in the last 12 months.

 6 In line with the behavior of the peso's quotation
 Jan-01 Jun-01 Nov-01 Apr-02 Sep-02 Feb-03 Jul-03 Dec-03 May-04 Oct-04
 Source: BCRA against the United States dollar in the spot market, the evolution of

6 For an analysis of the results of the Single and Free Exchange Market in September, see the Quarterly Report on Evolution of the
Exchange Market that will be published at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/estadis/es030400.asp.

 11 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 prices in the ROFEX futures dollar market showed a
 appreciation of the peso in the first part of the month and then a
 depreciation that did not fully offset the first effect. Thus,
 with respect to the end of September, the quotations of the
 dollar futures contracts decreased around 1%. The average amount
 traded daily in this market was $101 million,
 19% below the maximum reached in September.

 In the OCT MAE, another of the trading venues for
 peso against dollar futures contracts, the behavior of the
 Chart 6.2.1.1 quotations was similar to that described in the preceding paragraph,
 Local Stock Market although the amounts traded continue to be scarce, not

 millions of $ MERVAL Index in pesos MERVAL
 exceeding US$10 million daily.
200 Amount traded 1,400

180 MERVAL (right axis)
 1,200
160

140 1,000

120 6.2. Capital Market
 800
100
80 600

60 400 6.2.1. Stocks

40
 200
20

 0 0 In accordance with the evolution of the MERVAL index, in October the
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04
 Source: BCBA and Bloomberg quotations of variable income securities increased 13%,
 continuing with the positive trend of the previous month, accumulating
 a gain of 20% so far this year and reaching the historical maximum
 of the series7. The increase in prices was influenced
 favorably by the good performance of international
 markets, the news generated by the restructuring of national
 public debt and the Supreme Court ruling on pesification (see Chart 6.2.1.1). Likewise,
 the group of stocks corresponding to the banking sector
 stood out especially, which had price increases of up to 27%
 in the month.

 Chart 6.2.2.1 The average daily amount traded of stocks that

YTM % Yields of Public Securities comprise the MERVAL was $86 million, 32% higher than that traded

14 in September, placing it at the highest level in pesos in the last

 BODEN 13 10 years.
12

 BODEN 12
10

 8
 PRO12 BOGAR 6.2.2. Public Securities

 6 BODEN 05

 PRE8

 4 Pesos (29-Oct) During the course of the month the decrease in
Pesos (30-Sep) yield of bonds issued after the cessation of payments,
2 BODEN 07 BODEN 08 Dollars (29-Oct)
Dollars (30-Sep) especially those denominated in pesos adjustable by CER. Among

0 the most liquid ones, the Consolidation Bonds stood out and, among
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 them, the PRE8 (in pesos) which registered a drop of 3 p.p. in its
Source: IAMC Average Term (years) internal rate of return (IRR). On the other hand, among the bonds in
dollars, the BODEN 13 registered a decrease in its IRR of 1 p.p. between
BODEN 13 the end of the month, while the IRR of BODEN 12 fell 0.5 p.p. in the
same period. The rest of the sovereign bonds also registered
reductions in their IRR, shifting downward the longer part of the yield
curve of public securities with respect to September (see Graph
6.2.2.1). On the other hand, on October 18,

7 On October 29, the MERVAL index reached 1287 points.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

Standard & Poor's raised the debt rating on BODEN and
Guaranteed Loans to "CCC+" from "CCC" and "CC"
respectively. The rating increase was based, according to what the
rating agency claims, on the lower danger of an involuntary
restructuring of any of these classes of debt in the coming years, the
timely payments made by the government, and the economic growth
that has boosted tax collection. The ratings of both classes of debt
will probably be equalized with that of the new securities to be issued
by the government once the restructuring process is completed.
Graph 6.2.2.2

Amount Traded of Public Securities In terms of sovereign risk, this was reflected in the
millions of $ (Daily Average)
sustained decrease of the spread between the yield of BODEN 12
350
BODEN 12 BODEN 08 PRE 8 PR12 BOGAR 12 and that of comparable United States Treasury securities, which
300 reached 8.4 p.p. at the end of October, being the smallest differential
250 registered since the issuance of this instrument. Furthermore, a
decrease in the margin between the risk premium of BODEN 12 and
200 that of emerging markets in general (excluding Argentina) was
150 observed, which stood at 5.0 p.p. at the end of October.

100

50 The amount traded of the most liquid public securities,
considering the daily average, increased 31%8 with respect to
0 September (see Graph 6.2.2.2). This increase is explained
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 fundamentally by the greater number of operations with PRO 12
Source: MAE and BCBA. (in pesos adjustable by CER) and BODEN 12 (in dollars).

6.2.3 Institutional Investors

6.2.3.1 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators9
Graph 6.2.3.1.1

Variation of the Investment Portfolio of AFJP The Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators (AFJP)
thousands of
millions of $ concentrate a high level of domestic savings, whereby the analysis
1.4 of their investments makes it possible to explain to a large extent the
1.2 evolution of the main local financial markets, including the money
1.0 market.

0.8
2004 October
0.6 Given their nature, the AFJPs have historically directed an
important portion of their funds towards the public debt market,
0.4
where in the 1990s local emissions of longer duration prevailed.
0.2 Likewise, the composition of their portfolio is subject to maximum
0.0 limits per type of investment, which
-0.2
Deposits in Actions of Public Securities Funds Obligations Others
Fixed-Term DepositsLocal and National SocietiesCommon NegotiableInvestments privilege the public sector in the allocation of their resources.
 foreign Investment
Source: BCRA based on SAJP. Taking into account these factors, one can better understand the
 evolution of the performance of the AFJP, which until the end of 2001,
 was linked mainly to the trajectory of the price of securities issued
 by the national government. In this way, the profitability10 of the AFJP
 suffered the impact of international crises that unfavorably affected
 debt markets in emerging countries. However, as of the end of
 2001, the declaration of cessation of payments of almost all of the

 8 Operations in the Electronic Open Market (MAE) and in the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) are considered.
 9 The figures in this section correspond to data at month-end, except where another specification is indicated.
 10 Corresponds to the historical profitability published by the Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators
 (SAFJP). It is the profitability obtained since the beginning of the system, expressed in annual form.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 debt of which the AFJP were creditors and its conversion to pesos
 caused them to privilege other types of investment, such as stocks
 and fixed-term deposits, to allocate the new funds they
 received (see Chart 6.2.3.1.1). Taking into account these factors,
 it is inappropriate to compare current profitability levels with
 those observed historically. However, it can be noted that in
 the course of 2004, this variable decreased, which was largely
 explained by the evolution of stock quotations. In that sense, the
 largest drop occurred in April and May, when expectations of
 increases in international interest rates motivated the decrease in
 prices of variable income securities. Nevertheless, the reversal of the
 trend that those prices showed in the last two months motivated an
 increase in historical profitability, which went from 14.39% in September to 14.53%
 
 Chart 6.2.3.1.2 in October (see Chart 6.2.3.1.2). Likewise, an increase was verified
 Profitability of the AFJP in the average annual profitability of the system11, which went from 7.95% to
 % 15.5
35 9.45% in the same period.
 15.0
30 At the end of October, the total investment portfolio of
25 14.5
 the AFJP amounted to $50,958 million. Around 62% was
20 14.0
 composed of public securities issued by the National Government,
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 of which 20% were securities whose services are paid
15 Korea
10 (Nov-97) regularly and among which adjustable instruments
 Pesification prevail indexed by CER. It is worth mentioning that the AFJP are active
5 PG participants in the LEBAC and NOBAC market and as of October 29
0 Conversion they held $927 million of the securities issued by the BCRA, 6% of
-5 PG (Nov-01) the total stock in circulation.
-10 Russia
 (Aug-98) The second type of investment, considering its participation
-15 Brazil in the total portfolio, is stocks. Variable income securities,
-20 (Jan-99) including shares of local corporations and those issued by
 Jul-95 Jun-96 May-97 Apr-98 Mar-99 Feb-00 Jan-01 Dec-01 Nov-02 Oct-03 Sep-04 foreign companies, comprised 23% of the portfolio according to
 the latest information published by the SAFJP. The sustained
 Source: BCRA based on AFJP Superintendency increase in stock prices in the last month,
 
 Chart 6.2.3.1.3 favored the increase in their holdings.
 Stock of Fixed-Term Deposits Adjustable by CER
 thousands of (year 2004, balances at month-end)
 millions of $
4.5 Another of the main destinations of AFJP funds are
4.0 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER from AFJP
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER total system the fixed-term deposits, which at the end of October made up 6% of
3.5 their investment portfolio. It is worth noting that during the course of the year
3.0 these investors changed the composition of these placements in
2.5 favor of fixed-term deposits in pesos adjustable by CER, such
2.0 that in October the AFJPs were holders of around 40% of this type
1.5 of deposits constituted in the total system (see Chart 6.2.3.1.3). In the month under analysis, fixed-term
1.0 placements recorded an increase of $120 million, which came from
0.5 the growth of deposits adjustable by CER ($290 million).
0.0
31-Jan 29-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul 31-Aug 30-Sep 31-Oct
Source: BCRA and SAFJP

The placements in mutual funds of the AFJPs at the end of October covered 3% of their total portfolio. In the month an increase of around $370 million was evident in this item of the portfolio and almost all of the increase was explained by the rise in participation in fixed-term and variable income funds in pesos, which showed growths of $240 million and $85 million respectively. Although in terms of participation in their portfolio, the holding of mutual funds appears to be of small magnitude, when the proportion they cover over the total assets of the funds is observed, the decision about this type of investment by the AFJPs acquires greater importance (see Chart 6.2.3.4).

11 It is the profitability of the last 12 months measured by the variation in the average monthly quota value, excluding the fund administered by Nación AFJP, according to current regulations.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

The scarce activity that characterizes the primary market for corporate bonds means that the slight increase shown by the AFJPs in this type of assets allows explaining to a good extent the movements observed in the Negotiable Obligations (ON) market. Thus, in October the holding of ON increased $100 million, which corresponds to their participation in the Telefónica placement (see Section 6.2.4), where they acquired Chart 6.2.3.1.4 33% of the total amount issued. The ON covers 2% of the total investment portfolio at the end of October.

Holding of Mutual Funds from AFJPs
millions of $ %
800 Holding Participation over total FCI (right axis) 70
700 60 The remainder of investments (4% of the total) were placed
600 50 mainly in provincial public securities and in financial trusts.
500 40
400 30 6.2.3.2 Mutual Funds12
300 20
200 10 During October mutual funds grew $463 million, driven mainly
100 0 by fixed-term and money market funds. In terms of performance, all
funds presented positive monthly returns, which in the case of fixed
Plazo fijo $ Renta RentaRenta fijaRenta mixtaRenta fija $ Renta mixta income funds was significantly higher than the previous month.
variable $variable US$US$ $ US$
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP and CAFCI

Money market funds are composed of transactional funds and funds intended for savings. In May, due to the payment of income tax corresponding to the year 2003, a significant outflow of resources occurred, especially from this Chart 6.2.3.2.1 last type, which then did not return to these funds. Most of them
thousands of Money Market were transferred to fixed-term deposits, as a consequence of the rise in
millions of $ (Assets)
5.2 Maturity passive interest rates, which created an attractive spread between the
Gains Monthly Performance 5-day average yield of fixed-term deposits and that of money market funds. The
% (Moving average business days)
0.071
5.0
0.069
4.8
0.067
4.6 equity of these was then composed almost entirely of transactional
 0.065
4.4 funds, which show a clear intra-monthly seasonality: they increase
 0.063
4.2 in the first half of the month, as a consequence of income from
 0.061
commercial activity, and then decrease towards the end of the month,
 0.059
4.0 as a result of tax payments. In October, equity increase was observed
 0.057
3.8 at the beginning of the month, but the subsequent outflow of funds
 1-Jul-04 26-Jul-04 18-Ago-04 9-Sep-04 1-Oct-04 26-Oct-04
3.6 was lower than usual. This can be explained in part by the
extraordinary inflow of $150 million from AFJP and in part by the
3.4
decline evidenced by the interest rate on sight placements in the
3.2
financial system. In mid-month, said interest rate began a
3.0
2.8 decreasing trajectory, interrupting the upward trend that it had been
2.6 showing since July, which induced part of corporate investors to use
2-Ene-04 17-Feb-04 31-Mar-04 19-May-04 5-Jul-04 20-Ago-04 5-Oct-04
Source: BCRA and CAFCI resources deposited in savings accounts to meet tax
obligations instead of funds placed in money market, as they had been
doing. As a consequence, the equity of the latter ended the month at
levels higher than those of previous months, registering an increase
of $313 million in relation to September, which is equivalent to 10%
of the assets they had in portfolio at the end of said month (see
Chart 6.2.3.2.1).

12 The figures in this section correspond to end-of-month data, unless another specification is indicated.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

Variable income funds, meanwhile, continued with the growing equity
trend they have been registering since August, evidencing an increase
greater than $110 million, which implied a monthly increase of 10%.
Most of this growth is explained, as in the previous month, by the
increase in the value of their share units, whose evolution is closely
linked to that of the MERVAL index. The sustained rise of said index,
explained in section 6.2.1., contributed to feed the performance of
variable income funds, which closed the month at 66% (see Chart
Chart 6.2.3.2.2 6.2.3.2.2).

Variable Income Funds
millions of $ Index
1,400 1,300

1,300 The equity of fixed income funds registered a positive variation
 1,200
 again, which reached $35 million, which is equivalent to a monthly
1,200
 1,100 increase of 10%. This increase is explained in part by the inflow of
1,100 new resources, but mainly by the increase in the value of its assets,
1,000 1,000 as a consequence of the rise in prices of public and private
 900 securities, explained in section 6.2.2. This also had a positive
 900
 800 impact on the performance of these funds, which increased by 12.2
 800 p.p., reaching 23% at the end of the month.
 700
 Equity FCI Variable Income
 700
 MERVAL (right axis)
 600
2-Ene-04 6-Feb-04 15-Mar-04 22-Abr-04 31-May-04 6-Jul-04 12-Ago-04 17-Sep-04 26-Oct-04 Finally, mixed income funds presented a slight equity increase close
Source: BCRA to $3 million, which represents a monthly increase of 3.5%. While its
performance was located at 10.6%.

6.2.4. Private Securities

In the framework of the comprehensive restructuring of its financial
liabilities, Transportadora de Gas del Sur (TGS) S.A. announced its
restructuring proposal for its debt securities and other obligations
Chart 6.2.4.1 totaling VN US$ 1,019 million. The proposal will be implemented
through a combination of a cash payment of 11% of principal and two
Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds
new debt securities for the remaining 89%. The new issuances will be
TIR %
for 6 and 9 year terms, with periodic amortization and fixed rate
 16
coupon increasing. In addition, accrued and unpaid interest will be
 14
recognized with the original rate
12 through December 31, 2003 and, from that date until the

10 closure of the exchange, a rate of 6.2% will be used. The company announced

8 that if it achieves more than 96% participation in the offer, it will not request

6 the homologation of an Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement (APE).
 Non-restructured* (29-Oct)
 4 Restructured (31-Oct)
 Non-restructured* (30-Sep) After having extended the maturity date and
 2
 Restructured (30-Sep) improved its debt exchange offer last month, Mastellone
 0
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Hermanos S.A. achieved a participation of 98% on a total

 *Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in cessation of payments of VN US$329 million to be restructured. It was also reported that the
 Source: Bloomberg and others duration (years)
 cash repurchase offer (at 60% of VN) was oversubscribed,
 accepting 54% of existing debt capital. With respect to the
 exchange offer, Negotiable Obligations (ON) were issued for
 US$157 million at a fixed rate of 8% and maturity in 2012 and US$78
 million at variable interest rate. Additionally, the company announced that
 it will not proceed with an APE and will simply modify the terms of
 its existing ON.

 For its part, Metrogas S.A. extended once again the
 maturity of its debt exchange offer until November 5.
 The company reported that as of October 20 it had received participation
 contracts for an amount of approximately US$90 million.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Pan American Energy S.A. returned to the primary market
 through the placement of the third series of ON under its global
 program of emissions of ON guaranteed in dollars, for VN US$100
 million at an interest rate of 7.1% with maturity in 2009.

 Likewise, Telefónica de Argentina S.A. issued two series
 of ON in pesos for a total of VN $200 million. One of them was
 placed at a fixed rate of 8.25% and 365 days term (VN $135 million)
 and the other will pay a variable rate and was issued at 548 days term
 (VN $65 million). The first coupon for the latter was set at 7%
 and will be updated quarterly based on the BADLAR operated
 by private banks plus a margin of 2.4%.

 Regarding the behavior of the secondary market of
 corporate debt instruments, based on the analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors
 continue to differentiate between debtors that never ceased
 to service their obligations and those that had to resort to the
 restructuring of their financial liabilities. In terms of YTM, the
 additional premium required for ON issued after
 restructuring processes ranges from 4.7 p.p. to 5.8 p.p. For
 restructured ON, YTM decreases of 0.5 p.p.
 were observed on average compared to end of September (see Chart 6.2.4.1).

 17 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Principal Monetary and Financial System Variables Oct-04 Monthly Last 12 months Sep-04 Dec-03 Oct-03
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Broad Monetary Base 46,671 46,446 46,273 43,882 0.5% 0.1% 6.4% 0.6%
 Quasi-money 111 111 894 2,153 0.0% -0.4% -94.9% -95.1%

 Monetary Base 46,560 46,335 45,378 41,729 0.5% 0.1% 11.6% 5.6%
 Monetary Circulation 32,121 32,023 28,716 25,793 0.3% -0.1% 24.5% 17.8%
 In the hands of the Public 28,747 28,748 25,423 22,937 0.0% -0.4% 25.3% 18.6%
 In Financial Entities 3,374 3,274 3,293 2,855 3.0% 2.6% 18.2% 11.8%
 Current Account at the BCRA 14,439 14,313 16,662 15,937 0.9% 0.5% -9.4% -14.3%

 Stock of Passive Repos 5,537 4,703 0 0 17.7% 17.3%
 Stock of Active Repos 24 0 201 203 -88.0% -88.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 18,388 18,200 13,820 13,247 1.0% 38.8%

 Total Deposits in Pesos 1 98,494 97,587 84,586 82,127 0.9% 0.5% 19.9% 13.5%
# Private Deposits 70.229 70.397 69.896 68.542 -0.2% -0.6% 2.5% -3.1%
 Current Account 16.602 16.526 14.742 13.219 0.5% 0.1% 25.6% 18.8%
 Savings Account 16.493 16.541 12.890 11.597 -0.3% -0.7% 42.2% 34.5%
 Fixed Term 25.796 25.600 29.944 31.137 0.8% 0.4% -17.2% -21.6%
 Fixed Term Adjustable by CER 4.067 3.692 506 252 10.2% 9.7% 1514.6% 1427.5%
 Other Deposits 4.696 5.037 4.845 4.577 -6.8% -7.1% 2.6% -2.9%
 Exchanged for BODEN (accounted) 183 302 1.717 1.759 -39.4% -39.7% -89.6% -90.1%
 CEDRO including CER 2.391 2.699 5.253 6.000 -11.4% -11.7% -60.1% -62.3%

 Public Sector Deposits 28.265 27.190 14.690 13.585 4.0% 3.5% 108.1% 96.8%
 Total Deposits in Dollars 1 3.812 3.784 1.891 1.673 0.7% 127.8%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 55.310 54.602 49.953 53.211 1.3% 0.9% 3.9% -1.7%

 To Private Sector 32.257 31.395 26.825 26.564 2.7% 2.3% 21.4% 14.9%
 Advances 6.178 6.108 4.386 4.132 1.1% 0.8% 49.5% 41.4%
 Documents 6.249 5.822 4.727 4.668 7.3% 6.9% 33.9% 26.7%
 Mortgages 8.747 8.799 9.317 9.527 -0.6% -1.0% -8.2% -13.1%
 Pledges 1.484 1.440 1.270 1.317 3.1% 2.7% 12.7% 6.6%
 Personal Loans 3.440 3.255 2.337 2.157 5.7% 5.3% 59.5% 50.9%
 Credit Cards 2.864 2.741 2.223 2.109 4.5% 4.1% 35.8% 28.5%
 Others 3.295 3.230 2.565 2.654 2.0% 1.6% 24.2% 17.5%

 To Public Sector 23.053 23.207 23.128 26.647 -0.7% -1.1% -13.5% -18.2%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1.546 1.532 1.444 1.380 0.9% 12.1%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-monies + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 56.781 56.095 48.196 44.299 1.2% 0.8% 28.2% 21.3%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 83.062 83.043 63.888 58.684 0.0% -0.4% 41.5% 33.9%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 138.487 137.489 114.788 110.239 0.7% 0.3% 25.6% 18.9%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-monies + Current Account Private Sector) 45.459 45.385 41.060 38.310 0.2% -0.2% 18.7% 12.3%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 61.952 61.926 53.949 49.907 0.0% -0.4% 24.1% 17.4%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 98.903 98.954 94.497 91.874 -0.1% -0.4% 7.7% 1.8%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2004 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

 Broad Monetary Base 225 0.5% 65 0.1% 398 0.9% 2.788 6.4%
 Financial Sector -1.005 -2.2% -2.482 -5.3% -7.062 -15.3% -7.214 -16.4%
 Public Sector -478 -1.0% -2.123 -4.6% -6.682 -14.4% -6.881 -15.7%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 1.093 2.194 3.487 5.339
 Use of National Government Account 225 363 -3 -3
 External Credit -1.708 -4.396 -9.719 -11.769
 Private External Sector 1.353 2.9% 4.061 8.7% 16.639 36.0% 20.189 46.0%
 BCRA Securities 181 0.4% 123 0.3% -3.288 -7.1% -4.036 -9.2%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-monies 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -33 -0.1% -62 -0.1%
 Others 3 174 0.4% 486 1.0% 823 1.8% 793 11.7%

 International Reserves 188 1.0% 467 2.6% 4.568 33.1% 5.141 38.8%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 467 2.6% 1.374 7.7% 5.699 41.2% 6.957 38.8%
 Payment to International Organizations -519 -2.9% -1.216 -6.8% -2.652 -19.2% -3.334 -25.2%
 Other Operations of the Public Sector -3 0.0% -56 -0.3% -6 0.0% -9 -0.1%
 Minimum Cash 119 0.7% 173 1.0% 1.274 9.2% 1.203 9.1%
 Repo Rate Valuation 82 0.4% 57 0.3% -6 0.0% 27 0.2%
 Others 43 0.2% 135 0.0% 260 1.9% 317 2.4%

 1 Does not include deposits of Non-Residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-monies without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 18 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.
# PASSIVE INTEREST RATES Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 2.30 2.28 2.19 1.57 1.58
 Amount operated 601 574 596 111 173

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 3.03 2.99 2.85 3.71 4.53
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 3.29 3.14 3.01 2.93 3.83
 60 days or more 3.76 3.47 3.47 4.45 5.48
 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.28 0.30 0.58 0.59
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.20 0.35 0.28 0.70 0.81
 60 days or more 0.55 0.56 0.61 0.93 0.81

 ACTIVE INTEREST RATES Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.85 5.82 5.79 10.32 11.18

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 4.53 4.49 4.28 3.33 3.94
 Operated volume (total terms) 66 66 65 63 59

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 15.41 14.88 15.41 22.58 24.20
 Documents at sole signature 10.75 10.92 10.53 11.03 13.90
 Mortgages 12.08 12.03 12.22 13.63 16.21
 Pledges 11.10 12.67 13.18 16.20 17.75
 Personal 24.26 23.83 24.81 33.55 35.26
 Credit Cards n/d n/d 30.99 34.88 37.00

 INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 LIBOR
 1 month 1.90 1.78 1.60 1.15 1.12
 6 months 2.23 2.09 1.94 1.24 1.21

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.56 2.50 2.49 1.88 1.72
 10 years 4.08 4.12 4.27 4.25 4.27

 FED Funds Rate 1.75 1.59 1.43 1.00 1.00

 SELIC (at 1 year) 16.43 16.13 16.00 17.07 19.68

 (1) Data through August correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while those for September and October
 are estimates made based on the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

 19 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2004

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 REFERENCE INTEREST RATES Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 BCRA repo rates
 Passive 7 days 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/a n/a
 Active 7 days 3.20 n/a 1.17 n/a n/a

 REPO total round repo rates
 1 day 2.27 2.34 2.23 n/d n/d
 7 days 2.52 2.50 2.51 n/d n/d

 Operated amount of REPO round repos (daily average) 1307 991 844 n/d n/d

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 9 months 6.16 6.64 6.73 n/d n/d
 12 months 6.35 6.86 6.85 8.99 11.82
 18 months 7.04 n/d 7.45 10.80 13.89
 24 months 8.33 8.59 8.70 n/d n/d

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months -0.04 0.01 -0.08 3.71 6.63
 18 months 0.87 1.04 0.90 5.46 8.00
 24 months 1.36 1.47 1.81 n/d n/d

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 2.73 2.88 3.00 6.65 n/d

 Operated amount of LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 104 114 84 169 118

 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.97 2.99 3.01 2.95 2.85
 BCRA Reference 2.97 3.00 3.01 2.96 2.86

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.98 3.01 3.04 2.97 2.86
 INDOL 1 month 2.99 2.99 3.03 2.96 2.86
 Operated amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 1 2
 ROFEX 1 month 2.97 3.00 3.02 2.96 2.86
 Operated amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 101 126 122 38 43

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.04 1.04 1.01 1.01 1.00

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.71 3.66 3.68 3.64 3.34

 CAPITAL MARKET Oct-04 Sep-04 Aug-04 Dec-03 Oct-03

 MERVAL
 Index 1199 1048 954 1020 882
 Operated Volume (millions of pesos) 86 65 36 65 55

 Government Bonds (for each VN 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 75.38 71.74 68.76 61.70 60.27
 BODEN 08 ($) 83.80 90.37 89.31 87.72 80.60

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 857 977 1,091 1,355 1,366
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 344 358 405 372 435

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 20
