1. Synthesis

1. Synthesis 1
2. Monetary Program 2
3. Interest Rates 2
3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 2
3.2. Interfinancial Markets 3
3.2.1 Repo Market 3
3.2.2 Interbank Market 3
3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4
3.4. Active Interest Rates 5
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6
4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6
4.2. Deposits in Dollars 7
4.3. Banking Liquidity 7
5. Loans 8
6. Financial Assets Market 9
6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 9
6.2. Capital Markets 10
6.2.1. Equities 10
6.2.2. Public Securities 10
6.2.3. Institutional Investors 11
6.2.3.1 Pension Fund Administrators 11
6.2.3.2 Mutual Investment Funds 12
6.2.4. Private Securities 12
7. Monetary and Financial Indicators 13

---

• In May, the Broad Monetary Base (BMA) on average reached a level of $51,092 million, which implies growth in the last 12 months of 8.2%. In this way, the BMA remained at levels consistent with the range committed in the Monetary Program for the second quarter of 2005.

• The BCRA continued with the policy of gradual increase in the interest rates of the securities it issues, with increases observed in the month for all auctioned securities. The BCRA decided at the beginning of May a new increase of 0.5 percentage points in the interest rates of repo operations which brought the short-term interest rate corridor to 3.75% - 4.25%, toward which interbank lending market rates continued to converge. Passive interest rates continued with the increasing trajectory they have been showing since the beginning of the year, again presenting positive variations in all terms and for all types of depositor, influenced by the month's deposit maturities.

• During May, the prudential policy of accumulating international reserves and controlling the BMA was maintained. In this way, US$22,103 million in reserves were reached, a figure similar to that observed in September 2001, and it was sterilized through the placement of own securities and the early cancellation of rediscounts. In this sense, a new NOBAC was issued at 2 years that pays variable coupons equivalent to a margin of 2.5 percentage points over the BADLAR interest rate reported by private banks.

• The quasi-fiscal result continues to be in surplus so far this year and would continue to show surplus for any of the scenarios foreseen for the entire year.

• Monetary aggregates in pesos continued to show an increasing trend, due to the significant increase in transactional deposits of the public sector ($1,900 million). Private deposits also presented an increase, although more moderate ($640 million), driven by time deposits. Total means of payment (M2) increased on average $2,590 million and the broadest total monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) increased $3,180 million.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to register a good growth rate and showed in May an increase of $1,000 million (2.7%). The monthly increase was led, as in April, by commercial financing, while credit destined for consumption maintained sustained growth.

• The peso depreciated, in real terms, 1.1% with respect to April and accumulated a depreciation of 5.8% in the last 12 months, according to the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM). In nominal terms, the peso depreciated in May 4.6% with respect to the real and appreciated with respect to the United States dollar and the euro, 0.4% and 2.4% respectively.

Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005

2. Monetary Program
3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA

The BCRA continued increasing the interest rates for the securities it issues and with respect to the end of April, increases were observed for all species auctioned (see Graph 3.1.1). In the case of instruments in pesos not adjustable by CER, the greatest growth was experienced by the rate of the 49-day LEBAC, which increased 0.75 p.p. between the end of the month.

As of the end of May, the BCRA began to auction a two-year NOBAC that pays variable coupons, equivalent to a margin of 2.5 p.p. over the BADLAR interest rate reported by private banks. In the last auction of the month, taking into account the prevailing interest rates, the return for this NOBAC amounted to 7.43%.

The net placement made during May was the maximum monthly placement in what has elapsed so far this year (see Graph 3.1.2). The greatest number of awards was made in the segment in pesos not adjustable [by CER...]
-0.5 per CER, given that a large part of demand was directed toward securities of shorter duration, which are issued in this segment. For its part, for the first time in the year, there was a net decrease

-1.0
 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 in the total balance in circulation of LEBAC adjustable by CER.

 Source: BCRA In turn, it is observed that starting last month the amount in circulation of non-adjustable NOBAC grew, which is explained by the placement of new NOBAC with variable coupon.

 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

 Graph 3.2.1.1

 % Interest Rates on Call and Repo Operations
 5.0 (weighted average rate by amount) 3.2.1. Repo Market

 4.5 BCRA Passive Repos at 7 days BCRA Active Repos at 7 days
 Call at 7 days Repos at 1 day
 4.0 Call at 1 day At the beginning of May the BCRA raised 0.5 p.p. the interest rates for passive and active repo operations and the reference corridor of short-term interest rates moved to

 3.5 3.75%-4.25%. Short-term interest rates reacted to this new band and increases were observed in the rates agreed in the interbank lending market and in the operations carried out

 3.0 in the market segment in which the rest of the financial entities operate among themselves (see Graph 3.2.1.1).

 2.5

 2.0 It should be noted that at the beginning of June, the BCRA decided to expand the interest rate corridor set in this market and increased 0.5 p.p. the rates for

 1.5 active repo operations. As a consequence, from then on, the margin between passive and active repo rates moved to 1 p.p..

 1.0
 1-Jun-04 12-Aug-04 25-Oct-04 4-Jan-05 15-Mar-05 27-May-05 The amount traded by the BCRA was $1,133 million, 4% higher than in April. The balance of passive repos for this entity at the end of May was $5,613 million, 11% lower than that recorded at the end of the previous month. Although some active repo operations were agreed during the course of the month, at the end of May there were no repos of this type in effect.

 Graph 3.2.1.2 In the market segment where operations between third parties are carried out, the average daily amount traded

 Call and Repo Operations in the Local Market was similar to that of April (see Graph 3.2.1.2).
 millions of $ (average daily traded)
2.000
 1.800
 Call 1 d
1.600 Call 7 d
 Call other
1.400 Repos with BCRA
 Repos between privates
1.200

1.000
 800 3.2.2 Interbank Market

 600

 400

 200 In a month where high tax concentration increased the funding needs of companies, which reduced their transactional placements and increased the financing received,

 0 the interbank market increased its activity once again, presenting

 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05

Source: BCRA and MAE an average stock of interfinancial loans of $670 million daily, a level more than 30% higher than the previous month and the highest since November 2004 (see

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005 Graph 3.2.2.1).

 Graph 3.2.2.1 The interest rates of the interbank market converged rapidly to the new level of the short-term interest rate corridor established by the BCRA through its repo operations. In the 1 business day segment, the interest rate stood at 3.21% on average, which implies an increase of 0.5 p.p. compared to April. In the 7-day segment, the interest rates stood at an average of

 millions of $ TNA, % Total Call Operations
1.400 7 3.98%, converging to the interest rate corridor and more than 80% of the operations were agreed at rates between those established by the BCRA as reference.
 Stock at 1 business day Stock up to 7 business days Stock up to 15 business days
 Rate at 7 days (right axis) Rate at 1 day (right axis)
1.200 6

1.000 5

 800 4

 600 3

 400 2

 200 1

 0 0
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 May-05

 Source: BCRA
By bank group, it can be noted that while public banks maintained the amounts granted at levels similar to those of the previous month, the rest of the groups of entities deepened their intervention in the market, both in their role as borrowers and as fund placers.

Graph 3.2.2.2

millions of $ Call Market
400 (average stock)

300 3.3. Passive Interest Rates
200

100

0
-100 In May, passive interest rates continued with the

-200 upward trajectory they have been showing since the beginning of
-300
-400 the year, again presenting positive variations in all terms
-500 Public and for all types of depositor (see Graph 3.3.1). Their
-600 Priv. National behavior was, in part, influenced by the redistribution
-700 Cap. May. Foreign of funds that occurred as a consequence of the payment of
-800
 July-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 income tax and personal property tax corresponding
Source: BCRA to the year 2004.

Given that banks had been anticipating a potential loss of resources due to the aforementioned tax payment, its effect on the wholesale fixed-term market was smaller than that recorded in the same month of the previous year. In the shortest-term segment (30-44 days), the average interest rate offered by private entities for placements exceeding $1 million increased 0.8 p.p., placing it at 4%, whereas in May 2004 the increase was greater than 2 p.p.. In the case of public banks, the average interest rate paid for this type of deposits was 0.4 p.p. higher than in April, standing at 3%. In this way, the average spread between the rates of private entities and those of public banks was 1 p.p., being the highest of the year. However, a year ago, this spread was around 1.9 p.p., reflecting the strong effect of the tax payment on the interest rates of private banks. On the contrary, in the retail segment (operations up to $100,000), the effect of the tax payment was greater than that of the previous year, given that banks passed on part of the increase in the wholesale interest rate to this market, which had not happened the previous year. In fact, private entities offered average interest rates 0.4 p.p. higher than those in April, standing at 3.7%, whereas the previous year the variation of these rates barely reached 0.1 p.p.. For their part, public entities did not vary the average interest rate offered in this segment, which continues at 2.5%. In this way, the spread between both rates reached 1.24%,

Graph 3.3.2 recording the maximum of recent years (see Graph 3.3.2).
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-44 days
(5-day moving average) In the longer-term brackets, the increase in interest
May 2005 Private Banks Public Banks rates was also higher than in April. When analyzing this
% Less than $100,000 More than $1,000,000 increase, account must be taken, on one hand, of the upward
% trend that these rates have been recording and, on the other
4.3 5.5 hand, of the seasonal component of the effect of the tax
4.1 5.0 payment. Both factors led to an increase of 0.7 p.p. of the
3.9 4.5 average interest rate for operations between 60 and 89 days
3.7 4.0 and of 0.45 p.p. of the average interest rate for placements of
3.5 3.5 more than 90 days (see Graph 3.3.1).
3.3 3.0
3.1 2.5
2.9 2.5
2.7 2.0
2.5 1.5
2.3 1.0 By type of depositor, the most significant variations in
 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05
 Source: BCRA interest rates corresponded again to the placements
 agreed by financial service provider institutions
 (Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators, Mutual
 Investment Funds, etc.). These investors received
 average returns 1.1 p.p. higher than those in April, while
 the rest of legal entities and individuals received
 average remuneration 0.7 p.p. and 0.4 p.p. greater than those of the
 previous month, respectively.

 Chart 3.4.1
 Commercial Loans
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 57
 3.4. Active Interest Rates¹
 52

 47

 42 Advances
 During May, active interest rates showed heterogeneous
 37 Documents
 behavior by type of loan. Commercial lines
Chart 3.4.1 32 presented slight increases, accompanying the increases

 27 in passive interest rates, thereby the spread between both

 22 remained unchanged. While in longer-term

 17 loans, nominal interest rates continued to decline.
 15.3
 12
 10.0
 7 The interest rate corresponding to advances in current
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 account was placed at 15.3%, an increase of 0.8 p.p. with respect to
 Source: BCRA April, and the interest rate of loans arranged through
 documents, after having reached a minimum of 9.5% in the
 previous month, registered an increase of 0.5 p.p. in May, although its level is
 1.0 p.p. below that observed a year ago (see
 Chart 3.4.1).
 The interest rate for consumer financing continues
 Chart 3.4.2 to decline, accumulating over the last twelve months a decline of
 Consumer Loans 4.7 p.p., standing in May at 26.2%. In the case of
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) financing with credit card, although May average data is
 70 not yet available, the data available as of March

 65 indicate a decline of 0.1 p.p. standing at 27% and, according to the

 60 trend shown by personal loans, it is estimated that

 55 they will continue to decline marginally (see Chart 3.4.2).
 Personal
 50 
 Credit Cards

 45
 40 Finally, mortgage loan rates showed

 35 a decline of 0.4 p.p. with a nominal rate of 11.5% reversing

 30 the slight increases they had shown since the beginning of the year and in a

 27.0 26.2 context of increase in the volume of new loans
 25
 20 granted. Loans with chattel mortgage guarantee, reduced their

 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 interest rates by 0.3 p.p. presenting a cumulative reduction in
 Source: BCRA

 ¹ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
 March 2005, the values for April and May 2005 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on
 loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005

 Chart 3.4.3 what has occurred so far in the year of 2.1 p.p. in annual nominal rates (see Chart
 Loans with Real Guarantee
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) 3.4.3).

 32

 27
 Mortgage

 Chattel Mortgage
 22
 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

 17
 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
 12 11.5

 9.9

 7
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05
 Source: BCRA

 In May, monetary aggregates in pesos sustained their
 upward trend, mainly due to the positive evolution of
 deposits, whose increase reached around $2,500 million (see Chart
 4.1.1).
The majority of the increase in deposits corresponded to demand deposits, which increased approximately $1,900 million. This increase was concentrated in public sector deposits, which grew $1,940 million, as a consequence of the inflow of funds received by the treasury due to the maturity of income taxes and personal property taxes corresponding to the year 2004. A part of these resources originated from inflows of funds from abroad, another part came from the maturity of fixed-term placements of the private sector and another part from private transactional deposits. As a consequence of this, the latter presented a decrease of $40 million, when in recent months they had been growing steadily.

Despite the payment of taxes, fixed-term deposits continued with the positive trajectory they have been presenting since the beginning of the year, although the increase shown in May was more moderate than in previous months, reaching $520 million.

The new fixed-term placements corresponded entirely to the private sector and were executed from mid-month onwards, after the payment of taxes, in both the wholesale and retail segments, incentivized by the increase in interest rates (see Section 3.3). The majority of operations were conducted in the short term, although increases were also recorded in longer-term segments. Indeed, the stock of fixed-term placements of 30-59 days grew approximately $300 million and the remainder of placements not adjustable by CER showed an increase close to $370 million.

For its part, placements adjustable by CER of less than 180 days decreased $430 million, while those greater than 180 days, which are the ones that encompass the current contractual terms², grew approximately $240 million (see Graph 4.1.2).

Finally, CER-adjusted CEDROs showed a new decrease, in line with the maturity schedule, which amounted to approximately $160 million.

For its part, currency in circulation held by the public grew on average approximately $690 million (2.1%). Thus, total means of payment (M2) increased approximately $2,590 million (3.1%), driven mainly by the rise in transactional deposits of the public sector mentioned above. In year-over-year terms, this aggregate showed a variation of 22.3%, 1.6 percentage points lower than the previous month. The broader monetary aggregate (M3) showed an increase close to $3,180 million (2.3%), which in relation to the same month of the previous year implied an increase of approximately 22.9%. For its part, private monetary aggregates also showed positive behavior, although more moderate than that of total monetary aggregates. Private M2 grew $650 million (0.9%), which is equivalent to a year-over-year increase of 22.1%, and private M3 increased $1,200 million (1%), which represents a year-over-year increase of 20.4% (see Graph 4.1.3).

---

² As of 4-Apr-05 the minimum term for deposits and investments at fixed term with CER clause is 365 days (Communication A 4331).
## 4.2. Dollar Deposits

Dollar deposits showed an increase of US$330 million in May as a result of the rise of US$180 million in public sector deposits and US$150 million in private sector deposits (see Graph 4.2.1).

Specifically, the increase in private sector placements was due to funds from the collection of the last installment of the BODEN 2005 amortization and was distributed in US$90 million of increase in savings accounts and US$60 million in time deposits. For its part, the rise in dollar deposits in the public sector was largely due to interventions by the national government in the foreign exchange market and was concentrated almost entirely in savings account placements.

The stock of foreign currency deposits totaled US$4,000 million in May.

## 4.3. Bank Liquidity

During May, financial institutions maintained 20.5% of their peso deposits in liquid resources (current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks and reverse repurchase agreements for the BCRA). In this way, in a month of high tax concentration, the system's liquidity ratio decreased by only 0.3 p.p., once again demonstrating the ample liquidity situation exhibited by the banks. In this regard, the slight fall in bank liquidity was explained by the group of private banks that reduced its repurchase agreement position during the month. However, if the acquisition of BCRA securities is considered as part of the liquidity ratio, it turns out that the liquidity of private banks did not fall but remained relatively constant compared to the previous month (see Graph 4.3.1). For its part, the group of public banks registered a slight increase of 0.2 p.p. in its liquidity and 0.8 p.p. if LEBAC and NOBAC are included.

With regard to the liquidity required by the BCRA from banks through minimum cash requirements, the funds currently maintained by financial institutions in cash and in current accounts at the BCRA exceed by approximately 1.2 p.p. of total peso deposits (around $1,300 million) the requirements determined by the BCRA (see Graph 4.3.2). Said surplus remained at levels similar to those of the previous month and 50% is concentrated in fewer than ten entities.

In the foreign currency deposit segment, the excess funds immobilized in the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and in cash were around US$1,600 million, registering an increase of US$300 million compared to the previous month³. Said increase is largely due to the rise in the balances of current accounts in foreign currency of banks at the BCRA following the collection of the last installment of the BODEN 2005 amortization. Currently, the excess of liquidity in foreign currency is concentrated in more than 55% in public entities.

## 5. Loans⁴

*Data from the minimum cash position observed through April 2005. May figures are estimated.
Source: BCRA
Loans in pesos to the private sector continued registering a good growth rate, presenting in May an increase of $1,000 million (2.7%). The growth this month is led by commercial financing which has already shown renewed dynamism since last month. For its part, consumer credit lines maintain sustained growth (see Chart 5.1).

Chart 5.2

millions of $ Commercial Loans During May, the concentration of tax payments implied additional liquidity needs on the part of companies, which explains, in part, the increase in commercial loans of $560 million (3.3%) on average, a variation that can be broken down into an increase of $230 million (3.6%) of advances, $270 million of documents (3.7%) and $60 million (1.6%) of "other loans" (see Chart 5.2).

(var. avg. monthly)
500 Advances
400 Purchased documents
Discounted documents
300 Single signature documents
Other
200
100

0

-100

-200

-300

-400
May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05

Source: BCRA

Consumer credits continued with the sustained growth rate that they have been presenting in recent months and registered an increase of $380 million (4.5%) in May (see Chart 5.3). Thanks to gradual salary recomposition and favored by regulatory changes recently promoted by the BCRA aimed at facilitating the granting of low-value personal loans, these lines continue showing a very firm growth rate, registering an increase of $310 million (5.8%) in May. Additionally, after having presented null growth last month, credit card financing again registered a new increase, this time of $70 million (2.0%).

Chart 5.3

millions of $ Consumer Loans (var. avg. monthly)
400 Personal
300 Credit cards

200

100

0

-100

-200
May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05

Source: BCRA

The very good situation being experienced by the automotive sector, which has recovered in recent months the sales levels of late 1999, led to financing with chattel mortgage guarantee continuing to grow, and registering in May the largest increase since the end of last year (see Chart 5.4). These loans increased $75 million (4.2%). In the case of mortgage loans, net of accounting movements related to trusts⁵, they presented in May an almost null decline ($3 million, 0%) which could be indicating that this loan line would be closer to reaching its inflection point. Additionally, the value registered at the end of the month is around $20 million higher than the monthly average which would leave significant statistical carryover for the month of June (see Chart 5.5).

---

³ In accordance with what was established by the BCRA, the failure to apply the foreign currency lending capacity verified by financial institutions in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement of said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial institutions accrue according to regulations is less than that mentioned in this section in which only the requirement arising from applying reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the increase equivalent to the failure to apply resources.

⁴ Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of financial trusts, which while affecting the balances of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005
Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency showed growth of US$34 million (1.9%), a figure that is much lower than that of around US$100 million recorded in the two previous months. As in the preceding months, the increase was driven by financing instruments through documents (US$43 million), which continued with the growing trend they have been showing since mid-last year, associated with the good performance of exports.

**Graph 5.4 Loans with Real Guarantee
(millions of $) (monthly average variation)**
- Mortgage loans
- Pledge loans

**6. Financial Assets Market**

**6.1. Foreign Exchange Market**

The balance of international reserves at the end of May stood at US$22,103 million, a figure similar to that observed in September 2001 and 6% higher than that recorded a month earlier (see Graph 6.1.1). The factor that explained this result to the greatest extent was the net purchase of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Unified and Free Exchange Market. For its part, public sector operations must be analyzed taking into account also the movements in the minimum cash accounts that financial entities maintain at the BCRA. This is so, since throughout the month, and as the government brings its dollar funds deposited in the financial system to its account at the BCRA, a change in the factors explaining reserves occurs, without effect on its stock. Finally, when payments abroad occur, the decline in the stock of international reserves is verified. In May, the decline in international reserves originating from public sector operations was around US$320 million.

**Graph 5.5 Mortgage Loans in Pesos
(thousands of millions of $)**
- Original series
- Original monthly average
- Corrected series
- Corrected monthly average
- Trusts

In the spot exchange market, volume increased significantly compared to the previous month, in line with the seasonal behavior of the settlement of main exports. Thus, on average 30% more was traded daily than in April. The platform through which the greatest quantity of transactions were conducted was the Electronic Operations System, where the daily amount negotiated increased 42% compared to the previous month. In the Electronic Brokers Market, the amount traded also increased, 8% compared to April.

In nominal terms, the peso showed behavior similar to the previous month. Thus, it appreciated again against the US dollar (0.4%) and the euro (2.4%), while it depreciated against the real (4.6%). According to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM), the peso depreciated 1.1% against the basket of currencies of its main trading partners, accumulating a real depreciation of 5.8% in the last twelve months.

**Graph 6.1.1 International Reserves of the BCRA
(thousands of millions of US$)
(gold, foreign currency and time placements)**

In the local futures market currently most liquid, the Rosario Forward Market, the quotations of peso contracts per US dollar decreased 1.2% for the most traded terms, between 1 and 6 months duration. Starting in June, the BCRA will begin to operate in this market, executing futures operations of pesos per US dollars, thus incorporating a new monetary regulation tool.

**Graph 6.2.1.1
Local Stock Market**

(millions of $) MERVAL Index in pesos MERVAL

---

*Footnote 5: In April a trust was dissolved for $77 million and at the end of May another was constituted for $65 million.*

*9 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005*
# 200 Amount traded 1700
 MERVAL (right axis) 6.2. Capital Markets
180 1600

160 1500

140 1400

120 1300 6.2.1. Stocks

100 1200

80 1100

60 1000 According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in May the
 prices of equity securities increased 10.2%, after having fallen for
40 900 two consecutive months. The reversal of the declining trend was
20 800 associated with the good results reported for the first quarter by
 0 700 companies listed on the stock exchange and the imminent delivery
 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 of new securities arising from the public debt swap that concluded
 Source: Bloomberg towards the end of February. Likewise, the YTM of the 10-year U.S.
 reference bond continued to decrease with a positive impact on the
 local market.

 In this same sense, an increase in the average daily amount
 traded of the stocks that make up the MERVAL was observed,
 which reached $71 million, 16% above what was traded in April
 (see Chart 6.2.1.1).

 Chart 6.2.2.1
 YTM % Yields of Public Securities

14
 Pesos (29-Apr-05)
 Dollars (29-Apr-05) BODEN 13
12 Pesos (31-May-05)

 Dollars (31-May-05) 6.2.2. Public Securities
10 BODEN 12

 8
 PRO12 BOGAR The yields of securities issued after the debt moratorium showed
 6 PRE8 mixed results compared to April. Among the most liquid ones,
 the securities in pesos adjustable by CER of longer duration stood
 4 out, and among them the PRO12, which recorded a decrease of
 BODEN 07 BODEN 08 1.9 p.p. in its internal rate of return (YTM). The rest of the
 2 sovereign securities in pesos adjustable by CER with shorter
 0 maturities recorded marginal positive variations in their YTM.
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 On the other hand, among securities in dollars, the BODEN 12
 Source: IAMC Average Maturity (years) recorded a fall in its YTM of 1.9 p.p. between end of month. This
 was due, in large measure, to the flattening of the yield curve of
 Chart 6.2.2.2 U.S. Treasury securities and to the resolution of the delivery of
 Traded Amount of Public Securities public debt swap securities (see Chart 6.2.2.1).
 millions of $ (Daily average)

500
 With respect to sovereign risk, during the course of the month
450 the spread between the yield of the BODEN 12 and that of
400 BODEN 12 BODEN 08 PRE 8 PR12 BOGAR comparable U.S. Treasury securities was slightly diminished.
350
 After reaching 6.0 p.p. towards the beginning of the month, the
300 decrease in the YTM of the BODEN 12 and the fall in the yield of
250 comparable U.S. securities caused the month to end at 4.6 p.p..
200 Likewise, emerging markets (excluding Argentina) marginally
150 decreased their risk premiums, standing at 3 p.p. at the end of
100 May.
 50
 0 The average daily amount traded of the most liquid public
 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 securities increased 32%6 compared to April (see Chart 6.2.2.2).
 Source: MAE and BCBA. This increase was explained, in part, by the greater amount of
 operations with PRO12 and BODEN 12.

 6.2.3. Institutional Investors7
 Chart 6.2.3.1.1

 thousands of Stock of Fixed-Term Deposits of the AFJP
 millions of $ (Balances at end of month)
3.5 6.2.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators
3.0 (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones)
 Fixed-term deposits in pesos not adjusted by CER
2.5 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER
2.0 The Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) had at the end of
1.5 May a portfolio of $56,632 million, 3% ($1,541 million) above
 what they had recorded one month earlier, and 6% higher than at
1.0 the end of 2004.
0.5
 The most dynamic items within the portfolio continued to be
0.0 equity securities and fixed-term deposits. In the
 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP in the first case, the increase shown by stock quotations in the local market originated an increase of $941 million in this segment of the portfolio. For its part, placements in fixed-term deposits continued to increase and in this month the largest increase took place in the segment of deposits in pesos without CER adjustment. While this type of funds increased $268 million between month-end, the deposits adjustable by CER showed an increase of $64 million (see Graph 6.2.3.1.1). Although the growth of this type of placement slowed down, the AFJPs continued with significant participation being holders of 50% of the total deposits adjustable by CER in the system.

Investments in mutual funds by the AFJPs showed an increase of only $103 million in the month. The good performance of stocks also boosted holdings of variable income funds, which explained the largest increase in this type of placement. For its part, fixed-term funds were the only ones that showed a decrease in the month (see Graph 6.2.3.1.2).

Source: BCRA based on SAFJP.

6 Electronic Open Market operations (MAE) are considered.
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005

Graph 6.2.3.2.1
6.2.3.2. Mutual Funds
Heritage of Mutual Funds in Pesos
billions of $

The heritage of mutual funds (FCI) in pesos reached $7,613 million in May, registering a slight monthly decline of 0.2% ($18 million). Although the heritage of fixed-term and money market funds presented a significant decrease, due to tax payments, this was almost entirely offset by the equity increase of variable income and fixed income funds (see Graph 6.2.3.2.1).

The heritage of money market funds decreased $326 million (-6.4%), reaching $4,736 million. Unlike previous months, during May the usual intra-monthly seasonal movements were not observed, but rather due to the payment of capital gains taxes and personal property taxes corresponding to the year 2004, a continuous equity decrease took place throughout the entire month (see Graph 6.2.3.2.2).

Variable income funds presented an increase of $203 million in their heritage, reaching $1,750 million. This was mainly due to the increase in the value of their share quotas, whose evolution is closely linked to that of the MERVAL index, as mentioned in previous reports. The positive result of said index (see Section 6.2.1) had a positive influence on the yield of these funds.

Finally, the heritage of fixed income funds presented an increase of $115 million (13.5%), which is also explained fundamentally by the increase in the value of their share quotas, due to the increase in the quotation of its portfolio, composed mainly of liquid public securities issued after the cessation of payments (see Section 6.2.2).

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

6.2.4. Private Securities
# Monetary Indicators and Financial

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System | May-05 | Apr-05 | Dec-04 | May-04 | Monthly Variations |  | Last 12 Months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  |  |  |  |  | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| Broad Monetary Base | 51,092 | 50,034 | 50,647 | 47,232 | 2.1% | 1.5% | 8.2% | -0.4% |
| Quasi-money | 111 | 111 | 111 | 111 | 0.0% | -0.6% | 0.0% | -7.9% |
| Monetary Base | 50,981 | 49,923 | 50,537 | 47,122 | 2.1% | 1.5% | 8.2% | -0.4% |
| Monetary Circulation | 37,361 | 36,597 | 35,838 | 29,978 | 2.1% | 1.5% | 24.6% | 14.8% |
| In Public Hands | 33,540 | 32,849 | 31,702 | 26,823 | 2.1% | 1.5% | 25.0% | 15.1% |
| In Financial Entities | 3,821 | 3,749 | 4,136 | 3,155 | 1.9% | 1.3% | 21.1% | 11.5% |
| Current Account at BCRA | 13,621 | 13,326 | 14,699 | 17,144 | 2.2% | 1.6% | -20.6% | -26.8% |
| Stock of Passive Repos | 5,252 | 5,377 | 5,524 | 20 | -2.3% | -2.9% |  |  |
| Stock of Active Repos | 43 | 23 | 33 | 15 | 82.2% | 81.1% | 185.5% | 162.9% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 21,602 | 20,618 | 19,310 | 16,252 | 4.8% |  | 32.9% |  |
| Total Deposits in Pesos ¹ | 110,029 | 107,536 | 102,293 | 91,579 | 2.3% | 1.7% | 20.1% | 10.6% |
| Private Deposits | 81,454 | 80,947 | 74,331 | 70,166 | 0.6% | 0.0% | 16.1% | 6.9% |
| Current Account | 20,019 | 19,485 | 17,923 | 16,900 | 2.7% | 2.1% | 18.5% | 9.1% |
| Savings Account | 18,341 | 18,910 | 17,852 | 15,125 | -3.0% | -3.6% | 21.3% | 11.7% |
| Time Deposits | 30,156 | 29,486 | 26,333 | 26,351 | 2.3% | 1.7% | 14.4% | 5.4% |
| Time Deposits Adjustable by CER | 6,156 | 6,340 | 4,825 | 1,567 | -2.9% | -3.5% | 293.1% | 262.0% |
| Other Deposits | 5,689 | 5,469 | 5,517 | 4,657 | 4.0% | 3.4% | 22.2% | 12.5% |
| Exchanged for BODEN (accounted) | 154 | 155 | 172 | 1,728 | -0.6% | -1.2% | -91.1% | -91.8% |
| CEDRO including CER | 940 | 1,101 | 1,709 | 3,839 | -14.7% | -15.2% | -75.5% | -77.5% |
| Public Sector Deposits | 28,575 | 26,589 | 27,962 | 21,413 | 7.5% | 6.8% | 33.4% | 22.9% |
| Total Deposits in Dollars ¹ | 4,009 | 3,677 | 3,943 | 2,854 | 9.0% |  | 40.5% |  |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos ¹ | 56,184 | 55,266 | 54,357 | 52,135 | 1.7% | 1.1% | 7.8% | -0.8% |
| To Private Sector | 37,059 | 36,088 | 34,108 | 28,436 | 2.7% | 2.1% | 30.3% | 20.0% |
| Overdrafts | 6,694 | 6,463 | 6,355 | 5,271 | 3.6% | 2.9% | 27.0% | 16.9% |
| Documents | 7,285 | 7,013 | 6,668 | 5,068 | 3.9% | 3.3% | 43.8% | 32.4% |
| Mortgages | 8,716 | 8,689 | 8,693 | 8,904 | 0.3% | -0.3% | -2.1% | -9.9% |
| Pledged Loans | 1,871 | 1,796 | 1,637 | 1,266 | 4.2% | 3.6% | 47.8% | 36.1% |
| Personal Loans | 5,343 | 5,106 | 4,184 | 2,779 | 4.6% | 4.0% | 92.3% | 77.0% |
| Credit Cards | 3,511 | 3,440 | 3,080 | 2,527 | 2.1% | 1.5% | 38.9% | 27.9% |
| Others | 3,640 | 3,581 | 3,491 | 2,622 | 1.7% | 1.0% | 38.8% | 27.8% |
| To Public Sector | 19,125 | 19,177 | 20,249 | 23,700 | -0.3% | -0.9% | -19.3% | -25.7% |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars ¹ | 2,023 | 1,988 | 1,702 | 1,318 | 1.8% |  | 53.5% |  |
| Total Monetary Aggregates |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

---

Tarjeta Naranja was the only company that carried out a debt issuance in May. This company placed a Negotiable Obligation (ON) of 300 days at a fixed rate for VN $42 million and VN $41 million of an ON of 540 days that will accrue interest at a variable rate. The interest rate cutoffs were 11% in the first case and in the second, the margin over the reference rate⁸ was 1.75%.

In the secondary market of corporate debt instruments, based on the analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors continue to differentiate between debtors who never stopped serving their obligations and those who had to resort to the restructuring of their financial liabilities. In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs issued after restructuring processes was located on average at 2.6 p.p. (see Graph 6.2.4.1).

**Graph 6.2.4.1**
**Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds**
**YTM %**

[Graph shows two curves comparing Non-restructured* and Restructured bonds as of May 31 and April 28, with duration in years on x-axis (0-9) and YTM percentage on y-axis (0-14)]

*Corresponds to ONs from issuers that have not incurred in payment default

Source: Bloomberg and others, duration (years)

⁸ The reference interest rate is that of fixed-term deposits in pesos up to 59 days in the range of operations from $100,000 to $499,999.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005
M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 65.091 62.794 61.923 53.279 3,7% 3,0% 22,2% 12,5%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 87.152 88.882 88.930 74.329 -1,9% -2,5% 17,3% 8,0%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 143.525 151.006 145.653 125.126 -5,0% -5,5% 14,7% 5,6%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 53.670 52.445 49.735 43.833 2,3% 1,7% 22,4% 12,7%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 72.010 71.354 67.587 58.958 0,9% 0,3% 22,1% 12,5%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 114.951 113.752 105.972 95.372 1,1% 0,5% 20,5% 11,0%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

Broad Monetary Base 1.058 2,1% 1.515 3,1% 445 0,9% 3.860 8,2%
Financial Sector -563 -1,1% -190 -0,4% -3.022 -6,0% -9.774 -20,7%
Public Sector -279 -0,6% 113 0,2% -241 -0,5% -3.296 -7,0%
Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 873 1.307 1.607 7.452
Use of the National Government Account 231 -757 -762 -832
External Credit -1.383 -437 -1.087 -9.916
Private External Sector 3.013 6,0% 4.502 9,1% 8.200 16,2% 22.153 46,9%
BCRA Securities -957 -1,9% -2.705 -5,5% -4.070 -8,0% -4.945 -10,5%
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0,0% 0 0,0% 0 0,0% 0 0,0%
Others 3 -156 -0,3% -205 -0,4% -423 -0,8% -278 -0,6%

International Reserves 983 4,8% 1.075 5,2% 2.292 11,9% 5.350 32,9%
Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 1.041 5,0% 1.528 7,4% 2.773 14,4% 7.460 45,9%
Payment to International Organizations -439 -2,1% -1.806 -8,8% -2.460 -12,7% -4.844 -29,8%
Other Public Sector Operations 28 0,1% 1.806 8,8% 2.352 12,2% 2.286 14,1%
Minimum Cash 373 1,8% -533 -2,6% -429 -2,2% -279 -1,7%
Repo Rate Valuation -68 -0,3% -88 -0,4% -205 -1,1% 158 0,0%
Others 48 0,2% 168 0,8% 261 1,3% 551 0,0%

1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
3 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005

Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

Call in pesos (1 day)
Rate 3,30 2,76 2,33 2,21 3,30
Amount operated 474 331 353 384 571

Fixed-Term Deposits
In pesos
30 days 3,57 3,10 2,79 2,97 2,45
30-44 days, more than 1 million 4,03 3,29 2,75 3,08 2,33
60 days or more 4,59 3,98 3,55 3,80 2,85
In dollars
30 days 0,38 0,34 0,30 0,30 0,50
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0,46 0,33 0,39 0,25 0,56
60 days or more 1,07 0,89 0,75 0,66 0,90

Active Interest Rates May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

Prime in pesos at 30 days 6,12 5,60 5,43 5,78 6,33

Caucions in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 4,67 4,03 3,13 4,31 4,75
Volume operated (total terms) 73 67 72 77 70

Loans in pesos (1)
Advances on Current Account 15,32 14,53 14,40 13,73 15,66
Documents on Signature Only 9,98 9,46 9,66 10,70 10,97
Mortgages 11,50 11,87 11,43 11,50 12,18
Pledges 9,87 10,14 11,00 11,74 13,38
Personal 26,18 26,25 26,73 26,70 30,88
Credit Cards n/d n/d 26,98 29,47 31,75

International Interest Rates May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

LIBOR
1 month 3,09 2,98 2,81 2,39 1,10
6 months 3,48 3,38 3,28 2,72 1,51

US Treasury Bond
2 years 3,63 3,63 3,70 3,00 2,50
10 years 4,13 4,32 4,49 4,22 4,70

FED Funds Rate 2,99 2,75 2,57 2,16 1,00

SELIC (1 year) 19,60 19,35 18,96 17,52 16,00
(1) Data up to March correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for April and May are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2005

Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

BCRA Repo Rates
7-day Liabilities 3.75 3.23 2.75 2.50 n/a
7-day Assets 3.25 3.25 3.25 3.00 n/a

Total REPO Round Repo Rates
1 day 3.39 2.62 2.11 2.10 n/d
7 days 3.77 3.23 2.75 2.51 n/d

Amount Operated in REPO Round Repos (daily average) 817 1197 1160 1267 n/d

LEBAC Rates in Pesos
1 month 5.22 4.10 3.25 2.85 n/a
3 months 5.94 5.26 4.39 3.55 1.13
6 months 6.27 5.62 5.35 4.96 2.52
9 months 6.48 6.08 5.75 5.67 n/a
12 months 7.24 6.99 5.95 5.92 6.59

LEBAC Rates in Pesos Adjustable by CER
12 months 0.00 -0.16 -0.22 -0.12 1.74
18 months 0.40 0.22 0.31 1.35 2.95

NOBAC Rate in Pesos Adjustable by CER 2.97 2.93 3.01 2.37 4.79

NOBAC Rate in Pesos with Variable Coupon 7.03 6.96 n/a n/a n/a

Amount Operated in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 211 99 154 92 100

Foreign Exchange Market May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

Spot Dollar
Exchange Houses 2.89 2.90 2.93 2.97 2.92
BCRA Reference 2.89 2.90 2.93 2.97 2.92

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 2.90 2.90 2.93 2.98 2.96
INDOL 1 month n/a 2.92 2.92 2.96 2.93
Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 1
ROFEX 1 month 2.89 2.90 2.93 2.97 2.93
Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 124 120 92 95 91

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.18 1.13 1.08 1.09 0.94

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 3.67 3.75 3.86 3.99 3.51

Capital Market May-05 Apr-05 Mar-05 Dec-04 May-04

MERVAL
Index 1436 1364 1462 1287 954
Volume Operated (millions of pesos) 71 61 91 63 57

Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 86.28 83.71 61.65 83.04 63.05
BODEN 08 ($) 80.85 80.02 89.17 86.59 83.14

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 556 655 508 627 1,325
EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 290 309 294 300 511

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
15
