# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

Monthly Monetary Report

FEBRUARY 2005

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1
   • The BMA average decreased $628 million in February and was positioned at $49,577 million, in line with the trajectory foreseen in the 2005 Monetary Program, and in accordance with the seasonality that characterizes it. The advance payments of assistance granted during the 2001 crisis, together with other anticipated cancellations of assistance and the "matching" installments implied a contraction of $1,060 million. These advance payments of assistance constituted a complementary instrument of monetary absorption that at the same time allowed improvement in both the balances of the financial system and the BCRA. Additionally, the purchases that the BCRA made in the foreign exchange market involved an expansion of $1,211 million, the smallest in the last 11 months and about half of those at the end of 2004. Completing the picture is an expansion of $465 million due to reduction of passive repos and a contraction of $697 million due to net placement of BCRA securities.

2. Monetary Program 2
   Finally, public sector operations implied a contraction of $352 million.

3. Interest Rates 2
   • Already in the past month there had been a change in the direction of monetary policy, where the BCRA had raised the level of short-term reference interest rates established through its repo operations in the 7-day segment. In the course of the first two months the BMA decreased $2,813 million between the end of December and the end of February. During February, the BCRA continued to agree passive repos at 2.75% and active repos at 3.25%. In the call market, 80% of operations agreed in the 7-day segment were conducted at interest rates within the corridor established by the BCRA through its repo operations.

3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 2
   • During February there was a significant reduction in the growth rate of monetary aggregates. Means of payment went from experiencing a year-on-year variation of 25.3% last month to 22.3% in February, which is a product of the reductions experienced in currency in the hands of the public ($440 million) and in transactional deposits ($1,490 million). Likewise, thanks to the increase in time deposits, M3 registered an increase of only $80 million, which implies a year-on-year variation of 20%, 2 p.p. lower than that of the previous month.

3.2. Interfinancial Markets 3
   • Loans to the private sector in pesos presented an increase of $460 million (1.3%), which constitutes a deceleration in the growth rate compared to what they had been showing in the last months of last year. Personal loans continued to be the type of financing with the most dynamism, while current account overdrafts, after having contracted in January, grew again, reproducing the behavior evidenced in these same months of the previous year.

3.2.1 Repo Market 3
   • The BCRA's international reserves increased US$650 million (3.3%) between the end of February and the end of January, positioning itself at US$20,792 million, the highest level since October 2001.

3.2.2 Interbank Market 4

3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4

3.4. Active Interest Rates 5

4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6

4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6

4.2. Dollar Deposits 7

4.3. Bank Liquidity 8

5. Loans 9

6. Financial Assets Market 10

6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 10

6.2. Capital Markets 11

6.2.1. Shares 11

6.2.2. Public Securities 11

6.2.3. Institutional Investors 12

6.2.3.1 Administrators of
Pension and Retirement Funds 12

6.2.3.2 Mutual Investment Funds 13

6.2.4. Private Securities 14

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators 15

1 Unless otherwise indicated, all figures in this report are expressed as monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

## 2. Monetary Program
3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

The interest rates resulting from auctions in the primary market of LEBACs and NOBACs did not show significant variations during the course of the month. In the segment of instruments in pesos non-adjustable by CER, the interest rate for the six-month LEBAC registered a decrease of 0.3 p.p., while the rest of the yields remained at levels similar to those of January. In the case of LEBACs adjustable by CER, interest rates were reduced between 0.3 p.p. for one-year securities, to 0.6 p.p. for those of two years duration. Likewise, the four-year NOBAC adjustable by CER was placed at 2.80% on February 15, 0.5 p.p. below the rate at which it was awarded at the end of January.

Graph 3.1.1
VN, millions of $ Net Placement of Securities
300 (February)
200 - Pesos | CER
100 -
0 -
-100 -

---

² Due to the auction held on January 20, 2005 and in accordance with what was disclosed by communications "A" 4268 and "A" 4282.
³ Originated in the assistance cancellation regime provided for in Chapter II of Decree No. 739/03.
⁴ In accordance with what is provided for in Chapter II, article 9, subsection e) of Decree No. 739/03.

2 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005
-200 The total outstanding stock of securities issued by the BCRA
 increased 5% in February and reached VN $16,307 million at the end of
 -300
 1M. 2M. 3M. 6M. 9M. 12M. 18M. 24M. NOBACthis month. 85% of the increase was concentrated in securities
 with a duration of one year or longer. In turn, among shorter-term
 Fuente: BCRA LEBAC
 instruments, an increase in the stock of LEBAC between three and
 nine months was observed, while the balance of those with one and two months
 decreased (see Chart 3.1.1). In this way, the average duration of the
 securities portfolio increased 9 days and stood at 280 days at the end of
 February. Simultaneously, LEBAC and NOBAC whose capital is
 adjusted by CER increased their participation in the total, becoming
 49%, 2 percentage points more than at the end of January.

 Chart 3.2.1.1
 Agreed-Upon Rates in the Repo and Call Markets
 ATA, %
5.0
 1-Day REPO Round 7-Day REPO RoundBCRA Liabilities 1 dayBCRA Liabilities 7 days3.2. Interbank Markets
4.5 BCRA Assets 7 daysCall at 1 day Call at 7 days

4.0

3.5 3.2.1. Repo Market

3.0

2.5
 The BCRA continued to participate in the repo market
2.0
 arranging 7-day operations and maintaining interest rates

1.5 at 2.75% and 3.25% for passive and active repos, respectively.

1.0 The average monthly interest rate for operations agreed upon
 between third parties, that is, those in which the BCRA is not a counterparty

 Jun-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05decreased by 0.11 percentage points in the 1-day operations segment in
 Fuente: BCRA and MAE relation to January and stood at 2.08% (see Chart 3.2.1.1). In this
 regard, it is important to note that interest rates in this
 market segment are not homogeneous and the presence or absence of
 any of the participants can significantly influence the
 resulting average rate. In this way, the decrease in February
 occurs due to one of the main entities that
 provided funds at higher interest rates ceasing to operate.

 The average daily amount traded by the BCRA was
 $1,429 million, 10% less than in January. This decrease

 Chart 3.2.1.2 was explained by the lower activity of public banks, which
 Amount Traded in Repos with the BCRA dismantled part of their repo position as counterparty to the
 thousands of (Daily average) number
 millions of $ decline in deposits from the public sector. In this way, in February, the
 1.8 Private Entities 25
 participation of private banks practically equaled that
 1.6 Public Entities
 Number of Participating Entities (average, right axis) of public sector entities. On average, the number of
 1.4 20
 entities that arranged repos daily with the BCRA continued
 1.2
 15 to increase, reaching 20 entities (see Chart 3.2.1.2). Ultimately,
 1.0
 at the end of the month, the BCRA's passive repo portfolio

 0.8 amounted to $7,063 million, 17% less than at the end of January. On
 10
 0.6 the other hand, while some active repo operations were agreed upon
 0.4 5 during the month for the BCRA, at the end of the month there were no

 0.2 transactions of this type in force.

 0.0 0
 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05
 Fuente: BCRA The average daily amount negotiated between third parties increased
 with respect to February and reached approximately $220 million.

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

 Chart 3.2.2.1 However, it should be noted that in January an exceptionally

 millions of $ ATA, % Total Call Operations low amount was negotiated due to the seasonality typical of the month
 1,200 7
 Stock up to 15 business days for financial markets in general.

 Stock up to 7 business days 6
 1,000 Stock at 1 business day

 Rate at 1 day (right axis) 5
 800
 Rate at 7 days (right axis)

 4 3.2.2 Interbank Market

 600

 3

 400
 2 The interbank market continues with the low activity that
 200 it has been showing since mid-December 2004, due to
 1 the greater liquidity of the entities and the regulatory
 changes
0 0 introduced by the BCRA to promote the development of the repo market

 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 from which part of the resources that
 Source: BCRA
 previously were channeled through the interbank loan market
 began to flow into the repo market. As in the previous month, the balance of this type of financing averaged
 $375 million, less than half of that in effect during the second
 half of last year (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

 The interest rates in the interbank market continued
 during February within the corridor established by the
 BCRA through its repo operations. 80% of the call operations
 Chart 3.2.2.2 agreed at 7-day terms were agreed at interest rates
 Call Market within said corridor. In this segment the interest rate was
 millions of $ (average stock)
400 2.7%, while in the 1-day term segment the interest rate
300
200 was located at 2.1% (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

100
 0 By bank group, during February the situation
-100 from the previous month was repeated (see Chart 3.2.2.2), where foreign
-200 entities are both the main demanders (82% of the total)
-300 as well as the main suppliers (52% of the total), while
-400 public banks presented very low participation in the supply
-500 Public
-600 of funds (with only 10%), while they did not borrow funds.
 Priv. National
-700 Cap. Maj. Foreign
-800
 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05
Source: BCRA

 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

 In February, passive interest rates continued with the
 downward trend from the previous month. The marked liquidity of the
 market, added to the seasonal decline in commercial activity typical
 of the summer recess, contributed to a further decrease in
 interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits at all
 Chart 3.3.1 terms and for all types of depositor.

 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days
 (5-day moving average) In the shortest-term segment (30-44 days), which
 Private Banks Public Banks represents more than 70% of total operations, private banks
 % Less than $100,000 % Greater than $1,000,000
4.3 5.0 continued to reduce interest rates, both in the wholesale
4.1 4.5 and retail segments. In effect, the average interest rate
3.9 4.0 that these entities pay for placements greater than
3.7 3.5 $1 million went from 3.2% in January to 2.9% in February, while the
3.5 3.0 average interest rate that they offer for operations up to
3.3 2.5 $100,000 decreased 0.1 p.p., placing itself at 3.1%. Public banks,
3.1 2.0 for their part, maintained stable remuneration of fixed-term
2.9 1.5 deposits below $100,000 at 2.5%, while they reduced by
2.7 1.0 0.1 p.p. the average interest rate paid for wholesale segment
2.5 0.5 deposits, placing it at 2.4%. This behavior
 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 responds in part to the downward trend of interest rates
Source: BCRA

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

 Chart 3.3.2 of private capital entities, following the sharp decline
 Performance of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 (by type of depositor) evidenced in January, which generated a spillover effect on the
 %
 JANUARY 2005 FEBRUARY 2005 Public Sector market (see Chart 3.3.1).
 5.5 Natural Persons

 Financial Services
 Legal Persons By type of depositor, the most significant variations in
 4.5 interest rates corresponded to fixed-term deposits agreed
 upon by financial services providing institutions. These
3.5 depositors are the most sensitive to changes in the trend of interest rates, since they constitute a captive market for banks given that they lack alternative investments, largely 2.5 due to the regulations inherent to their functioning. As a consequence, they were the most harmed by the reduction in the interest rate carried out by the banks, in order to reduce their costs to 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 9030 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 mitigate the excess liquidity. In this way, the interest rates received by institutional investors fell from 3.2% to 2.9% in the 30 to 59 day bracket, from 3.8% to 3.3% in the 60 to 89 day bracket Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included. days days and from 4.3% to 3.6% in the bracket of more than 90 days (see Chart 3.3.2). Source: BCRA

The rest of the depositors also saw the interest rate received reduced, although to a lesser extent, due to the fact that these are more atomized and less flexible funds in the face of cyclical changes. In Chart 3.4.1 effect, both individuals and legal entities Commercial Loans (excluding financial services lending institutions) TNA, % (Average interest rate monthly weighted by amount) 55 received average returns 0.1 p.p. lower than those of January 50 in all the terms where they intervene.

45

40 Advances

Documents
35 3.4. Active Interest Rates5

30

25

20 Active interest rates presented heterogeneous behavior in February, with slight decreases in financing carried out through 14.1 documents, and slight increases in the interest rate of 15 advances, personal loans and financings with real 10 collateral.

9.6
5
Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 Specifically, the interest rate of loans Source: BCRA instrumented through documents registered a new decrease (-0.5 p.p. monthly, -1.2 p.p. year-on-year), placing itself at 9.6%, a level that marks a new minimum, in a month where this type of Chart 3.4.2 financing has lost momentum (see Section 5). For its part, the Consumer Loans interest rate corresponding to advances in current account TNA, % (Average interest rate monthly weighted by amount) is placed at 14.1%, which implied a slight increase of 0.4 p.p. 70 with respect to the previous month, but a decrease of 5.3 p.p. with respect to the same month of the previous year 65 (see Chart 3.4.1).

Personal
60 Credit Cards The interest rate of personal loans registered a slight 55 increase of 0.8 p.p. with respect to the previous month, but accumulates 50 in the last twelve months a fall of 6 p.p., reaching a level of 45 27.6%. In the case of credit card financing, although 40 information is not yet available to estimate the average interest rate 35 for February, according to the latest available information 30.0 corresponding to December, the interest rate of said loans 30 was reduced by approximately 0.2 p.p., placing itself at 30% 25 27.6 (see Chart 3.4.2).

20
Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05Source: BCRA

5 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to December 2004, the values for January and February 2005 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

Finally, the rates of loans with real collateral, which since October 2004 have moved in step, increased somewhat more than 1 p.p. in February, to place themselves around 12%. In the case of the interest rate of mortgage loans it was placed at 11.5%, while that of secured loans was placed at 12.1%, which implies a monthly increase of 1.4 p.p. and 1.2 p.p. respectively (see Chart 3.4.3).
## Chart 3.4.3
Real Guarantee Loans
TNA, % (Average Monthly Interest Rate Weighted by Amount)

## 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

35

30 Mortgages

Pawned Securities

25

20 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

15

Although the evolution of private monetary aggregates in pesos

 12.2
 continued to be positive in February, thanks to the increase in
10 12.5 private sector deposits, its growth rate decreased in relation to
5 that evidenced during the last two-month period, where its behavior
Source: BCRA Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 was explained, in part, by the payment of bonuses and the
postponement of tax payment deadlines. The total monetary
aggregates in pesos also showed different behavior from that of
recent months, showing negative variations in the case of means of
payment and slightly positive variations in the case of M3. This
responded in part to the sharp decrease in public sector placements
(see Chart 4.1.1).

Contrary to what occurred in the last two months, transactional
## Chart 4.1.1 deposits presented a significant contraction of $1,490 million on
average, which at month-end turned out to be even greater, reaching
Monetary Aggregates in Pesos $2,140 million. The majority of the decline corresponded to public
(year-over-year variation) sector placements, which decreased $2,040 million (both on average
% and between endpoints). These funds were used by the government
 50 M2 M2 Private M3 M3 Private for the payment of internal and external obligations during the
45 month. In the case of the private sector, the average variation with
40 respect to January was positive, reaching $550 million. However,
35 the carryover component from the previous month was very
30 significant, given that at month-end, these placements showed a
25 decline of around $80 million. This behavior is consistent with the
20 return to the usual levels of these deposits, since due to bonus
15 payments, the postponement of tax payment deadlines, and due to
10 summer vacations, they were at very elevated levels.

5
 Currency in circulation held by the public, for its part, decreased
Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 on average by $440 million. This aggregate had grown significantly
Source: BCRA in preceding months, fueled by the greater demand for real
balances typical of year-end and summer recess.

As a consequence of the decrease in sight deposits and currency
in circulation held by the public, total means of payment showed a
decline of $1,920 million, which resulted in a sharp deceleration of
the year-over-year growth rate, which went from 31.6% in January to
24.5% in February. Private M2 also saw its year-over-year growth
rate reduced, although to a lesser extent, going from 25.3% to 22.3%.
Despite the decline in currency in circulation held by the public, the
average increase in transactional deposits of the private sector
generated an increase of $110 million in this aggregate.

## Chart 4.1.2
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos
thousands of (monthly averages) thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
14 More than $1 million 23 For its part, fixed-term deposits grew again in February led by
 Less than $1 million (right axis) private sector placements. These deposits increased by $1,220
13 22 million, driven by both retail and wholesale deposits (see Chart
12 4.1.2). On average, the new placements were distributed evenly
21
11 between fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER and non-adjustable.
20 However, at month-end most operations concentrated in the latter
10 ($1,090 million), while deposits adjustable by CER showed
19 moderate growth ($180 million). This behavior was associated with
7 17 part, to the normative change in relation to the minimum term for fixing adjustable fixed-term deposits by CER, which in the first days of February last went from 90 days to 270 days (Communication A 4298). The lengthening of the minimum collection term of these deposits discouraged depositors in part who, as a consequence, turned toward non-adjustable placements. In relation to the maturity structure of new placements by the private sector, differences are also noted between average figures and end-of-month balances, given that the former contain an important carry-over factor from the previous month. On average, the greatest growth is observed in the longer terms, while between end-of-month figures, increases are appreciated in both short terms (30 to 59 days) and long terms. In effect, end-of-month balances showed an increase of $540 million in the 30 to 59 day segment and a rise of $670 million in more than 90 days (see Graph 4.1.3). For their part, fixed-term deposits of the public sector showed on average an increase of $770 million, which was also influenced by the carry-over from the previous month, given that between end-of-month the variation was negative, on the order of $180 million. Finally, CERs adjusted by CER evidenced a new decrease, in accordance with the maturity schedule, which was around $130 million.

**Graph 4.1.3**

**Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos (monthly variation)** 
millions of $

[Chart showing bars for January-05 and February-05 across maturity periods: 30 to 59 days, 60 to 89 days, 90 to 179 days, 180 to 365 days, more than 366 days]

Source: BCRA

The rise in fixed-term deposits, added to the increase of $140 million of other deposits, was practically offset by the decrease in means of payment. As a consequence, the broadest total monetary aggregate (M3) increased only $80 million, although in year-on-year terms it presented an increase on the order of 20%, barely 2 p.p. less than that of the previous month. On the contrary, private M3 registered growth close to $1,250 million, which in year-on-year terms resulted 1.8 p.p. higher than January, standing at 16.2%.

**Graph 4.2.1**

**Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock**
millions of US$ | thousands of millions of US$

[Chart showing lines for: On-demand Private Sector, On-demand Public Sector, Fixed-term Private Sector, Fixed-term Public Sector, Total (2nd axis)]

Source: BCRA

**4.2. Dollar Deposits**

Dollar deposits registered in February an increase of US$100 million that was concentrated in the on-demand deposits segment (see Graph 4.2.1). Particularly, on-demand placements of the private sector (mostly savings accounts) increased in the month by US$65 million while those of the public sector rose US$35 million fed especially by the participation of the same in the exchange market.

In this manner, the stock of deposits in foreign currency totaled US$4,100 million in the second month of the year.

**4.3. Bank Liquidity**

Financial entities maintained in February 23.2% of their peso deposits in liquid resources. In this way, the liquidity ratio (the sum of current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks and reverse repos arranged with the BCRA in relation to total deposits in pesos) decreased 0.7 p.p. with respect to January, which is explained essentially by the withdrawal of public deposits from the system during the month (see Section 4.1 "Monetary Aggregates in Pesos"). By bank group, a growing trend continues to be maintained in the liquidity of private banks and a decreasing one in that of public banks. Specifically, private banks have been registering increases in their liquidity since October.

**Graph 4.3.1**

**% of deposits Bank Liquidity in Pesos***
System | Public | Private

[Chart showing liquidity percentage trends from February to February]

28

26

24

7 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005
22 of last year with which they have already accumulated an increase of 5p.p. (0.6

20 p.p. in the month). Public banks, for their part, reduced their
 liquidity in February (1.7 p.p.), in response to the greater demand for

18 funds from the public sector, and accumulated a reduction in liquidity
 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05in the last three months that exceeds 4 p.p. of deposits (see

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements conducted with the BCRA.
Source: BCRA Chart 4.3.1).

 The BCRA, through the Minimum Cash Regime, requires
 financial entities to maintain liquidity in the current accounts
 of the entities at the BCRA and/or in cash in the banks,
 approximately 14.5% of total deposits in pesos. Nevertheless, the current level of liquidity existing in the system implies
 a voluntary immobilization of funds above the
 BCRA's requirements of approximately 1.8 p.p., around
 Chart 4.3.2 $1,900 million that have remained more or less constant in
 the last 7 months (see Chart 4.3.2). This potential lendable
 % of deposits Liquidity in Pesos*
 capacity is concentrated in fewer than 20 entities (private)

26
 that account for more than 60% of the excess minimum cash.

24

22 In the foreign currency deposits segment, the
 Repurchase Agreements
20 excess funds immobilized in the current accounts of the

18 banks at the BCRA and in cash have also remained more or

16 Excess
 less constant in the last 7 months totaling around
14 Integration min. cash in $ + Repurchase Liquidity
 US$2,000 million. It should be noted that 50% of said amount

 Integration min. cash in $
 corresponds to funds that the public sector maintains in the financial
12
 Requirement min. cash in $
 system and that will be mostly used for the realization of

Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 external payments. It should be noted that the BCRA limits the possible

*Data on the minimum cash position observed through the month of January 2005. February figures are estimated.
Source: BCRA. destinations to which financial entities can apply the
 lending capacity in foreign currency (see Communication
 "A" 4168) and to date has only been used for the
 granting of loans linked to foreign trade. However, 85% of
 dollar deposits is currently immobilized in cash and in the
 sight accounts of banks at the BCRA.

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

Chart 5.1
 Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos 5. Loans6
millions of $
750 (Average monthly variation)

 Commercial loans
 Consumer loans
500 Loans with real guarantees Loans to the private sector in pesos showed in

250 February an increase of $460 million (1.3%), which constitutes a
 deceleration in the growth rate with respect to what they had been

 0 showing in the last months of last year. Credits
 associated with consumption continued to be the type of financing with
-250 greater dynamism, while commercial loans, after having contracted in January, resumed growth, reproducing in general terms the behavior evidenced in these same months of the previous year (see Graph 5.1).

-500

-750
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05

Commercial lines increased in February $130 million (0.8%), as a consequence of a $170 million increase in the stock of advances in current account and a decrease of $40 million (-1.2%) of other loans, while documented credits remained unchanged, behavior very similar to that registered in the same month of the previous year. It should be noted that the variation registered by advances in current account is basically a statistical carryover phenomenon from the previous month, a consequence of the low levels in which January began, which responds, in part, to the greater liquidity that companies had at the end of the year, thanks to higher year-end sales and the postponement of income tax payment. Thus, the stock remained unchanged between ends. In the case of financings implemented through documents, its null growth was the result of an increase in single-signature documents of $120 million, offset by a decrease of $60 million of discounted documents and another $60 million of purchased documents (see graph 5.2), these last two, associated with the lower level of commercial activity that characterizes the summer period.

Source: BCRA

Consumer-related credits showed an increase close to $310 million (4.1%) in February, driven mainly by personal loans, which continue showing a firm growth rate (see Graph 5.3). In effect, these lines registered an increase of $230 million (5.3%). For its part, credit card financings increased $80 million (2.4%), although this increase has a strong statistical carryover component from the previous month, since in January they had presented significant growth linked to the validity of interest-free installment consumption promotions and with the seasonality typical of the month associated with summer vacations and festivities.

Like in the past month, financings with chattel mortgage guarantee continued growing at a slower rate than in preceding months, which reflects the lower activity in the automobile market and in the agricultural machinery market. These loans increased around $35 million (2.1%). In the case of mortgage loans, amortizations and early payments continued being higher than the amounts of new financings, so another, although very slight, decrease of only $17 million was observed (see Graph 5.4).

Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency presented growth close to US$60 million (3.6%), driven mainly by financings implemented through documents (US$40 million), which

---

**Source: BCRA**

**Footnote:**
6 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers from financial trusts, which while affecting the balances of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

**Graph 5.4**

Loans with Real Guarantee (3.6%) (Average monthly variation in millions of $)
Mortgages
50 Chattel mortgages continued with the increasing trend they have been showing since
mid last year, associated with the good performance of
0 exports. Likewise, an increase in financing through credit
cards (US$10 million) was observed, originated by
-50 purchases abroad during the summer period.

-100

-150

-200

-250 6. Financial Assets Market

Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05
Source: BCRA

6.1. Foreign Exchange Market7

The BCRA's international reserves increased US$650
million (3.3%) between the end of February and the end of January, and their level
was placed at US$20,792 million at the end of the period. The factors that
Chart 6.1.1 contributed most significantly to this result were the purchase
Foreign Exchange Settlement of Export Sales of foreign exchange from the private sector, which involved an increase of US$380
of US$ (Includes CIARA and CEC)
120 million and the sight deposits of financial entities in the
Foreign Exchange Settlement - Monthly BCRA, which as a counterpart to the increase in dollar deposits,
Average 100 rose US$350 million. On the other hand, operations
80 by the public sector again led to a foreign exchange outflow of
US$200 million, linked to net payments abroad made.
60

40 In the spot foreign exchange markets, a significant
20 increase in traded volume was observed. Thus, the average daily
operations increased 34% compared to January. Transactions
0 agreed through the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL)
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 showed a rise of 46%, while those arranged through
Source: CIARA the Electronic Foreign Exchange Market grew 20%. On one hand,
this result was contributed to by the increase in foreign exchange
settlement by exporters. In this way, if those grouped in
the Chamber of the Oil Industry of the Argentine Republic
(CIARA) and in the Grain Exporters Center (CEC) are
considered, which constitute a representative portion of the total,
it was observed that, unlike what occurred in 2003 and 2004,
they increased the amount of foreign exchange settlement in relation to January and
that the daily average settled this year turned out to be higher than that of the
Chart 6.1.2 two previous years (see Chart 6.1.1). On the other hand, optimism
Dec-01=100 regarding the result of the debt swap also originated the
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Basket/$)*
110 inflow of foreign exchange destined for the purchase of peso-denominated bonds and the
100 acquisition of shares in the local market, given that there is a
consensus that their performance will be favored by a
90 successful exit from the payment cessation. Likewise, it is worth mentioning
80 that the public sector acquired foreign exchange in the Unified and Free
70 Foreign Exchange Market to face payments abroad, thereby its
participation in it was greater in relation to previous months.
60

50 In nominal terms the peso depreciated 2.6% against the

40 real, while it showed appreciations of 0.9% and 1.6% in relation
to the US dollar and the euro, respectively. On the other hand,
30 according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM),
Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04
*Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso. the peso appreciated 0.8% against the basket of currencies of the

7 For an analysis of the result of the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market in February, see the Quarterly Report on Evolution of the Foreign
Exchange Market that will be published at http://www.bcra.gov.ar.

10 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

main trading partners, accumulating a real appreciation of
0.2% in the last 12 months (see Chart 6.1.2).
In the Rosario Forward Market, currently the most liquid market where futures contracts of the local currency against the US dollar are traded, operations were conducted daily, on average, around $57 million, a level barely 5% below that traded in the previous month. In line with the trajectory of the spot exchange rate, if the average monthly quotations for the different contracts are considered, it is observed that they decreased around 0.9% for the shorter-term contracts, up to four months and also the most traded ones, and around 0.7% for those with maturity at the end of July and August.

**6.2. Capital Market**

**6.2.1. Stocks**

According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in February the quotations of variable income securities increased 13.5%, after having marginally decreased in January. The upward movement of prices was positively correlated with the news generated by the national public debt exchange process that concluded on February 25. In this sense, the maximum value of the MERVAL index was observed on the day said process concluded, given the expectation of a high degree of participation that was finally confirmed at 76.07% (see Chart 6.2.1.1).

In this same sense, a considerable increase in the average daily amount traded of shares that comprise the MERVAL was observed, which reached $115 million, 117% higher than that traded in January.

**6.2.2. Public Securities**

The yields on securities issued after the cessation of payments showed decreases with respect to December. Among the most liquid ones, the securities in pesos adjustable by CER of shorter duration stood out, and among them, the BODEN 08 which registered a decline of 0.6 p.p. in its internal rate of return (IRR). On the other hand, among securities in dollars, the BODEN 13 registered an important decrease in its IRR of 1.2 p.p. between month-end. This was due, in part, to the expectation of a positive result from the exchange, the weighting of Argentine debt would increase in the EMBI, so investors interested in positioning themselves in the index had to increase their exposure in Argentine dollar-denominated securities. The rest of the sovereign securities in pesos of shorter maturity also registered negative variations in their IRR. For their part, those of longer maturity showed increases in their IRR, such as BOGAR which had an increase of 0.5 p.p.. That is, the slope of the yield curve of public securities in pesos increased with respect to January. (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

With respect to sovereign risk, during the course of the month an important decrease in the spread between the yield of BODEN 12 and that of comparable securities of the United States Treasury was observed. After reaching 5.8 p.p. at the beginning of the month, and after confirmation of a successful result, an important decline occurred, causing it to end the month at 4.2 p.p.. Likewise, the emerging markets (excluding Argentina) generally decreased their risk premiums, standing at 2.8 p.p. at the end of February.
BODEN 12 BODEN 08 PRE 8 PR12 BOGAR The amount traded of the most liquid public securities, of

300 considering the daily average, increased 23%8 compared to January

250 (see Chart 6.2.2.2). This increase is explained in part by the

200 greater number of operations with BODEN 12 (in dollars).

150

100

50 6.2.3. Institutional Investors9

0
 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05
 Source: MAE and BCBA. 6.2.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators

 At the end of February, the investment portfolio of the
 Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) reached $56,358 million, $2,700
 million (5%) above what they held at the end of January. The historical
 profitability of the system10 stood at 14.68%, 0.15 p.p. higher than
 that recorded in January; while the average annual profitability11 went
 from 7.65% last month to 10.72%.

 Chart 6.2.3.1.1 The marked increase in the investment portfolio and in annual

 % Shares in AFJP Portfolio profitability was explained by the significant boost that
 90 Variation in AFJP portfolio placements in variable income securities received that
 80 Variation of quotation quote in the local market, given the good performance they
 70 presented this month, as noted in Section 6.2.1. If we consider the

 60 securities that contributed most to the monthly variation,

 50 which in turn concentrate around 70% of this class of

 40 investment, it is observed that most of the increase in the

 30 portfolio was the result of the rise in quotations, although in

 20 some cases, the holding increased by a higher percentage

 10 (see Chart 6.2.3.1.1).

 0
 Tenaris Siderar Petrobras Telecom Acindar BancoMacroTelefonica GrupoThe placements in mutual investment funds were also
 HipotecarioBansud Galicia
 Source: SAFJP and BCBA. favored by the evolution of share prices.
 In this way, the holding of variable income funds in pesos was
 the one that experienced the largest increase in February, explaining
 almost 60% of the $480 million (21%) total increase of this type of
 investments. With the exception of fixed-term funds in dollars and
 mixed income in pesos, which showed no variations between end

 8 Operations in the Electronic Open Market (MAE) and the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) are considered.
 9 The figures in this section correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise specified.
 10 Corresponds to the historical profitability published by the Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators
 (SAFJP). It is the profitability obtained since the beginning of the system, expressed on an annual basis.
 11 It is the profitability of the last 12 months measured by the variation in the value of the average monthly share, excluding the fund
 managed by AFJP Nación, according to current regulations.

 12 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

 Chart 6.1.3.1.2 of the month, the remaining funds also contributed positively

 millions of $ Variation of Investments in Funds to the monthly growth of this item in the AFJP portfolio
 300 (February) (see Chart 6.2.3.1.2).

 250

 200 Although in relative terms they constitute only 5% of the
 investment portfolio of the AFJP, placements in negotiable
 150 bonds evidenced a significant monthly increase, going
 from $1,030 million at the end of January, to $1,170 million at the end of
 100
 February. Most of the increase occurred due to the
 50 additional allocation from the portfolio in short-term bonds, which
 was linked to the important participation that the AFJP had in
 0
 Variable income $ Fixed term $ Variable income Fixed income US$ Mixed income US$ Fixed income $ the debt placement carried out by Telefonica of Argentina, which will
 US$ be detailed in Section 6.2.4, in which they subscribed 47% of the
 total issuance.

 Source: SAFJP

 6.2.3.2. Mutual Investment Funds
## Graph 6.2.3.2.1 The equity of mutual funds in pesos

The equity of Mutual Funds in Pesos reached $6,782 million in February, registering a monthly increase of 13% ($787 million), explained mainly by fixed-term and money market funds and variable income funds (see Graph 6.2.3.2.1). In terms of returns, all funds showed positive results.

Fixed income funds
Mixed income
Variable income
Fixed-term and money

The money market funds grew $407 million during February, reaching $4,341 million, which represents a monthly variation of around 10%. As in previous months, during February seasonal intramonthly movements were observed. Until mid-month and as a consequence of income from commercial activity, of a seasonal nature, there was a growth of $754 million. Subsequently, due to the result of tax payments, it decreased by $347 million. For its part, the annualized profitability of these funds decreased slightly, reaching 2.2% in February.

The variable income funds presented in January an important equity increase of $306 million and reached $1,704 million. This was due both to the entry of new funds and to the increase in the value of their share units, whose evolution is closely linked to that of the MERVAL index, as mentioned in previous reports. The good performance of said index, explained in section 6.2.1., had a positive influence on the returns of these funds, which showed a monthly return of 9% in the month (see Graph 6.2.3.2.2).

## Graph 6.2.3.2.2
Variable Income Funds

Equity FCI Variable Income - MERVAL (right axis)

For its part, fixed income funds had significant growth, recording an increase of $68 million and reaching $566 million, equivalent to a monthly variation of 14%. This increase is explained mainly by the influx of new funds, mostly institutional and from companies, since the value of their share units increased only 1%, associated with the improvement in the quotation of the securities in the portfolio.

Finally, the equity of mixed income funds registered an increase of $6 million, reaching $170 million and representing a monthly increase of 4%. Most of this increase was due to the improvement in the value of its share units, given the increase in the quotation of its assets in the portfolio, which drove a decrease in monthly returns of 4% in February.

## 6.2.4. Private Securities

Within the framework of its global program for issuing negotiable bonds (ON) for a total of $1,500 million, Telefónica de Argentina S.A. issued its third series of ONs for $250 million. For its part, the offers received exceeded 2.5 times the original bid amount of $150 million. The ONs issued were in pesos at fixed and variable rates. The first with a term of 365 days had a cut-off rate of 8% and an issuance of $200 million. The second with a term of 730 days had a cut-off rate of 2.5% over the interest rate from the survey conducted by the BCRA (corresponding to fixed-term deposits for amounts of $100 thousand to $499 thousand with a 59-day term) and an issuance of 50 million.

---

**Source: BCRA and CAFCI**

**13 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005**
Graph 6.2.4.1 For its part, Transener S.A. launched its proposal to
restructure US$ 470 million of debt, which contemplates the possible
Corporate Bond Yield Curves subscription of an Extrajudicial Preventive Agreement (APE) in case of

TIR %
achieving an adhesion below 97%. The proposal includes 3 options
14 for each VN US$100 (I) VN US$55 in cash; (II) VN US$100 in

12 a bond with maturity in 2016; (III) A combination between

10 a discounted bond with maturity in 2015 and/or company shares.
For its part, the offer concludes on March 23 and does not
8
include any payment for accrued interest.

6

4 Non-restructured* (31-Jan) With respect to the behavior of the
Restructured (31-Jan)
2 secondary market for corporate debt instruments, based on the
Non-restructured* (28-Feb)
analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors
Restructured (28-Feb)
0 continue differentiating between debtors who never stopped
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 serving their obligations and those who had to resort to the
*Corresponds to bonds from issuers that have not incurred payment cessation restructuring of their financial liabilities. In terms of TIR,
Source: Bloomberg and others duration (years) the additional premium required for bonds issued after
restructuring processes was positioned on average at 3.5 p.p. For
its part, for restructured bonds, decreases in TIR of 0.6 p.p.
were observed on average with respect to the end of January (see
Graph 6.2.4.1).

14 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System Feb-05 Monthly Last 12 monthsJan-05Dec-04Feb-04
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 49,577 50,205 50,647 46,999 -1.3% -2.2% 5.5% -2.5%
Quasi-money 111 111 111 114 0.0% -0.9% -3.4% -10.7%

Monetary Base 49,467 50,094 50,537 46,885 -1.3% -2.2% 5.5% -2.4%
Monetary Circulation 35,779 36,365 35,838 28,935 -1.6% -2.5% 23.7% 14.4%
In the hands of the Public 32,197 32,638 31,702 26,013 -1.4% -2.3% 23.8% 14.5%
In Financial Entities 3,582 3,727 4,136 2,922 -3.9% -4.8% 22.6% 13.4%
Current Account at the BCRA 13,688 13,730 14,699 17,950 -0.3% -1.2% -23.7% -29.5%

Stock of Passive Repos 7,115 7,590 5,524 0 -6.3% -7.1%
Stock of Active Repos 10 19 33 44 -48.6% -49.1% -77.5% -79.2%

International Reserves of the BCRA 20,526 19,841 19,310 15,009 3.5% 36.8%

Total Deposits in Pesos 1 104,411 103,899 101,976 89,268 0.5% -0.5% 17.0% 8.2%

Private Deposits 77,687 76,002 73,970 70,917 2.2% 1.3% 9.5% 1.3%
Current Account 18,535 18,225 17,813 15,662 1.7% 0.7% 18.3% 9.4%
Savings Account 18,202 17,958 17,587 14,659 1.4% 0.4% 24.2% 14.8%
Fixed Term 27,886 27,288 26,334 28,169 2.2% 1.2% -1.0% -8.4%
Fixed Term adjustable by CER 6,101 5,477 4,825 851 11.4% 10.3% 617.1% 563.2%
Other Deposits 5,386 5,334 5,529 5,193 1.0% 0.0% 3.7% -4.1%
Exchanged by BODEN (accounted) 158 169 172 1,760 -6.5% -7.4% -91.0% -91.7%
CEDRO including CER 1,419 1,551 1,710 4,623 -8.5% -9.4% -69.3% -71.6%

Public Sector Deposits 26,725 27,896 28,006 18,351 -4.2% -5.1% 45.6% 34.7%

Total Deposits in Dollars 1 4,084 4,046 3,933 2,103 0.9% 94.2%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 55,155 54,881 54,426 49,619 0.5% -0.4% 11.2% 2.8%

To the Private Sector 34,846 34,439 34,109 26,599 1.2% 0.2% 31.0% 21.1%
Advances 6,309 6,139 6,356 4,237 2.8% 1.8% 48.9% 37.7%
Documents 6,771 6,771 6,669 4,690 0.0% -0.9% 44.4% 33.5%
Mortgages 8,773 8,760 8,692 9,129 0.2% -0.8% -3.9% -11.1%
Pledges 1,707 1,673 1,637 1,239 2.1% 1.1% 37.8% 27.5%
Personal 4,563 4,414 4,184 2,514 3.4% 2.4% 81.5% 67.8%
Credit Cards 3,311 3,230 3,080 2,262 2.5% 1.5% 46.3% 35.3%
Others 3,411 3,452 3,491 2,528 -1.2% -2.1% 34.9% 24.7%

To the Public Sector 20,310 20,442 20,317 23,020 -0.6% -1.6% -11.8% -18.4%
Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1,805 1,749 1,702 1,458 3.2% 23.8%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 60,977 62,724 61,728 49,822 -2.8% -3.7% 22.4% 13.2%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 88,210 90,178 88,625 67,963 -2.2% -3.1% 29.8% 20.0%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 148,469 148,400 145,306 119,805 0.0% -0.9% 23.9% 14.6%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 50,843 50,974 49,626 41,790 -0.3% -1.2% 21.7% 12.5%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 69,045 68,932 67,213 56,449 0.2% -0.8% 22.3% 13.1%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 109,836 108,582 105,611 95,285 1.2% 0.2% 15.3% 6.6%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

 Broad Monetary Base -628 -1.3% 2,336 4.9% -1,070 -2.1% 2,578 5.5%
 Financial Sector -595 -1.2% -2,808 -5.9% -2,832 -5.6% -9,965 -21.2%
 Public Sector -352 -0.7% -374 -0.8% -353 -0.7% -6,764 -14.4%
 Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits -346 1,909 300 6,645
 Utilization of the National Government Account -221 -133 -4 -63
 External Credit 215 -2,149 -649 -13,346
 Private External Sector 1,211 2.4% 7,094 15.0% 3,679 7.3% 22,900 48.7%
 BCRA Securities -697 -1.4% -1,328 -2.8% -1,365 -2.7% -3,639 -7.7%
 Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
 Others 3 -195 -0.4% -248 -0.5% -198 -0.4% 47 0.1%

 International Reserves 686 3.5% 1,807 9.7% 1,216 6.3% 5,517 36.8%
 Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 414 2.1% 2,395 12.8% 1,245 6.4% 7,785 51.9%
 Payment to International Organizations -269 -1.4% -1,072 -5.7% -655 -3.4% -4,106 -27.4%
 Other Public Sector operations 386 1.9% 564 3.0% 546 2.8% 452 3.0%
 Minimum Cash 139 0.7% -166 -0.9% 110 0.6% 881 5.9%
 Repo Rate Valuation -32 -0.2% -38 -0.2% -117 -0.6% 46 0.3%
 Others 48 0.2% 123 0.7% 86 0.4% 459 3.1%

 1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2005

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Nov-04 Feb-04

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 2.18 2.18 2.21 2.26 1.23
 Amount traded 264 267 384 550 156

 Fixed Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 2.70 2.83 2.97 3.02 2.31
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.65 2.81 3.08 3.08 1.62
 60 days or more 3.42 3.47 3.80 3.94 2.88
 In dollars
 30 days 0.27 0.30 0.30 0.29 0.52
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.25 0.28 0.25 0.29 0.63
 60 days or more 0.62 0.69 0.66 0.60 0.88

 Active Interest Rates Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Nov-04 Feb-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.36 5.57 5.78 5.79 9.50

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 3.07 3.39 4.31 4.25 1.55
 Volume traded (total maturities) 71 73 77 73 50

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 14.08 13.67 13.80 14.04 19.36
 Documents on Simple Signature 9.56 10.05 10.64 10.31 10.79
 Mortgage Loans 12.48 11.12 11.54 11.17 12.30
 Pledge Loans 12.19 10.96 11.72 11.29 14.63
 Personal Loans 27.65 26.83 26.67 26.52 33.68
 Credit Cards n/d n/d 30.00 30.21 33.40

 International Interest Rates Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Nov-04 Feb-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 2.61 2.49 2.39 2.13 1.10
 6 months 3.05 2.89 2.72 2.50 1.19

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.38 3.21 3.00 2.85 1.71
 10 years 4.16 4.21 4.22 4.19 4.06

 FED Funds Rate 2.49 2.25 2.16 1.92 1.00

 SELIC (at 1 year) 18.45 17.94 17.52 16.95 16.50
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT – FEBRUARY 2005

(1) Data through December correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for January and February are estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

**Reference Interest Rates** | Feb-05 | Jan-05 | Dec-04 | Nov-04 | Feb-04

**BCRA repo rates**
7-day Liabilities | 2.75 | 2.69 | 2.50 | 2.50 | n/a
7-day Assets | 3.25 | 3.14 | 3.00 | 3.00 | n/a

**Total REPO trading floor repo rates**
1 day | 2.14 | 2.19 | 2.10 | 2.06 | n/d
7 days | 2.75 | 2.69 | 2.51 | 2.51 | n/d

Amount operated in REPO trading floor repos (daily average) | 1495 | 1657 | 1267 | 1309 | n/d

**LEBAC rates in pesos**
9 months | 5.47 | 5.68 | 5.67 | 5.62 | n/a
12 months | 5.91 | 6.07 | 5.92 | 5.94 | 7.72
18 months | n/a | n/a | 7.00 | 6.83 | 9.31
24 months | n/a | n/a | 7.65 | 7.78 | n/a

**LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER**
12 months | -0.32 | 0.03 | -0.12 | -0.12 | 2.21
18 months | 0.25 | 0.60 | n/a | n/a | 3.65
24 months | 0.72 | 1.28 | 1.35 | 1.33 | n/a

**NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER** | 3.06 | 3.06 | 2.37 | 2.16 | 5.25

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) | 53 | 91 | 93 | 80 | 113

**Foreign Exchange Market** | Feb-05 | Jan-05 | Dec-04 | Nov-04 | Feb-04

**Spot Dollar**
Exchange houses | 2.92 | 2.94 | 2.97 | 2.95 | 2.93
BCRA Reference | 2.92 | 2.95 | 2.97 | 2.95 | 2.93

**Forward Dollar**
NDF 1 month | 2.91 | 2.94 | 2.98 | 2.97 | 2.93
INDOL 1 month | n/a | 2.97 | 2.96 | 2.98 | 2.93
Amount operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) | n/a | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
ROFEX 1 month | 2.91 | 2.94 | 2.97 | 2.96 | 2.93
Amount operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) | 54 | 57 | 95 | 126 | 55

**Real (Pesos x Real)** | 1.12 | 1.09 | 1.09 | 1.06 | 1.00

**Euro (Pesos x Euro)** | 3.80 | 3.86 | 3.99 | 3.84 | 3.71

**Capital Market** | Feb-05 | Jan-05 | Dec-04 | Nov-04 | Feb-04

**MERVAL**
Index | 1493 | 1340 | 1287 | 1253 | 1122
Volume Operated (millions of pesos) | 115 | 44 | 63 | 71 | 76

**Government Bonds (per face value 100)**
BODEN 2012 (US$) | 87.43 | 84.46 | 83.32 | 79.57 | 63.27
BODEN 08 ($) | 113.66 | 109.88 | 108.18 | 108.27 | 92.57

**Country Risk (basis points)**
BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 455 | 606 | 627 | 731 | 1,182
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) | 288 | 306 | 300 | 319 | 388

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
