# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
APRIL 2005

## CONTENTS 1. Summary

**1. Summary** 1
• During April, the BCRA continued with the monetary absorption policy that it has been implementing since the beginning of the current year. In this way, the BMA contracted $357 million between the end of March and April, accumulating a decrease of $2,632 million with respect to December 31, 2004. During the course of the month, the BCRA expanded the menu of securities it places in the primary market, incorporating to the already existing ones the NOBACs with variable coupon. Thus, LEBACs and NOBACs constituted the main instrument of monetary absorption.

**2. Monetary Program** 2

**3. Interest Rates** 2

**3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA** 2
• The BCRA continued with the policy of gradual increase in the interest rates of the securities it issues, observing in the month increases in the yields of LEBACs in pesos not adjustable by CER of between 1.2 p.p. and 0.75 p.p.. At the beginning of April, the BCRA decided on a new increase of 0.5 p.p. of the interest rates on repo operations. Thus, it arranged passive repos at 3.25% and active repos at 3.75%, shifting upward the corridor of short-term reference interest rates, toward which the rates in the interbank loan market continued to converge. Accompanying the rate increase driven by the BCRA and in a context of greater liquidity needs of companies, passive interest rates deepened the increase from the previous month, in all terms and for all types of depositors.

**3.2. Interfinancial Markets** 3

**3.2.1 Repo Market** 3

**3.2.2 Interbank Market** 4

**3.3. Passive Interest Rates** 4

**3.4. Active Interest Rates** 5

**4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity** 6
• Monetary aggregates in pesos presented positive variations, thanks to the increase in sight deposits of the public sector and the increase in time placements of the private sector, registering in almost all cases a slight deceleration of their year-on-year growth rate. Means of payment (M2) increased on average $520 million (23.7% y.o.y.) and the broader total monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) increased $1,490 million (22.7% y.o.y.).

**4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos** 6

**4.2. Deposits in Dollars** 7

**4.3. Bank Liquidity** 7

**5. Loans** 8
• Loans in pesos to the private sector presented in April a significant average increase of $862 million (2.4%), which is comparable to the best months of 2004, and unlike what occurred in the previous 4 months and due to greater liquidity needs of companies, commercial loans once again became the most dynamic line, while consumer loans maintained a good growth rate.

**6. Financial Assets Market** 9

**6.1. Foreign Exchange Market** 9
• In nominal terms, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar and the euro, 0.9% and 2.9% respectively, while it depreciated 4% against the real. On the other hand, in real terms, according to the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated 0.6% with respect to March and accumulates a depreciation of 4.6% in the last 12 months.

**6.2. Capital Markets** 10

**6.2.1. Equities** 10

**6.2.2. Public Securities** 10

**6.2.3. Institutional Investors** 11

**6.2.3.1 Pension Fund Administrators** 11

**6.2.3.2 Mutual Investment Funds** 11

**6.2.4. Private Securities** 12

**7. Monetary and Financial Indicators** 13

Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

**2. Monetary Program**
During April, the BCRA continued with the monetary absorption policy that it has been implementing since the beginning of the current year. In this way, the BMA contracted $357 million between the end of March and April, accumulating a decrease of $2,632 million with respect to December 31, 2004. For its part, the average balance of the BMA increased $144 million (0.3%) and a fall in bank reserves in pesos of $120 million (0.7%) was observed and an increase in monetary circulation in the hands of the public of

**Chart 2.1** $264 million (0.8%)

**Explanatory Factors of the Broad Monetary Base**

thousands of (on average, April 2005) During the course of the month, the BCRA expanded the menu of securities
millions of $
1.0 that it places in the primary market, incorporating to the already existing

0.8 ones the NOBACs with variable coupon, whose characteristics will be detailed in

0.6 the following section. Thus, LEBACs and NOBACs constituted the

0.4 main monetary absorption instrument, generating a

0.2 reduction of the BMA of $643 million (see Chart 2.1).

0.0

-0.2 Financial entities continued canceling their balances for

-0.4 illiquidity assistance that they had received during the 2001 crisis

-0.6 and, the payment of the installment corresponding to April involved a

-0.8 monetary contraction of $198 million. Additionally, in April
BCRA Securities Financial Repo Public External BMA some financial entities decided to advance part of their
Sector Sector debts included in the matching, which will imply a monetary contraction
Source: BCRA that will be effectuated at the beginning of May when the payment is settled.

Simultaneously, banks increased their position in reverse repos with the BCRA, which implied a decrease of the BMA of $142 million.

Operations of the public sector caused an increase of the BMA of $179 million, linked to the temporary advances received by the Treasury, within the limits established by the BCRA's Organic Charter.

The BCRA continued with its policy of reserve accumulation,
**Chart 3.1.1** generating a monetary expansion of $854 million, which resulted

**TNA, %** Interest Rates in the Primary Market 51% lower than those corresponding to the same month of the previous year.
8

7

6

5

4 **3. Interest Rates**
3 26-Apr Non-adjusted Pesos CER 26-Apr Adjusted Pesos CER

2 29-Mar Non-adjusted Pesos CER 29-Mar Adjusted Pesos CER

1 26-Apr Pesos variable coupon 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

0

-1
 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 The BCRA continued with the policy of increasing the average life interest rates

Source: BCRA (days) of the securities it issues. Thus, in April an upward displacement of the yield curve of the LEBACs in non-adjustable pesos by CER was observed. The largest increases were registered at the extremes and an increase of 1.2 p.p. was observed in the one-month securities and of 0.75 p.p. for the three-month LEBACs and an increase of 1.1 p.p. for the 12-month one. For their part, the interest rates

2 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

**Chart 3.2.1.1** for the LEBACs and NOBACs adjustable by CER remained

**%** Interest Rates of Call and Repo Operations at similar levels to those in effect at the end of March.
(rate weighted average by amount)
% 2005
 7.5 3.75
 3.50 With the objective of expanding the range of instruments that
 6.5 3.25
 3.00 the BCRA has to meet its monetary targets, in April it began to bid NOBACs
 2.75 in pesos that pay quarterly a variable coupon, equivalent to the sum of the
 5.5 2.50
 2.25 average BADLAR interest rate, interest rate agreed for time deposits of
 4.5 2.00
 1.75 fixed maturity of more than one million pesos for the total of financial
 1.50
 3.5 15-Feb 3-Mar 21-Mar 8-Apr 26-Apr entities in the 30 to 35 days tranche- and a fixed margin of 2.5%.
 These securities have a duration of two years and in the last auction
 2.5
# 3.2.2. Interbank Market

## Chart 3.2.2.2
Call Market
millions of $ (Average monthly net position by group of entities)

[Chart showing Foreign, Private National, and Public entities from Jan-04 to Mar-05]

The interbank market continued relatively active, presenting an average stock of financings of $509 million daily, a level similar to the previous month but almost 40% lower than that observed during the second half of 2004 (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

The interest rates of the interbank market converged to the new level of the short-term interest rate corridor established by the BCRA through its pass operations. In the one-business-day segment the interest rate was positioned at 2.68% in

---

**Page 3 - Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005**
3.3. Passive Interest Rates

In April, passive interest rates deepened the increase from the previous month, again showing positive variations in all terms and for all types of depositors (see Chart 3.3.1). This phenomenon is associated in part with the decrease in liquidity of financial entities that took place in April (see Section 4.3).

In relative terms, private banks were the ones that suffered the greatest loss of liquidity, which led them to increase the remuneration of their deposits, especially in the wholesale segment of shorter term, which is the most sensitive to variations in banking liquidity. In effect, the rate paid by these banks in terms between 30 and 44 days for placements greater than $1 million increased 1.2 p.p., placing itself at 4.65% at the end of April, while the interest rate offered by public entities for this type of deposits increased only 0.45 p.p., ending the month at 3.05%. In the retail segment (operations up to $100,000) private banks also offered interest rates higher than those of March, while those of public entities showed no variations (see Chart 3.3.2).

**Chart 3.3.2**
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-44 days
(5-day moving average)
Private Banks Public Banks
% Below $100,000 % Above $1,000,000
4.3 5.0
4.1 4.5
3.9 4.0
3.7 3.5
3.5
3.0
3.3
2.5
3.1 2.0
2.9
2.7 1.5
2.5 1.0
2.3 0.5
Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05

Source: BCRA

In the longer-term segments, which were affected by the transfer of funds toward shorter-term deposits (see Section 4.1), due to the payment of income tax corresponding to fiscal year 2004 to be made the following month, interest rates showed significant increases. In fact, the average rate for operations between 60 and 89 days went from 3.3% in March to 3.8% in April and the average interest rate for placements of more than 90 days increased 0.45 p.p., placing itself at 4.4%.

**Chart 3.3.3**
Performance of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
(by type of depositor)
% MARCH 2005 APRIL 2005
6 Natural Persons
 Legal Persons
5

4

By type of depositor, the most significant variations in interest rates corresponded once again to operations agreed upon by institutions providing financial services (AFJP, FCI, etc.). These investors received average yields 0.9 p.p. higher than those of March, while the rest of legal persons and natural persons received average remuneration 0.2 p.p. and 0.1 p.p. higher than those of the previous month, respectively. In this way, the yield curves of each of the aforementioned depositors again moved away from each other, presenting an average spread of around 0.5 p.p., with the

4 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005
3 natural persons as receivers of the lowest interest rates and financial services providing institutions as beneficiaries of the highest interest rates (see Graph 3.3.3).

30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days days

Note: Operations with fixed terms adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA

3.4. Active Interest Rates¹

Graph 3.4.1 In a context of credit growth to the private sector, Commercial Loans active interest rates remained relatively stable during April. TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

58 Advances
53 After having risen last month 0.2 p.p. in a context Documents of short-term interest rate increases, the interest rates of 48 advances remained unchanged during April at 14.2%, while 43 the amounts operated presented a very significant increase 38 (see Section 5). The current level of the interest rate is 1.1 33 p.p. below that observed a year ago (see Graph 3.4.1). Similarly, 28 the interest rate of loans implemented through documents 23 recorded a slight decline (0.2 p.p. monthly), placing it at 9.5%, 18 accumulating a decline of 0.8 p.p. year-over-year, which coincides 14.2 with an increase in the stock of this line of loans (see Section 5).
13
9.5
8
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05
Source: BCRA

Although the stock of personal loans continues to grow at a steady pace, its interest rate declined 0.2 p.p. to place itself at 26.6%, a level that is 4.7 p.p. below that corresponding to a year ago. In the case of credit card financing, information is not yet available to estimate the average interest rate for April; however, according to Graph 3.4.2 the latest available information corresponding to February, the interest rate Consumer Loans of these loans remained unchanged at 27.4%, TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) practically equaling the level of interest rates of personal 70 loans for that month (see Graph 3.4.2).
65
60
55
50 Finally, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee reduced
45 their interest rates by 0.4 p.p. in April, placing themselves at 10.7%, 40 while in the case of mortgage loans, the interest rate was placed at 35 Personal 11.7%, which implies a monthly increase of 0.2 p.p. (see Graph 3.4.3).
30 Credit Cards 27.4
26.6
25
20
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05
Source: BCRA

¹ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through February 2005, the values of March and April 2005 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

Graph 3.4.3 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

Loans with Real Guarantee
TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
35
4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
30 Mortgages
Chattel Mortgages
25
20 In April, monetary aggregates in pesos presented positive variations, thanks to the increase in deposits and the 15 increase in cash in the hands of the public, registering in almost all cases a slight deceleration in its year-over-year growth rate 11.7 (see Graph 4.1.1).
10 10.7
5 Transactional deposits showed an increase with an average close to $370 million. However, when comparing end-of-month balances, a much larger increase is noted, which amounted to $1,800 million, which will leave a strong carryover for the next month. This increase concentrated almost entirely in public sector placements, which during the last days of the month grew significantly, fueled by substantial fiscal collection. For their part, sight deposits from the private sector practically did not vary between end-of-month. This behavior is consistent with the strong increase in short-term fixed-rate deposits, incentivized by the increase in passive interest rates (see Graph 4.1.2).

Currency in circulation held by the public grew on average around $260 million (0.8%). This increase, added to the increase in sight placements, resulted in an average increase in total means of payment (M2) close to $520 million (0.6%) and an average increase in private means of payment (M2 private) that rounded $770 million. It should be noted that between end-of-month, the increase in currency in circulation held by the public was greater than $620 million, concentrating in the last week of the month.

The evolution of fixed-term deposits in April continued to be positive, driven mainly by private sector placements. On average, those deposits increased $650 million and the stock of fixed-term deposits from the public sector registered an increase of $400 million. However, when comparing end-of-month balances, the variations turn out to be different, showing an increase close to $930 million in private fixed-term deposits and a rise slightly greater than $100 million in public placements.

The new fixed-term deposits from the private sector were executed in the wholesale segment. Most operations were carried out short-term, which was associated in part with the greater need for available funds that companies foresee having in May, due to the expiration of income tax, and in part with expectations of an increase in the passive interest rate which, as mentioned in Section 3.3, has been experiencing an upward trend. In effect, the stock of fixed-terms of 30-59 days grew between end-of-month more than $1,000 million, while the rest of deposits not adjustable by CER showed an increase close to $70 million and placements adjustable by CER decreased $140 million (see Graph 4.1.3). It should be noted that at the beginning of the month there was a new extension of the minimum maturity period for deposits adjustable by CER, which went from 270 to 365 days (Communication A 4331).

Finally, CEDRO adjusted by CER showed a new decrease, in line with the maturity schedule, which rounded $160 million. This decline partially offset the increase in fixed-term deposits, yielding an average increase of $890 million of total placements at term.

6 Monthly Monetary Report –APRIL 2005
600
 The growth of time deposits, combined with
 400
 the increase of $80 million in other deposits and the rise in
 200
 means of payment resulted in an average increase of the broader
 0 total monetary aggregate (M3) of $1,490 million (1.0%). In

 -200 year-on-year terms, this aggregate showed an increase of around

 -400 22.7%, slightly higher than the previous month. For its part, private

 -600 M3 recorded growth close to $1,290 million,

 -800 which in year-on-year terms reached 17.8%.
 30-59 days 60-89 days 90-179 days 180-365 days more than 366 days

 Source: BCRA

 4.2. Dollar Deposits

 Dollar deposits showed a decline of around
 Chart 4.2.1 US$400 million in April (see Chart 4.2.1) as a result of the
 statistical carryover from the previous month, since at the end of it the public
 Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock
 millions of US$ thousands of millions
 of US$
 560 sector recorded a sharp decrease in its deposits to
 4.3
 480
 400 3.5
 320 2.7 meet the payment of external and internal obligations.
 240 1.9
 160 1.1 Specifically, the holdings in savings accounts of the
 80
 0 0.3 public sector were reduced by US$450 million on average during the month

 -80 -0.5 while time deposits remained practically unchanged. However, considering

 -160 -1.3
 -240 the variations with respect to the end of
 -2.1
 -320 March, public sector deposits increased by US$520
 Dep. Priv. Sector Dep. Pub. Sector Total (2nd axis)
 -400 -2.9
 -480 -3.7 million. For their part, dollar deposits from the private sector

 -560 -4.5 continued showing a path of sustained growth
 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05
 recording an increase in April of US$40 million on average,
 Source: BCRA
 mostly concentrated in demand deposits.

 The stock of deposits in foreign currency totaled in April
 US$3,600 million (7% lower than that existing at the end of 2004).

 4.3. Banking Liquidity

 Banking liquidity, defined as the sum of current
 Chart 4.3.1 accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks and reverse repos for the
 BCRA, represented 21% of total deposits in pesos in April.

 Banking Liquidity in Pesos* By bank group, disparate behavior is observed, with an
 % of deposits
 28 increase in liquidity of public banks together with a decline in the

 System Public Private group of private banks (see Chart 4.3.1). In this regard, the latter

 26 channeled part of their liquidity and newly captured deposits mainly to

 24 the granting of loans to the private sector, reducing their liquidity

 ratio by 0.8 percentage points (see Section 5)
 22 while public banks mostly acquired BCRA securities and increased
 their liquidity held at the BCRA by increasing
 20 their ratio by almost half a percentage point.

 18
 The slight decline in the balances of current accounts of
 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05
 private banks at the BCRA, together with an increase in the requirement

 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos carried out with the BCRA.
 Source: BCRA

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

 Chart 4.3.2 due to the fact that the increase in deposits of the month was concentrated

 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos* in demand and shorter-term placements (see Section 4.1),
 % deposits

 26 both subject to a higher reserve requirement, caused the position of

 24 minimum cash (requirement minus integration) of the month to be reduced

 22 by half a percentage point (see Chart 4.3.2), ending April at

 20 approximately $1,100 million. By bank group, the

 18 surplus of minimum cash in pesos is around 1.2 percentage points

 16 for private entities and 0.7 percentage points for public ones.

 Liquidity 
 Surplus 14 For its part, the decline in foreign currency deposits

 generated a decrease in dollar current accounts of the
Integration of EM in $ public banks in the BCRA that caused the surplus of
12 EM Requirement in $
foreign currency liquidity to fall around US$500 million in April.
10
Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05Currently, the excess liquidity in foreign currency is
*Data on the minimum cash position observed up to March 2005. April figures are estimated. concentrated in more than 55% in public entities (in relation to
Source: BCRA
62% last month).

5. Loans²
Graph 5.1

Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
%
2.5 (Avg. monthly variation as percentage of total loans) Loans in pesos to the private sector presented in

Commercial loans
2 Consumer loans April an important increase of $862 million (2.4%). Unlike

1.5 Loans with real guarantee what happened in the previous 4 months, commercial loans

1 returned to being the most dynamic line, while consumer loans

0.5 maintained their good growth pace (see Graph 5.1).

0

-0.5
As we anticipated in the previous report, due to the
-1
greater liquidity needs of companies, commercial lines
-1.5
in pesos accelerated their growth pace,

-2 increasing in April $506 million (3.1%) on average,

-2.5 a variation that can be broken down into increases of $132 million
Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05
Source: BCRA (2.1%) of advances, $172 million of documents (2.5%) and $202
million (6.0%) of "other loans" (see Graph 5.2). The
increases compared to end of March are even more significant,
registering an increase of commercial lines in pesos of $1,057
million, of which $667 million correspond exclusively to
advances.

Credits associated with consumption continued with the
Graph 5.2 sustained growth pace that they have been presenting in recent
millions of $ Commercial Loans
500 (avg. monthly variation) months and registered an increase of $330 million (4.7%) in

Advances April (see Graph 5.3), driven by personal loans, which
400 Purchased documents
Discounted documents
Signed documents continue showing a firm growth pace. Favored

300 Others by the regulatory changes recently promoted by the BCRA

200 aimed at facilitating the granting of personal loans of

100 low value³, personal loans registered an increase of $334

0 million (7.0%). Meanwhile, credit card financing

-100 practically did not vary.

-200
Thanks to the very favorable situation that the
-300
automotive sector is going through, pawn loan financing

-400 continued growing, and registered in April the largest increase since
Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05
Source: BCRA November of last year (see Graph 5.4). These loans

² Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of
financial trusts, which while they affect the balances of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted.
³ Communication A 4325.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

Graph 5.3 increased $56 million (3.2%). In the case of mortgage loans

millions of $ Consumer Loans
400 (avg. monthly variation) it can be seen that, net of accounting movements related to

300 Personal trusts², amortizations and

Credit cards prepayments continued being higher than the amounts of new

200 financing, which is why a new decrease was observed,

on this occasion of $29 million (0.3%).
100 Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency showed growth of US$93 million (5.4%).
0 Said increase was driven by financing instruments implemented through documents (US$95 million), which continued with the increasing trend they have been showing since mid-last year,

-100

-200 associated with the good performance of exports.

 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05
Source: BCRA

 6. Financial Assets Market

 Graph 5.4

 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 100 (Monthly average variation) 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

 Mortgage Loans
 50 Pledged Loans

 0 At the end of April, international reserves were positioned at
 US$20,905 million, increasing 3% compared to the end of the previous
 -50 month. This variation was associated with the increase in the integration
 of dollar deposits from entities in the BCRA, as a counterpart to the
 -100 increase in public sector deposits in this currency, and to the net
 purchase of foreign currency carried out by the BCRA in the foreign
 -150 exchange market. The positive effect of both factors was partially
 compensated by that originating from the outflow of foreign currency
 -200 attributable to government payments to international organizations.
 
 -250
 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05
 Source: BCRA
 
 In the spot foreign exchange market, the daily traded amount decreased 9% compared to March. Both operations in the Electronic Brokers Market and those negotiated in the Electronic Operations System decreased 15% and 6% respectively. The BCRA's participation continued to be positioned at reduced values and did not exceed 10% at the end of April (see Graph 6.1.1).
 
 Graph 6.1.1
 Volume Traded in the Foreign Exchange Market In nominal terms, the peso appreciated against the US dollar
 million US$ (30-day moving average) % and the euro, 0.9% and 2.9% respectively, while it
 300 100
 depreciated 4% against the real. On the other hand, in real terms,
 Total volume traded (SIOPEL+MEC) BCRA Participation (right axis) 90
 250 according to the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate
 80
 Index, the peso depreciated 0.6% compared to March,
 200 70
 accumulating a depreciation of 4.6% over the last 12 months (see
 60
 Graph 6.1.2).
 150 50

 40
 100 In line with the behavior of the spot market, in the Rosario
 30 Forward Market, the quotations of peso futures contracts for US
 50 20 dollars decreased around 0.8% for all negotiated maturities.

 10

 0 0
 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 Apr-05

 9 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

 Graph 6.1.2 6.2. Capital Market

 Dec-01=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate ($/Basket)*
 330

 280 6.2.1. Equities

 230
 According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in April the
 180
 variable income securities quotations fell 3.7%, after having fallen
 10.5% in March, following the disclosure of the existence of legal
 130
 impediments that delayed the delivery of the new securities resulting
 from the public debt swap that concluded towards the end of February.
 80
 For its part, there was a fall in the yield (TIR) of the reference 10-year
 US bond together with a fall in the price of stocks from that same
 30
 country, which had a negative impact on the local market, given the
 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04
 high correlation evidenced between the S&P index and the MERVAL.
 *Increase/decrease implies peso depreciation/appreciation.

 In this same sense, a decrease could be observed in the average
 Graph 6.2.1.1 amount traded daily of stocks that compose the MERVAL, which

 Local Stock Market reached $61 million, 33% lower than that traded on the MERVAL
 millions of $ MERVAL Index in pesos in March, being the lowest level since January of last year
 200 Amount traded 1700 (see Graph 6.2.1.1).
 180 MERVAL (right axis) 1600

 160 1500

 140 1400
6.2.3.2. Common Investment Funds
# The Wealth of Mutual Funds in Pesos

The wealth of mutual funds (FCI) in pesos reached $7,631 million in April, registering a monthly increase of 7% ($502 million), explained mainly by fixed-term and money market funds and fixed-income funds (see Chart 6.2.3.2.1). Regarding returns, all funds, except variable-income funds, showed positive results.

## Chart 6.2.3.2.1
**Wealth of Mutual Funds in Pesos**
*billions of $*

[Chart shows breakdown of:]
- Fixed income
- Mixed income
- Variable income
- Fixed-term and money

For their part, money market funds grew $418 million (9%) during April, reaching $5,061 million. Unlike previous months, during April the intra-monthly movements of a seasonal nature were marginal, so a significant decline is expected in May due to tax payments. For its part, the annualized profitability of these funds increased by 0.2 p.p., reaching 2.8% in April (see Chart 6.2.3.2.2).

Variable-income funds presented in April a new patrimonial decline of $47 million, reaching $1,547 million.

**Source: BCRA and CAFCI**

*5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.*

**11 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005**

## Chart 6.2.3.2.2
**Money Market Funds**
*thousands of (wealth) millions of $*

[Chart shows maturity and gains trends from Jan-04 to Mar-05]

**Source: BCRA and CAFCI**

This responded mainly to the decrease in the value of its share quotas, whose evolution is intimately linked to that of the MERVAL index, as mentioned in previous reports. The negative result of said index, explained in section 6.2.1., had a negative influence on the returns of these funds, which showed in the month a negative monthly profitability of 3%.

## 6.2.4. Private Securities

Banco Hipotecario placed the third series of mortgage bonds for a total of $62.5 million, with an offer volume that represented four times the award. More than one-third of the awarded amounts corresponded to retail investors, and the rest was divided between financial entities and institutional investors. The bonds offer a variable rate, the greater between CER adjustment plus 1 p.p. and the fixed-term rate for deposits between $100 thousand and $499 thousand plus 2 p.p., with a minimum of 8% and a maximum of 15%.

Regarding the behavior of the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, from the analysis of yield curves, it is observed that investors continue to differentiate between debtors who never ceased to service their obligations and those who had to resort to restructuring their financial liabilities. In terms of TIR, the additional premium required for ONs issued after restructuring processes was located on average at 3.1 p.p. For their part, for both types of ONs, marginal decreases in their TIRs were observed on average with respect to the end of February (see Chart 6.2.4.1).

## Chart 6.2.4.1
**Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds**
*TIR %*

[Chart shows yield curves for:]
- Non-restructured* (31-Mar)
- Restructured (31-Mar)
- Non-restructured* (28-Apr)
- Restructured (28-Apr)

*Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in default*

**Source: Bloomberg and others duration (years)**

**12 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005**

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

*Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.*

| Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System | Promedios Mensuales / Monthly Averages |  |  |  | Variaciones Porcentuales / Percentage Variations |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Abr-05 | Mar-05 | Dic-04 | Abr-04 | Mensual / Monthly | Últimos 12 meses / Last 12 months |
|  |  |  |  |  | Nominal | Real |
|  |  |  |  |  | Nominal | Real |
Broad Monetary Base 50.034 49.889 50.647 46.203 0.3% -0.2% 8.3% -0.4%
Quasi-money 111 111 111 111 0.0% -0.5% 0.0% -8.0%

Monetary Base 49.923 49.779 50.537 46.092 0.3% -0.2% 8.3% -0.4%
Monetary Circulation 36.597 36.253 35.838 29.581 1.0% 0.5% 23.7% 13.8%
In the hands of the Public 32.843 32.578 31.702 26.292 0.8% 0.3% 24.9% 14.9%
In Financial Entities 3.754 3.675 4.136 3.289 2.2% 1.7% 14.2% 5.0%
Current Account at the BCRA 13.326 13.526 14.699 16.511 -1.5% -2.0% -19.3% -25.8%

Stock of Passive Repos 5.377 5.229 5.524 0 2.8% 2.3%
Stock of Active Repos 23 18 33 40 30.7% 30.1% -41.3% -46.0%

International Reserves of the BCRA 20.618 20.741 19.310 15.255 -0.6% 35.2%

Total Deposits in Pesos 1 107.448 106.258 102.293 89.646 1.1% 0.6% 19.9% 10.2%

Private Deposits 80.366 79.457 74.331 71.622 1.1% 0.7% 12.2% 3.2%
Current Account 19.485 19.006 17.923 17.065 2.5% 2.0% 14.2% 5.0%
Savings Account 18.493 18.594 17.852 15.510 -0.5% -1.0% 19.2% 9.6%
Fixed Term 29.318 28.746 26.333 26.912 2.0% 1.5% 8.9% 0.2%
Fixed Term Adjustable by CER 6.341 6.263 4.825 1.208 1.2% 0.8% 425.3% 383.0%
Other Deposits 5.474 5.432 5.517 5.232 0.8% 0.3% 4.6% -3.8%
Exchanged for BODEN (recorded) 155 155 172 1.714 0.0% -0.5% -91.0% -91.7%
CEDRO including CER 1.100 1.262 1.709 3.982 -12.9% -13.3% -72.4% -74.6%

Public Sector Deposits 27.081 26.800 27.962 18.024 1.0% 0.6% 50.2% 38.2%

Total Deposits in Dollars 1 3.656 4.117 3.943 2.401 -11.2% 52.3%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 55.273 55.394 54.357 51.599 -0.2% -0.7% 7.1% -1.5%

To the Private Sector 36.092 35.223 34.108 27.772 2.5% 2.0% 30.0% 19.5%
Advances 6.471 6.343 6.355 5.030 2.0% 1.5% 28.6% 18.3%
Documents 7.014 6.840 6.668 4.945 2.5% 2.0% 41.8% 30.4%
Mortgages 8.689 8.683 8.693 8.979 0.1% -0.4% -3.2% -11.0%
Pledges 1.796 1.740 1.637 1.251 3.2% 2.7% 43.5% 32.0%
Personal 5.107 4.802 4.184 2.690 6.4% 5.8% 89.9% 74.6%
Credit Cards 3.434 3.436 3.080 2.411 -0.1% -0.5% 42.4% 31.0%
Others 3.581 3.379 3.491 2.466 6.0% 5.5% 45.3% 33.6%

To the Public Sector 19.181 20.171 20.249 23.828 -4.9% -5.4% -19.5% -26.0%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1.988 1.918 1.702 1.333 3.6% 49.2%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 62.850 62.040 61.923 50.591 1.3% 0.8% 24.2% 14.2%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 88.727 89.622 88.930 70.577 -1.0% -1.5% 25.7% 15.6%
M3 (M2 + Term Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 150.881 150.836 145.653 121.140 0.0% -0.5% 24.6% 14.5%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 52.439 51.695 49.735 43.468 1.4% 0.9% 20.6% 10.9%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 70.932 70.288 67.587 58.977 0.9% 0.4% 20.3% 10.6%
M3 (M2 + Term Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 113.165 111.991 105.972 96.311 1.0% 0.6% 17.5% 8.0%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

Broad Monetary Base 144 0.3% -171 -0.3% -614 -1.2% 3.831 8.3%
Financial Sector -340 -0.7% -222 -0.4% -2.459 -4.9% -9.412 -20.4%
Public Sector 179 0.4% 39 0.1% 38 0.1% -3.952 -8.6%
Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 240 88 735 6.579
Use of the National Government Account -973 -1.210 -993 -825
External Credit 912 1.161 296 -9.707
External Private Sector 855 1.7% 2.719 5.4% 5.187 10.2% 21.836 47.3%
BCRA Securities -643 -1.3% -2.444 -4.9% -3.113 -6.1% -4.500 -9.7%
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Others 3 93 0.2% -263 -0.5% -267 -0.5% -141 -0.3%
International Reserves -123 -0.6% 778 3.9% 1.308 6.8% 5.364 35.2%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 289 1.4% 901 4.5% 1.732 9.0% 7.376 48.4%
 Payment to International Organizations -627 -3.0% -1.636 -8.2% -2.022 -10.5% -4.677 -30.7%
 Other Public Sector Operations 976 4.7% 2.163 10.9% 2.324 12.0% 2.163 14.2%
 Minimum Cash -740 -3.6% -773 -3.9% -802 -4.2% -171 -1.1%
 Valuation Repo Type -69 -0.3% -52 -0.3% -136 -0.7% 148 3.4%
 Others 48 0.2% 174 0.9% 213 1.1% 525 3.4%

 1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-currencies without monetary effect.

 Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 2.75 2.33 2.18 2.18 1.23
 Amount traded 331 353 266 267 164

 Time Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 3.10 2.79 2.70 2.83 2.14
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 3.29 2.75 2.66 2.81 1.57
 60 days or more 3.98 3.55 3.42 3.47 2.63
 In dollars
 30 days 0.34 0.30 0.27 0.30 0.52
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.33 0.39 0.25 0.28 0.55
 60 days or more 0.89 0.75 0.62 0.69 0.90

 Active Interest Rates Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.59 5.43 5.41 5.59 6.67

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 4.03 3.13 3.07 3.39 1.98
 Volume traded (total terms) 67 72 71 73 65

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 14.23 14.27 14.09 14.10 15.34
 Documents with sole signature 9.46 9.62 9.66 9.77 10.24
 Mortgages 11.67 11.44 11.23 10.94 12.75
 Secured loans 10.73 11.09 11.23 10.98 13.67
 Personal loans 26.63 26.87 27.14 27.36 31.37
 Credit Cards n/d n/d n/d 27.37 32.36

 International Interest Rates Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 2.98 2.81 2.61 2.49 1.10
 6 months 3.38 3.28 3.05 2.89 1.28

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.63 3.70 3.38 3.21 2.06
 10 years 4.32 4.49 4.16 4.21 4.34

 FED Funds Rate 2.75 2.57 2.49 2.25 1.00

 SELIC (at 1 year) 19.35 18.96 18.45 17.94 16.09

 (1) The data up to November correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from December and January are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04

 BCRA repo rates
 Passive 7 days 3.23 2.75 2.75 2.69 n/a
 Active 7 days 3.25 3.25 3.25 3.14 n/a

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 2.62 2.11 2.08 2.19 n/d
 7 days 3.23 2.75 2.75 2.69 n/d

 Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 1197 1160 1520 1657 n/d

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 3.88 3.25 2.98 2.99 n/a
 3 months 5.26 4.39 4.01 3.64 1.32
 6 months 5.62 5.35 5.08 5.37 2.72
 9 months 6.08 5.75 5.47 5.68 n/a
 12 months 6.99 5.95 5.91 6.07 6.91

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months -0.41 -0.50 -0.32 0.03 1.57
 18 months 0.08 0.14 0.25 0.60 2.67

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 2.93 3.01 2.51 3.06 5.04

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 99 154 52 92 102

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.90 2.93 2.92 2.94 2.83
 BCRA Reference 2.90 2.93 2.92 2.95 2.84

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.86 2.93 2.91 2.94 2.85
 INDOL 1 month 2.92 2.92 2.97 2.97 2.83
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 1
 ROFEX 1 month 2.90 2.93 2.91 2.94 2.83
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 120 92 54 57 68

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.13 1.08 1.12 1.09 0.97

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.75 3.86 3.80 3.86 3.40

 Capital Market Apr-05 Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Apr-04
# MERVAL

| Index | 1364 | 1462 | 1493 | 1340 | 1150 |
|-------|------|------|------|------|------|
| Operating Volume (millions of pesos) | 61 | 91 | 115 | 44 | 48 |

## Government Bonds (per each VN 100)

| BODEN 2012 (US$) | 83.72 | 86.87 | 87.43 | 84.46 | 66.63 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| BODEN 08 ($) | 114.58 | 114.25 | 113.66 | 109.88 | 94.11 |

## Country Risk (basis points)

| Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond | 642 | 508 | 455 | 606 | 1,080 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) | 310 | 294 | 288 | 306 | 425 |

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

15
