# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
MARCH 2005

## CONTENTS 1. Summary 1
1. Summary 1 • In March, the BMA was located at $49,889 million (+7.6% y-o-y), which
 completed seven consecutive quarters of compliance with the Monetary
2. Monetary Program 2 Program. Payments of assistance for illiquidity implied a monetary
 contraction of $1,181 million. Additionally, the placement of LEBAC and
3. Interest Rates 3 NOBAC in the primary market generated a reduction of the BMA of
 $1,105 million. The balance of reverse repos for the BCRA registered a
 3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 3 decline, explained fundamentally by the application of part of these
 resources to the cancellation of debts with the BCRA, with the private
3.2. Interfinancial Markets 3 sector or to the purchase of LEBAC and NOBAC, which originated an
 increase of the BMA of $1,894 million. The purchases that the BCRA made
 3.2.1 Repo Market 3 in the foreign exchange market entailed an expansion of the BMA of
 $578 million, less than half of the previous month. Finally, the
3.2.2 Interbank Market 4 operations of the public sector implied an expansion of the BMA of
 $212 million. The BMA contracted by more than $2,000 million with
 3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4 respect to its value at the end of the previous year.
 • The interest rates of the monetary market showed an increasing trend
3.4. Active Interest Rates 5 during the month. The interest rates of LEBAC in pesos not adjustable
 by CER of shorter duration showed increases of between 0.7 p.p. and
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6 0.8 p.p. The BCRA continued establishing a corridor of short-term
 reference interest rates, arranging operations at 7 days and maintaining
 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6 interest rates at 2.75% and 3.25% for reverse repos and repos,
 respectively. The interest rates of the interbank market registered an
4.2. Deposits in Dollars 7 increase, especially in the 1 business day segment (0.15 p.p.). The
 passive interest rates reversed the declining trend of the last two
4.3. Bank Liquidity 8 months, showing positive variations in all terms and for all types of
 depositor.
5. Loans 9 • The increase in transactional deposits of the private sector together
 with the increase in cash in the hands of the public, led to private
6. Financial Assets Market 10 means of payment (M2 private) growing $890 million (22.2% y-o-y), while
 total means of payment (M2) presented a slight decline ($240 million)
 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 10 due to the reduction in the stock of sight placements of the public
 sector. For its part, private M3 registered growth close to $1,800
6.2. Capital Markets 11 million (18.4% y-o-y), while the broader total monetary aggregate in
 pesos (M3) increased $600 million (20.5% y-o-y).
 6.2.1. Shares 11 • Total loans (in pesos and dollars) to the private sector exceeded
 $40,000 million, after having increased $700 million (2%) in March, and
 having accumulated an increase of more than $10,000 million with
6.2.2. Public Securities 11 respect to the minimum reached in August 2003. Financing in pesos
 presented in March an increase of $426 million (1.2%), which constitutes
6.2.3. Institutional Investors 12 a deceleration in the growth rate with respect to what they had been
 showing in the last months of the previous year, while those denominated
 6.2.3.1 Pension Fund 12 in foreign currency, for the first time since the recovery of credit,
 matched the increase of those denominated in pesos.
 Administrators
 • In nominal terms, the peso depreciated 0.3% with respect to the US
6.2.3.2 Investment Funds 13 dollar and 1.7% in relation to the euro, while it showed an appreciation
 of 3.8% with respect to the Brazilian real. In real terms, according to
6.2.4. Private Securities 13 the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM), the peso appreciated
 1.9% with respect to the currencies of the main trading partners.
3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA

In the primary market, the interest rates of LEBAC in
3.5 pesos non-adjustable by CER of shorter duration showed increases compared to February. In this way, for LEBAC of one

3.0 month, the increase between end of month was 0.7 p.p., while for the three-month residual maturity, the increase reached 0.8 p.p. In

2.5 the case of securities of longer duration and those adjustable by CER, the interest rates remained at levels similar to those of

6-Jan 16-Jan 26-Jan 5-Feb 15-Feb 25-Feb 7-Mar 17-Mar 27-Mar February (see Chart 3.1.1). On the other hand, the evolution of interest rates

Source: BCRA based on MAE. in the secondary market was similar to those of the primary market. In particular, if implicit rates in LEBAC transactions in pesos with residual maturity closest to three months are considered, it is observed that they increased gradually, totaling an increase of 1 p.p. between end of February and March (see Chart 3.1.2).

The total amount in circulation³ of securities issued by the

Chart 3.2.1.1 BCRA at the end of March was VN $17,408 million, 7% higher than at the end of February. The greater part of the increase

Agreed Rates in the Repo and Call Market in force at the end of February.

TNA, % corresponded to the positive net placement of one-month LEBAC and

5.0 twelve-month LEBAC adjustable by CER. LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos non-

4.5 1-day Repos | BCRA Liabilities 7 days | BCRA Assets 7 days | Call 1 day | Call 7 days adjustable by CER maintained their participation over the total at

4.0 50%, while those adjustable by CER constituted 49% and those

3.5 issued in dollars comprised only 1%.

3.0

2.5

2.0 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

1.5

1.0
Jun-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05

Source: BCRA and MAE

3.2.1. Repo Market

The BCRA continued establishing a corridor of short-term reference interest rates, arranging 7-day operations and maintaining interest rates at 2.75% and 3.25% for passive and active repos, respectively. The interest rate for operations agreed between third parties, that is to say those in which the BCRA is not a counterparty, in the 1-day operations segment, increased

Chart 3.2.1.2 0.04 p.p. compared to February and was located at 2.11% (see Chart

Call and Repo Operations in the Local Market 3.2.1.1). Although the average monthly increase was slight, at the end of

millions of $ (average daily traded) the month it was observed that interest rates in this segment showed

2,000 an upward trend and, the average for the last ten business days

1,800 Call 1 d resulted 0.2 p.p. higher than that recorded in the first part of

1,600 Call 7 d March.

Call remainder 1,400 Repos with BCRA

1,200 Repos between private entities Financial institutions negotiated daily with the

1,000 BCRA, on average, $1,042 million, 27% less than in February

800 (see Chart 3.2.1.2). At the end of the month, the stock of passive repos for the

600 Maturity BCRA amounted to $4,743 million, 33% lower than that in force at the end

Gains 400 of the previous month. The monthly reduction was mainly due to the

200 use of part of the excess funds that entities maintained in this type of placements for the acquisition of BCRA securities and the

0 cancellation of debts mentioned in point 2.

Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05

Source: BCRA and MAE

³ Does not include securities issued as counterparty to passive repo operations.

Chart 3.2.2.1 The amount traded between third parties in the total market,

millions of $ Call Operations % considering the daily average for the month, returned to levels

1,000 (monthly averages) 4.0 similar to those shown before January and February, and was located at

900 Stock up to 15 calendar days around $290 million, $70 million above what was traded

Stock up to 7 calendar days 3.5 the previous month.

800 Amount at 1 business day Tasa a 7 días 3.0

700 Rate at 1 day 2.5

600 3.2.2 Interbank Market

500 2.0

400 1.5

300 1.0

200 0.5

100

Source: BCRA and MAE
3.3. Passive Interest Rates

In March, passive interest rates reversed the declining trend of the previous two months, showing positive variations in all terms and for all types of depositors (see Graph 3.3.1). Although market liquidity continues at elevated levels, the greater demand for money driven by the seasonal upturn in commercial activity had an impact on passive interest rates, pushing them upward.

The greater sensitivity of the shortest-term wholesale segment (30-44 days) became evident once again, when the most pronounced increase in the interest rate was recorded in it, which went from 2.75% at the end of February to 3.30% at the end of March. The greater demand for liquid funds by companies, to meet their own commercial activity obligations, affected mainly private banks, whose interest rate increased 0.52 p.p. in the month; while the interest rate offered by public entities remained relatively stable. In the case of the retail segment (operations up to $100,000), the interest rate remained stable around 2.9%. Although some intra-monthly fluctuations were noted in the interest rate offered by private entities in this bracket, it ended March at the same level as the previous month (3.2%) and on average no differences were observed. The interest rate paid by public entities, for its part, did not show variations throughout the month, standing at 2.5% just as in February (see Graph 3.3.2).

**Graph 3.3.1 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
**(weighted monthly average by amount traded)**

30 to 59 days
60 to 89 days
More than 90 days

Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05

**Page 4 - Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005**
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA

By type of depositor, the most significant variations in interest rates corresponded again to placements made by institutional investors (pension and retirement fund administrators, mutual funds and insurance companies). These depositors, together with large companies, were those that drove the increase in the interest rate that took place in March. The liquidity needs of commercial agents led them to reduce their short-term investments.

**Graph 3.3.2**
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days
(5-day moving average)
Private Banks Public Banks
% Less than $100,000 % Greater than $1,000,000

This negatively impacted the demand for short-term fixed deposits, as mentioned in the preceding paragraph, and on the assets of mutual funds, particularly those for fixed-term and money market funds, which showed a decline in the second part of the month, greater than that observed in previous months. This led banks to offer higher interest rates to these funds in order to retain the largest possible proportion of deposits from these investors. In this way, the interest rates received by institutional investors went from 2.9% to 3.1% in the 30 to 59-day bracket and from 3.6% to 4.05% in the bracket of more than 90 days.

Source: BCRA

The aforementioned increase in interest rates also benefited the rest of the depositors. The magnitude of the increases was related to the degree of fragmentation of funds. As a consequence, natural persons received average returns just 0.05 p.p. higher than those in February, while legal persons (excluding financial service provider institutions and including large, medium and small companies) received average remuneration 0.1 p.p. greater than those of the previous month. In the case of the public sector, although interest rates did not vary in the shortest-term bracket, they showed an increase in longer maturities, which on average amounted to 0.2 p.p. in relation to the preceding month.

**Graph 3.4.1**
Commercial Loans
TNA, % (Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount)

**3.4. Active Interest Rates⁴**

Active interest rates presented heterogeneous behavior in March, with slight increases in advances and documents, and slight decreases in financings with real guarantees.

The greater liquidity needs by companies was reflected in the evolution of active interest rates. The interest rate corresponding to advances in current account was positioned at 14.2%, which implied an increase, on this occasion of 0.4 p.p., but accumulates a decrease of 2.1 p.p. compared to the same month of the previous year (see Graph 3.4.1). The interest rate for loans instrumented through documents, after having reached a minimum of 8.8% in the previous month, registered a slight increase (0.2 p.p. monthly), positioning itself at 9.0%.

**Graph 3.4.2**
Consumer Loans
TNA, % (Monthly weighted average interest rate by amount)

Personal

---

⁴ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through January 2005, the values for February and March 2005 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005
30 Credit Cards
 27.8 Although the interest rate on personal loans remained

25 27.2 relatively stable in the last month, it has accumulated a decline of 4.2 p.p. over the last twelve

20 months, standing at 27.2% in March. In the
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05
 Source: BCRA case of credit card financing, although information is not yet
 available to estimate the average interest rate
 for March, according to the latest available information
 corresponding to January, the interest rate on said loans
 was reduced by 2.1 p.p. standing at 27.8%, practically equaling the level
 of interest rates on personal loans (see Chart 3.4.2).

 Finally, loans with pledged guarantee reduced
 their interest rates by 0.8 p.p. in March, to stand at 10.3%,
 Chart 3.4.3 while in the case of mortgage loans, the interest rate
 Loans with Real Guarantee stood at 10.7%, which implies a monthly decline of 0.2
TNA, % (Average interest rate weighted monthly by amount)
30 p.p. (see Chart 3.4.3).

 Mortgage

25

 Pledged

20
 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

15

 10.7
10 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
 10.3

5
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 In March, the private monetary aggregates in pesos
Source: BCRA
 continued to present positive variations, driven
 fundamentally by the increase in deposits. The
 total monetary aggregates in pesos also reflected a
 behavior similar to that of February, showing variations
 negative in the case of means of payment and positive in the case of
 M3 (see Chart 4.1.1).

 Transactional deposits contracted again in
 March. The decrease of $630 million in these placements is explained
 Chart 4.1.1 fundamentally by the fall of $920 in the resources of the public
 sector, which was partially offset by the increase of $290
 Monetary Aggregates in Pesos million in deposits from the private sector. As in the
 (year-on-year variation)
 % previous month, the reduction in sight placements of the public
50 M2 M2 Private M3 M3 Private
 sector responded to the use made by the government of its deposits for
45
 the payment of internal and external obligations during the month. This
40
 behavior, which is different from that observed in March of
35
 last year, is expected to be maintained in the coming months, since,
30 despite the continued favorable fiscal revenues, the

25 government will have to face growing debt maturities.

20

15 The increase in private transactional deposits together with the

10 increase in currency in circulation ($360 million),

5 led to private means of payment (M2 private) growing by $890
 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05
 Source: BCRA million. In year-on-year terms, this increase implied an increase

 6 Monthly Monetary Report –MARCH 2005

 Chart 4.1.2 of the order of 22.2%, similar to that of the previous month. For its part, the
thousands of Currency in Circulation and Deposits in Pesos thousands of total means of payment (M2) presented a slight decline compared to
millions of $ (average monthly balances) millions of $
35 80 February of the order of $240 million, due to the reduction of the
 Currency in circulation stock of sight placements of the public sector, which resulted in
 Public Sector 78
 Private Sector (right axis) a new deceleration of the year-on-year growth rate of
30 76
 this aggregate, which went from 24.5% to 22.3%.

 74
 25 72 The evolution of fixed-term deposits in March was
 Monthly Average Variation 70
 thousands of MARCH 2005
 millions of $ positive. The placements of the private sector registered an increase
 1,200 Private Sector
20 Public Sector 68
 600 of $990 million, while the deposits of the public sector

 66
4.2. Deposits in Dollars

In March, deposits in dollars showed a decline close to US$80 million, for the first time after more than two years of sustained growth. Although placements of the private sector increased around US$50 million, deposits of the public sector decreased more than US$130 million.

The increase in private deposits was distributed homogeneously between sight placements and time deposits, registering variations on the order of US$30 million and US$20
-200
Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 million respectively.
2.000

1.500
 In the case of public sector placements, the decline was
1.000
 driven by the decrease in savings account balances, which
 500
 totaled more than US$150 million. The government used part of these
 0 funds for the payment of external obligations and transferred another part to
 Dec-02 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05
 Source: BCRA accounts at the BCRA for the payment of obligations
 originated in the debt exchange. Unlike the previous months,
 the inflow of funds derived from the government's participation in the
 foreign exchange market did not offset the outflow of resources, which
 resulted in a reduction in deposits.

 Chart 4.3.1 4.3. Bank Liquidity

 Bank Liquidity in Pesos*
 % of deposits
40
 In March, financial entities maintained 21.3% of
38 System Public Private
 their deposits in pesos in liquid resources. In this way, the
 liquidity ratio (defined as the sum of current accounts at the
36 BCRA, cash in banks and reverse repos with the BCRA in relation
 to total deposits in pesos) decreased by 1.9 p.p. with respect to
34 February, which was associated with the reduction in the position of reverse repos of

32 entities with the BCRA. Unlike what occurred the previous
 month, it was mainly the group of private banks that

30 explained the reduction in liquidity, showing a decline of 3.1 p.p..

 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05Given that one of the main applications that the funds had,
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, reverse repos conducted with the BCRA and securities issued by
the BCRA. previously placed in reverse repos, was the acquisition of LEBAC and NOBAC, if
Source: BCRA these assets are considered as part of liquidity, the result is that the
 broader liquidity ratio decreased by 1.7 p.p. (see Chart 4.3.1).
 Other applications of the funds were the cancellation of
 debts with the private sector and the payment of debts with the BCRA. For
 their part, public banks also showed a reduction in
 their liquidity, although much smaller, of 0.6 p.p.. In this case,
 they continued to address the decrease in deposits from the
 public sector.

 The current level of liquidity maintained in current accounts and
 cash implies voluntary immobilization of funds above
 Chart 4.3.2 BCRA requirements, of 1.6 p.p. of total deposits
 in pesos (around $1,700 million), a level similar to what
 % of Liquidity in Pesos* 
 deposits evidenced during recent months (see Chart 4.3.2). The 15
 26 entities with greater lending capacity concentrated more than 70%
 
 24 of the surplus minimum cash.

 22 Reverse Repos
 In the foreign currency deposit segment, the
 20 Surplus
 excess funds immobilized in current accounts of
 18 Liquidity
 banks at the BCRA and in cash remained at around
 16 US$2,000 million. It should be noted that the BCRA limits the possible
 14 Integration min. cash in $ + Reverse Repos
 destinations to which financial entities can apply this
 12 Integration min. cash in $
 Requirement min. cash in $ lending capacity in foreign currency (see Communication
 10 "A" 4168) and has so far been used primarily

 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05for the granting of loans linked to foreign trade.
 
 *Data from the minimum cash position observed through January 2005. Figures for February are
 estimated. However, 83% of deposits in dollars is
 Source: BCRA. currently immobilized in cash and in sight accounts
 of banks at the BCRA.

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

 Chart 5.1
 Loans to the Private Sector
 % (variation of monthly averages by currency in terms of total)
 4.0

 3.0

 2.0

 1.0

 0.0

 -1.0

 5. Loans5
-2.0 Total loans (in pesos and dollars) to the private sector,
 Total loans
 -3.0 Loans in pesos exceeded $40,000 million, after having increased $700 million

 Loans in dollars (2%) in March, and having accumulated an increase of more than $10,000
 -4.0
 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 million with respect to the minimum reached in August 2003. In the case
 Source: BCRA
 of financing in pesos, they presented in March an increase of
 $426 million (1.2%), which constitutes a deceleration in the rate
 of growth compared to what they had been showing in the last
 months of last year, while the increase in financing
 denominated in foreign currency, for the first time since credit
 recovery matched that of those denominated in
 Graph 5.2 pesos (see Graph 5.1).

millions of $ Commercial Loans
500 (monthly average variation) Commercial lines in pesos increased in March

 Advances
400 Purchased Documents $75 million (0.5%) on average, a variation that can
 Discounted Documents
 Documents at sole signature be broken down into an increase of $71 million (1.1%) of documents,
300 Others
 an increase of $42 million (0.7%) of advances and a decline of $38
200
 million (2.8%) of other loans (see Graph 5.2). The average increases
100 recorded in the month are modest compared with

 0 the variations from the end of March with respect to the end of February, which

-100 are around $150 million both in the case of documents and

-200 in that of other loans. This is due to the fact that only toward
 mid-month did the demand for funds begin to reappear
-300
 on the part of companies, in conjunction with the resumption of
-400 activities after the summer recess. For this reason, the high level at which
 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05
Source: BCRA the month closed will generate a certain statistical carryover, which added to the
 greater funding needs of companies would make it foreseeable
 that the rate of average growth of commercial loans
 will accelerate in the next month.

 Consumer-related credit continued with the
 Graph 5.3 positive behavior they have been showing in recent

millions of $ Consumer Loans months and recorded an increase of $370 million (4.7%) in March (see

400 (monthly average variation) Graph 5.3), driven mainly by personal loans,
 which continue to show a firm growth rate. In effect,
300 Personal
 Credit Cards these lines recorded an increase of $255 million (5.6%). Thanks to the
 regulatory changes recently promoted by the BCRA
200 aimed at facilitating the granting of personal loans of
 low value6, it is foreseeable that these financings will continue
100
 growing at the good rate they have been presenting. For its part,

 0 financing with credit cards increased $116 million
 (3.5%).

-100 Financing with chattel mortgage guarantee continued
 growing, although at a slower rate than in the preceding months

-200 (see Graph 5.4). These loans increased around $26
 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05
Source: BCRA million (1.5%). In the case of mortgage loans, the

 5 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of
 financial trusts, which although they affect the balances of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted. Such is
 the case of the sharp decline in mortgage loans at the beginning of March, which is largely due to the formation of a
 trust of Mortgage Certificates.
 6 Communication A 4325.

 9 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

 Graph 5.4 amortizations and prepayments continued to be higher than

 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 100 (monthly average variation) the amounts of new financing, which is why a
 
 Mortgage new decline was observed, on this occasion of $46 million (0.5%).
50 Chattel Mortgage
Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency showed growth of US$116 million (3.6%), which turned out to be the largest since the end of convertibility. Said increase was driven mainly by financing instruments implemented through documents (US$84 million), which continued with the growing trend they have been showing since mid-last year, associated with the good performance of exports.

Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05
Source: BCRA

6. Financial Assets Market

6.1. Foreign Exchange Market
Chart 6.1.1
Volume Traded in the Foreign Exchange Market
million US$ (30-day moving average) %
300 100 International reserves stood at the end of March at
Total volume traded (SIOPEL+MEC) BCRA Participation (right axis) 90 US$20,339 million, 2.2% below the level recorded one
250 month ago. The factor that explained the greatest reduction in reserves
80 was the decline in sight deposits in dollars held by
70 entities at the BCRA. However, it is necessary to take into account
200 that this decrease was the counterpart of the public sector's use of
60 its dollar deposits to face debt payments
150 50 with international organizations. Therefore, ultimately, the
40 decrease in international reserves was associated
100 mainly with the cancellation of public sector debts. As
30 mentioned before, the BCRA continued decreasing its intervention
50 20 in the foreign exchange market, whereby the purchases of foreign
10 currency it made, US$129 million, were not sufficient to offset the
0 0 previous effect.
Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04May-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04Nov-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Mar-05

The average amount traded daily in the spot
foreign exchange market increased 14% with respect to February. Transactions
agreed through the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL)
showed an increase of 20%, while those arranged through
the Electronic Foreign Exchange Market grew 4%. One of the
most important factors that contributed to the increase in volume
was the additional participation of a financial entity to
Chart 6.1.2 supply itself with foreign currency in order to face the payment
Dec-01=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Basket/$)* anticipated of its debt in dollars. The BCRA's participation in the
110 total decreased and became almost null at the end of March (see Chart
100 6.1.1).

90 In nominal terms, the peso depreciated against the
80 US dollar and the euro 0.3% and 1.7% respectively, while it
70 showed an appreciation of 3.8% with respect to the Brazilian real. In
real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
60 (ITCRM), the peso appreciated 1.9% with respect to the basket
50 of currencies of the main trading partners and accumulates in the
40 last twelve months a real depreciation of 0.5% (see Chart
30 6.1.2).
Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Jun-01 Dec-01 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04

*Increase/decrease implies appreciation/depreciation of the peso.

10 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

Chart 6.2.1.1 In the Rosario Forward Market, an average of $92 million
Local Stock Market was traded daily, approximately 70% more than

millions of $ MERVAL Index in pesos MERVAL in January and February, months characterized by lower activity in the
200 Amount traded 1700 financial markets. If average monthly quotations are considered
180 MERVAL (right axis) 1600 for the different contracts, it is observed that they increased
160 1500 around 0.6% for almost all contracts.

140 1400

120 1300

100 1200

80 1100

60 1000

40 900

20 800

0 700
Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05
6.2. Capital Market
Source: Bloomberg

6.2.1. Stocks
According to the evolution of the MERVAL index, in March the quotations of variable income securities fell 10.5%, after having increased 13.5% in February, following the disclosure of the result of the national public debt swap that concluded towards the end of that month. For its part, the appearance of certain factors that may accelerate the measured pace of increase in the Federal Funds rate generated a certain increase in the yield of the 10-year U.S. reference bond, causing both a fall in prices in the local stock market as well as in the international market (see Chart 6.2.1.1).

In this same sense, a decrease was observed in the average daily amount traded of shares that make up the MERVAL, which reached $91 million, 20% lower than that traded in February (see Chart 6.2.1.2).

**6.2.2. Public Securities**

The yields of securities issued after the cessation of payments showed increases compared to February. Among the most liquid, the titles in pesos adjustable by CER of shorter duration stood out, and among them, the PRE 08 which registered an increase of 1.3 p.p. in its internal rate of return (IRR). On the other hand, among the titles in dollars, the BODEN 13 registered a significant increase in its IRR of 3.1 p.p. between end of month. This was due in large part to the same factors that affected the variable income market, as investors decreased their exposure in dollar bonds, due to the volatility recorded in the IRRs of the longer-term bonds of the U.S. Treasury. The rest of the sovereign titles in pesos also registered positive variations in their IRRs (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

With respect to sovereign risk, during the course of the month an increase was observed in the spread between the yield of the BODEN 12 and that of comparable titles of the United States Treasury. After reaching 3.5 p.p. towards the beginning of the month, a significant increase occurred, making it finish the month at 6.0 p.p. Likewise, emerging markets (excluding Argentina) generally increased their risk premiums, standing at 3.2 p.p. at the end of March.

The amount traded of the most liquid public securities, considering the daily average, increased 47% compared to February (see Chart 6.2.2.2). This increase was explained in part by the greater number of operations with BODEN 12 (in dollars).

**6.2.3. Institutional Investors**

**6.2.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators**

The investment portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) was $55,248 million at the end of March, $1,100 million (2%) lower than what they had at the end of February. The historical profitability of the system was maintained at 14.68%, while the average annual profitability increased 0.2 p.p. compared to last month and was placed at 10.93%.
0
Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Ene-05 Mar-05
Source: MAE Again, placements in equity securities were those that explained almost the totality of the monthly variation of the investment portfolio of the AFJPs. Thus, in March, the portion of the portfolio allocated to securities trading in the local market decreased 7% with respect to the previous month, which was directly linked to the general performance shown by this type of asset in the period. In this way, the participation of equities in the total portfolio decreased to 24%, 2 p.p. below what they had in February.

Graph 6.2.3.1.1
The rest of the components of the AFJP portfolio showed thousands of Stock of Fixed-Term Deposits of the AFJPs
millions of $ (Balances at end of month) minor variations between end of month. Holdings of mutual investment funds were reduced with respect to the previous month by

3.0
Fixed-term deposits in pesos approximately $70 million (3%) and, as was to be expected from the above,
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER this reduction occurred in placements of equity mutual funds, both in
2.0 pesos and in dollars, which in total showed a decline of $100 million.
For their part, fixed-income funds and fixed-term deposits in pesos
1.5 showed increases, although slight, of $40 million and $20 million
1.0 respectively.

0.5 Fixed-term deposits increased $60 million (2%), as a result of the increase in placements adjustable by CER, which, however,
0.0 decreased their growth rate in the last two months. For their part,
Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Ene-05 Mar-05 non-adjustable fixed-term deposits by CER remained practically at
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP the same level as at the end of February (see Graph 6.2.3.1.1).

7 Operations in the Electronic Open Market (MAE) are considered.
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
9 Corresponds to the historical returns published by the Superintendency of Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
(SAFJP). It is the return obtained since the beginning of the system, expressed on an annual basis.
10 It is the return of the last 12 months measured by the variation of the average monthly share value, excluding the fund
administered by Nation AFJP, according to current regulations.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

6.2.3.2. Mutual Investment Funds

The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos reached $7,128 million in March, to register a monthly increase of 5% ($347 million), explained mainly by fixed-term and money market funds and fixed-income funds (see Graph 6.2.3.2.1). In terms of Graph 6.2.3.2.1 returns, only money market funds showed
Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos positive results.

thousands of millions $
7
Fixed-income Money market funds grew $302 million during March,
6 Mixed-income reaching $4,643 million, which represents a monthly variation on the
Variable-income order of 7%. As in previous months, during March intra-monthly
5 Fixed-term and money market movements of a seasonal character were observed. Until mid-month and
as a consequence of income from commercial activity, of
4 seasonal character, there was a growth of $904 million. Subsequently,
3 due to the result of tax payments, it was reduced by $602 million. For its part, the annualized returns of these funds
2 increased slightly, reaching 2.6% in March (see Graph 6.2.3.2.2).
1

0
Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05
Source: BCRA and CAFCI

Variable income funds presented in March a patrimonial decline of $109 million, reaching $1,594 million. This was mostly due to the decrease in the value of their share units, whose evolution is closely linked to that of the MERVAL index, as mentioned in previous reports. The negative result of said index, explained in section 6.2.1., had a negative influence on the performance of these funds, which showed in the month a negative monthly return of 9%.

Chart 6.2.3.2.2
Money Market Funds 6.2.4. Private Securities
thousands of (patrimony)
million $

5.2
Maturity
Earnings
4.8

4.4 Within the framework of its global program for issuing negotiable bonds (ONs) for a total of $300 million, Camuzzi Gas Pampeada S.A. subscribed two series of ONs for $100 million. For its part, the offers received exceeded by 80% the originally tendered amount of $100 million. The ONs issued were in pesos at fixed and variable rates. The first with a term of 1 year, had a cut-off rate of 8.75% (with semi-annual coupon) and an issuance of $35 million (with amortization at maturity). The second with a term of 3 years, had a cut-off rate of 3.75% over the rate of

4.0

3.6

3.2

2.8

2.4
02-Jan-04 15-Mar-04 31-May-04 12-Aug-04 26-Oct-04 05-Jan-05 16-Mar-05

Source: BCRA and CAFCI fixed-term deposits in pesos (from $100 thousand to $499 thousand at 59 days of term) from the survey published by BCRA in its Statistical Bulletin11, with a minimum value set at 4% for said rate (with quarterly coupon) and an issuance of $65 million (with quarterly amortization).

For its part, Transener S.A. extended the maturity of its restructuring offer, which concluded on March 23, until April 6.

With respect to the behavior of the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, based on the

11 For purposes of determining the reference rate corresponding to each calendar month, the arithmetic average of rates from the 16th day of the previous month through the 15th day of the applicable month, both inclusive, will be taken. The calculation of the quarterly reference rate will result from the weighted arithmetic average of the monthly reference rates by the number of days elapsed in each month.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

Chart 6.2.4.1 analysis of the yield curves, it is observed that investors
Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds continue to differentiate between debtors who never ceased to serve their obligations and those who had to resort to the restructuring of their financial liabilities. In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs issued after restructuring processes was located on average at 3.4 p.p. For its part, for both types of ONs, increases were observed in their YTMs of between 0.6 p.p. and 0.8 p.p. on average with respect to the end of

TIR %
14

12

10

8

6 Non-restructured* (28-Feb)
Restructured (28-Feb)

4 Non-restructured* (31-Mar)
Restructured (31-Mar)

2

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

*Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in payment cessation

Source: Bloomberg and others duration (years)

February (see Chart 6.2.4.1).

14 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Mar-05 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-05 Dec-04 Mar-04
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 49,889 49,577 50,647 46,375 0.6% -0.9% 7.6% -1.4%
Quasi-money 111 111 111 111 0.0% -1.5% -0.5% -8.8%
Monetary Base 49.779 49.467 50.537 44.566 0.6% -0.9% 11.7% 2.3%
Monetary Circulation 36.253 35.779 35.838 29.265 1.3% -0.2% 23.9% 13.5%
In Public Hands 32.581 32.197 31.702 26.206 1.2% -0.3% 24.3% 13.9%
In Financial Entities 3.671 3.582 4.136 3.058 2.5% 0.9% 20.0% 10.0%
Current Account at BCRA 13.526 13.688 14.699 15.302 -1.2% -2.7% -11.6% -19.0%

Stock of Passive Repos 5.229 7.115 5.524 0 -26.5% -27.6%
Stock of Active Repos 18 10 33 45 81.3% 78.5% -60.3% -63.7%

BCRA International Reserves 20.741 20.526 19.310 13.507 1.0% 53.6%

Total Deposits in Pesos 1 104.638 104.429 102.293 87.330 0.2% -1.3% 19.8% 9.8%

Private Deposits 79.140 77.729 74.331 70.275 1.8% 0.3% 12.6% 3.2%
Current Account 18.792 18.545 17.923 16.005 1.3% -0.2% 17.4% 7.6%
Savings Account 18.464 18.211 17.852 14.972 1.4% -0.2% 23.3% 13.0%
Fixed Term Deposit 28.744 27.913 26.333 27.152 3.0% 1.4% 5.9% -3.0%
Fixed Term Deposit adjustable by CER 6.262 6.101 4.825 958 2.6% 1.1% 553.6% 498.8%
Other Deposits 5.460 5.382 5.517 5.167 1.4% -0.1% 5.7% -3.2%
Exchanged for BODEN (recorded) 155 158 172 1.722 -2.0% -3.5% -91.0% -91.8%
CEDRO including CER 1.263 1.419 1.709 4.298 -11.0% -12.4% -70.6% -73.1%

Public Sector Deposits 25.498 26.700 27.962 17.055 -4.5% -6.0% 49.5% 37.0%

Total Deposits in Dollars 1 4.068 4.155 3.943 2.130 -2.1% 91.0%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 55.374 55.148 54.425 50.366 0.4% -1.1% 9.9% 0.7%

To the Private Sector 35.197 34.853 34.108 27.107 1.0% -0.5% 29.8% 19.0%
Advances 6.345 6.305 6.355 4.707 0.6% -0.9% 34.8% 23.5%
Documents 6.843 6.771 6.668 4.762 1.1% -0.5% 43.7% 31.7%
Mortgages 8.667 8.773 8.693 9.044 -1.2% -2.7% -4.2% -12.2%
Pledges 1.740 1.714 1.637 1.233 1.5% 0.0% 41.1% 29.2%
Personal Loans 4.798 4.564 4.184 2.579 5.1% 3.5% 86.0% 70.5%
Credit Cards 3.433 3.315 3.080 2.287 3.5% 2.0% 50.1% 37.5%
Others 3.372 3.410 3.491 2.494 -1.1% -2.6% 35.2% 23.9%

To the Public Sector 20.176 20.296 20.317 23.260 -0.6% -2.1% -13.3% -20.5%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 1.922 1.805 1.702 1.412 6.4% 36.0%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 60.454 60.992 61.923 48.949 -0.9% -2.4% 23.5% 13.2%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 87.843 88.439 88.930 67.713 -0.7% -2.2% 29.7% 18.9%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 149.075 148.695 145.652 118.099 0.3% -1.3% 26.2% 15.6%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 51.484 50.853 49.735 42.322 1.2% -0.3% 21.6% 11.5%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 69.948 69.064 67.587 57.295 1.3% -0.3% 22.1% 11.9%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 111.676 109.879 105.972 94.871 1.6% 0.1% 17.7% 7.8%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

Broad Monetary Base 312 0.6% -758 -1.5% -758 -1.5% 3.515 7.6%
Financial Sector 713 1.4% -2.119 -4.2% -2.119 -4.2% -9.204 -19.8%
Public Sector 212 0.4% -141 -0.3% -141 -0.3% -3.798 -8.2%
Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 194 495 495 3.841
Utilization of the National Government Account -15 -19 -19 144
External Credit 33 -616 -616 -7.783
External Private Sector 634 1.3% 4.332 8.6% 4.332 8.6% 22.740 49.0%
BCRA Securities -1.105 -2.2% -2.470 -4.9% -2.470 -4.9% -4.315 -9.3%
Difference between Redemption Value and Nominal Value of Quasi-money 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Others 3 -143 -0.3% -360 -0.7% -360 -0.7% -1.909 -4.1%
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES AND MONETARY OPERATIONS

International Reserves 215 1.0% 1,431 7.4% 1,431 7.4% 7,235 53.6%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 198 1.0% 1,444 7.5% 1,444 7.5% 7,704 57.0%
 Payments to International Organizations -741 -3.6% -1,395 -7.2% -1,395 -7.2% -3,025 -22.4%
 Other Public Sector Operations 802 3.9% 1,348 7.0% 1,348 7.0% 1,230 9.1%
 Minimum Cash -145 -0.7% -34 -0.2% -34 -0.2% 689 5.1%
 Valuation Repo Rate 50 0.2% -67 -0.3% -67 -0.3% 164 1.2%
 Others 51 0.2% 137 0.7% 137 0.7% 472 3.5%

 1 Does not include deposits of Non-Residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 15 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04

 Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 2.33 2.18 2.18 2.21 1.20
 Amount traded 353 266 267 384 131

 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 2.79 2.70 2.83 2.97 2.38
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 2.75 2.66 2.81 3.08 1.62
 60 days or more 3.55 3.42 3.47 3.80 2.64
 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.27 0.30 0.30 0.55
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.39 0.25 0.28 0.25 0.61
 60 days or more 0.75 0.62 0.69 0.66 0.95

 Active Interest Rates Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 5.44 5.36 5.57 5.78 7.86

 Collateralized Loans in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 3.13 3.07 3.39 4.31 1.82
 Operated volume (total terms) 72 71 73 77 58

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in Current Account 14.18 13.79 13.37 13.80 16.31
 Documents on Signature Alone 9.02 8.77 9.77 10.64 10.16
 Mortgage Loans 10.69 10.84 11.31 11.50 12.97
 Pledged Loans 10.34 11.15 10.85 11.73 14.38
 Personal Loans 27.18 27.19 27.47 26.64 31.40
 Credit Cards n/d n/d 27.76 29.89 32.93

 International Interest Rates Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 2.81 2.61 2.49 2.39 1.09
 6 months 3.28 3.05 2.89 2.72 1.16

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.70 3.38 3.21 3.00 1.55
 10 years 4.49 4.16 4.21 4.22 3.81

 FED Funds Rate 2.57 2.49 2.25 2.16 1.00

 SELIC (1 year) 18.96 18.45 17.94 17.52 16.39

 (1) Data up to January correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those of February and March
 are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2005

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04

 BCRA repo rates
 Passive 7 days 2.75 2.75 2.69 2.50 n/a
 Active 7 days 3.25 3.25 3.14 3.00 n/a

 Total REPO session repo rates
 1 day 2.11 2.08 2.19 2.10 n/d
 7 days 2.75 2.75 2.69 2.51 n/d

 Amount traded in REPO session repos (daily average) 1160 1520 1657 1267 n/d

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 9 months 5.75 5.47 5.68 5.67 n/a
 12 months 5.95 5.91 6.07 5.92 7.31
 18 months n/a n/a n/a 7.00 8.93
 24 months n/a n/a n/a 7.65 10.29

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months -0.50 -0.32 0.03 -0.12 1.94
 18 months 0.14 0.25 0.60 n/a 3.28
 24 months 0.46 0.72 1.28 1.35 4.62

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 3.01 2.51 3.06 2.37 5.16

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 134 53 91 93 118

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.93 2.92 2.94 2.97 2.90
 BCRA Reference 2.93 2.92 2.95 2.97 2.90

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.93 2.91 2.94 2.98 2.90
 INDOL 1 month 2.92 2.97 2.97 2.96 2.90
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 0
 ROFEX 1 month 2.93 2.91 2.94 2.97 2.89
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 92 54 57 95 88
 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.08 1.12 1.09 1.09 1.00

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.86 3.80 3.86 3.99 3.55

 Capital Market Mar-05 Feb-05 Jan-05 Dec-04 Mar-04
# MERVAL
 Index 1462 1493 1340 1287 1223
 Trading Volume (millions of pesos) 91 115 44 63 77

 Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 86.87 87.43 84.46 83.32 66.84
 BODEN 08 ($) 114.25 113.66 109.88 108.18 94.51

 Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 508 455 606 627 1,044
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 294 288 306 300 401

 (1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
 17
