# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
AUGUST 2005

## CONTENTS 1. Summary
1. Summary 1 • In August, the BMA decreased by $202 million (0.4%) to reach $54,276
 million. Although the BCRA continued with the prudential policy of accumulation of
2. Monetary Program 2 international reserves, the monetary expansion caused by that channel ($3,598
 million) was more than offset by the contraction generated by the
3. Interest Rates 2 arrangement of reverse repos ($2,215 million), the net placement of LEBAC and
 NOBAC ($852 million) and the cancellations of advances and rediscounts ($683
 3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 2 million).
 • The yield curve of the primary market of LEBAC in pesos showed
 3.2. Interbank Markets 3 a slight flattening compared to end of July. While interest rates of the
 securities with shorter duration practically did not change, the six-month rate
 adjusted relative to the rest of the curve and those of the longer duration
 3.2.1 Repo Market 3 segment decreased. During August, NOBAC with variable coupon
 (adjustable to BADLAR) were placed again and its implicit interest rate decreased
 3.2.2 Interbank Market 4 gradually until reaching 8.55% at the end of the month. Likewise, as of the last
 July auction the BCRA has not conducted new placements of securities
 3.3. Passive Interest Rates 5 adjustable by CER.
 • The BCRA maintained the reference interest rate corridor at 4.25%-5.25% for
 3.4. Active Interest Rates 6 short-term through its 7-day repo operations, while maintaining at 3.75% the rate
 of 1-day reverse repo operations. Additionally, it began to carry out reverse repos
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6 automatically for the surplus of current accounts above the desired balance reported
 by the banks. On the other hand, as of August, Money Market Investment Funds
 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6 (FCI) began to carry out reverse repos for the BCRA for the amounts deposited
 in their liquidity margin accounts at the BCRA.
 4.2. Dollar Deposits 8 • The interbank market interest rates remained, with fluctuations, within the
 corridor established by the BCRA. Passive interest rates recorded a decrease in
 4.3. Bank Liquidity 8 shorter-term placements while they continued to increase in longer-term ones.
 The opposite could be observed for active interest rates: for short-term credit
 5. Loans 9 lines they remained stable or recorded slight increases, while for longer-term
 loans they resumed their downward trend.
 6. Financial Assets Market 10 • Monetary aggregates continued to grow, although at a slower pace. Currency in
 the hands of the public grew on average around $370 million (1%), total means
 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 10 of payment (M2) increased $710 million (0.8%), while the broader monetary
 aggregate (M3) showed an increase close to $1,730 million (1.2%). Private
 6.2. Capital Markets 11 monetary aggregates also showed slight increases. Private M2 grew $450
 million (0.6%) while private M3 increased $1,070 million (0.9%). As can be
 6.2.1. Shares 11 observed, unlike what occurred last year, during 2005 the growth was sustained
 by broader monetary aggregates.
 6.2.2. Public Securities 11 • Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with their strong growth trend;
 they recorded a monthly increase of $740 million (1.9%) and accumulated an
 6.2.3. Institutional Investors 12 increase of 28.8% in year-over-year terms. This growth was widespread across all
 loan lines, from advances on current account, of very short-term, to mortgage
 6.2.3.1 Administrators of loans, of long-term. The growth of consumer financing continued to be sustained during

Pension and Retirement Funds 12
6.2.3.2 Common Investment Funds 12 level 3.1% higher than the historical maximum registered in
 Investment December 2000. However, in real terms it is 37.3% lower than the
 maximum reached in that date.
 6.2.4. Private Securities 13 • In nominal terms, there was a depreciation of the peso both with
 respect to the euro (2.7%), as well as in relation to the real (1.2%)
 6.2.5. Financial Trusts 14 and with respect to the US dollar (0.7%). Additionally, according to
 the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated
7. Monetary and Financial 15 1.6% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading
 Indicators partners and accumulates a depreciation of 0.1% in the last twelve
 months.
3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

The yield curve resulting from auctions in the primary market of LEBAC in pesos showed a slight flattening with respect to the end of July. While the interest rates corresponding to LEBAC of shorter duration practically did not register variations, in the case of those with six-month duration an adjustment was observed with respect to the rest of the curve. Likewise, in the longer duration segment, the rates evidenced decreases (see Chart 3.1.1). On the other hand, in August NOBAC were placed again that pay variable coupon based on the BADLAR interest rate reported by private banks, and its implicit interest rate decreased gradually throughout the month until positioning itself at 8.55% at the end of the same.
3.2.1. Repo Market

The BCRA maintained the reference interest rate corridor at 4.25%-5.25% per annum for 7-day operations, while it continued to conduct 1-day passive repos at 3.75% per annum.

If to the operations agreed with the BCRA are added those agreed between the rest of the banks, it is observed that the average monthly rate for one-day operations decreased slightly compared to July (0.3 p.p.) and moved to 3.67% per annum, while in the 7-day transaction segment it remained at 4.29% per annum.

**Graph 3.2.1.1**
**Call Operations and Repos* in the Local Market**
**(Average daily traded in thousands of millions of $)**

The average daily amount traded with the BCRA in the REPO round increased again compared to the previous month (13%) and stood at $2,376 million, but on this occasion the 7-day transaction segment was the one that drove the increase, passing from $730 million to $1,032 million daily. In the aforementioned increase, some entities that accumulated funds in these instruments to use them at the beginning of September in the cancellation of rediscounts made an important contribution. Operations in which the BCRA is not a counterparty also continued to increase and in August recorded an average daily amount of $330 million, 15% above that corresponding to July (see Graph 3.2.1.1).

*Includes only repos agreed in the REPO round.
Source: BCRA and MAE

On the other hand, starting this month, through Communication A 4399, banks were authorized to daily report the balance of current accounts in pesos that they wish to maintain at the end of each day and, in case the recorded amount exceeds the desired amount, the BCRA performs a 1-day repo for the excess. From its implementation on August 8, $31 million daily on average were traded through this modality.

On the other hand, starting August 17, money market investment funds constitute their liquidity margin at the BCRA (see Section 6.2.3.2), and with the funds deposited there they are authorized to conduct 1-day repos for which they receive an interest rate of 2.55%, equal to that of the current accounts of banks at the BCRA. This measure is in line with the studies that the BCRA is conducting—in a coordinated manner with the National Securities Commission (CNV)—in order to evaluate the desirability that these instruments have as underlying assets short-term public securities with quotation and market, in the same way that occurs in other developed and developing countries.

**Graph 3.2.2.1**
**Interest Rates for Call Operations and Repos**
**(weighted averages by amount)**

Considering the repos agreed with the BCRA through all the aforementioned modalities, at the end of August the balance of
7 passive repos for the BCRA amounted to $7,016 million. 35% of the
total were repos agreed at 7 days, while the rest was
6 BCRA Repo Broker at 7 days
1-day Call composed of 1-day operations. On the other hand, active repos

1-day Repos for the BCRA, on the same date, reached $158 million.
5 7-day Call

BCRA Passive Repos at 1 day

4

3 3.2.2. Interbank Market

2
The interest rates of the interbank market continued
1
Source: BCRA 31-Dec-04 28-Jan-05 25-Feb-05 29-Mar-05 26-Apr-05 24-May-05 23-Jun-05 21-Jul-05 19-Aug-05during the first half of August with the downward trend that
they had been presenting since last month, moving towards the lower
limit of the short-term reference interest rate corridor established
by the BCRA through its repo operations. However, from mid-month
they reversed their trend and began to rise, once again exceeding the
upper limit of the corridor (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

In the 1 business day segment (which represents approximately
60% of the stock of financing) the interest rates, which had been
Chart 3.2.2.2 located at the end of July at 4.1% n.a., were gradually reduced to
$ millions Call Market reach a minimum of 3.7% n.a. on August 10, a level slightly
(average stock) lower than 3.75% n.a. of BCRA passive repos at 1-day maturity.

400
Subsequently, interest rates began to rise until
300
reaching a peak of 5.2% n.a. on the penultimate day of the month and then
200
declining again.
100

0

-100
-200 Similar behavior was presented by interest rates of

-300 operations at 7-day maturity, which had ended July at 4.8%

-400 n.a. to decline during August until reaching a minimum of

-500 4.2% n.a., a level slightly lower than 4.25% n.a. of passive repo operations
-600 Public of BCRA passive repos at 7-day maturity. Subsequently
-700 Private Nationals
 Maj. Cap. Foreign they presented sharp increases reaching peaks of up to 6.1% n.a. to
-800
 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05then decline on the last day of the month.
 Source: BCRA
The stock of interbank loans was placed at $625
million daily average, recording a decline of $180 million
compared to July. By bank group, it can be seen that during
August public banks continued to be the main net providers
of funds (see Chart 3.2.2.2), while foreign entities continued to be the main net
demanders of funds.

4 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

3.3. Passive Interest Rates
Chart 3.3.1
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days
(5-day moving average)
August 2005 Private Banks Public Banks Passive interest rates in August recorded, unlike

% Less than $100,000 % Greater than $1,000,000 previous months, a decline for placements in the
4.3 6.5
4.1 shorter maturities while those corresponding to
6.0
3.9 5.5 deposits at longer maturities continued to rise.

3.7 5.0

3.5 4.5 In the 30-44 day bracket, the average interest rate was

4.0
3.3 located at 4% n.a., which is 0.2 p.p. lower than that of July. In the
3.5
3.1 case of placements greater than $1 million, the interest rate
3.0
2.9 2.5 decreased 0.3 p.p. remaining at 4.2% n.a.. This decline was evidenced
2.7 2.0
since the first days of the month in both private sector and
2.5 1.5
public sector banks. However, from mid-month there was a
2.3 1.0
Source: BCRAJun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Jul-05Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Jul-05readjustment of interest rates
observing an increase in the remuneration of deposits in
this segment, which is the most sensitive to variations in bank
liquidity. In this way the interest rate of private sector entities
began to rise, yielding an average for August of
5.4% n.a. while in public entities the average interest rate
remained stable at 3.5% n.a.. In operations for
Chart 3.3.2 amounts less than $100,000, the interest rate increased in the
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos first days of August, as a result of a lag it maintained with the
(monthly average weighted by amount operated)
%
5.5 rest of the interest rates, and then remained stable at 3.5% n.a..
30 to 59 days 5.30
Although slight intramonthly declines were observed in the interest rate
5.0 60 to 89 days 4.92
more than 90 days offered by private entities, the average increased 0.2

4.5 percentage points and the level was 4.2% n.a.. In public entities the interest

4.0 4.06 rate paid in the retail segment showed no variations throughout

the month, standing at 2.55% as in the previous month. (See
3.5
Chart 3.3.1)

3.0

2.5 In placements of 60 to 89 days the average interest
rate was 4.9% n.a., showing an increase of 0.15 percentage points
2.0
May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05with respect to the previous month with heterogeneous behavior between
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA sectors. The interest rates paid to the public sector rose
0.5 percentage points, registering an average of 4.8% n.a. while those of
the corporate sector fell 0.5 percentage points with an average of 5.4%.
For deposits of financial services lending institutions,
as in the shorter term, the interest rate
fell 0.6 percentage points and the average was 5.5% n.a..

Chart 3.4.1 On the contrary, in the brackets of terms greater than 90 days,
TNA, % Commercial Loans the average interest rates continued to record significant
(Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
55 increases. This behavior responds to the expectations of
financial entities in relation to their liquidity needs for
Advances the coming months. The most significant increases were seen in the
45 Documents deposits of financial services lending institutions
whose average interest rate grew 0.7 percentage points, placing it at 6.7%
n.a., and in placements of the public sector where the interest rate
35 grew 1.1 percentage points, resulting in an average for August of 5% n.a..

Both in placements of individuals and in the
25 corporate sector interest rates increased 0.3 percentage points, thus the average
interest rates were 5.5% n.a. and 5.7% n.a. respectively.
15 14.4 (See Chart 3.3.2)

10.5

5
Source: BCRAFeb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05

5 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

Chart 3.4.2
Consumer Loans 3.4. Active Interest Rates¹
(Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
TNA, %
70

65
Personal The active interest rates for short-term credit lines
60
Cards remained stable during August, while in
55
Chart 3.4.1 longer-term loans they resumed their downward trend.
50
45
 In commercial lines, the interest rate on overdrafts in
 40
 current account remained stable at 14.4% p.a. and accumulated over
 35
 what has transpired so far in the year an increase of 0.9 p.p.. The interest rates of
 30 26.1
 documented loans on sole signature registered a slight rise of
 25 25.2
 0.15 p.p. being the average interest rate of 14.5% p.a. in August.
 20
 Feb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05 This evolution is the result of a heterogeneous behavior by
 Source: BCRA
 type of client: while the interest rate charged to
 natural persons remains stable, that corresponding to legal
 entities rose slightly toward mid-August to then decline, yielding a
 monthly average slightly higher than that of the previous month (see Chart 3.4.1).

 The interest rate on personal loans after having
 shown a slight increase in July, during August presented the
 Chart 3.4.3 largest decline so far in the year, with a decrease of 0.9 p.p. which
 Loans with Real Guarantee
 led to the average interest rate being 25.2% p.a.. Said
 (Average interest rate monthly weighted by amount)
 decline occurs in a context of strong growth of this
 APA, %
 32 market segment, with more aggressive policies by the
 entities in the generation of new loans. The interest rate
 27 Mortgages
 for credit card financing, although August information is not available,
 Pledged loans
 in the month of July was 26.1% p.a.

 22 showing a decrease of 0.1 p.p. (see Chart 3.4.2).

 17 With respect to loans with real guarantee, the interest
 rate of mortgage loans remained stable at 11.3%

 12 11.3 p.a. while that of pledged loans registered a

 10.3 decrease of 0.2 p.p. leading the August average to 10.3% p.a.

 7 accumulating a decline so far in the year of 1.5 p.p. (see Chart
 Source: BCRAFeb-03 May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05
 3.4.3).

 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

 Chart 4.1.1

 thousands of Deposits in Pesos thousands of 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
 millions of $ (average monthly balances) millions of $
 40 85
 Average Monthly Variation
 AUGUST 2005
 thousands of
 millones de $
 1.200
 1.000 Private Sector
 35 Public Sector 80 In August, monetary aggregates in pesos continued
 800

 600 showing positive variations associated mainly to the

 400
 30 200 75 increase in deposits that, on average, amounted to close to
 $1,350 million. Of this increase, $650 million corresponded to
 0 Sight Term
 placements by the public sector and $700 million to deposits of

 25 70 the private sector (see Chart 4.1.1).

 20 65

 Public Sector Sight placements increased on average
 15 Private Sector (right axis) 60 around $330 million, of which only $70 million

 Ene-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Ene-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 corresponded to deposits of the private sector. The latter

 Source: BCRA

 1 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
 June 2005, the values of July and August 2005 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data of
 loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005
4.2. Dollar Deposits
# Translation to English

Dollar deposits showed an increase of US$80 million in August as a result of a rise of US$200 million in private sector deposits that was partially offset by the fall of US$120 million in public sector deposits (see Chart 4.2.1).

Chart 4.2.1 Specifically, the increase in private sector placements had its origin in funds from the collection of

Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock interest and the first installment of the BODEN 2012 amortization of US$
millions of US$ thousands of millions 550 which explained a rise of US$150 million in placements in savings
550
accounts while time deposits increased US$50
450 4.0
350 million. For its part, the fall in dollar deposits from the public
250 3.0 sector was concentrated in savings account placements and
150
50 responded mostly to the payment of the aforementioned BODEN and

-50 2.0 the government's external obligations.

-150
-250 Priv. S. Dep. Pub. S. Dep. The stock of deposits in foreign currency totaled US$3,800
 Total (2nd axis) 1,0
-350 million in August.

-450

-550 0,0
 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05
 Source: BCRA

4.3. Bank Liquidity

The bank liquidity maintained by financial entities in current accounts at the BCRA, in cash and in reverse repos for the BCRA represented in August 20.3% of total deposits in pesos, which implied an increase of almost half a percentage point compared to the previous month, despite the new regulations for FCIs that negatively impacts the ratio. The increase in the liquidity ratio was concentrated in the group of private banks that increased their funding with resources from new deposits, collection of BODEN services and the sale of public securities. These funds were temporarily channeled to the acquisition of LEBACs and the arrangement of reverse repos for the BCRA to be, in part, used in the first days of September in the cancellation of rediscounts. If LEBACs and NOBACs were also included within the bank liquidity ratio, it would register in August an increase of more than 2 p.p. compared to July, reaching approximately 40% of total deposits of private banks (see Chart 4.3.1). For its part, the liquidity of the public banks group remained relatively unchanged compared to the previous month.

Chart 4.3.1
Bank liquidity in pesos

Bank liquidity
% of Bank liquidity + LEBACs % of
42 Private Banks Public Banks 42
40 40
38 38
36 36
34 34
32 32
30 30
28 28
26 26
24 24
22 22
20 20
18 18
 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05
Source: BCRA

Regarding the Minimum Cash requirements determined by the BCRA, the excess in the position maintained by financial entities was sustained at approximately 0.8 p.p. of total deposits in pesos (about $800 million) while a reduction was observed both in the requirement and in the integration of Minimum Cash linked to the regulatory change on sight placements of FCIs (see Section 6.2.3.2).

In the foreign currency deposit segment, excess funds immobilized in the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and in cash remained close to those recorded the previous month (approximately US$1,100 million)3.

Chart 5.1
millions of $ Loans to Private Sector in Pesos (Average monthly var.)
800
600 Commercial loans
 Consumer loans
400
 Loans with real collateral
200

0

-200 5. Loans4

-400
 During August, loans in pesos to the private sector continued
-600
 with the trend of firm growth that they have been showing in recent months by registering a monthly increase of $740 million (1.9%) and have accumulated 28.8% in terms
-800 year-on-year. Said growth was widespread across all loan lines, from overdrafts on current accounts, of very short-term, to mortgage loans, of long-term.

The growth of consumer financing continued sustained during August, exceeding in amount the commercial financing (see Chart 5.1). Said financing registered an increase of $360 million (3.6%) in the month and accumulate an increase of 63.7% in year-on-year terms and of 145.7% with respect to the minimum recorded two years ago -37.3%. Thus in this month consumer financing reached $9.730 billion, which added to more than US$30 million of credit card financing in foreign currency totaled $9.820 billion, a level that results 3.1% higher than the historical maximum registered in December 2000. However, in real terms the current levels are 37.3% lower than the maximum reached at that date (see Chart 5.2).

Commercial financing registered in the month a rise of $290 million (1.6%) on average and accumulate a year-on-year increase of 32.1%, which implies a deceleration with respect to the growth registered in the prior months. The monthly variation can be broken down into an increase of $70 million (0.9%) of overdrafts, $180 million of documents (2.2%) and $50 million (1.3%) of "other loans".

Likewise, the excellent situation that the automotive sector is going through, which presented in August the highest sales levels of the last seven years led to financing with chattel mortgage guarantee continuing to grow (see Chart 5.3), and registered in August an increase of somewhat more than $40 million.

In the case of mortgage loans, for the third consecutive month the new financing exceeded in amount the amortizations and prepayments for which they showed an increase, on this occasion exceeding $40 million. In the last three months the new financing granted exceeded $230 million monthly and in the last month surpassed $250 million (see Chart 5.4).

---

3 In accordance with what was established by the BCRA, the failure to apply the lending capacity in foreign currency that financial entities verify in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement of said period. For this reason, the excess liquidity that financial entities accrue normatively is lower than the one mentioned in this section in which only the requirement that arises from applying the reserve requirement coefficients on obligations in foreign currency is computed, without considering the equivalent increase in the same due to the failure to apply resources.

4 The loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of financial trusts, which although they affect the balances of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financing granted.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005
Finally, in a context of very good export performance, loans to the private sector in foreign currency continue with their firm growth rate, registering an increase of US$126 million (5.6%) in August and accumulating a year-over-year increase of 72.9%. As in the preceding months, the increase was driven by financing instruments implemented through documents.

**Graph 5.4**
*millions of $ Mortgage Loans 6. Financial Assets Market*

350

250 Average monthly variation
New loans granted 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

150

50 International reserves reached US$25,252 million at the end of August, registering an increase of US$147 million

-50 with respect to the last day of July (see Graph 6.1.1). It is worth noting that, as mentioned in Section 4.2, this month the public sector

-150 faced the payment of the first installment of the BODEN 2012 amortization which implied a decline in reserves of US$1,471 million. This

-250 operation added to payments to international organizations and other
Source: BCRA Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05
public sector operations in foreign currency, totaled a decrease due to external and internal payments by the public sector of US$1,449 million. Nevertheless, the prudential policy of accumulation of international reserves carried out by the BCRA meant foreign currency purchases in the market of US$1,454 million that offset the decline produced by public sector payments. For its part, other foreign currency operations, mainly those linked to current accounts of banks
**Graph 6.1.1**
in dollars at the BCRA and reserve income, explained an additional variation in international reserves of US$141
thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
millions of US$ (gold, foreign exchange and time deposits) million.

30

31-Aug-05 In the spot foreign exchange market, continued significant dynamism was observed.
US$ 25,252 M
26
Thus, in August the amount traded on average daily was 4% higher than observed the previous month.
22
On this occasion, the entire increase took place through the Electronic Operations System, while in the

18 Electronic Brokers Market the amount traded on average daily did not register changes with respect to July.

14

10 In nominal terms, a depreciation of the peso occurred in August that reached 2.7% with respect to the euro, 1.2% in relation to the

6 real and 0.7% with respect to the US dollar. On the other hand, in real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated 1.6% with respect to the basket of its
Jan-01 Jun-01 Nov-01 Apr-02 Sep-02 Feb-03 Jul-03 Dec-03 May-04 Oct-04 Mar-05 Aug-05
Source: BCRA main trading partners, accumulating a year-over-year depreciation of 0.1%.

In line with behavior in the spot market, in the Rosario Forward Market an increase close to 0.7% was registered in the quotations of dollar future contracts, while the daily amounts traded in the month reached a new historical maximum of approximately $200 million.

**10 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005**

**Graph 6.2.1.1 6.2. Capital Market**
*Local Stock Market*

millions of $ (MERVAL Index in pesos) MERVAL

200 Amount traded 1700

180 MERVAL (right axis) 1600

160 1500

140 1400

120 1300

**6.2.1. Stocks**

Stocks that traded in the local market once again presented an increase in their quotations. In this way, those included in the MERVAL index showed an increase of 4.9% and have accumulated in what has been 2005 an increase of 15% (see Graph 6.2.1.1). For its part, the MERVAL in dollars rose 3.1% in

100 1200

80 1100
the month, accumulating growth of 17.4% in 2005. The companies

60 1000

40 900 with the greatest increase in their stock prices were Tenaris, with an

20 800

0 700

Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 [Text appears to be cut off in the original]
Source: Bloomberg
increase of more than 20% and Banco Macro Bansud and Petrobras, with increases around 10%.

The presentation of the balance sheets corresponding to the second quarter of the year had a positive impact that was reflected in the generalized rise in prices. Of the 11 companies that make up the MERVAL, all, with the exception of ALUAR which at the close of this report had not yet presented its balance sheet, obtained positive results.

Chart 6.2.2.1 The average amount of shares traded daily that comprise the mentioned index grew 15% compared to July and reached $89 million.

Sovereign Bonds in Pesos

Yield (%)
7
DISC $ PAR $
6

5
BODEN 14
4 PRO 12 6.2.2. Public Securities

3

2 31-Aug-05
 31-Jul-05 The quotations of sovereign bonds in pesos reversed the upward trend that they experienced the previous month and

1 PRE 08 August began with a fall in prices linked to profit-taking and to an inflation figure for July lower than anticipated by

0 operators in this market. Later, in the second part of the month,

-1 BODEN 08 they were also unfavorably influenced by political news from Brazil and accompanied the declining trend of bonds in that market. In this way, increases in interest rates were verified throughout the entire yield curve, which were more pronounced in the medium and long-term segment (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Source: IAMC average life (years)

On the other hand, during this month the national government accessed the primary market again on another opportunity. Thus, on August 3rd, VN US$350 million of BODEN with maturity in 2012 were placed through auction. For these funds the government paid a yield of 7.84% and received offers for a total of VN US$1,463 million.

Chart 6.2.2.2
millions of $ Amounts Operated of Sovereign Bonds Public Debt Restructuring Concludes
(Daily Averages)
1600
1400 June 2005 The average amount negotiated daily in the secondary market of bonds issued by the national government was 4% lower than that registered in July. In the MAE the amount operated amounted to $925 million daily, while at the BCBA it was $475 million. Nevertheless, the amounts transacted continued at elevated levels, reached after the completion of the national public debt restructuring process, at the beginning of June (see Chart 6.2.2.2).

1200 June 2005
 BCBA MAE
1000
800
600
400
200

0
Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05

Source: MAE and BCBA

11 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

6.2.3. Institutional Investors5

6.2.3.1. Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds

Chart 6.2.3.1.1 The investment portfolio of the Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds (AFJP) was positioned at the end of August at $62,674 million, 2.7% above July and 17.8% higher than at the end of 2004. Securities of variable income again acquired prominence in the explanation of monthly movements. In this way, holdings of shares of local and foreign companies increased by a total of $850 million (6%) between the end of July and August. The good performance that these assets had in the local market contributed to this result, as indicated in Section 6.2.1, taking into account that the main securities in which increases in the portfolio were registered were those that experienced greater price increases.

Holdings of Investment Funds of the AFJP
millions of $ millions of $
450 1400
 1302
400 1200
 Monthly Variation
350 1000
300 948 Stock as of August 31 (right axis)
250 800
200 600
 529
150 400
100 335
50 199 200
 135 94
0 0

Fixed Term $ Variable Income Variable Income Fixed Income $ Fixed Income US$ Mixed Income Mixed Income $
$ US$ US$
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP

The other item in the AFJP portfolio that experienced a significant increase was the one comprising holdings of Mutual Funds, which experienced an increase of $840 million (32%). Among them, fixed-term funds were the main recipients of new resources, although they continue to place most of this portfolio segment in variable income funds in pesos (see Chart 6.2.3.1.1).

Chart 6.2.3.2.1 On the other hand, it is important to note the increase in the holding of mortgage bonds and promissory notes, which went from $20 million thousands of (equity) in July to $88 million in August. Although the variation is small in millions of $
5.6 relation to the total investment portfolio, this increase

5.2 shows the participation that AFJPs had in the increasingly active financial trust market. In particular, in August,
4.8 they incorporated into their portfolio the trusts Real Estate
4.4 Credits Galicia I ($40 million) and Super Mortgage Bonds Class
4.0 I ($30 million).
3.6

3.2

2.8 6.2.3.2. Mutual Funds of Investment

2.4
Source: BCRA and CAFCI 3-Jan-05 31-Jan-05 28-Feb-05 30-Mar-05 27-Apr-05 26-May-05 24-Jun-05 22-Jul-05 22-Aug-05

Mutual funds of investment in pesos showed in August a patrimonial increase greater than $1,300 million (19.3%), driven by the rise in equity of money market funds which was accompanied by the increase in assets of the remaining funds.

The equity of money market funds reflected at the end of August a net increase of $787 million, equivalent to 22.1% of equity at the end of July. It should be noted that during the first days of August these funds benefited from a significant inflow of resources, of approximately $1,300 million, which was associated, in part, with the collection of amortizations and interest from BODEN. This increase was partially offset during the

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

Chart 6.2.3.2.3 second half of the month by the seasonal intra-monthly outflow of

Fixed Income Funds funds (see Chart 6.2.3.2.1). In terms of yield, these
millions of $ (Equity at end of month)
1,400 funds reflected a slight decline, going from 4.2% in July to 4.1%

Accumulated monthly patrimonial variation 2005 in August, due to the fall in short-term passive interest rates
1,200 Accumulated monthly patrimonial variation 2004 Year 2005 during the first half of the month (see Section 3.3). On the other
Equity Dec-03
(through August)
1,000 $860 M hand, in mid-August the National Securities Commission modified the regulation6 regarding the liquidity margin that these funds
800 are required to maintain. Previously, these funds were obligated to maintain in sight deposits in the financial system 45% of their
600 assets, as a liquidity margin, which required a 100% reserve
Year 2004
$300 M requirement. As of mid-August, money market funds are obligated
400 to maintain the liquidity margin in non-remunerated current
200 accounts opened at the BCRA and have the possibility of using said
0 balances to carry out one-day reverse repos with the BCRA.

Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Source: BCRA and CAFCI

On the other hand, variable income funds continued in August with the dynamism evidenced during July, presenting a patrimonial increase close to $300 million (14.3%). This was due to the inflow of new investors and not to the increase in the value of their share units. In effect, the yield of these funds
Chart 6.2.3.2.2 went from 10.3% in July to 5.6% in August, given that although the MERVAL index showed a positive evolution (see Section 6.2.1), such
millions of $ Index evolution showed returns lower than those of the previous month (see
2,400 1,700
Chart 6.2.3.2.2).

2,200 1,600

1,500 Fixed income funds also registered a positive equity variation in
2,000 August, which was around $220 million (21%), resuming the growth
1,400
1,800 rate they had been showing since the beginning of last year. So far
1,300 this year, the assets of these funds grew $860 million, which is more
1,600 than double what increased throughout all of 2004 (see Chart
1,200
1,400 1.100 6.2.3.2.3). In terms of returns, these funds presented a decline of
Variable Income Funds Equity more than 3 p.p., yielding an annual return of around 0.4%, as a
1,200 MERVAL (right axis) 1.000 consequence of the not so good performance of sovereign bonds issued
3-Jan-05 7-Feb-05 14-Mar-05 20-Apr-05 26-May-05 1-Jul-05 5-Aug-05 after the payment default during August (see Section 6.2.2).

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

Finally, the assets of mixed income funds increased $13 million
(8.7%), while their return decreased slightly from 4.95% in July to
3.85% in August.

Chart 6.2.4.1 6.2.4. Private Securities
Corporate Bond Yield Curves
YTM %

14

12 During August there were no new corporate debt issuances.

10

8 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, a clear
6 and greater differentiation continues to be observed between
Non-restructured* (31-Aug) debtors that complied with the fulfillment of their financial
4 Restructured (31-Aug)
Non-restructured* (31-Jul) obligations and those that had to resort to the restructuring of
2 Restructured (31-Jul) their debts after defaulting following the 2001-02 crisis. In terms of

0 YTM, the additional spread required for negotiable obligations
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 (ON) issued after restructuring processes averaged 2.8 p.p., 0.2 p.p.
*Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in payment default duration (years)
higher than that of the previous month (see Chart 6.2.4.1).
Source: Bloomberg and others

6 General CNV Resolution 481

13 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

Chart 6.2.5.1 6.2.5. Financial Trusts
Amounts Issued through Financial Trusts
millions of $
3,000

2,500 New issuances 2428

Accumulated 2005 2117
2,000 1690
1,386
1,500 1229

1,000 955 The issuance of Financial Trusts (FF) was $311 million in August,
644
more than doubling that registered in the same month of 2004; while
500 311 273 157 304 427 311 the year-to-date accumulated amount reaches $2,430 million (see
175 175 136
0 Chart 6.2.5.1). As has been observed month by month, personal loans
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug again positioned themselves above the rest of the underlying assets
Source: CNV, MAE and BCBA with almost 70% of the total amount issued, followed by mortgages,
credit cards, and public securities (Guaranteed Loans). On the other
hand, of the eleven FF launched in August, one of them offered
returns adjustable by CER, and they already total five with this
characteristic so far this year.

Regarding the entities involved in the FF issued during the month,
100% of the trustees correspond to financial entities regulated by
Chart 6.2.5.2 the BCRA, and of them 55% is concentrated in a single entity. Of the
Duration of Total Loans settlors, who ceded their loan portfolios, half of the total issued
Financed by FF months corresponded to regulated financial entities, 16% to unregulated
40
entities, 27% to retail businesses dedicated to the sale of appliances,
35 and the rest to others.
Securities Titles A
30 Securities Titles B*
25 Average
20 The average duration of the total FF issued in August was
 of 7 months, lower by 3.8 months than that of July, and reversed the trend
 15
 10.8 that had been observed (see Graph 6.2.5.2). In contrast, the average duration
 9.8 9.2 9.1
 10 7.3 7.0 of the FF composed of personal loans as
 
 4.9 5.9
 5 underlying asset, remained constant compared to the previous month, at 5.9
 
 0 months. On the other hand, the credit card coupons as
 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug underlying asset, whose average duration was 6.3 months, was higher
 Source: CNV, MAE and BCBA by 1.4 months than that of July.
* By their nature, the principal and interest payments of B securities begin after A securities have been completed, causing this a duration of B securities significantly higher than that of A

 7 Financial trusts of the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Aug-05 Jul-05 Dec-04 Aug-04 Monthly Last 12 months
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Broad Monetary Base 54,276 54,478 50,647 46,618 -0.4% -0.8% 16.4% 6.1%
 Quasi-money 111 111 111 111 0.0% -0.4% 0.0% -8.8%

 Monetary Base 54,165 54,367 50,537 46,507 -0.4% -0.8% 16.5% 6.2%
 Monetary Circulation 41,117 40,709 35,838 32,112 1.0% 0.6% 28.0% 16.7%
 In the hands of the Public 36,920 36,545 31,702 28,835 1.0% 0.6% 28.0% 16.7%
 In Financial Entities 4,196 4,164 4,136 3,277 0.8% 0.3% 28.0% 16.7%
 Current Account at the BCRA 13,049 13,658 14,699 14,395 -4.5% -4.9% -9.4% -17.4%

 Stock of Passive Repos 7,157 4,940 5,524 3,951 44.9% 44.3%
 Stock of Active Repos 61 59 33 23 3.3% 2.8%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 25,080 24,015 19,310 18,062 4.4% 38.9%

 Total Deposits in Pesos 1 114,418 113,067 102,293 97,051 1.2% 0.8% 17.9% 7.5%

 Private Deposits 83,792 83,093 74,331 70,581 0.8% 0.4% 18.7% 8.2%
 Current Account 20,924 20,484 17,923 16,608 2.1% 1.7% 26.0% 14.9%
 Savings Account 19,782 20,146 17,852 16,161 -1.8% -2.2% 22.4% 11.6%
 Fixed Term 30,873 30,427 26,333 25,274 1.5% 1.0% 22.2% 11.4%
 Fixed Term adjustable by CER 6,170 5,886 4,825 3,453 4.8% 4.4% 78.7% 62.9%
 Other Deposits 5,477 5,417 5,517 5,497 1.1% 0.7% -0.4% -9.1%
 Exchanged for BODEN (accounted) 99 100 172 585 -0.6% -1.0% -83.0% -84.5%
 CEDRO including CER 466 633 1,709 3,003 -26.5% -26.8% -84.5% -85.9%

 Public Sector Deposits 30,626 29,974 27,962 26,470 2.2% 1.7% 15.7% 5.5%

 Total Deposits in Dollars 1 3,860 3,779 3,943 3,778 2.1% 2.2%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 56,615 56,584 54,357 53,964 0.1% -0.4% 4.9% -4.3%

 To the Private Sector 39,573 38,935 34,108 30,716 1.6% 1.2% 28.8% 17.5%
 Advances 7,593 7,520 6,355 5,983 1.0% 0.5% 26.9% 15.7%
 Documents 8,098 7,933 6,668 5,486 2.1% 1.6% 47.6% 34.6%
 Mortgage Loans 8,619 8,615 8,693 8,832 0.0% -0.4% -2.4% -11.0%
 Pledge Loans 1,965 1,921 1,637 1,380 2.3% 1.8% 42.4% 29.8%
 Personal Loans 5,877 5,654 4,184 3,161 3.9% 3.5% 85.9% 69.5%
 Credit Cards 3,853 3,801 3,080 2,770 1.4% 0.9% 39.1% 26.8%
 Others 3,567 3,492 3,491 3,105 2.2% 1.7% 14.9% 4.7%

 To the Public Sector 17,042 17,648 20,249 23,247 -3.4% -3.9% -26.7% -33.2%

 Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 2,555 2,427 1,702 1,538 5.3% 66.2%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 68,578 68,045 61,923 56,425 0.8% 0.3% 21.5% 10.8%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 97,496 96,737 88,930 82,959 0.8% 0.3% 17.5% 7.1%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 162,500 160,467 145,653 136,802 1.3% 0.8% 18.8% 8.3%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 57.955 57.140 49.735 45.553 1.4% 1.0% 27.2% 16.0%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 77.737 77.286 67.587 61.714 0.6% 0.1% 26.0% 14.8%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 120.723 119.649 105.972 98.941 0.9% 0.5% 22.0% 11.2%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

Broad Monetary Base -202 -0.4% 3.184 6.2% 3.629 7.2% 7.658 16.4%
Financial Sector -2.898 -5.3% -2.882 -5.6% -5.904 -11.7% -8.221 -17.6%
Public Sector 226 0.4% 273 0.5% 32 0.1% -1.882 -4.0%
Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers 663 725 2.332 6.221
Use of the National Government Account 1.184 159 -602 -681
External Credit -1.621 -611 -1.698 -7.422
Private External Sector 3.598 6.6% 11.832 23.2% 20.032 39.6% 28.083 60.2%
BCRA Titles -852 -1.6% -5.237 -10.3% -9.307 -18.4% -9.507 -20.4%
Others 3 -276 -0.5% -802 -1.6% -1.224 -2.4% -815 -1.7%

International Reserves 1.065 4.4% 3.478 16.1% 5.770 29.9% 7.018 38.9%
Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 1.254 5.2% 4.112 19.0% 6.885 35.7% 9.592 53.1%
Payment to International Organizations -369 -1.5% -1.129 -5.2% -3.589 -18.6% -5.222 -28.9%
Other Public Sector Operations -128 -0.5% 1.153 5.3% 3.505 18.2% 3.511 19.4%
Minimum Cash 157 0.7% -693 -3.2% -1.122 -5.8% -1.428 -7.9%
Valuation Exchange Rate Type 92 0.4% -117 -0.5% -322 -1.7% -23 -0.1%
Others 59 0.2% 153 0.7% 413 2.1% 588 3.3%

1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
3 Includes the variation of quasi-money without monetary effect.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

Interest Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 4.31 5.04 4.66 2.21 2.20
Amount traded 421 551 539 384 627

Fixed Term Deposits
In pesos
30 days 3.94 4.10 3.66 2.97 2.85
30-44 days, more than 1 million 4.41 4.72 4.10 3.08 3.01
60 days or more 5.04 4.89 4.59 3.80 3.47
In dollars
30 days 0.53 0.39 0.35 0.30 0.30
30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.54 0.30 0.30 0.25 0.28
60 days or more 1.05 0.92 0.86 0.66 0.61

Active Interest Rates Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.45 6.55 6.27 5.78 5.79

Collateralized loans in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 6.00 6.33 5.91 4.31 4.28
Volume traded (total terms) 82 73 79 77 65

Loans in pesos (1)
Current Account Advances 14.37 14.39 14.50 13.47 14.56
Documents at sole signature 10.55 10.40 10.23 10.70 10.69
Mortgages 11.32 11.29 11.59 11.50 11.89
Pledge Loans 10.29 10.51 10.52 11.74 12.95
Personal Loans 25.25 26.22 25.74 26.70 26.32
Credit Cards n/d 26.15 26.27 29.47 30.84

International Interest Rates Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

LIBOR
1 month 3.61 3.42 3.25 2.39 1.60
6 months 4.02 3.83 3.61 2.72 1.94

US Treasury Bond
2 years 4.03 3.86 3.62 3.00 2.49
10 years 4.25 4.16 3.98 4.22 4.27

FED Funds Rate 3.43 3.25 3.01 2.16 1.43

SELIC (at 1 year) 19.75 19.75 19.75 17.52 16.00

(1) Data through July correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for August are estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – AUGUST 2005

Interest Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
Passive 7 days 4.25 4.25 3.96 2.50 2.50
Active 7 days 5.25 4.94 4.94 3.00 3.50

Total round REPO repurchase agreement rates
1 day 3.67 3.99 3.49 2.10 2.23
7 days 4.29 4.29 4.09 2.51 2.51
Amount operated in REPO rounds (daily average) 2610 2329 2013 1267 844

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 5.99 5.94 5.78 2.85 n/a
 3 months 6.83 6.85 6.54 3.55 n/a
 6 months 7.48 7.17 6.41 4.96 n/a
 9 months 7.79 7.85 6.70 5.67 6.73
 12 months 7.88 8.23 7.41 5.92 6.85

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months n/a 0.00 0.00 -0.12 -0.08
 18 months n/a 0.80 0.10 n/a 0.90

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER n/a 3.05 3.18 2.37 3.00

 NOBAC rate in pesos with variable coupon n/a 7.47 7.40 n/a n/a

 Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 143 146 158 96 84

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.89 2.87 2.88 2.97 3.01
 BCRA Reference 2.89 2.87 2.88 2.97 3.01

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.89 2.87 2.89 2.98 3.04
 INDOL 1 month n/a n/a n/a 2.96 3.03
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 0
 ROFEX 1 month 2.89 2.87 2.89 2.97 3.02
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 201 138 170 104 115

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.22 1.21 1.19 1.09 1.01

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.55 3.46 3.51 3.99 3.68

 Capital Markets Aug-05 Jul-05 Jun-05 Dec-04 Aug-04

 MERVAL
 Index 1524 1443 1453 1287 954
 Volume Operated (millions of pesos) 89 78 71 63 36

 Government Bonds (per each FV 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 87.73 89.55 88.54 83.25 68.82
 BODEN 08 ($) 122.71 119.92 115.37 108.18 99.25

 Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 423 534 528 627 1,091
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 324 334 330 252 353

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month. 17
