2. Monetary Program
The BMA stood at $51,633 million in June, remaining for the eighth consecutive quarter within the bands stipulated in the Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1). In this way it accumulated in the first half of the year a growth of 1.9%, equivalent to half of what it registered in the same period of the Chart 2.1 previous year, which evidences the change in the bias of monetary policy as of the beginning of this year. In real terms the thousands of Broad Monetary Base and Monetary Program 2005 effect is even greater since in 2004 there was an expansion of 58 0.6% while this year there was a contraction of 3.9%. millions of $ Furthermore, at the end of June the BMA ended at $51,534 million, very 56 BMA Observed - 30-day moving average close to the average of the month. 
 Monetary Program 2005 Bands

54

 During June the BCRA continued with a prudential policy 52 of accumulation of international reserves in order to reduce the external vulnerability of the country. This strategy, which is used by 50 several Central Banks in the region – Brazil, Mexico, Peru, among 48 others – is oriented toward avoiding disruptive movements in the 46 foreign exchange market in the face of any type of shock that could affect the normal Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 flow of international payments, both of the public sector as well as the Source: BCRA private sector. This policy was accompanied by a monetary absorption policy through the placement of own securities, the arrangement of repurchase agreement operations, the collection of rediscounts and the sale of National Treasury securities.

 As has been mentioned in previous reports, the quasi-fiscal result of 2005 would continue to be in surplus, both in the estimates through June, as well as in the projections through year-end. This is due to the fact that the return on the BCRA's international reserves and the collection of interest and CER on the illiquidity assistance granted by this institution to financial entities, more than offset the expenses for payments of services on the securities that the BCRA issues and the costs of other liabilities.

 The placement in the primary market of LEBACs and NOBACs Chart 2.2 both among local financial entities as well as among institutional investors and individuals, continued being the Explanation Factors of the Broad Monetary Base main instrument of monetary contraction. In June, the BMA thousands of (on average, June 2005) decreased by this means $3,181 million. millions of $

5.0

 For its part, the repurchase agreement market with the BCRA 4.0 continued showing itself very active and in the month financial entities 3.0 increased their repurchase agreement position with this institution, which 2.0 occasioned a monetary absorption of $461 million (see Chart 2.2). 1.0

0.0

-1.0

-2.0 Additionally, financial entities continued paying illiquidity -3.0 assistance that they had received during 2001, within the schedule -4.0 provided for in the rediscount cancellation scheme External S. Public S. Treasury BCRA Repurchase Financial S. BMA known as "matching". In June, the monetary effect of these Private operations was contractionary by $133 million. Source: BCRA

 To the monetary regulation instruments mentioned above, as of this month, the BCRA incorporated open market Chart 3.1.1 operations executed through the purchase and sale of securities issued by the National Treasury in the secondary market. During the course of Yield of LEBACs and NOBACs June, mainly sales of sovereign bonds were carried out for approximately TNA (%) $139 million. 8

 7

 It should be noted that the BMA components presented 6 a disparate evolution in the month. Currency in the hands of the public 5

 31-May Pesos Not Adjusted by CER 28-Jun Pesos Not Adjusted by CER

continued with its growing trend showing an increase of $1,080 million (3.2%), while bank reserves decreased $539 million (3.1%).
4 31-May Pesos Adj. by CER 28-Jun Adj. by CER 3. Interest Rates

 3

 2 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

 1

 0
 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 In June the BCRA continued with the interest rate increase
 Source: BCRA duration (days)
 policy that began in early 2005. Thus, during
 this month the rates of LEBAC issued in pesos without CER adjustment
 increased around 1 p.p., while those adjustable by CER
 also showed increases but of smaller magnitude (see
 Chart 3.1.1). The NOBAC in pesos adjustable by CER with
 residual maturity close to two and a half years were placed at a rate of
 3.15% n.a. at the end of June, compared to 3.1% n.a. that was paid at the end
 
 Chart 3.1.2 of May.
 Net Placement of Securities

 FV, billions of The monthly placement of LEBAC and NOBAC continued directed
 $ towards shorter duration instruments (see Chart 3.1.2), which
 5 LEBAC in pesos not adj. by CER LEBAC in pesos adj. by CER
 do not adjust by CER, and which continue gaining participation in the
 4 NOBAC in pesos not adj. by CER NOBAC in pesos adj. by CER
 total. Thus, at the end of June the total amount in circulation of
 3 securities issued by the BCRA was FV $23,189 million, 21% more
 than that in effect at the end of the previous month. Regarding its distribution by
 2 type of instrument, 62% consisted of LEBAC and NOBAC in
 1 pesos not adjustable by CER, while 37% consisted of securities
 adjustable by CER and the remainder was made up of LEBAC in
 0 dollars.

 -1
 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Legal entities stood out as net purchasers
 Source: BCRA
 in June compared to banks and individuals, as
 they acquired 30% of the total increase in the amount in circulation of
 LEBAC and NOBAC verified in the month. This participation in the
 total placed was the highest recorded in the current year.

 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

 Chart 3.2.1.1
 Call Operations and Repurchase Operations in the Local Market 3.2.1. Repurchase Market
 millions of $ (average daily trading)
2,500

 Call 1 d
2,000 Call 7 d The BCRA continued with the interest rate increase policy
 Call remainder in the repurchase market. In this way, at the end of June
 Repurchases with BCRA it was offering to pay 4.25% n.a. for surplus funds that entities
 Repurchases between private parties
1,500 might channel through this market for 7 days, while
 it was charging 5.25% n.a. for the granting of active repurchases for the
 1,000 same maturity. Thus, the reference interest rate corridor at
 seven days was positioned 0.5 p.p. above the levels prevailing at the end
 500 of May. Additionally, as of June the BCRA enabled a
 new possibility to improve the management of surplus liquidity of
 0 financial entities, by resuming one-day repurchase operations. At the end of June, the interest rate paid for the
 Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05
Source: BCRA and MAE receipt of funds for one day in this market was located at 3.75%. In
 the segment of the one-day repurchase operation market, where the
 Chart 3.2.1.1 rest of the financial entities, excluding the BCRA, participate
 % Interest Rates of Call and Repurchase Operations actively, the total interest rate registered an increase of 0.8 p.p.
 8.0 (rate average weighted by amount)
 between end of month and 0.2 p.p. on average

 7.0
 Passive Repurchases BCRA at 7 days Active Repurchases BCRA at 7 days The possibility of arranging one-day repurchases also with the

 6.0 Passive Repurchases BCRA at 1 day Call at 7 days BCRA promoted the inflow of greater funds to the repurchase market
 Repurchases at 1 day Call at 1 day with this entity, which was reflected in a significant increase in the
 5.0 amount traded on average daily, which went from $1,133
 4.0 million in May, to $1,859 million in June. At the end of this month, the
 balance of passive repurchases for the BCRA amounted to $6,679 million, of
3.0 of which 69% was agreed for one day and the rest for seven days. On the same date, there were no active repos for the BCRA in force.

2.0

1.0
31-May-04 28-Jul-04 23-Sep-04 19-Nov-04 17-Jan-05 14-Mar-05 11-May-05 Source: BCRA

The amount traded between third parties remained at levels similar to those traded during recent months (see Chart 3.2.1.1).

3.2.2 Interbank Market

Chart 3.2.2.2
Total Call Operations The upward trend in interbank market interest rates
millions of $ TNA, %
1,400 8 (call) became more pronounced in June. Already last month, due to the
Stock at 1 business day Stock up to 7 calendar days Stock up to 15 calendar days
Rate at 7 days (right axis) Rate at 1 day (right axis) 7 high concentration of tax payments that had increased the funding
1,200
 needs of companies, which had reduced their transactional placements
 6 and increased the financing received, the interbank market had
1,000
 seen its activity increased, and raised interest rates, a phenomenon
 5 800 that deepened in June. In this behavior, the evolution of the rates
 of the securities issued by the BCRA and seasonal liquidity needs
 400 (payment of bonuses starting from the last part of the month)
 2 influenced.
 200 1
 The interbank market interest rates that were
 0 0 aligned with the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA
 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Mar-05 May-05
 Source: BCRA through its repo operations, skyrocketed in the middle of the month, reaching peaks of 6.9% a.a. for operations at 7 days and 6.2% a.a. for operations at 1 business day, only to return at the end of the month to converge to the path established by the BCRA as a reference. For its part, on average, in the 1 business day segment the interest rate stood at 4.6% a.a., which implies an increase of 1.4 p.p. with respect to May and represents the highest level since April 2003. In the 7-day maturity segment, interest rates stood on average at 4.9% a.a., 1 p.p. higher than the previous month

Chart 3.2.2.3 and barely more than 60% of operations were agreed within the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA as

millions of $ Call Market reference.
(Average net position per month by group of entities)
400
300 The average stock of interbank loans amounted to $730 million daily, a level $60 million higher than the previous month and the highest since November 2004 (see Chart 3.2.2.2). By
200
bank group, it can be seen that public banks once again became
100 the main net providers of funds (see Chart 3.2.2.3), as they
0 almost doubled their amounts granted while private domestic
-100 entities reduced their net lending position by half since they significantly increased the financing received.
-200
Foreign
-300 Private Domestic
-400 Public
-500
Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05
Source: BCRA

4 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

3.3. Passive Interest Rates

Chart 3.3.1
Interest Rate in Pesos

% (monthly average)
7 JUNE 2005 The passive interest rates accompanied in June the
% (5-day moving average)
5.5 30 to 59 days 5.5 positive evolution evidenced by the interest rates established
5.0 60 to 89 days
6 4.7 more than 90 days by the BCRA both in the repo market and in the primary market
4.5 4.4 4.6
of LEBAC and NOBAC, continuing thus with the upward trend
4.0 3.8 4.1 that they have been registering since the beginning of the year (see
5
3.5 Chart 3.3.1).
1-Jun 8-Jun 15-Jun 23-Jun 30-Jun

4 In the shortest maturity segment (30-44 days), interest rates remained during the first days of the month at levels similar to those at the end of May and then resumed the upward trajectory that they have been presenting since mid-March. In the

3
LEBAC$ 1M LEBAC$ 3M
Passive Repos Fixed Term
2 case of private entities, the interest rate for placements
 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05
 Source: BCRA exceeding $1 million went from 4.9% a.n. at the end of May to 5.9% a.n. at
 the end of June, while the interest rate for operations up to
 $100,000 increased only 0.2 p.p., standing at the end of the month at
 3.95% a.n.. In this way, the spread between the rates
 paid in those brackets of amounts widened again, which went from 1.2 p.p. at the end of
 May to almost 2 p.p. at the end of June. In the case of public
 
 Chart 3.3.2 banks, the spread between wholesale and retail interest rates

 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days also resulted higher in June in relation to May, given that it went
 (5-day moving average) from 0.6 p.p. to 1.1 p.p.. Indeed, while the interest rate for
 June 2005 Private Banks Public Banks deposits under $100,000 remained stable at 2.5% a.n., the interest rate
 % Under $100,000 Over $1,000,000
 4.3 % for operations exceeding $1 million went from 3.1% a.n.
 6.0
 4.1 5.5 to 3.7% a.n. at the end of the month (see Chart 3.3.2).

 3.9 5.0

 3.7 4.5 In the longer-term brackets, interest rates

 3.5 4.0 registered increases only from mid-month onwards,
 3.3 3.5
 influenced in part by the increase in interest rates
 3.1 3.0
 2.9 2.5 established by the BCRA and in part by the lower demand for
 2.7 2.0 placements in these segments, due to the greater need for
 2.5 1.5 liquid funds by companies to face the payment of
 2.3 1.0 bonuses. As a consequence, the interest rate for operations
 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jun-05 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jun-05
 Source: BCRA between 60 and 89 days increased 0.3 p.p. and the corresponding one for
 placements of more than 90 days grew 0.75 p.p., standing at 4.6%
 a.n. and 5.5% a.n. respectively (see Chart 3.3.1).

 By type of depositor, financial services providing institutions
 (AFJP, ART, Insurance Companies, FCI, etc.)
 were again those that benefited most from the
 Chart 3.4.1 increase in interest rates, receiving average yields 0.2
 % Interest Rate for Overdrafts in Current Account % p.p. higher than those of May, while natural persons
 (5-day moving average)
 25 50 received average remuneration 0.1 p.p. higher than those of the previous
 23 Wholesale (> $1 million) - right axis 48 month and the rest of legal persons did not see their
 21 Retail (< $100 thousand) - left axis 46 yields modified.

 19 44

 17 42

 15 40 3.4. Active Interest Rates1

 13 38

 11 36

 9 34 Active interest rates registered a disparate behavior
 with slight increases in short-term credit lines
 7 32
 Chart 3.4.1 while in long-term loans continued
 5 30
 Source: BCRA Mar-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 to be observed declines, with the rates agreed in mortgage loans

 1 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
 April 2005, the values of May and June 2005 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans
 granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 being those that reached the greatest decline so far this year in June.

 Chart 3.4.2

 Commercial Loans
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 55 In commercial lines the rate for overdrafts increased 0.1

 50 p.p. which yields a monthly average of 14.5% a.n.. This

 Adelantos increase was evidenced mainly in credit lines for
 45 Documentos large clients (companies for amounts exceeding $1 million),
 40 while in retail balances the rate decreased. Said
35 increase reflected the evolution of rates in the call and

30 repo markets, with advances or "call empresas" (corporate call loans) being the ones that mainly explain

25 the rise (see Graph 3.4.1). In single-signature documents there was an increase at the beginning of the month but then a

20 15 decline that resulted in a fall in the average monthly rate of 0.3 p.p.

14.5
10 9.3 (see Graph 3.4.2).

5
Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05
Source: BCRA Long-term rates continued to decline. In a context in which an increasing trend in the market for loans with real collateral is observed, the rates for mortgage loans showed the most significant variation of the month with a decline of 0.3 p.p. and, in this way, their average rate was located in June at 11.1% a.r. (annualized rate). The rate for secured loans fell 0.1 p.p. and reached 9.8% a.r..
On the other hand, maturity periods have been expanding over the past year, so that in secured loans an average maturity of 1.5 years was observed in June 2004, whereas currently said period amounts to 3 years on average. For their part, in mortgages the maturity was 9 years in June 2004 and in June 2005 the average period rose to 11 years.

Graph 3.4.3

TNA, % Active Interest Rates
75 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)

Finally, interest rates for consumption showed slight variations. The interest rate for personal loans fell to 26.3% a.r., a decline of 0.1 p.p. following the fall of 0.4 p.p. from the previous month. The interest rate for credit card financing, although as of the publication date data for the month of June is not available, the information for May shows an average of 26.5% a.r., 0.2 p.p. less than the month of April (see Graph 3.4.3).

65 Credit Cards
Personal Loans
55
Mortgage Loans
Secured Loans
45

35
26.5
25 26.3

15
11.1
9.8
5
Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05
Source: BCRA

4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
Graph 4.1.1

thousands of Currency in Circulation and Deposits in Pesos thousands of
millions of $ (average monthly balances) millions of $

40 85 In June, monetary aggregates in pesos again showed growth, thanks to the increase in deposits and currency in circulation (see Graph 4.1.1).

Currency in circulation Public Sector
35 Private Sector (right axis) 80 Deposits in pesos increased on average by $1,840 million, of which $980 million corresponded to placements by the public sector and $860 million to deposits by the private sector. However, these increases contain a strong carryover component from the previous month. In fact, between the end of month private sector deposits increased around $510 million compared to the end of May, while those of the public sector decreased by $310 million.

30 75

25 70

20 65

15 60
Jan-04 Mar-04 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05
Source: BCRA

6 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

Sight deposits increased on average by around $1,000 million, of which $720 million corresponded to private sector funds. These deposits showed significant growth towards the end of June that led them to grow more than $1,140 million between end of month. Part of this increase can be explained by the payment of salaries corresponding to the month of June which includes the payment of the annual complementary salary. For their part, transactional deposits of the public sector grew on average by $280 million, although between end of month they recorded a decline close to $970 million, which is also explained in part by the payment of bonuses and in part by the payment of government obligations (amortizations and interests).

Graph 4.1.2
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos

(average monthly variation - June 2005)
millions of $PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTORFixed-term deposits without CER of public securities), as well as by the transfer of funds towards
320 Fixed-term deposits with CER fixed-term placements.

280
240 Fixed-term deposits grew on average $1.020
200
160 millions, of which $460 millions corresponded to
120 placements from the private sector. This variation also contains an
 80 important carryover component from the previous month, given that
 40
 0 between end of month these deposits decreased around $600
-40 millions. This decline was partly due to the greater need for
-80
-120 liquid funds on the part of companies to face the payment of

 30-59 60-8990-179180-365more thanJun-05 30-5960-8990-179180-365bonuses. In the case of the public sector, fixed-term placements
 days days days days 366 days days days days 366 increased $560 millions on average, presenting a variation
 days days
 Source: BCRA positive greater than $650 millions between end of month. The new
 deposits were made for more than 60 days in the non-adjustable
 by CER segment (see Graph 4.1.2).

 Finally, CEDRO adjusted by CER showed a
 new decrease, in line with the maturity schedule, which
 rounded on average $160 millions.

 Graph 4.2.1 Currency in public hands grew on average
 around $1.080 millions (3.2%). In this way, the means of

 Deposits in Dollars Stock payment total (M2) increased about $2.080 millions (2.4%). The
 Monthly var.
 millions of US$ thousands of millionsbroadest monetary aggregate (M3) showed an increase
 of US$
 550 4.5 close to $2.920 millions (2%). For its part, private monetary
 450 3.5 aggregates also showed positive behavior. Private M2 grew
 350 $1.800 millions (2.5%) and private M3 increased $1.940
 2.5
 250 millions (1.7%).
 150 1.5

 50 0.5

 -50 -0.5
 -150 4.2. Deposits in dollars
 -1.5
 -250
 Dep. Priv. S.Dep. Pub. S.Total (2nd axis) -2.5
 -350
 -450 -3.5
 Dollar deposits recorded a decline of US$330
 -550 -4.5 millions in June explained mostly by the decrease in
 Jun-04 Ago-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 savings account deposits from the public sector.
 Source: BCRA

 Specifically, the public sector reduced its placements in
 savings accounts by around US$400 millions and used these
 funds mainly for the payment of external obligations. Public
 fixed-term deposits showed a slight increase of US$10
 millions which totals a monthly decline of public deposits
 in foreign currency of US$390 millions. For its part, private
 sector placements maintained their upward trend
 with an increase in June of US$60 millions (mainly in
 fixed-term placements).

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 Graph 4.3.1 The stock of deposits in foreign currency totaled in the
 month US$3.700 millions.
 % of % of
 deposits Banking Liquidity in Pesos deposits
 28 38

 27 37
 4.3. Banking Liquidity
 26 36

 25 35
24 34
 Financial entities maintained a liquidity of 19.9%
 23 33
 LEBAC and their peso deposits during June, considering as
 22 NOBAC 32
 liquid resources the current accounts of banks at the BCRA, the
 21 31
 cash in banks and reverse repos with the BCRA. The liquidity thus
 20 Liquidity Ratio 30
 Liquidity Ratio + LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis) defined decreased by 0.5 p.p. compared to the previous month because
 19 29
 financial entities allocated these funds to the acquisition of
 18 28
 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 BCRA securities and to the granting of loans to the private sector
 * The liquidity ratio includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos conducted with the BCRA. (See Section 5). Given the increase in BCRA securities in the
 Source: BCRA portfolio of banks, observed since mid-March, if they are
 incorporated into the measurement of bank liquidity the ratio
 Graph 4.3.2 rises to approximately 35.5% of total peso deposits, with an
 increase of 1.5 p.p. in June (see Graph 4.3.1).
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos*
 % deposits

 26 For its part, the decrease in the current accounts of banks

 24 at the BCRA produced a decline in the integration of minimum

 22 cash (which comprises the cash in the banks' vaults and in

 20 current accounts at the BCRA) and a consequent reduction in the
 minimum cash position that ended in June at around 0.3
 18
 p.p. of total deposits (approximately $400 million).
 16
 With respect to the previous month, the minimum cash position contracted
 14 by approximately 0.8 p.p. which is equivalent to around $800 million. (See
 EM Integration in $ Graph 4.3.2).
 12 EM Requirement in $

 10
 Aug-03 Oct-03 Dec-03 Feb-04 Apr-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 In the foreign currency deposits segment, the excess
 *Data on the minimum cash position observed up to May 2005. June figures are estimated.
 Source: BCRA funds immobilized in the current accounts of banks
 at the BCRA and in cash were around US$1,300
 million in June. The minimum cash position in dollars also
 registered a decline compared to the previous month (US$300 million)² due
 to a reduction in the integration of minimum cash (balances of the
 current accounts in foreign currency of banks at the BCRA)
 that was mostly due to the decrease during the month of public
 Graph 5.1 deposits in that denomination (See Section 4.2).

millions of $ Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
800 (Monthly average variation)

600 Commercial loans
 Consumer loans
400 Loans with real guarantee
 5. Loans³
200

 0
 During June, loans to the private sector showed
-200
 very good performance. Not only did the growth rate that

-400 they have been showing accelerate, but the growth was

-600 generalized across all lending lines, from very short-term
 advances to long-term mortgage loans that
-800
Source: BCRAFeb-03 Jun-03 Oct-03 Feb-04 Jun-04 Oct-04 Feb-05 Jun-05

 ² In accordance with what was established by the BCRA, the default in the application of the foreign currency lending capacity verified by
 financial entities in a given period is subject to an equivalent increase in the minimum cash requirement for that period. For this reason,
 the excess liquidity that financial entities accrue according to regulations is less than what is mentioned in this section in which only
 the requirement arising from applying reserve coefficients on foreign currency obligations is computed, without considering the increase
 in the same equivalent to the default in the application of resources.
 ³ Loan figures are adjusted by accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of financial trusts, which while affecting the balances
 of this balance sheet item do not affect the stock of financings granted.
# 8 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

for the first time since the collapse of convertibility showed
Graph 5.2 a positive variation.

millions of $ Commercial Loans
500 (monthly average variation) Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in
June an increase of $1,200 million (3.3%) and accumulated an
Advances
400 Documents purchased year-on-year growth of 28.9%. The growth this month was once again
Documents discounted led by commercial financing that has been showing great
Documents at sole signature dynamism since March (see Graph 5.1).
300 Others

200 In a month where the liquidity needs of companies
are seasonally high due to the payment of bonuses, commercial
100
loans registered in June their largest increase in the last twelve
0 months, with a rise of $750 million (2%) on average, a variation
-100 that can be broken down into an increase of $470 million (7%) of
advances, $230 million of documents (3.2%) and $50 million
-200
(1.4%) of "other loans" (see Graph 5.2).
-300

-400 Consumer credit continued with the sustained growth rate
Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 that it has been showing in recent months and registered an
Source: BCRA increase of $380 million (4.3%) in June (see Graph 5.3). Thanks to
the gradual wage recovery, personal loans continued showing a very
solid growth rate, registering an increase of $300 million (5.7%) in
Graph 5.3 June. Additionally, favored by the reappearance of promotions for
millions of $ Consumer Loans installment payments without interest in the month in which
400 (monthly average variation) Father's Day is celebrated, credit card financing once again
registered a new increase, this time of $80 million (2.2%).
300 Personal
Credit cards As we anticipated in the previous report, mortgage loans
finally reached their inflection point and for the first time since
200 the crisis broke out, new financing granted exceeded in amount
the amortizations and prepayments recorded, once corrected by
100 accounting movements related to financial trusts, an average
increase close to $40 million (see Graph 5.4).
0
Likewise, the very good situation that the automotive sector
is experiencing, which has recovered in recent months the sales
-100 levels of late 1999, led to financing with chattel mortgage
guarantee continuing to grow (see Graph 5.5) and registering in
-200 June a new increase, this time of $40 million.
Source: BCRA
May-03 Aug-03 Nov-03 Feb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05

Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency
Graph 5.4 continue with the excellent performance they have been showing
thousands in recent months, registering a growth of US$126 million (6.8%),
Mortgage Loans in Pesos a figure that is the largest of the post-convertibility period.
millions of $ As in the preceding months, the increase was driven by financing
8,850 Trusts implemented through documents (US$95 million), which
continued with the growing trend that they have been showing since
8,800 mid-last year, associated with good export performance.

8,750

8,700

8,650

8,600 Original daily series
Original monthly average
8,550
8,500
Source: BCRA
Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05

# 9 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

Graph 5.3 6. Financial Assets Market
millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
100 (monthly average variation)

Mortgage loans
50 Chattel mortgage loans

0

-50

# 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

International reserves reached US$23,052 million at the end of June,
the highest level since April 2001, and
showed a growth of 4.3% with respect to end of May (see Chart 6.1.1). As in the previous month, the increase was
mainly linked to the aforementioned policy of reserve accumulation that the BCRA carried out, which originated a
monthly increase for this variable of US$1,650 million. On the other hand, public sector
operations continued generating outflows of
foreign currency, which in this month were related to the payment of debts
with international organizations and those arising from the
restructuring of sovereign debt recently completed. Ultimately, the operations of this sector caused a
decrease of approximately US$950 million in the balance of
reserves.

Chart 6.1.1
International Reserves of the BCRA The foreign exchange market continued showing a high level
thousands of millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and forward placements)
30 of activity, driven by the liquidation of foreign currency by
exporters. In this way, the average daily volume traded

26 in the spot market was 6% above that of May,
a month in which a maximum had already been registered. The relative

22 growth was similar in the Electronic Operations System and in the

18 Electronic Foreign Exchange Market.

14

10 In nominal terms, the peso exchange rate showed a
qualitative result similar to those evidenced in the two
6 previous months. In this way, the peso appreciated with respect to the
US dollar and the euro, 0.2% and 4.4% respectively, while it
showed a nominal depreciation of 1.2% in relation to the real. According
to the evolution of the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
(ITCRM), it appreciated 1.6% in June and accumulates a
real depreciation of 2.6% in the last 12 months.

In the Rosario Forward Market, the quotations of the
futures contracts of pesos per US dollars
showed a trajectory similar to that of the spot market. Thus,
considering the monthly averages of daily quotations,
prices fell around 2% for all contracts
Chart 6.2.1.1 traded.

Local Stock Market

millions of $ MERVAL Index in pesos MERVAL

200 1700
 6.2. Capital Market
180 Amount traded 1600

 MERVAL (right axis)
160 1500

140 1400
 6.2.1. Stocks
120 1300

100 1200

 80 1100
 60 1000 The prices of the most liquid stocks listed in the

 40 900 local market, those included in the MERVAL, decreased 7.95%

 20 800 between end of May and June and this index accumulates a fall of 0.58%

 0 700 in the first half of 2005 (see Chart 6.2.1). In particular, in

 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 June the evolution of these securities was unfavorably affected

 Source: Bloomberg by the political turbulence that occurred in Brazil during the period.

 10 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 Chart 6.2.2.1 As is customary, at the end of the quarter the
 Sovereign Bonds in Pesos composition of the MERVAL was renewed. In this case, the total number

 YTM (%) of companies at eleven was maintained, although two of them were replaced.

 DISC $ The average daily amount traded of stocks that make up the

 6 PAR $ MERVAL was maintained at the level registered in May, around

 BOGAR $71 million.

 5 PRO 12 BODEN 14

 4 PRE 08

 31-May-05
 3 30-Jun-05
 6.2.2. Public Securities

 2 BODEN 08
At the beginning of June, the restructuring process of the national public debt was concluded and, from that point on, the newly issued bonds began to trade, the Par and the Discount (DISC), in their different versions. The DISC in pesos was the one that performed best during the month, driven by demand from local investors; its IRR decreased 0.1 p.p. between June 3rd and 30th. The rest of the bonds issued in pesos suffered the impact of unfavorable political news coming from Brazil and showed increases in their IRR between late May and June (see Graph 6.2.2.1). The BODEN in dollars showed the same result.

Once the new bonds were delivered, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings removed sovereign debt from category D (in payment default). However, these developments did not have an appreciable impact on the quotation of public securities, since the decision had already been discounted by investors. A more notable impact was the decision by the Moody's agency, at the end of the month, to raise the rating of debt issued whose services are paid regularly. This rating agency considered that the exchange improved the profile of Argentine debt and consequently raised the rating of long-term debt in foreign currency and that of BODEN in dollars from Caa1 to B3.

If only the most liquid bonds in effect until May are considered, it is observed that in June the average traded in the same levels as the previous month, considering them on an aggregate basis. However, as of June it is necessary to incorporate to this group the DISC $, whose amount traded on average daily was $150 million and became one of the most traded in the local market.

**6.2.3. Institutional Investors⁴**

**6.2.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators**

At the end of June, the portfolio investments of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (AFJP) [Pension Fund Administrators] totaled $57,592 million, showing an increase of approximately 2% ($960 million) compared to the previous month (see Graph 6.2.3.1.1). This growth was explained mainly by the increase in national public securities that totaled $1,776 million during the month. It is worth mentioning that at the beginning of June the public debt exchange process concluded, through which the AFJP modified their portfolio by delivering bonds in payment default and receiving in exchange the new Discount and Cuasipar bonds.

For its part, the decline in stock market quotations in the local market generated a reduction of $248 million in the holdings of variable income securities by the AFJP, while there was also a decrease in their fixed-term deposit holdings ($185 million). In this regard, the fall in placements at fixed-term in pesos concentrated in instruments adjusted by CER, which showed a decline compared to May of $133 million.

Likewise, the AFJP also reduced in June their investments in mutual funds with a decline compared to May of around 10% ($297 million).

⁴ In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where another specification is indicated.
3
 6.2.3.2. Mutual Investment Funds

2

1
 The assets of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos decreased in
0
Jan-03 May-03 Sep-03 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05June by approximately $1,000 million (13.1%) due to the loss of
 Source: BCRA and CAFCI
 assets suffered by fixed-term and money market funds, which was
 partially compensated by the increase in assets of variable income
 and fixed income funds (see Chart 6.2.3.2.1).

 Money market funds registered an increase in assets of around
 $690 million around mid-month, which reversed in the second half
 of the month, resulting in a net decline of $1,165 million (-24.6%).
 This decline is explained in part by the usual intra-monthly
 movements that characterize these funds, and in part by the transfer
 of resources toward short-term BCRA securities, whose attractive
 Chart 6.2.3.2.2 returns generated great interest among investors in this type of
 
 Money Market Funds funds (see Chart 6.2.3.2.2).
 thousands of (assets)
 millions of $ June 2005
 5.6

 5.2 For their part, variable income funds presented an increase of
 
 4.8 $62 million in their assets, reaching $1,810 million. This was
 
 4.4 mainly due to the inflow of new resources, since the value of their
 
 4.0 fund shares, whose evolution is closely linked to that of the MERVAL
 
 3.6 index, decreased as a consequence of the negative result of said
 
 3.2 index (see Section 6.2.1).

 2.8

 2.4 Regarding fixed income funds, these presented a new asset
 
 Jan-3-05 Jan-31-05 Feb-28-05 Mar-30-05 Apr-27-05 May-26-05 Jun-24-05increase of around $116 million (12%), which is also explained
 Source: BCRA and CAFCI
 fundamentally by the inflow of new funds, attracted by the good
 performance of liquid public securities issued after the cessation of
 payments, which make up their portfolio (see Section 6.2.2).

 Finally, the assets of mixed income funds decreased by around
 $9 million (-5.9%) mainly as a consequence of the decrease in the
 value of their fund shares, which is partially linked to the evolution
 of the MERVAL index, just as in the case of variable income funds.

 12 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 6.2.4. Private Securities

 After completion of the debt restructuring of Telecom S.A., with
 an acceptance of its proposal of 94%, it managed to reduce itself by
 approximately US$440 million, placing itself at approximately
 US$1,800 million, with an average duration of 4.9 years and an
 average coupon of 8%. Two new classes of bonds will be issued:
 Chart 6.2.4.1 Series A for up to US$877 million maturing in 2014, and Series B
 Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds for US$995 million maturing in 2011. New debt
 IRR % securities (exchange) and cash money will soon be delivered to
 
14.00 creditors, while some rating agencies, Standard & Poor's (S&P)
 
12.00 and Fitch Argentina, have already assigned a rating to the new
 
10.00 debt. In this regard, both rated it as BBB-, reflecting the
 
 8.00 improvement in the new capital structure and maturity profile.
 
 6.00 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, a clear
 Non-restructured* (Jun-30) differentiation continues to be observed between debtors who
 4.00 Restructured (Jun-30) complied with their financial obligations and those who had to
 Non-restructured* (May-31) resort to restructuring their debts. In terms of IRR, the additional
 2.00 Restructured (May-31) spread required for ON issued after debt restructuring processes
 
 0.00 was on average 2.5 p.p., barely 0.1 p.p. lower than the previous
 0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 9.00month (see Chart 6.2.4.1).
 *Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in cessation of paymentsmaturity (years)
Source: Bloomberg and others
# 13 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System | Monthly Averages |  |  |  | Percentage Variations |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Jun-05 | May-05 | Dec-04 | Jun-04 | Monthly Nominal | Monthly Real | Last 12 months Nominal | Last 12 months Real |
| Broad Monetary Base | 51,633 | 51,092 | 50,647 | 48,094 | 1.1% | 0.1% | 7.4% | -1.5% |
| Quasi-money | 111 | 111 | 111 | 111 | 0.0% | -0.9% | 0.0% | -8.3% |
| Monetary Base | 51,522 | 50,981 | 50,537 | 47,984 | 1.1% | 0.1% | 7.4% | -1.5% |
| Currency in Circulation | 38,645 | 37,361 | 35,838 | 30,759 | 3.4% | 2.5% | 25.6% | 15.3% |
| In Public Hands | 34,615 | 33,543 | 31,702 | 27,427 | 3.2% | 2.3% | 26.2% | 15.8% |
| In Financial Entities | 4,030 | 3,818 | 4,136 | 3,332 | 5.6% | 4.6% | 21.0% | 11.0% |
| Current Account at BCRA | 12,877 | 13,621 | 14,699 | 17,225 | -5.5% | -6.3% | -25.2% | -31.4% |
| Stock of Passive Repos | 5,695 | 5,252 | 5,524 | 535 | 8.4% | 7.4% |  |  |
| Stock of Active Repos | 62 | 43 | 33 | 0 | 44.2% | 42.9% |  |  |
| BCRA International Reserves | 22,559 | 21,602 | 19,310 | 17,240 | 4.4% |  | 30.9% |  |
| Total Deposits in Pesos¹ | 112,054 | 110,268 | 102,293 | 94,595 | 1.6% | 0.7% | 18.5% | 8.7% |
| Private Deposits | 82,734 | 81,930 | 74,331 | 70,908 | 1.0% | 0.1% | 16.7% | 7.0% |
| Current Account | 20,344 | 20,014 | 17,923 | 16,950 | 1.6% | 0.7% | 20.0% | 10.1% |
| Savings Account | 19,218 | 18,827 | 17,852 | 15,402 | 2.1% | 1.2% | 24.8% | 14.5% |
| Fixed Term | 30,764 | 30,160 | 26,333 | 25,947 | 2.0% | 1.1% | 18.6% | 8.8% |
| Fixed Term Adjustable by CER | 6,010 | 6,154 | 4,825 | 2,196 | -2.3% | -3.2% | 173.8% | 151.2% |
| Other Deposits | 5,519 | 5,684 | 5,517 | 5,212 | -2.9% | -3.8% | 5.9% | -2.8% |
| Exchanged for BODEN (recorded) | 94 | 151 | 172 | 1,646 | -37.9% | -38.4% | -94.3% | -94.8% |
| CEDRO including CER | 783 | 940 | 1,709 | 3,554 | -16.7% | -17.4% | -78.0% | -79.8% |
| Public Sector Deposits | 29,321 | 28,338 | 27,962 | 23,687 | 3.5% | 2.5% | 23.8% | 13.6% |
| Total Deposits in Dollars¹ | 3,719 | 4,029 | 3,943 | 3,343 | -7.7% |  | 11.2% |  |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos¹ | 56,841 | 56,190 | 54,357 | 52,964 | 1.2% | 0.2% | 7.3% | -1.5% |
| To Private Sector | 37,985 | 37,092 | 34,108 | 29,474 | 2.4% | 1.5% | 28.9% | 18.2% |
| Advances | 7,162 | 6,694 | 6,355 | 5,625 | 7.0% | 6.0% | 27.3% | 16.8% |
| Documents | 7,542 | 7,308 | 6,668 | 5,361 | 3.2% | 2.3% | 40.7% | 29.1% |
| Mortgages | 8,705 | 8,716 | 8,693 | 8,866 | -0.1% | -1.0% | -1.8% | -9.9% |
| Pledges | 1,913 | 1,875 | 1,637 | 1,292 | 2.0% | 1.1% | 48.1% | 35.9% |
| Personal | 5,382 | 5,350 | 4,184 | 2,871 | 0.6% | -0.3% | 87.4% | 72.0% |
| Credit Cards | 3,595 | 3,514 | 3,080 | 2,700 | 2.3% | 1.4% | 33.2% | 22.2% |
| Others | 3,686 | 3,635 | 3,491 | 2,759 | 1.4% | 0.5% | 33.6% | 22.6% |
| To Public Sector | 18,856 | 19,098 | 20,249 | 23,491 | -1.3% | -2.2% | -19.7% | -26.4% |
| Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars¹ | 2,146 | 2,022 | 1,702 | 1,369 | 6.1% |  | 56.8% |  |
| **Total Monetary Aggregates** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) | 66,017 | 65,095 | 61,923 | 54,867 | 1.4% | 0.5% | 20.3% | 10.4% |
| M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) | 89,466 | 87,398 | 88,930 | 77,910 | 2.4% | 1.4% | 14.8% | 5.4% |
| M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) | 146,686 | 143,771 | 145,653 | 130,387 | 2.0% | 1.1% | 12.5% | 3.2% |
| **Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) | 55,070 | 53,668 | 49,735 | 44,487 | 2.6% | 1.7% | 23.8% | 13.6% |
| M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) | 74,289 | 72,494 | 67,587 | 59,890 | 2.5% | 1.5% | 24.0% | 13.8% |
| M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) | 117,365 | 115,432 | 105,972 | 96,799 | 1.7% | 0.8% | 21.2% | 11.2% |

| Variation Factors | Average Variations |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2005 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|  | Nominal | Contribution² | Nominal | Contribution² | Nominal | Contribution² | Nominal | Contribution² |
| Broad Monetary Base | 541 | 1.1% | 1,744 | 3.5% | 985 | 1.9% | 3,539 | 7.4% |
| Financial Sector | -594 | -1.2% | -1,497 | -3.0% | -3,616 | -7.1% | -9,667 | -20.1% |
| Public Sector | 37 | 0.1% | -63 | -0.1% | -204 | -0.4% | -2,760 | -5.7% |
| Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers | -236 | | 877 | | 1,371 | | 6,740 | |
| Use of National Government Account | 432 | | -310 | | -329 | | -312 | |
| External Credit | -159 | | -630 | | -1,246 | | -9,187 | |
| Private External Sector | 4,451 | 8.7% | 8,318 | 16.7% | 12,651 | 25.0% | 24,156 | 50.2% |
| BCRA Securities | -3,181 | -6.2% | -4,780 | -9.6% | -7,251 | -14.3% | -7,763 | -16.1% |
| Others³ | -172 | -0.3% | -234 | -0.5% | -595 | -1.2% | -428 | -0.9% |
# International Reserves, Interest Rates and Exchange Rate - June 2005

International Reserves 958 4.4% 1.818 8.8% 3.250 16.8% 5.319 30.9%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 1.543 7.1% 2.873 13.9% 4.316 22.4% 8.188 47.5%
 Payment to International Organizations -426 -2.0% -1.491 -7.2% -2.887 -14.9% -5.075 -29.4%
 Other Public Sector Operations 460 2.1% 1.465 7.1% 2.812 14.6% 2.767 16.0%
 Minimum Cash -564 -2.6% -931 -4.5% -993 -5.1% -1.131 -6.6%
 Valuation of Repo Rate -110 -0.5% -247 -1.2% -315 -1.6% -7 0.0%
 Others 55 0.3% 151 0.7% 316 1.6% 577 0.0%

 1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-currencies without monetary effect.
 14
 Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Reporting System. Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 4.64 3.30 2.76 2.21 2.12
 Amount traded 528 474 332 384 302

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 3.66 3.57 3.10 2.97 2.49
 30-44 days, over 1 million 4.10 4.03 3.29 3.08 2.35
 60 days or more 4.59 4.59 3.98 3.80 2.87
 In dollars
 30 days 0.35 0.38 0.34 0.30 0.34
 30-44 days, over 1 million 0.30 0.46 0.33 0.25 0.31
 60 days or more 0.86 1.07 0.89 0.66 0.71

 Active Interest Rates Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.27 6.12 5.60 5.78 6.04

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 5.91 4.67 4.03 4.31 3.47
 Volume traded (total terms) 79 73 67 77 64

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in Current Account 14.49 14.38 14.25 13.47 14.84
 Documents at bare signature 9.35 9.62 9.34 10.70 10.55
 Mortgage 11.06 11.39 11.34 11.50 11.78
 Pledge 9.81 9.90 10.42 11.74 13.53
 Personal 26.27 26.37 26.79 26.70 27.92
 Credit Cards n/d 26.53 26.68 29.47 31.58

 International Interest Rates Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 3.25 3.09 2.98 2.39 1.25
 6 months 3.61 3.48 3.38 2.72 1.81

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.62 3.63 3.63 3.00 2.74
 10 years 3.98 4.13 4.32 4.22 4.73

 FED Funds Rate 3.01 2.99 2.75 2.16 1.01

 SELIC (at 1 year) 19.75 19.60 19.35 17.52 16.00

 (1) Data through May correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 reporting requirement, while June data are
 estimates made based on the daily SISCEN 18 reporting requirement.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – JUNE 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

 BCRA repo rates
 Passive 7 days 3.96 3.75 3.23 2.50 2.51
 Active 7 days 4.94 4.25 3.70 3.00 n/a

 Total REPO trading floor repo rates
 1 day 3.49 3.27 2.62 2.10 2.10
 7 days 4.09 3.76 3.23 2.51 2.50

 Amount traded of REPO trading floor repos (daily average) 2013 1252 1197 1267 210

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 5.78 5.22 4.10 2.85 n/a
 3 months 6.54 5.94 5.26 3.55 n/a
 6 months 6.41 6.27 5.62 4.96 2.86
 9 months 6.70 6.48 6.08 5.67 n/a
 12 months 7.41 7.24 6.99 5.92 6.39

 LEBAC rates in pesos adjustable by CER
 12 months 0.02 0.00 -0.16 -0.12 1.38
 18 months 0.26 0.40 0.22 1.35 2.51

 NOBAC rate in pesos adjustable by CER 3.18 2.97 2.93 2.37 4.49

 NOBAC rate in pesos with variable coupon 7.40 7.03 6.96 n/a n/a

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 157 211 99 92 110

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.88 2.89 2.90 2.97 2.96
 BCRA Reference 2.88 2.89 2.90 2.97 2.96

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.89 2.89 2.90 2.98 2.98
 INDOL 1 month n/a n/a 2.92 2.96 2.96
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 0
 ROFEX 1 month 2.89 2.89 2.90 2.97 2.96
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 165 124 120 95 96

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.19 1.18 1.13 1.09 0.95

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.51 3.67 3.75 3.99 3.60
# Capital Markets Jun-05 May-05 Apr-05 Dec-04 Jun-04

MERVAL
Index 1453 1436 1364 1287 927
Trading Volume (millions of pesos) 71 71 61 63 40

Government Bonds (per each VN 100)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 88.54 86.44 83.77 83.25 66.16
BODEN 08 ($) 115.21 115.40 114.37 108.00 94.67

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 528 556 655 627 1,252
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 321 290 309 300 473

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the monthly auctions. 16
