# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
OCTOBER 2005

## 1. Summary1

CONTENTS • In October, the BMA registered an average balance of $55,202
1. Summary 1 million, accumulating a decline in real terms of 0.7% for the year. In
 this way, it is found at a level around $1,600 million below the ceiling
2. Monetary Program 2 of the monetary program for the fourth quarter of the year. The BCRA
 continued with the prudential policy of accumulation of international
3. Interest Rates 2 reserves, which reached an average level higher than US$26,000 million.
 The monetary expansion caused by the external sector in October was
3.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 2 partially offset by the different sterilization mechanisms. In this regard,
 the greatest contraction was generated by the cancellation of advances
3.2. Interbank Markets 3 and rediscounts ($1,467 million), followed by operations of the public
 sector ($1,176 million) and by the net placement of LEBACs and NOBACs
3.2.1 Repurchase Agreement Market 3 ($738 million).
 3.2.2 Interbank Market 3 • As can be observed, throughout the year, the BCRA did not carry out
 spurious money issuance. The expansion via the external sector was
3.3. Passive Interest Rates 4 counteracted by contractions derived from both operations with the
 public sector and with the financial system. In this sense, it should be
3.4. Active Interest Rates 5 noted that the cancellations of rediscounts and advances to the
 financial system represented 30% of the expansion by external sector,
4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6 reducing from 23 to 8 the number of entities that still maintain debts
 with the BCRA for this reason.
4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6 • The BCRA continued with its strategy of lengthening the terms of
 LEBACs not adjustable by CER. The interest rates of the species with
4.2. Deposits in Dollars 7 longer terms increased relatively, with the yield of LEBACs at one and a
 half years rising to 10.5%. Likewise at the end of October the BCRA
4.3. Bank Liquidity 7 raised a quarter percentage point the interest rates of its repurchase
 agreement operations, setting the 4.5%-5.5% corridor for short-term
5. Loans 8 reference interest rates through its 7-day repurchase agreement
 operations, while it brought to 4% the rate of passive repurchase
6. Financial Assets Market 9 agreement operations at 1 day.
 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market 9 • Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate
 by registering a monthly increase of $1,330 million (3.3%) and
6.2. Capital Markets 10 accumulate an increase of 28.3% in year-over-year terms. Commercial
 financing was the main driver of the month's growth. In the case of
6.2.1. Shares 10 mortgage loans, for the fifth consecutive month new financing
 exceeded amortizations and prepayments, so they showed an increase,
6.2.2. Public Securities 10 on this occasion higher than $30 million
 6.2.3. Institutional Investors 11 • The evolution of monetary aggregates in pesos was positive and was
 driven fundamentally by the growth of sight deposits (mainly of the
6.2.3.1 Pension Fund Public Sector). The means of payment (M2) registered an increase
 Administrators 11 close to $1,990 million while the broader monetary aggregate (M3)
 grew around $2,020 million (1.3%).
6.2.3.2 Mutual Investment • The peso depreciated again in nominal terms both with respect to
 Funds 12 the euro (0.2%), as well as in relation to the United States dollar
 (1.9%) and the real (3.6%). On the other hand, in real terms,
6.2.4. Private Securities 13 according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso
 depreciated 1.4% and accumulated a depreciation of 1.9% over the last
6.2.5. Financial Trusts 13 12 months.

7. Monetary and Financial
 Indicators 14
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to in this report are monthly averages of daily balances.

 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Program

 Thousands of Monetary Base Explanation Factors
 millions of $ (average variation, October 2005)
 3.5
 The average BMA totaled $55,202 million in October,
 3.0
 Banknotes and Coins in Circulation accumulating a decline of 0.7% in real terms during the year. This
 2.5
 Bank Reserves level of BMA is found at a level around $1,600 million
 2.0
 1.5 below the ceiling of the monetary program for the fourth
 1.0 quarter of the year.
 0.5
 0.0 The collection of rediscounts was the main factor of
 -0.5 BMA contraction in the month as a result of some financial
 -1.0 entities deciding to pay off this month in advance their
 -1.5 debts with the BCRA. In this way, the early repayment of
 -2.0 rediscounts added to the usual monthly installment payment of the BCRA
 "matching" program implied a reduction of the BMA in October of $1,467
 External Sector Repos Public Sector BCRA Securities Financial Monetary Base
 Private million.

 Source: BCRA
 The increase in bank reserves at the BCRA and the
 use of funds to rescind debt with the BCRA were
 partially financed with a decrease in the repos position
 of some entities with the BCRA that resulted in an expansion of
 monetary base through this channel of $2,589 million.

 Chart 3.1.1 Operations with the public sector, for their part, resulted
 LEBAC Interest Rates in a contraction of the BMA of $1,176 million that
 TNA (%)
 had its origin mainly in the placement of debt by the
 11.5
 national government in the internal market whose funds were
 10.5 credited in the government's peso account at the BCRA for
 9.5 subsequently making payments abroad.

 8.5 The market for BCRA notes continued fulfilling its role
 as a monetary regulation instrument generating a contraction
 7.5
 27-Sep-05 25-Oct-05 of the BMA through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC in the
 6.5 primary market of $738 million.

 5.5 Finally, the BCRA continued with its prudential policy of
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 accumulation of international reserves which resulted in an
 Source: BCRA duration (days)
 expansion of BMA of $2,821 million associated with the purchases of
 foreign currency by the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange Market (see
 Chart 2.1).

Chart 3.1.2 3. Interest Rates
 Net Placement of Securities

 Face Value, thousands of
 millions of $
 LEBAC in pesos not adjusted by CER LEBAC in pesos adjusted by CER
 5 3.1. Securities issued by the BCRA
 NOBAC in pesos not adjusted by CER NOBAC in pesos adjusted by CER

 4

 3 The yield curve resulting from LEBAC auctions in the
 primary market in pesos showed a slight steepening
 2
 compared to the end of September. The interest rate of LEBAC of
 1 shorter duration increased from 6.18% to 6.25% and an equal variation in
 percentage points was observed in the placements of 3 and 6 months.
 0
 In response to the strategy of extending the term of placements
 -1 not adjusted, the yield of LEBAC for one and a half years
 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Oct-05 rose to 10.5%, 0.3 p.p. higher than the last auction in
 Source: BCRA
 September (See Chart 3.1.1). Three placements of
 2 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 NOBAC in pesos were made that pay variable coupon based on the average
 Chart 3.2.1.1 of the BADLAR interest rate reported by private banks, at
 Call and Repos Operations in the Local Market an implicit interest rate in the last October auction of
 thousands of millions of $ (average daily traded)
 10.34%, 1.9 p.p. higher than the last one awarded last month.
 3.0
 Also, a placement of LEBAC in dollars payable in
 Call 1 d
 2.5 Call 7 d pesos was made with an interest rate of 4.13%.
Call remainder
 2.0 Repos with BCRA
 Repos between private parties Placements were in line with scheduled
 maturities, in this way the total amount in circulation of the
 1.5
 securities issued by the BCRA amounted at the end of October to VN $27,007

 1.0 million, an increase of only $43 million with respect to the end of the
 previous month. Furthermore, a decline was observed in the stock of LEBAC in

 0.5 pesos and an increase in the stock of NOBAC (see Chart 3.1.2). The
 amount of securities adjustable by CER remained unchanged since

 0.0 there were no maturities of this type during the month.
 Jan-04 Jun-04 Nov-04 Apr-05 Sep-05
 Source: BCRA and MAE

 3.2. Interfinancial Markets

 3.2.1. Repo Market
 Chart 3.2.2.1

 Interest Rates for Call Operations and Repos
 % (weighted average rate by amount) At the end of October, the BCRA raised by one quarter

 7 percentage point the interest rates of its repo operations, setting

 Repo Corridor BCRA 7 days at 4% the interest rate of its 1-day passive repos, while

 6 Call at 1 day it set at 4.5%-5.5% the corridor of interest rates at 7 days

 Repos at 1 day of term, through its passive and active repo operations,

 5 Call at 7 days respectively. The interest rates of repos between third parties and those of the

 Passive Repos BCRA at 1 day interbank market (call) converged to the new short-term level

 4 established as reference (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

 3 The average daily amount traded by the BCRA in the

 2 REPO session was approximately $1,200 million, about 50%

 1 lower than that of the previous month. On the other hand, the amounts traded between

 31-Dec 28-Jan 25-Feb 29-Mar 26-Apr 24-May 23-Jun 21-Jul 19-Aug 16-Sep 17-Oct third parties (without Central Bank intervention) almost doubled in

 Source: BCRA relation to the previous months, placing themselves at around $600

 million daily (see Chart 3.2.1.1).

 On the other hand, within the framework of Communication A 4399,

 some entities also agreed repos with the BCRA,

 placing their excess liquidity at the end of each day. For this

 concept, around $140 million was traded daily on

 Chart 3.2.2.2 average. Finally, the operations carried out by investment

 millions of $ Call Market funds amounted to around $1,400 million.

 400 (Net average monthly position by group of entities)

 300 For all purposes, the balance of passive repos for the BCRA at

 200 the end of October was $4,505 million, while that of active

 repos for this entity was $164 million.

 100

 0

 -100

 -200 3.2.2. Interbank Market

 Foreign

 -300 Nat. Priv.

 -400 Public The interest rates of the interbank market (call)

 -500 continued during October around the short-term reference

 May-04 Jul-04 Sep-04 Nov-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 interest rates established by the BCRA through its

 Source: BCRA repo operations (see Chart 3.2.2.1).

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 In the 1 business day segment (which currently represents

 Chart 3.2.2.3 around 75% of the stock of financing) the interest rates,

 Call operations by bank groups which had ended the previous month below 4.5% were

 maintained during the first half of the month at that level for

 15.0% then to begin gradually increasing until ending the month

 36.6% around 5%. In the 7-day term segment, the interest rates

 6.7% were placed at 5.1% on average and more than 70% of the

 operations in this segment were carried out within the corridor of

 25.3% interest rates established by the BCRA.

 9.0% It is worth noting that during October an

 7.4% important increase in the amounts traded in the interbank

 market could be appreciated. The average amount traded during October was

 around $800 million, which implies an increase of 60%

 compared to the previous month.
Additionally, it is worth highlighting that a change in behavior can be appreciated by bank group. The group of private banks with national capital moved to present a net borrowing position in October since they more than doubled the amounts borrowed in relation to the previous month.

**Graph 3.3.1**
**% Interest Rate in Pesos**
**(monthly average)**
**% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits**
- 30 to 59 days 5.7
- 60 to 89 days
- more than 90 days 5.1

Finally, to complete a characterization of the call market, it can be mentioned that the main operators are foreign capital entities. These operate mainly among themselves (36.6% of operations) although they also carry out numerous operations with public banks (25.3% of the total, of which 24.6% correspond to financing granted by public banks to foreign capital banks and only 0.7% of financing from foreign banks to public banking) and with national capital banks (15% of the total, of which 9% corresponds to financing from private national entities to foreign ones and 6% is call granted by foreign ones to national ones). The other two groups, public banks and private entities with national capital, operate only 7.4% and 6.7% respectively with entities of their same group (see Graph 3.2.2.3).

## 3.3. Passive Interest Rates

**Graph 3.3.2**
**Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days**
**(5-day moving average)**
**October 2005 - Private Banks - Public Banks**
- Under $100,000 / Over $1,000,000

Passive interest rates showed a new increase with respect to September. The interest rate for fixed-term deposits (total average of terms) showed a percentage variation slightly higher than the BCRA reference rates, increasing 0.2 p.p. and stood at 4.5% a.r. (see Graph 3.3.1).

The average interest rate for fixed-term deposits in the 30 to 59 day range was 4.3% a.r. presenting an increase of 0.2 p.p.. An equal increase was observed in placements of more than 90 days where the average interest rate was 5.7% a.r., while for placements of 60 to 89 days the interest rate increased only 0.1 p.p. yielding an average of 5.1%.

When analyzing the evolution of rates in the shortest term, 30-44 days, we see that they remained during the first weeks of the month at levels similar to those at the end of September, however from the last week of October the interest rate for placements exceeding $1 million in private financial entities showed an increase placing the average interest rate at 6.1% a.r., which implies an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month. For this type of deposits in public entities a decline of 0.1 p.p. was recorded with an average interest rate of 3.3% a.r.. Meanwhile, in operations up to $100,000 the interest rate increased 0.1 p.p. for deposits in private entities, the average was 4.3% a.r. and in public entities it remained stable at 2.55% a.r. (see Graph 3.3.2).

**Graph 3.3.3**
**Return on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
**(by type of depositor)**
**% SEPTEMBER 2005 OCTOBER 2005**
- Natural Persons
- Financial Services
- Legal Persons (other)

Analyzing the behavior of the interest rate by type of account holder, it emerges that the yield curve of deposits
3 natural persons showed a slight steepening, due to the fact that the interest rate
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 for placements longer than 90 days suffered an
 days days
 Note: Adjustable fixed-term operations by CER are not included. increase of 0.3 p.p. placing itself at 5.6% annual rate. The returns on
 Source: BCRA placements from institutions providing financial services
 (AFJP, Insurance Companies, FCI, etc.) flattened slightly,
 mainly due to a reduction of 0.2 p.p. in deposits for
 longer terms where the average interest rate was 7% annual rate.
 Finally, for the rest of legal persons, the average return
 decreased 0.2 p.p. in the 60 to 89 day bracket, and increased
 0.1 p.p. in the 90 or more days bracket, reaching
 
 Chart 3.4.1 6.5% annual rate (see Chart 3.3.3.). It is worth noting that during this last
 % Interest Rate on Current Account Overdrafts % month slight increases were recorded in the volume of amounts
 (5-day moving average)
 20 45 operated for terms longer than 60 days.

 October
 18 Wholesale (> $1 million) - left axis 43

 Retail (< $100 thousand) - right axis

 15 40

 13 38 3.4. Active Interest Rates²

 10 35
 Active interest rates remained relatively
 8 33
 stable during October with the exception of personal loans,

 5 30 which showed a new decline and the interest rate on
 
 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 current account overdrafts which continues rising slightly.
 Source: BCRA

 The interest rate on loans formalized through
Chart 3.4.1 demand promissory notes continues at the levels of the previous month,
 placing itself at an average of 10.6% annual rate. For its part, the interest rate
 Chart 3.4.2 on current account overdrafts registered an increase

 TNA, % Active Interest Rates in October of 0.4 p.p. with an average interest rate of 15%
 75 (weighted monthly average by amount) annual rate. Analyzing the intra-monthly evolution by client type, it
 65 Credit Cards is observed that overdrafts granted to small clients
 Personal did not present variations, while the interest rate
 55 Overdrafts corresponding to large companies increased in mid-
 Mortgage October and during the last week declined again (see Chart
 Pledged 3.4.1).

 45 Promissory Notes

 35
 The interest rate on personal loans decreased 0.1 p.p.

 25 and placed itself at 24.7% annual rate. Regarding credit card
 financing, according to the latest available information, during the
 15 month of September it was 25.7% annual rate, showing a decrease of 0.4

 5 p.p. (see Chart 3.4.2).
 Source: BCRA Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05

 ² The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through
 August 2005, the values for September and October 2005 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on
 loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Finally, the interest rates on loans with real guarantees
 did not register significant variations. The interest rate for
 pledged loans showed a decrease of 0.1 p.p. being the
 average rate of 9.9% annual rate, while the interest rate on
 mortgage loans remained stable at 10.9% annual rate.

 Chart 4.1.1 4. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity

 Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
 (average monthly variation - OCTOBER 2005)
 4.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
 Public Sector (+$282 M)
 Others Private Sector (+$930 M)

 CEDRO During October the monetary aggregates continued
 growing, driven by the favorable evolution of deposits to
Fixed-Term Deposits M3 in sight, both public and private, and, to a lesser extent, to the
 +$2,020 M increase in currency in the hands of the public (see Graph 4.1.1).

 Deposits at
 Sight The increase in the stock of bills and coins in October was around
 M2 $800 million, which represents a monthly increase of 2.1%.
 +$1,990 M
 Bills and
 Coins
 For its part, sight placements showed a
 thousands of
 millions of $-600 -100 400 900 1,400 significant increase, which on average amounted to $1,190 million and
 Source: BCRA between extremes exceeded $2,110 million. Most of this
 increase corresponded to public sector deposits, which
 grew $690 million on average and close to $1,500 million
 between extremes. This increase is explained mainly by the transfer, at
 maturity, of fixed-term funds to current account, associated with
 the placement of Treasury Bills to Public Agencies that took
 place at the beginning of the month. In the case of transactional
 deposits of the private sector, the average variation was positive and
 was around $500 million.

 Graph 4.1.2 The rise in funds deposited at sight and the increase in
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos currency in the hands of the public resulted in an increase in

 (average monthly variation - October 2005) means of payment (M2) close to $1,990 million. In relation to

 PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTOR Fixed-Term Deposits without CER October of last year, this aggregate grew 23.2%.
 Fixed-Term Deposits with CER
 millions of $
500 Fixed-term deposits registered a negative variation
400
300 during October of approximately $340 million, explained

200 mainly by the fall in public sector placements and

100 the deceleration in the growth rate of private sector placements.
 0 In fact, public fixed-term deposits

-100
-200 decreased $600 million on average and $730 million between

-300 extremes. This behavior was associated with the aforementioned

-400 transfer of resources towards sight placements. For its part,
-500 private fixed-term placements showed an increase
-600
 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more than 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more than close to $260 million, a variation lower than that evidenced in the
 days days days days 366 days days days days days 366 days preceding months. Most of the growth in these
Source: BCRA
 placements was concentrated again in the segment of
 non-adjustable placements by CER of 60 to 89 days, while the
 30 to 59 day bracket presented a significant contraction. For its
 part, fixed-term adjustable by CER grew again,
 showing an increase close to $240 million (see Graph
 4.1.2). The smaller increase in the stock of fixed-term deposits of the
 private sector was associated, in part, with the larger proportion of
 placements pending renewal at maturity. In fact,

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 the percentage of funds in immobilized balances over fixed-term
 resources went from 2.9% in September to 3.7% in October.

 Finally, the stock of CEDROs adjusted by CER, which is
 composed of certificates with pending judicial actions awaiting
 resolution, did not present variations between the end of September and the end
 of October, although on average they registered a decrease
 close to $250 million that responded to the transfer of funds
 Graph 4.2.1 to other deposits, for re-classification reasons, during the
 Monthly Var. Deposits in Dollars Stock last days of September.

millions of US$ thousands of millions The broadest monetary aggregate (M3) presented an increase of
 of US$
550 $2,020 million that is explained fundamentally by the aforementioned

450 4.0 good performance of the means of payment. In year-on-year terms,

350 M3 grew 21.2%.

250
150 3.0

 50

-50 2.0

-150 4.2. Deposits in dollars

-250 Dep. Priv. Sector Dep. Public Sector
 Total (2nd axis) 1.0
-350

-450 Deposits in dollars did not register significant changes
-550 0.0 during October. The average monthly variation reported a slight
 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05
 Source: BCRA decline of US$30 million that was explained by a decrease of
 US$70 million in public sector deposits that was
 partially offset by an increase of US$40 million in
 private sector placements (see Chart 4.2.1). The stock of
 foreign currency deposits totaled US$3,900
 million in October.

 The reduction in public deposits was concentrated in
 Chart 4.3.1 time deposits that decreased in the month by approximately
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos US$50 million while the decline in current accounts was about

 Bank liquidity
 % of Bank liquidity + LEBAC and NOBAC % of of US$20 million. For their part, private sector deposits in
 deposits deposits
 42 Private Banks Public Banks 42 foreign currency continued showing sustained growth

 40 40 that was reflected in US$30 million increase in time deposits and
 38 38
 36 36 US$10 million in sight deposits. So far this year, private sector
 34 34 dollar deposits have accumulated growth of nearly US$900
 32 32
 30 30 million (34%).

 28 28
 26 26
 24 24
 22 22
 20 20
 18 18 4.3. Bank Liquidity
 16 16
 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05
 Source: BCRA
 In October the liquid resources held by financial
 entities in cash, in current accounts at the BCRA and in
 reverse repos agreed with the BCRA amounted to 17% of total
 peso deposits, 1.3 p.p. less than the previous month. The lower
 liquidity in October was mainly associated with the early
 cancellation of rediscounts that some entities decided to
 make this month. By bank group, the decline in liquidity was
 evident in the public banks group which attended to the
 cancellation of debt with the BCRA mainly through the
 reduction of their repo position with the BCRA. Specifically, the
 liquidity ratio of public banks decreased from 19.3% to 16.8% of
 peso deposits (2.4 p.p.).
 The private banks group maintained its liquidity at levels
 similar to those of September since it directed the increase in
 liquidity generated by the income of new deposits mostly to the

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Chart 5.1 granting of loans to the private sector, thus feeding the

 millions of $ Private Sector Loans in Pesos
 800 (Monthly average variation) greater growth of the same this month (see Loans Section).

 Commercial Loans It is worth noting that, while they maintained their constant liquidity, private
 600
 Consumer Loans banks registered a change in their composition

 400 Loans with real guarantees increasing the holding of sight accounts at the BCRA and

 200 reducing their repo position.

 0
 For their part, the sustained interest evidenced by financial

 -200 entities in the LEBAC and NOBAC issued by the BCRA
 was also maintained this month, which is why if these
 -400
 securities are included as liquid resources, the decline in the liquidity ratio of

 -600 public banks was smaller (1.7 p.p.) while the ratio of private banks

 -800 registered a slight increase of 0.3 p.p. (see Chart 4.3.1).
 Jan-03 Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05Oct-05
 Source: BCRA
 With respect to the liquidity requirements
 established by the BCRA, the position of minimum cash in pesos
 was about 0.5 p.p. of total deposits. An increase was recorded in
 current accounts held by entities at the BCRA that resulted in an
 increase in the integration of minimum cash but that accompanied
 a greater requirement in October thus causing only a slight increase
 in the position. In turn, the surplus of minimum cash in
 dollars was approximately

 Chart 5.2 28% of total deposits.

 millions of $ Commercial Loans
 600 (monthly average variation)
# ADVANCES
500 Purchased Documents
Discounted Documents
400 Single-signature Documents

300 Others 5. Loans³

200

100
During October, loans in pesos to the private sector
0
accelerated their growth rate, registering a monthly increase
-100 of $1,330 million (3.3%), accumulating an increase of

-200 28.3% in year-over-year terms. As has been observed

-300 recently, this growth was widespread across all loan lines,

-400 from advances on current accounts, of very short term, to
Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05
Source: BCRA mortgage loans, of long term (see Graph 5.1).

Commercial financing was what grew the most in October,
registering an increase of $740 million (3.8%) on average.
The significant monthly growth is due, in part, to seasonal
Graph 5.3 factors. The monthly variation can be broken down into a
Loans with Real Guarantee significant increase of documents of $590 million (6.9%), an
millions of $ increase of $260 million in advances (3.5%) and a decrease of
(Avg. monthly variation)
100 $110 million (3.2%) in "other loans".
Mortgage loans
Pledged loans Personal loans grew $350 million (5.6% monthly) while
50
financing with credit cards increased $130 million (3.2%
0 monthly).

-50 Likewise, the high sales of automobiles and agricultural
machinery in the domestic market allowed financing with
-100 pledged guarantee to continue growing (see Graph 5.3), and
-150 registered in October an increase of $80 million (3.8%
-200 monthly). In the case of mortgage loans, for the fifth
-250 consecutive month, new financing exceeded in amount the
Source: BCRAEne-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05
amortizations and prepayments, so they showed a new
increase, this time exceeding $30 million (see Graph 5.4).

3 Loan figures are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of
credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

6. Financial Assets Market
Graph 6.1.1

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time placements) 6.1. Foreign Exchange Market

30
31-Oct-05
26 US$ 26,548 M

International reserves reached US$26,548 million at the
22 end of October, showing an increase of US$934 million in
relation to the previous month (see Graph 6.1.1). This increase
18 was due in part to the purchase of foreign currency carried out
by the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange Market, which
14 amounted to US$687 million, and in part to the inflow of foreign
currency associated with public sector operations, which
10 exceeded US$400 million. In fact, although during the month
the government made payments to international organizations
6 for a total of US$313 million, the outflow of reserves for that
Ene-01 Jul-01 Ene-02 Jul-02 Ene-03 Jul-03 Ene-04 Jul-04 Ene-05 Jul-05
Source: BCRA reason was more than offset by the placements of BODEN 2015,
which totaled US$752 million. For their part, dollar current
accounts of banks at the BCRA registered a negative variation
of approximately US$200 million. These funds were applied in
part to the acquisition of BODEN 2015 and in part to the
increase in the PGC. Finally, the positive yield on reserves
explains the rest of the variation in the same (see Graph 6.1.2).

Graph 6.1.2
Explanation Factors of International Reserves Operations in the spot exchange market agreed through the Electronic
millions of US$ Operations System averaged US$211 million daily, a level
1,200 21% higher than that of the previous months. The largest
934 traded volume concentrated in operations between
800 financial entities, which increased their transactions around 36%, while the BCRA continued decreasing its participation, which went from 9.4% in September to 6.5% in October.

For its part, in the Electronic Brokers Market, the amount negotiated daily increased 44% on average with respect to the previous month, reaching US$100 million.

The peso depreciated in nominal terms during October. The depreciation was on average of 3.6% with respect to the real, of 1.9% with respect to the US dollar and of 0.2% in relation to the euro. On the other hand, in real terms, according to the Multilateral Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated 1.4% with respect to a basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulates in the last 12 months a depreciation of 1.9%.

In the Rosario Forward Market, the quotes at 30 days showed an increase of 2% with respect to the previous month, which was in line with the depreciation of the peso registered in the spot market. The amounts negotiated in the month averaged $200 million, somewhat higher than the amounts operated in September. For its part, in the MAE Futures Market, in the Bilateral Forward Operations (OCT) wheel where financial entities intervene bilaterally, the volume negotiated doubled in relation to the previous month, reaching $21 million daily on average and totaling $420 million.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

Graph 6.2.1.1
30-day Volatility 6.2. Capital Market
Var.% y.o.y. Stock Market and Annualized Volatility (%)
20% 30%

15%
6.2.1. Shares
10% 25%

5%

0% 20% The MERVAL stock index, which groups the most

-5% representative shares of the domestic stock market, registered a decrease of 5.1% in October. Said setback left the index at
-10% 15%
1,609 points, which implies an increase of 17% with respect to the
-15% MERVAL Index
Volatility (Right Axis) level it registered at the end of the previous year.

-20% 10%
May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Oct-05 The evolution of Argentina's stock market did not

Source: Argentine Capital Market Institute and Bloomberg differ from those in the rest of the region. While the MERVAL measured in dollars fell about 8%, the rest of the most important Exchanges in the region fell in similar magnitudes when measured in dollars. For example, the BOVESPA (Brazil) declined 5.4%, the IPSA (Chile) by 6.3%, the IBC (Venezuela) fell 5.4% and the IPC (Mexico) registered a decline of 2.6%.

The volatility of the MERVAL index increased strongly during October, as did the stock markets of other emerging countries. In particular, the thirty-day annualized daily volatility of the MERVAL index was close to 25%, which contrasts with the low levels observed during the second half of the year (see Graph 6.2.1.1).

Graph 6.2.1.2
Amounts Operated in Shares
in millions of pesos
(average daily)
120

100 Daily Average Amount
12-month Moving Average
80
The volume of shares that make up the MERVAL maintained the upward trend observed in previous
60 months. In particular, the average daily amount operated in October was close to $105 million, while last month had reached an amount of $92 million (see Graph 6.2.1.2).
40

It should be noted that the amount operated in the month of October is the maximum value recorded in the last 5 years.
20

0
Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05
Source: MAE

6.2.2. Public Securities

The prices of Argentine debt registered a decline from the levels reached last month. This behavior contrasts with what happened during September where said instruments had registered positive returns. The decrease in the quotations was mainly due to international factors.

Graph 6.2.2.1
# Index

(in basis points) Sovereign External Debt Spreads Among the most evident reasons is found the increase in the
500 interest rate of the 10-year US Treasury bond that
increased by 0.23 p.p. together with a slight decrease in
450 EMBI+ Argentina EMBI+ Brazil appetite for financial assets of emerging countries and for
EMBI+ Latin EMBI+ risk in general.

400 The decrease in appetite for assets of emerging
371
349 countries was not only observed in the spreads of fixed
350 income instruments but in the quotations of currencies in
the region, evidencing a slight reversal of portfolio flows
300 in the month. For emerging countries in general, spreads
measured by EMBI increased by 0.09 p.p., and in the
250 particular case of Latin America the variation is similar,
increasing by 0.08 p.p.. In Brazil, the spreads of
200 sovereign external debt measured by EMBI increased by
jun-05 jul-05 ago-05 sep-05 oct-05 0.12 p.p. while in the case of Argentina, spreads increased
Source: Bloomberg
by 0.22 p.p., after the sharp contraction of 0.9 p.p.
10 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005
observed in September (see Chart 6.2.2.1).

Chart 6.2.2.2

Semiannual Yield (%) Yield Curves in Pesos
6.5
The slope of the real yield curve increased
DISC $ slightly, registering increases in the long portion of
5.5 PAR $
the curve, moderately higher than those in the
4.5 Bogar shortest portion (see Chart 6.2.2.2). Measured in
parity, the PRE08 and the Boden 14 fell 0.5% and
3.5 Boden 14
3.0% respectively, while in the long portion the DISC
PRO 12
and the PAR fell approximately 4.3% and 2.2%
2.5
respectively.

1.5 The curve in dollars shifted toward higher yields in
all its portions, although the increase in these was
0.5 PRE 08
30-sep 31-oct greater in the shortest portion (see Chart 6.2.2.3).
-0.50 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 It should be noted that this behavior was contrary to
Boden 08 Duration (in years)
Boden 07 that observed in the US Treasury curve, which increased
-1.5
Source: Argentine Capital Market Institute slightly its slope in the month. In this way, the spreads
with respect to the US Treasury curve increased more
in the short portion than in the long. In particular,
the spread of Boden 12 increased by approximately
Chart 6.2.2.3
0.7 p.p. while DISC did so to a lesser extent increasing
only 0.23 p.p.. Measured in parity terms, Boden 12
Semiannual Yield (%) Yield Curves in Dollars
and Boden 13 fell 1.7% and 1.6% respectively, while
9.5
instruments of longer duration such as DISC and PAR
9.0 Boden 13
decreased 4.9% and 5.1% respectively.
DISC USD PAR USD
The National Government carried out in the last week
8.5 Boden 12
of the month a primary placement of Boden 15
denominated in dollars. The issuance was executed at
8.0
a cut price of 89.1 per 100 of Original Nominal Value
and allowed obtaining financing for the National
7.5
Government of US$563 million. The marginal cost of
the placement was 8.75%, which represented a spread
30-sep 31-oct
7.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 over the US Treasury curve of 4.17 p.p..
Duration (in years)
Source: Argentine Capital Market Institute
The daily amount traded in the secondary market of
public securities remained at the levels recorded in the
last three months, which average approximately $1,400
million. In particular, during October public securities
Chart 6.2.3.1.1
were traded daily for $1,430 million on average, of
Variation of the Investment Portfolio of the AFJP which $520 million were traded on the Buenos Aires
thousands of Stock Exchange (BCBA) and $910 million on the
millions of $ Electronic Open Market (MAE) wheel.
12

10 6.2.3. Institutional Investors⁴
2005 October

8

6
6.2.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators

4

2

0
6.2.3.2. Common Investment Funds

Common investment funds in pesos presented in October a patrimonial increase close to $212 million (2.5%). This increase was led by the rise in the patrimony of fixed-term and money market funds, although all funds presented moderate positive variations in relation to September.

The patrimony of money market funds ended October $116 million above the level at the end of September, which represents a positive monthly variation of 2.9% (see Graph 6.2.3.2.1). Contrary to what occurred in September, during the month under analysis these funds presented a relatively stable intra-monthly behavior. In terms of performance, a new increase was observed compared to the previous month, related to the rise in short-term passive interest rates (see Section 3.3). In effect, the annual profitability of these funds went from 4.19% in September to 4.45% in October.

For its part, equity funds suffered in October a deceleration of the strong growth rate they had been registering in the previous months, showing an increase of only $27 million (0.9%). This was due mainly to the significant reduction in the value of their quotas due to the poor performance of the MERVAL index (see Section 6.2.1). The fall in quotations of the assets in the portfolio of these funds had a negative impact on their performance, which went from 8.33% in September to –6.19% in October (see Graph 6.2.3.2.2).

Finally, fixed-income funds registered a positive patrimonial variation in October, close to $60 million (4.4%). In terms of performance, these funds also presented a decline in relation to the previous month. Affected by the poor performance of debt markets, their annual profitability went from 2.20% in September to 0.24% in October. On the other hand, the patrimony of
4 Restructured (31-Oct)
 Non-restructured* (30-Sept) mixed income funds increased $8 million (4.7%) and their yield

 2 Restructured (30-Sept) also declined in relation to September, resulting in negative in

 0 October (-1.98%).
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
*Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred cessation of payments duration (years)

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data and others

 12 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Chart 6.2.5.1 6.2.4. Private Securities

 Amounts of Financial Trusts Placed

 millions of $
 4,000 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments,

 3,500 Monthly Issuances 2005 3,347 a differentiation continues to be observed between companies

 Accumulated 2005 that complied with their financial obligations and those that
 3,000 Accumulated 2004 2,768
 2,475 had to resort to debt restructuring after defaulting following the
 2,500 2,158
 2001-02 crisis. In terms of YTM, the additional spread required
 2,000 1,731 for ON issued by companies that underwent restructuring

 1,500 1,428
 1,270 processes was positioned on average at 3.2 p.p., barely 0.1 p.p.
 997
 1,000 644 580 higher than that of the previous month (see Chart 6.2.4.1).
 500 353 304 293427317
 176 273 157
 176 176
 0
 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Oct-05

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data
 6.2.5. Financial Trusts 5

 The placement of Financial Trusts (FF) in October reached a
 Chart 6.2.5.2 new record, both in amount and in number of FF. 16 FF were
 Underlying Assets of FF launched for a total of $580 million, doubling the issuance from
 (in millions of $ and % of total issued in October 2005) the previous month and nearly matching the average of the
 period January-September. The year-to-date total amounts to
 Mortgage Loans 37%
 $3,347 million and more than doubles the total for 2004 (see Chart
 Personal Loans 25% 6.2.5.1). During the month, two FF were placed with CER-indexed
 Public Securities 18% adjustable returns.

 Pledge Loans 11% The relative participation of underlying assets was modified

 Bills of Exchange and Others 6% in October. While in the previous month personal loans ranked

 Credit Card Coupons 2% first, in October mortgage loans took the lead with 37% of the total
 amount issued (2 FF), followed by personal loans (25% of the amount
 Commercial Loans 0.5%
 with 6 FF), public securities (18% through 1 FF) and pledge loans
 FF Quotashares 0.3%
 (11% in 2 FF), among others (see Chart 6.2.5.2). In turn, a new
 0 50 100 150 200 250 class of underlying asset emerged: quotashares of other FF. This
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data millions of $ means that a holder of quotashares of a certain FF (issued previously)
 transferred ownership and collection rights of these for the
 creation of a new FF.

 The role of settlor continues to be concentrated mainly in
 financial entities regulated by the BCRA (with 72% of the total amount issued in
 the month); followed by retailers, mainly of household goods sales
 Chart 6.2.5.3 (with 12%) (see Chart 6.2.5.3). Regulated financial entities are also
 Settlors of FF those that monopolize the role of trustee; they do so in 91% while
 (in % of total issued in October 2005) the remainder corresponds to unregulated entities.

 Retailers The average duration of FF with personal loans (3 FF) as
 12%
 underlying assets was positioned at 6.1 months (0.9 higher than
 Others* the previous month), while that of pledge loans was positioned at
 10% Financial 16.4 months.
 Entities
 (4 FF) 72%
 (7 FF)

 Unregulated
 Financial Institutions
 6%
 (2 FF)

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data
 * Others includes bond holders, selected SMEs, mutual associations, etc.
5 Financial trusts of the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Oct-05 Monthly Last 12 monthsSep-05Dec-04Oct-04
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Broad Monetary Base 55,202 53,229 50,647 46,671 3.7% 2.9% 18.3% 6.8%
Quasi-money 111 111 111 111 0.0% -0.8% 0.0% -9.7%

Monetary Base 55,092 53,118 50,537 46,560 3.7% 2.9% 18.3% 6.9%
Monetary Circulation 42,400 41,502 35,838 32,121 2.2% 1.4% 32.0% 19.2%
In the hands of the Public 38,259 37,459 31,702 28,736 2.1% 1.3% 33.1% 20.3%
In Financial Entities 4,141 4,044 4,136 3,385 2.4% 1.6% 22.3% 10.5%
Current Account at the BCRA 12,692 11,616 14,699 14,439 9.3% 8.4% -12.1% -20.6%

Stock of Passive Repos 4,943 7,444 5,524 5,537 -33.6% -34.1%
Stock of Active Repos 132 44 33 24 200.2% 197.8%

International Reserves of the BCRA 26,047 25,581 19,310 18,388 1.8% 41.6%

Total Deposits in Pesos 1 116,829 115,601 102,293 99,267 1.1% 0.3% 17.7% 6.3%

Private Deposits 85,013 84,078 74,331 70,905 1.1% 0.3% 19.9% 8.3%
Current Account 21,408 21,059 17,923 16,690 1.7% 0.8% 28.3% 15.9%
Savings Account 19,206 19,052 17,852 16,669 0.8% 0.0% 15.2% 4.1%
Fixed Term 31,493 31,500 26,333 25,769 0.0% -0.8% 22.2% 10.4%
Fixed Term Adjustable by CER 6,684 6,438 4,825 4,068 3.8% 3.0% 64.3% 48.5%
Other Deposits 6,091 5,651 5,517 5,322 7.8% 6.9% 14.4% 3.4%
Exchanged for BODEN (accounted) 96 96 172 183 0.0% -0.8% -47.6% -52.7%
CEDRO including CER 35 282 1,709 2,204 -87.7% -87.8% -98.4% -98.6%

Public Sector Deposits 31,816 31,522 27,962 28,362 0.9% 0.1% 12.2% 1.3%

Total Deposits in Dollars 1 3,916 3,942 3,943 3,825 -0.7% 2.4%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos 1 58,045 57,152 54,357 55,361 1.6% 0.8% 4.8% -5.3%

To the Private Sector 41,949 40,607 34,108 32,555 3.3% 2.5% 28.9% 16.4%
Advances 7,894 7,594 6,355 6,171 4.0% 3.1% 27.9% 15.6%
Documents 9,222 8,591 6,668 6,231 7.3% 6.5% 48.0% 33.7%
Mortgages 8,508 8,579 8,693 8,739 -0.8% -1.6% -2.6% -12.1%
Pledges 2,092 2,006 1,637 1,485 4.3% 3.5% 40.9% 27.2%
Personal 6,489 6,258 4,184 3,752 3.7% 2.9% 73.0% 56.2%
Credit Cards 4,362 4,074 3,080 2,877 7.1% 6.2% 51.6% 37.0%
Others 3,380 3,504 3,491 3,300 -3.6% -4.3% 2.4% -7.5%

To the Public Sector 16,096 16,545 20,249 22,806 -2.7% -3.5% -29.4% -36.2%

Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 2,482 2,615 1,702 1,545 -5.1% 60.6%

Total Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 70,850 69,230 61,923 56,952 2.3% 1.5% 24.4% 12.4%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 100,091 98,000 88,930 83,226 2.1% 1.3% 20.3% 8.6%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 166,712 164,551 145,653 139,287 1.3% 0.5% 19.7% 8.1%

Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

M1 (Banknotes and Coins + Quasi-money + Current Account Private Sector) 59,777 58,628 49,735 45,536 2.0% 1.2% 31.3% 18.6%
M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 78,983 77,680 67,587 62,205 1.7% 0.9% 27.0% 14.7%
M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 123,286 121,552 105,972 99,568 1.4% 0.6% 23.8% 11.8%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2
# Broad Monetary Base 1,974 3.7% 725 1.3% 4,555 9.0% 8,532 18.3%
 Financial Sector 1,122 2.1% -4,443 -8.2% -7,449 -14.7% -7,840 -16.8%
 Public Sector -1,176 -2.2% -1,794 -3.3% -1,987 -3.9% -2,532 -5.4%
 Temporary Advances + Transfer of profits 56 1,015 2,685 5,105
 Utilization of the National Government Account -42 1,558 -228 -457
 External Credit -1,191 -4,367 -4,443 -7,180
 Private External Sector 2,821 5.3% 9,777 17.9% 26,210 51.8% 31,646 67.8%
 BCRA Securities -738 -1.4% -2,756 -5.1% -11,211 -22.1% -11,669 -25.0%
 Other 3 -55 -0.1% -60 -0.1% -1,008 -2.0% -1,073 -2.3%

 International Reserves 466 1.8% 2,032 8.5% 6,737 34.9% 7,658 41.6%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 965 3.8% 3,376 14.1% 9,007 46.6% 10,838 58.9%
 Payment to International Organizations -468 -1.8% -1,317 -5.5% -4,537 -23.5% -5,298 -28.8%
 Other Public Sector Operations 52 0.2% -125 -0.5% 3,509 18.2% 3,522 19.2%
 Minimum Cash -74 -0.3% -148 -0.6% -1,428 -7.4% -1,899 -10.3%
 Pass Exchange Rate Valuation -80 -0.3% 42 0.2% -372 -1.9% -144 -0.8%
 Other 71 0.3% 202 0.8% 557 2.9% 639 3.5%

 1 Does not include deposits of Foreign Residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-monies without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 4.65 4.54 4.31 2.21 2.29
 Amount traded 808 502 422 384 627

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 4.09 4.07 3.94 2.97 3.03
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 4.69 4.52 4.41 3.08 3.29
 60 days or more 5.26 5.17 5.04 3.80 3.76
 In dollars
 30 days 0.58 0.57 0.53 0.30 0.28
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.54 0.57 0.54 0.25 0.20
 60 days or more 1.02 1.06 1.05 0.66 0.55

 Active Interest Rates Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.39 6.30 6.45 5.78 5.85

 Caucions in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 6.34 6.18 6.00 4.31 4.53
 Volume traded (total terms) 90 86 82 77 66

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 14.98 14.60 14.32 13.47 14.65
 Single-signature Documents 10.57 10.60 10.45 10.70 10.28
 Mortgages 10.96 10.94 11.05 11.50 11.87
 Pledges 9.88 9.97 10.26 11.74 11.70
 Personal 24.66 24.78 25.15 26.70 26.84
 Credit Cards n/d 25.74 26.20 29.47 30.23

 International Interest Rates Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 3.99 3.78 3.61 2.39 1.90
 6 months 4.36 4.05 4.02 2.72 2.23

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.26 3.93 4.03 3.00 2.56
 10 years 4.46 4.19 4.25 4.22 4.08

 FED Funds Rate 3.75 3.60 3.43 2.16 1.75

 SELIC (at 1 year) 19.30 19.61 19.75 17.52 16.43

 (1) The data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for October are
 estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – OCTOBER 2005

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04

 BCRA pass rates
 Passive 7 days 4.25 4.25 4.25 2.50 2.50
 Active 7 days 5.25 5.25 5.25 3.00 3.20

 Total REPO round pass rates
 1 day 3.66 3.84 3.67 2.10 2.27
 7 days 4.46 4.32 4.29 2.51 2.52

 Amount traded of REPO round passes (daily average) 1998 2747 2610 1267 1307

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 6.23 6.17 5.99 2.85 n/a
 3 months 6.95 6.87 6.83 3.55 n/a
 6 months 7.46 7.49 7.48 4.96 4.75
 9 months 8.13 7.97 7.79 5.67 6.16
 12 months 8.90 8.91 7.88 5.92 6.35

 NOBAC rate in pesos with variable coupon 9.43 8.44 n/a n/a n/a

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 83 132 143 96 99

 Foreign Exchange Market Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04
# Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 2.97 2.91 2.89 2.97 2.97
 BCRA Reference 2.97 2.91 2.89 2.97 2.97

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.98 2.91 2.89 2.98 2.98
 INDOL 1 month n/o n/o n/o 2.96 2.99
 Amount Traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 0 0 0 0 0
 ROFEX 1 month 2.97 2.91 2.89 2.97 2.97
 Amount Traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 196 156 201 104 99

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.32 1.27 1.22 1.09 1.04

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.57 3.57 3.55 3.99 3.71

 Capital Market Oct-05 Sep-05 Aug-05 Dec-04 Oct-04

 MERVAL
 Index 1618 1636 1524 1287 1199
 Trading Volume (millions of pesos) 114 106 89 63 86

 Government Bonds (per 100 VN)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 77.86 78.62 77.78 83.04 75.38
 BODEN 08 ($) 125.31 124.09 122.71 108.18 105.00

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 432 373 423 627 857
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 299 301 324 243 280

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 16
