# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
NOVEMBER 2005

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Program 2
3. International Reserves 2
4. Interest Rates 3
   4.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 3
   4.2. Interfinancial Markets 3
      4.2.1 Repo Market 3
      4.2.2 Interbank Market 4
   4.3. Passive Interest Rates 4
   4.4. Active Interest Rates 5
5. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity 6
   5.1. Monetary Aggregates in Pesos 6
   5.2. Deposits in Dollars 7
   5.3. Bank Liquidity 7
6. Loans 8
7. Financial Assets Market 9
   7.1. Foreign Exchange Market 9
   7.2. Capital Markets 9
      7.2.1. Shares 9
      7.2.2. Public Securities 10
      7.2.3. Institutional Investors 11
         7.2.3.1 Administrators of
         Retirement and Pension
         Funds 11
         7.2.3.2 Mutual Investment
         Funds 12
      7.2.4. Private Securities 12
      7.2.5. Financial Trusts 13
8. Monetary and
Financial Indicators 14

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• In November, the average Monetary Base (BM) reached $55,906 million and accumulated a real decrease of 0.4% throughout 2005. The expansion originating in the external sector was offset by operations of the public sector, linked to the cancellation of transitory advances, and by those of the financial system, related to the cancellation of rediscounts.

• The prudential policy of accumulation of international reserves carried out by the BCRA was determinant for the increase of US$6,879 million (35%) that the same registered throughout 2005, reaching at the end of November a level of US$26,525 million.

• In a context of lower liquidity, greater activity was observed in the interfinancial markets and increases in the main interest rates. The BCRA raised the interest rates of short-term LEBAC (up to 3 months) by around 0.6 percentage points in relation to the end of October. Similarly, it increased the interest rate of its active repos and, in the first days of December, the interest rate of its passive repos which was placed from then on at 5% and 4.5%, for 7 and 1 day, respectively.

• In the call market the average interest rate stood at 6.6%. The average passive interest rate increased 0.2 percentage points and stood at 4.8%. In the case of short-term credit lines, the average interest rate for current account overdrafts was 16.3%, which implied an increase of 0.8 percentage points.

• Sight deposits presented an average increase of $1,350 million, which was distributed evenly between deposits of the public sector and those of the private sector. Meanwhile, the means of payment (M2) increased $2,070 million (23.7% annualized). The average increase in time deposits and the increase in other deposits, added to the rise in M2, resulted in an increase of the broadest monetary aggregate (M3) of $2,700 million (20.9% annualized).

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate again, registering a monthly increase of $1,750 million (4.2% monthly, 30.8% annualized). The increase at an accelerating pace of mortgage loans stands out in a month in which credit growth continues to be widespread. The variations of almost all lines were in November among the largest since the 2001-2002 crisis.

• The exchange rate of the peso with respect to the US dollar remained stable in nominal terms during November. In relation to the real, the peso depreciated 2% while with respect to the euro it appreciated 2.2%. On the other hand, in real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso appreciated 0.7% with respect to a basket of currencies of its main trading partners.

---

## 2. MONETARY PROGRAM

**Graph 2.1 Factors explaining the Monetary Base**
*thousands of millions of $ (average variation, November 2005)*

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to in this report are monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005
1,5
 In November the MB was positioned on average at $55.906
 1,2 million and accumulated a real decrease of 0.4% in what has gone by in

 0,9 2005.

 0,6
 The operations carried out by the public sector caused
 0,3 a decrease in the MB of $546 million, which was

 0,0 mainly associated with the net cancellation of temporary
 advances that the national government made during the month, with

 -0,3 funds that were previously deposited in the local banking system.

 -0,6

 -0,9
 External S. BCRA Securities Repos Public Sector Private Financial Base
 For its part, financial entities continued canceling
 Sector Monetary
 Source: BCRA debts contracted with the BCRA during the 2001 crisis, within
 the framework of the rediscount cancellation scheme ("matching").
 These operations caused a reduction in the MB of $273
 Chart 3.1 million. It should be noted that at the beginning of December, in addition to the
 monthly matching installment, some banks canceled early
 Thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 (gold, foreign currency and time placements) part of their outstanding obligations with the BCRA,
 millions of US$
 NOVEMBER 30, 2005 30-Nov-05
 Thousands of
 millions of US$ US$ 26,525 M
 26,7 In November, the banks decreased their position of
 26 26,6 passive repos for the BCRA, which generated an increase in the MB of $240

 26,5
 million. Additionally, the placements of LEBAC and NOBAC in
 22 26,4

 26,3 the primary market also implied a monetary expansion

 18 26,2 ($287 million).

 1-Nov 5-Nov 9-Nov 13-Nov 17-Nov 21-Nov 25-Nov 29-Nov

 14 Finally, the BCRA continued accumulating international
 reserves and in November the net purchases of foreign currency from the
 10 private sector in the Unified and Free Exchange Market led to an
 expansion of the MB of $1,171 million (see Chart 2.1).
 6
 Jan-01 Sep-01 May-02 Jan-03 Sep-03 May-04 Jan-05 Sep-05
 Source: BCRA

 3. International Reserves2

 As mentioned in previous reports, the BCRA is
 Chart 3.2 carrying out a policy of accumulation of international reserves,
 Explanatory Factors of International Reserves a policy that was decisive for the increase of

 millions of US$ US$6,879 million (35%) that the reserve stock showed
 600 throughout the current year. The figures at the end of November show

 440 a level of BCRA international reserves of US$26,525

 400 million.

 200
 However, during the last month a slight decrease
 27 was recorded in that stock, US$23 million, associated with the behavior of
 0
 -4 -23 the Public Sector (see Chart 3.1). Although during the month the government

 -200 made payments to international organizations for US$397 million and
 repurchased debt in dollars for US$99 million, the outflow of

 -400 reserves for that reason was almost entirely compensated by the

 -486 purchase of foreign currency that the BCRA made in the Unified
 and Free Exchange Market, which amounted to US$440 million, and by
 Exchange Intervention Public Sector Current Account Deposits Other International Reserves the positive performance of reserves (see Chart 3.2).
 Source: BCRA

 2 The figures in this Section refer to the balances at the end of the month.

 2 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

Chart 4.1.1 4. Interest Rates
 TNA, % LEBAC interest rates
 11 (Primary market)

 10
 4.1. Securities issued by the BCRA

 9 25-Oct-05
 29-Nov-05

 8
 The yield curve resulting from the auctions in the

 7 primary market of LEBAC showed an increase in the
 yields of shorter duration species. In this way, the interest rates of LEBAC

 6 auctioned with a residual term of 56 days increased 0.6 p.p. between
 the end of October and November.

 5
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Likewise, in the same period, the yield paid by the
 Source: BCRA placement of LEBAC of 84 days increased 0.5 p.p. (see Chart 4.1.1).
4.2.2. Interbank Market

**Graph 4.2.2.1 Call Market**
(millions of $ average stock)

In a context where loans continue to grow at a rate higher than that of funding, greater activity and increases in interest rates of the interbank market (call) were observed.

In the same direction as that observed in the BCRA repurchase agreement rates, although in an even more accentuated manner, the interest rates of the call market moved. The interest rates, which had ended October around 5% rose to reach a level higher than 8% at the end of November (see Graph 4.2.1.1).

---

**Source: BCRA**

**3 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005**
-400 Public
 Likewise, the amounts operated daily reached
 -500 Priv. National
 -600 Cap. For. Maj. $1,070 million on average, registering an increase of 16%

 -700 compared to the previous month.
 -800
 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05
 Source: BCRA
 Finally, during November the situation that had been outlined in
 an incipient manner in October was consolidated, where banks
 with national private capital had moved to present a net borrowing
 position. This group of banks increased the amounts borrowed by
 approximately $60 million, while maintaining the amounts granted
 unchanged, thereby increasing their net borrowing position.
 For their part, public banks increased the amounts
 Chart 4.3.1 granted by $150 million, bringing their net lending position to

 % Interest Rate in Pesos $450 million (see Chart 4.2.2.1).
 8 (monthly average)
 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits
 6.0
 30 to 59 days 5.4
 5.5 60 to 89 days
 7 more than 90 days 5.3
 5.0
 4.7
 4.5
 6 4.0 4.3. Passive Interest Rates

 3.5

 3.0
 5
 2.5
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05
 Interest rates for fixed-term deposits registered
 4
 positive variations during November. In line with the

 3 LEBAC$ 1M LEBAC$ 3M increases in the Central Bank's reference rates and those of the

 Passive Repos Fixed-Term interbank market, the average passive interest rate increased

 2 0.2 p.p. and stood at 4.8% a.r. (see Chart 4.3.1).
 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Oct-05 Nov-05
 Note: Operations with fixed-term adjustable by CER are not included.
 Source: BCRA

 3 Through this Communication, banks were authorized to report daily the balance of current accounts in pesos that they wish
 to maintain at the end of each day and, in the event that the amount recorded exceeds the desired amount, the BCRA performs a 1-day repo on the
 surplus.

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

 Chart 4.3.2 Observing interest rates by maturity range, it can be
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-44 days seen that for deposits of 30 to 59 days the
 (5-day moving average) main increase was 0.3 p.p., and the average interest rate was 4.7%

 November 2005 Private Banks Public Banks a.r.. In the 60 to 89-day segment the increase was 0.2 p.p. with
 % Less than $100,000 More than $1,000,000
 % an average interest rate of 5.3% a.r.. On the other hand, the interest
 4.7 7.5
 4.5 7.0 rate for placements of more than 90 days fell 0.4 p.p.
 4.3 6.5
 4.1 6.0 showing an average of 5.4% a.r..

 3.9 5.5
 3.7 5.0 The most significant increase took place in the shortest
 3.5 4.5 term segment, 30-44 days, with increases recorded in both the
 3.3 4.0
 3.1 3.5 wholesale and retail segments. The interest rate in private
 2.9 3.0 banks for placements greater than $1 million went from
 2.7 2.5 6.3% a.r. at the end of October to 7.3% a.r. in the last days of
 2.5 2.0
 2.3 1.5 November, while in operations less than $100,000 a
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Jan-05 Mar-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 variation from 4.3% a.r. to 4.7% a.r. was observed in the same period. On
 Source: BCRA
 the other hand, for wholesale placements in public banks, the
 interest rate increased 0.7 p.p., showing an average at the end of
 November of 4% a.r., while in retail operations it showed no
 changes, thus the interest rate remained at 2.6% a.r. (see Chart 4.3.2).
 Chart 4.4.1 Analyzing the behavior of the interest rate by type

 TNA,% Commercial Loans of holder, the returns on placements of financial services provider
 (weighted average monthly interest rate by amount)
 55 institutions (AFJP, Insurance Companies,
% Interest Rate of Current Account Advances %
(5-day moving average)
Advances 20 45 FCI, etc.) were again those that received the main
November
45 18 Wholesale (> $1 million) - left axis 43 increase showing a positive variation of 0.6 p.p. in
Documents Retail (< $100 thousand) - right axis
15 40 placements of shorter term with an average interest rate
of 6.7% n.a.. For its part, both in the placements of natural
13 38
35 persons and in those of other legal persons, the interest rate
10 35
reached 4.5% n.a. which represented increases of 0.4
8 33
25 p.p. and 0.1 p.p. respectively.

5 30
Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05

15
4.4. Active Interest Rates4
5
Source: BCRA Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05

In the context mentioned so far, the interest rates for
short-term credit continued with the upward trend they had
been showing in recent months, while interest rates for
Chart 4.4.2 long-term loans remained relatively
TNA, % Active Interest Rates stable during November.
75 (Interest rate avg. monthly weighted by amount)

65 In the case of short-term credit lines, the interest rate
Credit Cards
Personal of current account advances averaged 16.3% n.a. which implied
Chart 3.4.1 55 an increase of 0.8 p.p. compared to the previous month. In recent
Mortgage
Pledge months an increase in the volume of credits granted to companies
45 was observed, a segment where the increase in the interest rate
level occurred, since in advances to natural persons (which present
35
a lower operated volume) a slight decline in interest rates was
25 recorded. In the case of loans instrumented through documents
on sole signature, the interest rate increased by 0.1 p.p., placing
15
it at an average of 10.6% n.a. (see Chart 4.4.1).
5
Source: BCRA Apr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05

4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
September 2005, the values for October and November 2005 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data from
loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

Chart 4.4.2 Loans intended for consumption continued
showing an increase in activity. The interest rate of
% Spread between Active and Passive Interest Rates
personal loans decreased 0.3 p.p. and was placed at 24.6% n.a.
30
while the interest rate for credit card financing showed no
Active Interest Rate
25 variations compared to the previous month and, according to
Passive Interest Rate
the latest available information, during the month of October
20 it was 25.7% n.a..

15
With respect to loans with real guarantees, interest rates
continued showing slight declines. In November a decrease of
10
0.2 p.p. was observed in the interest rate for pledge loans and
0.1 p.p. for mortgage loans, in this way the average interest rates
5 were 10.1% n.a. and

0
Nov-03 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 10.9% n.a. for pledge and mortgage loans

Notes:
Active Interest Rate: Weighted average by amount of Advances, Documents, Personal, Credit Cards, Mortgage and Pledge loans.
Passive Interest Rate: Weighted average by amount of Savings Accounts and Fixed-Term Deposits, respectively (see Chart 4.4.2).
Source: BCRA

Given the aforementioned behavior for active and passive interest rates, an increase was observed in the differential between said rates that reached a level of 15.3 p.p., which represents an increase so far this year of 0.5 p.p. and reaches the same level it had a year ago, in November 2004 (see Chart 4.4.3).

Chart 5.1.1

Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
(average monthly variation - NOVEMBER 2005)

Public Sector (+$1,000 M) 5. Monetary Aggregates and Liquidity
Other Private Sector (+$980 M)

Fixed-Term Deposits
M3
+$2,700 M

Sight Deposits In November, monetary aggregates showed positive
M2 evolution, which was fundamentally linked to the
Bills and +$2,070 M growth of sight deposits, both public and private
Coins (see Chart 5.1.1).

billions of $-600 -100 400 900 1,400 Sight placements showed an average increase of
Source: BCRA $1,350 million, which was distributed homogeneously between public sector and private sector deposits. However, between month-end, the transactional resources of the public sector showed a decline of close to $450 million, while private sector deposits showed an increase of $990 million. The strong increase in these concentrated in the last days of the month and was associated, in part, with the transfer of funds from fixed-term placements upon their maturity, in order to cover the greater liquidity needs typical of year-end.

Chart 5.1.2

Private Sector Deposits
millions of $ (monthly variation - NOVEMBER 2005)
1,000

800 Fixed-Term Deposits without CER The increase in funds deposited on sight plus the rise in currency in circulation resulted in an increase
600 Fixed-Term Deposits with CER in means of payment (M2) of $2,070 million. In year-over-year terms, this aggregate grew 23.7%, which equals 10.4% in
400
real terms.
200

0 For its part, fixed-term deposits remained practically at the same level as the previous month, given that the
-200 increase in private placements, which amounted to $250
-400 million, was almost entirely offset by the decrease in public deposits, which was around $230 million. It should be noted
-600
 Sight Deposits 30-59 days 60-89 days 90-179 days 180-365 days more than 366 that, between month-end, the stock of private fixed-term deposits showed
days
 Fixed-Term Deposits a negative variation of $190 million. This behavior was associated, in part, with the already mentioned transfer of resources
Source: BCRA towards sight placements during the last days of the month, and in part with the transfer of funds towards new issuances of financial trusts by institutional clients (see Section 7.2.3.1).

Chart 5.2.1 In terms of structure, declines occurred in the tranches of 60 to 365 days, while in the most liquid tranche (30 to 59 days) a positive
Dollar Deposits Stock variation was noted (see Chart 5.1.2).
Monthly Var.
millions of US$ billions of US$
550

450 4.0 Finally, the CEDRO stock adjusted by CER, which is composed of certificates with pending judicial actions awaiting
350 resolution, showed no variations during November,
250 maintaining a balance of $36 million.
150 3.0

50 The average increase in fixed-term deposits and the
-50 2.0

-150

---

**6 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005**
-250 Dep. S. Público increase in other deposits, added to the rise in M2, resulted in
 Dep. S. Privado 1.0
 -350 an increase in the broadest monetary aggregate (M3) of $2,700 million.
 -450 Total (2nd. axis) In relation to November of last year, M3 grew 20.9%, which
 -550 0.0 in real terms equals an interannual variation of 7.9%.
 Nov-04 Ene-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05
 Source: BCRA

 5.2. Deposits in Dollars

 The total stock of deposits in dollars showed no variations
Chart 5.3.1 in November while the increase of US$65 million in the
 
 % of private sector placements was offset by a fall of
 depositsEffective + Current Accounts at BCRA % of Effective + Current Accounts at BCRA
 Private Banks deposits Public Banks equal magnitude in public sector deposits. In this way,
 24 18
 22 the average stock of deposits in foreign currency totaled in
 16
 20 14 November US$3,900 million (see Chart 5.2.1).

 18 12

 16 10

 14 8
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05
 5.3. Bank Liquidity
 % of Stock of Repos % of Stock of Repos
 deposits Private Banks deposits Public Banks

 11 12

 9 10
 7 8 In November, an increase in the liquidity of public banks was
 5 6 recorded together with a decline in banking liquidity of the group
 3 4 of private banks. In this regard, resources maintained in cash in
 1 2
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive repos
 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC for the BCRA were 18% of public banks deposits (1 p.p. higher
 % of % of
 deposits Private Banks deposits Public Banks than October) and 16% in private banks (1.3 p.p. less than the
 22 18
 20 16 previous month).

 18 14

 16 12 The increase in liquidity of public banks resulted in an
 14 10 increase in the repos position with the BCRA. However, they
 12 8
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05reduced their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC in November, for which
 % of Total Liquidity % of Total Liquidity reason, if this decline is computed, the liquidity of public banks
 deposits Private Banks deposits
 Public Banks remained constant at October levels. For their part, the decline in
 42 36
 40 34 the liquidity of private banks is due both to a reduction in their
 38 32 sight accounts at the BCRA and a decrease in their passive repos
 36 30 position for the BCRA. On the other hand, the liquidity that they
 34 28
 maintain in BCRA securities remained constant during November
 32 26
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05(see Chart 5.3.1). For the total system, liquidity, including BCRA
 securities, remains high, reaching in November 35% of deposits in
 pesos.

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

 Chart 6.1 With respect to the liquidity requirements established by
millions of $ Loans to Private Sector in Pesos the BCRA, the minimum cash position in pesos remained in
900 (Monthly average variation)
 November at levels similar to October and closed the month at
 Commercial loans
600 approximately 0.5% of deposits. For its part, the excess minimum
 Consumer loans
 cash in dollars was approximately 25% of total deposits, remaining
 Loans with real guarantee
300 at levels similar to those of the previous month.

 0

-300
 6. Loans5
-600
-900
Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05

During November, loans in pesos to the private sector
Source: BCRA

once again accelerated their growth rate, registering a
monthly increase of $1,750 million (4.2% monthly, 30.8% annualized).

As has been occurring in recent months, credit growth is widespread,
as increases were recorded from current account advances, short-term,
through to mortgage loans, long-term (see Chart 6.1). It is worth noting
that the variations in

Chart 6.2

millions of $ Commercial Loans

(average monthly change)

most of the loan lines (current account advances, pledged loans, mortgage
800 and personal loans, and credit card financing), were in November one of

Advances
600 Documents purchased the largest since the recovery began following the 2001-2002 crisis.

Documents discounted
Documents on sole signature

400 Other

Just as occurred during October, commercial financing was the one that
200 contributed most to the growth of total loans. Led by the significant

increase in current account advances, commercial loans increased
0 in November by approximately $890 million (4.3% monthly, 32.5% annualized).

Specifically, advances registered an increase of $540 million (6.8%
-200 monthly, 34.0% annualized), while discounted documents increased

$360 million and "other loans" decreased $10 million (see Chart 6.2).

-400
Ene-03 Abr-03 Jul-03 Oct-03 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05

Source: BCRA

Consumer loans also accelerated their growth rate, increasing in the
month by $680 million (6.3% monthly, 65.5% annualized). Personal loans
registered an increase of $450 million (6.9% monthly, 69.3% annualized)
while credit card financing increased $230 million (5.3% monthly, 60.2%
annualized).

Chart 6.3

Thousands of Pledged Loans and Automobile Sales Thousands of

60 units millions of $7 For its part, in a context where automobile sales have been at their

highest levels since 1998 since March, financing with pledge guarantee
50 6

5 continued growing (see Chart 6.3), and registered in November an

increase of $110 million (5.3% monthly, 40.5% annualized). In the case
40 4 of mortgage loans, for the sixth consecutive month, new financing

exceeded amortizations and early repayments in amount, therefore
30 3 showing a new increase, on this occasion exceeding $70 million.

20 Automobile Sales (Left Axis)
2 Finally, loans in foreign currency decreased for the second

consecutive month, registering a decline in November of U$S50 million.
10 Pledged loans (average)
1 Nevertheless, it should be noted that since the BCRA relaxed the

0 0 documentation requirements to be presented in relation to export
Abr-96 Abr-97 Abr-98 Abr-99 Abr-00 Abr-01 Abr-02 Abr-03 Abr-04 Abr-05

Source: BCRA based on own data and ADEFA

5 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of
credits in portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

prefinancing6, these would be registering a change in trend, therefore
it is expected that in the next month they will register increases.

Chart 7.2.1.1 7. Financial Assets Market

Index
31-Oct = 100 Stock Markets in the Region

110

105

100

Trading operations in the spot exchange market arranged through the
95 Electronic Operations System averaged US$185 million daily, 12% less

than in October. Regarding the participants in this market, financial
90 entities continued to increase their participation, which went from 81% in
85 October to 89% in November; to the detriment of the BCRA which continued
Argentina (MERVAL) Mexico (MEXBOL)
Brazil (IBOV) Chile (IGPA) decreasing its own. For its part, in the Electronic Market of

80 Brokers, the daily amount traded also decreased
30-Jun 30-Jul 29-Aug 28-Sep 28-Oct 27-Nov
Source: BCRA with respect to the previous month, standing at US$82 million in
November.

In the Rosario Forward Market the average amount
traded daily was around US$91 million in November,
exceeding October's level by 37.8%. It should be noted that as of
June the BCRA began to operate in this market, gradually increasing
its participation. In November the BCRA's operations in this market
represented 5.6% of the total traded.
Chart 7.2.1.2 For its part, in the MAE Futures Market, in the session of
Amount Traded in Shares Bilateral Forward Operations (OCT) where financial
millions of $ entities participate bilaterally, the volume traded
180 decreased in relation to the previous month, amounting to US$5.6
160 million daily on average and totaling US$123 million.
140

120 The quotation of the peso with respect to the US dollar
100 remained stable in nominal terms during November. In

80 Average Jan-Nov 2005 = $75 million daily relation to the real, the peso depreciated 2% while with respect to the

60 Average 2004 = $53 million daily euro it appreciated 2.2%. On the other hand, in real terms, according

40 to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso appreciated 0.7%

20 with respect to a basket of currencies of its main trading
partners.
0
Jan-04 Feb-04 May-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05

Source: BCRA based on MAE and Buenos Aires
Stock Exchange

7.2. Capital Market

7.2.1. Shares

The evolution of the domestic stock market registered a
decline for the second consecutive month. The quotations of the
shares that make up the MERVAL stock index decreased 3.4%
in November, leaving the index at a level of 1,555 points. It should be
noted that the accumulated fall in the last two months was 8.3%,

6 See Communication "A" 4443.

9 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

while the accumulated increase since the end of the previous year
amounts to 13% and 13.3% when measured in dollars.

In contrast with previous months, the behavior in
the region was mixed. In particular, the index representing the
securities market of Mexico (IPC) increased 6.8% along with
the Brazilian one (BOVESPA), which did so 5.7%. On the contrary, the
securities market of Chile (IGPA) decreased by 3.6%, a decline of
similar magnitude to that of Argentina.
Chart 7.2.2.1 The volatility of the MERVAL index remained on the rise

Semiannual Yield (%) Yield Curves in pesos during November. In particular, the annualized
7.5 DISC $ thirty-day daily volatility of the MERVAL index was close to 25% on average
during the month, levels still above the average of the last
PAR $ 6.5
5.5 three months, although below the average of the previous year (see
Bogar Chart 7.2.1.1).
4.5
Boden 14

3.5 PRO 12
The volume traded (daily average) in the stock

2.5 market was $70 million, an amount lower than the $104

1.5 million registered in October. It is worth mentioning, however, that in

PRE 08 said month the volume traded had reached its maximum value
0.5 31-Oct 30-Nov
since 2002. Likewise, the daily volume traded in November
-0.50 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 remained in line with that observed since the beginning of the year.
Boden 08 Duration (in years)
-1.5
Boden 07
Source: Argentine Capital Market Institute

7.2.2. Public Securities
The spreads of external debt of emerging countries measured by the EMBI+ contracted slightly in November, partly governed by the flattening of the U.S. Treasury curve as well as by the good fundamentals that these countries currently present. In the case of Latin America, said spread was found at approximately the same level as one month ago.

**Graph 7.2.2.2 Semiannual Yield (%) Yield Curves in Dollars**

The positive evolution in the quotations of external debt securities in the region and in the asset category was not reflected in the case of Argentina, whose spread -measured by the EMBI index- increased by about 1.24 p.p. Said increase, however, was fundamentally due to the separation of the GDP units that were incorporated in the prices of the new securities delivered in the sovereign debt restructuring. Upon separation of the unit, the bonds registered a significant drop in prices, with its corresponding effect on yields.

The real yield curve increased in all its segments, although slightly higher increases were recorded in the long segment thereof (see Graph 7.2.2.1). In the short segment of the yield curve, the parity of the PRE08 and the Boden 14 was reduced by 1.3% and 2.2% respectively, and in the long segment the parity of the DISC and the PAR was reduced by greater magnitude, reaching a decrease of 10% and 5% respectively.

The yield curve in dollars shifted toward higher yields in all its segments, although its slope increased significantly (see Graph 7.2.2.2). Said behavior contrasts with what happened with the U.S. Treasury curve, which slightly reduced its slope. In this way, the spread of the Boden 12 decreased by 0.9 p.p. while the spread of the DISC increased strongly by 1.18 p.p. and the spread of the PAR by 1.21 p.p. Measured in terms of parity, the Boden 13 fell 0.5% while that of longer duration instruments such as the DISC and the PAR decreased by about 10%.

The National Government carried out in November a repurchase of public securities that amounted in terms of debt to US$113.6 million and in terms of effective value US$98.8 million. Specifically, Boden 15 and Boden 12 were repurchased for a nominal value of US$108.6 million and US$5.0 million, respectively.

**Graph 7.2.2.3 Traded Volume of Public Securities (daily averages) in millions of pesos**

The operation was already stipulated in the prospectus supplement and in the issuance conditions of the instruments issued under national law. In particular, it had been established that the surplus of annual payment capacity corresponding to the year 2004 would be applied to the repurchase of certain public securities.

The traded volume of public securities (daily average) amounted to $1,300 million, an amount slightly lower than that traded during October. Likewise, it should be noted that through November inclusive, the annual average of the traded volume daily exceeds $1,100 million, more than double what was traded on average during 2004.

Source: BCRA based on MAE and Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

**7.2.3. Institutional Investors⁷**

**7.2.3.1. Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones**

**Graph 7.2.3.1.1** At the end of November, the investment portfolio of the
# VARIATION IN THE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO OF THE AFJP

**Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds (AFJP)** had portfolio levels of thousands of millions of $ positioned at $65,069 million, a similar level to that recorded at the end of October (see Chart 7.2.3.1.1). However, significant changes occurred in its composition. First, as a result of the separation of units linked to GDP, a accounting transfer occurred from the item "Public Credit Operations of the Nation" towards "Negotiable Futures and Options Contracts".

On the other hand, during the month it was observed that the AFJP reduced their holdings of both Mutual Investment Funds and Fixed-Term Deposits, by $220 million and $250 million respectively. The released funds were allocated to the acquisition of participations in the Radar Series 5 financial trust, issued in the month under analysis (see Section 7.2.5) and of which they held $700 million on the last day of November.

For its part, the funds invested in variable income securities showed a decrease of 4%, mainly as a consequence of the decline shown in the quotations of leading stocks traded in the local market.

---

## 7.2.3.2. MUTUAL INVESTMENT FUNDS

**Money Market Funds**

The mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos showed in November a patrimonial decline close to $218 million (2.5%). This decrease is due to the patrimonial loss suffered by the fixed-term and money market funds, which more than offset the increase in the equity of the remaining funds.

The equity of the money market funds ended November $611 million below the level at the end of October, which represents a negative monthly variation of 15% (see Chart 7.2.3.2.1). This decline is explained, in part, by the option of institutional clients to transfer resources from these funds to remunerated accounts, which offered a more attractive interest rate, and in part by the transfer of funds towards new issues of financial trusts, by the AFJP (see Section 7.2.3.1). In terms of performance, this type of fund reflected a slight increase, standing at 4.71%.

**Variable Income Funds**

For its part, the variable income funds presented in November a patrimonial increase of around $292 million (10%). This responded to the inflow of new resources, given that the value of its quotas, whose evolution is closely linked to that of the MERVAL index, decreased as a consequence of the negative result of said index (see Chart 7.2.3.2.2). The decline in the quotations of assets in the portfolio of these funds had a negative impact on their performance, which stood at -3.47%.

**Fixed Income Funds**

With respect to fixed income funds, these presented a patrimonial increase of $77 million (5.5%), which is also explained by the inflow of new funds. In terms of performance, these funds yielded a return of 0.19% in November.

**Mixed Income Funds**

Finally, the equity of the mixed income funds increased $25 million (13.3%) and its performance stood at 0.48%.

---

**7** In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where otherwise indicated.

**11** Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005
# 7.2.4. Private Securities

In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, differentiation continues to be observed between companies that complied with their financial obligations and those that had to resort to debt restructuring after defaulting following the 2001-02 crisis. In terms of the YTM, the additional premium required for ON issued by companies that underwent restructuring processes was positioned on average at 3 p.p., barely 0.2 p.p. lower than that of the previous month (see Chart 7.2.4.1).

Banco Hipotecario issued series 4 of ON for a face value of U$S 150 million, within the framework of its global program of simple ON for a maximum amount of U$S 1,200 million. Capital amortization will consist of a single payment at maturity (November 2010) and semi-annual interest will accrue at a fixed rate of 9.75%.

The risk rating agency Standard & Poor's assigned the global program the rating of raA. This issuance represents the first placement by a national company in the international debt market following the restructuring of sovereign debt.

# 7.2.5. Financial Trusts

In the month, 19 financial trusts (FF) were launched for a total of $ 1,230 million, a figure close to the total for 2004 (see Chart 7.2.5.1). The significant issuance of the month is mainly due to an FF launched with public securities as underlying assets, of very high amount. Close to year-end, the accumulated total amounts to $ 4,577 million, an amount that almost triples that of 2004. In turn, 6 of the 19 FF launched in the month adjust for CER, either the yield or the principal.

The main underlying assets of the month were public securities, and to a lesser extent, personal loans and credit card coupons (see Chart 7.2.5.2). On the other hand, regulated and other unregulated financial entities positioned themselves both as trustors (those who assign their asset portfolio) as trustees (those who administer the FF).

The average duration of FF composed of personal loans as underlying assets decreased by 0.9 months compared to the previous month, standing at 5.7 months. In contrast, for FF with credit card coupons as underlying assets, its duration
Leasing contracts average was 6.3 months, 2.6 months higher compared to October.
 0.4% (1 FF)
 Towards the second quarter of the year the stock of total assets
 Credit Card Coupons (underlying) that support the FF amounted to $ 6,513 million, of
 12% (4 FF)
 Public Securities which $5,887 million correspond to loans and the rest to
 71% availabilities, temporary investments and other assets (see Chart
 (3 FF) Bills of Exchange and
 Others 7.2.5.3). This means that credit channeled through FF
 2% (2 FF)
 represented, in the second quarter, approximately 15% of the
Source: CNV, MAE and BCBA total stock of loans to the private sector through the banking system.

 Resolution No. 637/2005 of the Ministry of Economy
 established regulations on the entry of funds to the local
 foreign exchange market for the subscription of securities or
 participation certificates issued by trustees of trusts. The decree,
 
Chart 7.2.5.1 which seeks to prevent FF from being used as instruments to
 evade current regulations regarding the entry of capital
Underlying Assets of Financial Trusts (speculative) to the foreign exchange market⁹, imposes the establishment of
thousands of (quarterly data) a reserve requirement of 30% of the amount involved in the operation, not
millions of $ remunerated and immobilized for 365 days.
 7 19%
 Other assets* 0.6
 Loans 1.1
 5 1.4 1.0

 4 1.1
 0.5
 3 0.3 5.9

 4.4 4.8 4.4
 2
 3.1 2.9 3.2

 1

 0
 2003-IV 2004-I 2004-II 2004-III 2004-IV 2005-I 2005-II

 * Includes availabilities, temporary investments and others.
 Source: CNV, MAE and BCBA

⁸ Financial trusts from the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

⁹ Decree No. 616 of June 9, 2005.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Nov-05 Monthly Last 12 months Oct-05 Dec-04 Nov-04
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary Base 55,906 55,092 50,537 47,131 1.5% 0.9% 18.6% 6.5%
 Monetary Circulation 43,207 42,400 35,838 32,442 1.9% 1.3% 33.2% 19.6%
 In the hands of the Public 38,971 38,245 31,702 29,108 1.9% 1.3% 33.9% 20.2%
 In Financial Entities 4,236 4,156 4,136 3,334 1.9% 1.3% 27.0% 14.1%
 Current Account at the BCRA 12,699 12,692 14,699 14,689 0.1% -0.5% -13.5% -22.4%

 Stock of Passive Repos 4,848 4,943 5,524 5,805 -1.9% -2.5%
 Stock of Active Repos 277 132 33 57 109.9% 108.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 26,501 26,047 19,310 18,720 1.7% 41.6%

 Total Deposits in Pesos ¹ 118,407 116,436 102,293 101,172 1.7% 1.1% 17.0% 5.1%

 Private Deposits 85,994 85,022 74,331 71,853 1.1% 0.5% 19.7% 7.5%
 Current Account 21,697 21,409 17,923 16,674 1.3% 0.7% 30.1% 16.9%
 Savings Account 19,686 19,296 17,852 16,854 2.0% 1.4% 16.8% 4.9%
 Fixed Term 31,696 31,458 26,333 26,296 0.8% 0.2% 20.5% 8.2%
 Fixed Term adjustable by CER 6,746 6,731 4,825 4,552 0.2% -0.4% 48.2% 33.1%
 Other Deposits 6,044 5,998 5,517 5,345 0.8% 0.2% 13.1% 1.6%
 Exchanged for BODEN (accounted for) 89 96 172 178 -7.7% -8.2% -50.1% -55.2%
 CEDRO including CER 36 35 1,709 1,953 3.1% 2.5% -98.2% -98.4%

 Public Sector Deposits 32,413 31,414 27,962 29,319 3.2% 2.6% 10.6% -0.7%

 Total Deposits in Dollars ¹ 3,905 3,905 3,943 3,884 0.0% 0.5%

 Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos ¹ 59,381 58,026 54,357 53,644 2.3% 1.7% 10.7% -0.6%

 To the Private Sector 43,542 41,944 34,108 33,292 3.8% 3.2% 30.8% 17.5%
 Advances 8,411 7,876 6,355 6,279 6.8% 6.2% 34.0% 20.3%
 Documents 9,581 9,224 6,668 6,462 3.9% 3.3% 48.3% 33.2%
 Mortgage 8,536 8,507 8,693 8,693 0.3% -0.3% -1.8% -11.8%
 Pledged 2,192 2,092 1,637 1,561 4.8% 4.2% 40.5% 26.1%
 Personal 6,823 6,492 4,184 4,030 5.1% 4.5% 69.3% 52.0%
 Credit Cards 4,623 4,370 3,080 2,885 5.8% 5.2% 60.2% 43.9%
 Others 3,375 3,383 3,491 3,382 -0.2% -0.8% -0.2% -10.4%

 To the Public Sector 15,839 16,082 20,249 20,352 -1.5% -2.1% -22.2% -30.1%
# Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Dollars 1 2.425 2.476 1.702 1.590 -2.1% 52.4%

 Total Monetary Aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-monies + Current Account in Pesos and Dollars) 72.305 70.315 61.812 57.721 2.8% 2.2% 25.3% 12.5%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account in Pesos and Dollars) 101.747 99.584 88.819 84.294 2.2% 1.6% 20.7% 8.4%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits in Pesos and Dollars + CEDRO with CER) 168.874 166.162 145.542 141.577 1.6% 1.0% 19.3% 7.1%

 Private Monetary Aggregates in Pesos

 M1 (Bills and Coins + Quasi-monies + Current Account Private Sector) 60.668 59.653 49.624 45.783 1.7% 1.1% 32.5% 19.0%
 M2 (M1 + Savings Account Private Sector) 80.354 78.949 67.476 62.637 1.8% 1.2% 28.3% 15.2%
 M3 (M2 + Time Deposits Private Sector + CEDRO with CER Private Sector) 124.876 123.171 105.861 100.783 1.4% 0.8% 23.9% 11.3%

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2005 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2 Nominal Contribution 2

 Monetary Base 814 1.5% 1.741 3.2% 5.369 10.6% 8.775 18.6%
 Financial Sector -33 -0.1% -1.577 -2.9% -7.481 -14.8% -7.457 -15.8%
 Public Sector -546 -1.0% -2.565 -4.7% -2.533 -5.0% -2.553 -5.4%
 Temporary Advances + Profit Transfers -120 233 2.565 4.173
 Use of the National Government Account -505 -131 -733 -862
 External Credit 79 -2.667 -4.365 -5.865
 Private External Sector 1.171 2.1% 7.350 13.6% 27.382 54.2% 30.796 65.3%
 BCRA Securities 287 0.5% -1.621 -3.0% -10.927 -21.6% -10.890 -23.1%
 Others 3 -66 -0.1% 155 0.3% -1.071 -2.1% -1.121 -2.4%

 International Reserves 454 1.7% 1.421 5.7% 7.191 37.2% 7.781 41.6%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 397 1.5% 2.519 10.0% 9.405 48.7% 10.554 56.4%
 Payment to International Organizations -324 -1.2% -1.272 -5.1% -4.861 -25.2% -5.279 -28.2%
 Other Public Sector Operations 439 1.7% 443 1.8% 3.948 20.4% 3.967 21.2%
 Minimum Cash -38 -0.1% -343 -1.4% -1.465 -7.6% -1.742 -9.3%
 Repo Rate Valuation -89 -0.3% -139 -0.6% -461 -2.4% -382 -2.0%
 Others 69 0.3% 213 0.8% 626 3.2% 663 3.5%

 1 Does not include deposits of Residents Abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.
 3 Includes the variation of quasi-monies without monetary effect.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 6.62 4.65 4.54 2.21 2.26
 Amount operated 923 810 502 384 550

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 4.43 4.09 4.07 2.97 3.02
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 5.14 4.69 4.52 3.08 3.08
 60 days or more 5.34 5.26 5.17 3.80 3.94
 In dollars
 30 days 0.60 0.58 0.57 0.30 0.29
 30-44 days, more than 1 million 0.60 0.54 0.57 0.25 0.29
 60 days or more 1.12 1.02 1.06 0.66 0.60

 Active Interest Rates Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 6.70 6.39 6.30 5.78 5.79

 Cauciones in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 7.11 6.34 6.18 4.31 4.25
 Operated volume (total terms) 93 90 86 77 73

 Loans in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in Current Account 16.26 15.44 15.23 13.47 13.79
 Documents at sole signature 10.61 10.52 10.75 10.70 10.32
 Mortgages 10.91 11.03 11.16 11.50 11.17
 Pledges 10.07 10.28 9.88 11.74 11.27
 Personal 24.60 24.91 24.65 26.70 26.52
 Credit Cards n/d 25.70 25.66 29.47 29.62

 International Interest Rates Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 LIBOR
 1 month 4.15 3.99 3.78 2.39 2.13
 6 months 4.55 4.36 4.05 2.72 2.50

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.41 4.26 3.93 3.00 2.85
 10 years 4.53 4.46 4.19 4.22 4.19

 FED Funds Rate 4.00 3.75 3.60 2.16 1.92

 SELIC (at 1 year) 18.89 19.30 19.61 17.52 16.95
(1) Data through October correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while November data are
 estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – NOVEMBER 2005

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and volumes in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 7 days 4.50 4.26 4.25 2.50 2.50
 Assets 7 days 5.78 5.00 5.25 3.00 3.00

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 4.91 3.72 3.84 2.10 2.06
 7 days 4.79 4.46 4.32 2.51 2.51

 Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average) 1527 1769 2747 1267 1309

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 6.72 6.23 6.17 2.85 n/a
 3 months 7.26 6.95 6.87 3.55 n/a
 6 months 7.51 7.46 7.49 4.96 4.49
 9 months 8.15 8.13 7.97 5.67 5.62
 12 months 8.90 8.90 8.91 5.92 5.94

 NOBAC rate in pesos with floating coupon 11.65 9.43 n/a n/a n/a

 Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC (daily average) 133 166 132 96 82

 Foreign Exchange Market Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 2.97 2.97 2.91 2.97 2.95
 BCRA Reference 2.97 2.97 2.91 2.97 2.95

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 2.98 2.98 2.91 2.98 2.97
 ROFEX 1 month 2.97 2.97 2.91 2.97 2.96
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 270 196 156 104 122

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.34 1.32 1.27 1.09 1.06

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.50 3.57 3.57 3.99 3.84

 Capital Market Nov-05 Oct-05 Sep-05 Dec-04 Nov-04

 MERVAL
 Index 1608 1618 1636 1287 1253
 Volume Operated (millions of pesos) 78 114 106 63 71

 Government Bonds (per VN 100)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 78.87 77.86 78.62 83.04 79.48
 BODEN 08 ($) 75.57 75.10 84.52 86.59 86.63

 Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 417 432 373 627 731
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 278 299 301 243 259

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 16
