6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 9
• In April, early collections from the "matching" schedule were completed and the remaining financial entities under this regime reduced the balance of their debts to $6,139 million.

7.1. Shares 9

7.2. Public Securities 10

7.3. Institutional Investors 11

7.3.1 Administrators of Banking Credit to Pension and Retirement Funds 11

7.3.2 Mutual Investment Funds 11

7.4. Private Securities 12

7.5. Financial Trusts 12

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 14

9. Glossary 17

• Credit to the private sector continued showing a firm growth pace, favored by the adequate regulatory incentives implemented by the BCRA aimed at extending terms and exercising prudent management of associated risks, in a favorable macroeconomic context. At the beginning of April, the BCRA issued regulatory changes aimed at facilitating access by companies, particularly SMEs, to banking credit. From now on, valuations are not required for the discounting of checks issued by drawers classified in normal situation, and financial entities can provision these financings at one percent and do not need to evaluate the payment capacity of assignors. As occurred last month, loans in foreign currency continued showing renewed dynamism, propelled by the relaxation of documentary requirements to be presented in relation to export pre-financing, promoted by the BCRA.

• The BCRA maintained the interest rates of repurchase agreements at 7% in the case of assets with a 7-day term, and at 4.5% and 5% in the case of reverse repurchase agreements at 1-day and 7-day terms, respectively, while the interest rates of the primary market for LEBAC and NOBAC were located at levels similar to those of March. Additionally, lower activity was observed in the interbank market, while interest rates on call operations were reduced. The BADLAR rate of private banks stabilized around 9%.

P1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

**Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**

thousands of M2
millions of $ 130

M2
125 M2, 30-day moving average
Project in the 2006 Monetary Program (PM 2006), standing at
Bands PM 2006 approximately $105,237 million in April (see Graph 2.1).
120
This level anticipates a comfortable compliance with the program in
115 the second quarter of the year. In relation to the previous month, M2
110 decreased $930 million (0.9%) and its year-on-year growth rate fell
1.9 p.p., placing it at 24.6%.
105

100 The decline in monetary aggregates is explained mainly by the
fall in transactional deposits that was partially offset by the
95 increase in currency in circulation held by the public. The latter
increased $390 million (0.9%), although in real terms its monthly
90 variation was null.
Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06
Source: BCRA Sight deposits were reduced $1,320 million (2.1%), broken down
into an increase in private sector deposits ($770 million) more than
offset by a fall in public sector placements ($2,090 million).

**Graph 2.2**

Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
(average monthly variation - APRIL 2006)

Other Deposits

Time Deposits

The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) continued
growing in April, presenting an increase close to $1,410 million
(0.8%), given that the increase in time placements more than offset
the aforementioned decline in monetary aggregates.

Fixed-term deposits grew again in April, showing an increase of
$2,170 million (4.2%). This variation
M3 contains significant carryover from the previous month, due to +0.8% the fact that in the last days of March there had been a strong
 Demand Deposits inflow of both public and private funds. For this reason it is
 M2 relevant to observe the behavior of these placements between
 -0.9% month-end. Between the end of April and end of March the
 Bills and Coins variation was more moderate and amounted to $890 million
 (1.7%), of which $310 million corresponded to public placements
Source: BCRA -1,500 -1,000 -500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500
and $580 million to private deposits. In the case of public fixed
millions of $term deposits, the increase concentrated in the 30 to 59 day
 segment; while in the case of private placements, most of the
 new deposits concentrated in the 90 to 179 day segment (see
 Chart 2.3). It should be noted that the increase in private deposits
 was driven by retail deposits, while wholesale placements
 remained relatively stable because large clients chose to keep their
 Chart 2.3 new liquid income to face the deposit maturities of the next
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos month.
 (variation 30-Apr-06 vs. 31-Mar-06)
 millions of $PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTOR
Fixed-Term Deposits without CER
 500 Fixed-Term Deposits with CER
 400 For its part, foreign currency deposits increased US$250
 300 million in April (see Chart 2.4). Public sector placements
 200 grew in the month by US$135 million as a consequence of
 100 government foreign currency purchases in the market. Although
 0 in April these purchases were lower, the average increase responds
 mostly to March carryover. Public sector time deposits remained
-100 virtually unchanged during the month. For their part, private
-200 sector deposits rose US$115 million. This increase was
-300 distributed in US$80 million in time placements and US$35
 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365more 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365more million demand deposits. The stock of foreign currency deposits
 days days days days than 366 days days days days than 366
 in April totaled almost US$4,700 million.
 days days
Source: BCRA

2 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

 Chart 2.4 In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos and
 Monthly var. Dollar Deposits Stock in dollars dollars (M3*) showed a monthly increase of $2,170 million
 millions of US$ billions of US$ (1.2%) in April, which in year-over-year terms amounted to 20.8%.
 550 5.0
 450
 350 The increase in reserve requirements on demand deposits,
 4.0
 250 which came into effect in April, generated an increase in Monetary
 150 Base (MB) demand of around $1,300 million, explaining most
 3.0
 50 of the month's primary money creation. The MB reached an
 -50 average level of $60,229 million.
-150 2.0
-250 Dep. Public S. Financial sector operations that impact the MB had a
 1.0 Dep. Private S. contractionary effect in April. Among them, the collection of
 Total (2nd axis) rediscounts stood out, which caused monetary contraction of
-350 $525 million (see Chart 2.5). Again, advance collections of the
-450 "matching" schedule were carried out and the 3 remaining
-550 0.0 financial entities included in this regime reduced their debt
 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 balance to $6,139 million after making payments at the
Source: BCRA beginning of April. For their part, repo operations and
 securities placements caused smaller MB decreases of $325
 Chart 2.5 million and $99 million, respectively.
 thousands of Base Monetary Factors Explanation of
 millions of $ (average var. April 2006) Finally, the public sector had no effect on the monthly
 variation of the MB, because the National Government made
 payments to international organizations with temporary advances
2.6 and with funds that it already had in its account at the BCRA.

 2 1.7
 3. Bank Liquidity1
 1
 In the month of April, modifications to the reserve
 0.0
 0 requirement policy introduced by the BCRA came into effect.
 -0.1 In this regard, the reserve requirement coefficients on
 -0.3
 -0.5 demand deposits were increased by 2 percentage points (p.p.),
 -1 from 15% to 17%, and the remuneration corresponding to
 S. External Private Passes Securities BCRA Rediscounts Public Sector Monetary Base
 reserve requirements on such deposits was eliminated.
Fuente: BCRA Additionally, the maximum limit for remuneration of demand
 accounts was reduced, above which they are subject to a 100%
 reserve requirement (said limit decreased from 75% to 50% of
 the average BADLAR interest rate of private banks from the
 previous month) and the remuneration that the BCRA pays for
 passive passes that Money Market Common Investment Funds
 (FCI) arrange in order to meet the minimum liquidity margins
 required by the National Securities Commission (CNV) was
 reduced from 2.55% to 0.50%.

 Chart 3.1
 Bank liquidity in pesos
 (as % of deposits)

 Cash + CCBCRA Cash + CCBCRA + Passive Passes
 Passive Passes (right axis) LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis) These modifications restored the prudential margins prior to the
 18 8 22 20
 December 2005 – March 2006 period and, at the same time,
 17 7 21 19
 seek to reinforce the anti-inflationary bias of monetary policy,
 16 6 20 18 discouraging the growth of the money supply and promoting a
 15 5 19 17 lengthening of the deposit structure that could be fundamental
 14 4 18 16 to overcome any potential "bottlenecks" that could arise as a
 13 3 17 15 consequence of the gradual closing of the output gap.
 12 2 16 14 Additionally, the measures favor greater quasi-fiscal savings.
 11 1 15 13
 10 0 14 12
 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-062
Fuente: BCRA As a consequence, the bank liquidity ratio increased in April
 since financial entities raised the balances in their current

2 Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and passive passes for the BCRA as a percentage of deposits

 3 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

 Chart 3.2 accounts at the BCRA while keeping the passes agreed with
 % deposits Effective Position Cash Minimum in Pesos * the BCRA and LEBAC and NOBAC holdings practically
26 unchanged.
24
 EM Integration in $ The liquid resources maintained by the banks increased by
 EM Requirement in $ approximately 1 p.p. of total deposits in pesos, which is
22
 consistent with the increase in the average reserve
20 requirement of the system. Thus, the bank liquidity ratio
18 increased from approximately 14.5% to 15.4% and from
16 32.0% to 33.1% if BCRA securities are also computed as part
14 of liquid resources (see Chart 3.1).

12

10 For its part, the minimum cash position in pesos
 Nov-03 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05
 * The April requirement is estimated estimated closed at around 0.5% of deposits in pesos. In
 Fuente: BCRA this way, excess liquidity was maintained at levels similar to
 the previous months since the higher requirement for the
 month was accompanied by greater integration by the banks
 (see Chart 3.2).

 In the foreign currency deposit segment, the minimum
 cash position was approximately 25% of deposits in dollars.
 The excess liquidity in foreign currency also remained
 Chart 4.1 constant compared to previous months.

 % Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector %
 60 25
 
23

 40 21

 20 19 1 3
 4. Loans
 17
# Translation to English

0 15
 Credit to the private sector continued to show a firm
 13growth rate, favored by the adequate regulatory incentives
-20 +2.7 p.p.
 11implemented by the BCRA aimed at extending maturities
-40 9 and exercising prudent management of associated risks, in
 y-o-y change in nominal terms
-60 5 a favorable macroeconomic context. Loans to the private sector
 y-o-y change in real terms - deflated by CPI
 In terms of GDP (right axis) 7 registered in April an annual growth rate of
 Jan-98 Oct-98 Jul-99 Apr-00 Jan-01 Oct-01 Jul-02 Apr-03 Jan-04 Oct-04 Jul-05 Apr-0638.5% in nominal terms and 24% in real terms (see Chart
Source: BCRA
 4.1). In terms of GDP, the stock of bank loans currently represents
 9.7%, a figure that while 2.7 p.p. higher than the
 minimum recorded two years ago, still remains small.

 In turn, and as occurred last month, loans
 in foreign currency continued to show renewed
 Chart 4.2 dynamism. This was driven by the relaxation of
 documentation requirements to be presented in relation to
 thousands of Chattel Mortgage Loans and Automobile Sales thousands of
 units millions of $export pre-financing, promoted by the BCRA. Thus,
60 7
 led by the behavior of documents linked to
50 6 exports, loans in foreign currency
 increased US$200 million (8.1%) in the month. In this way
 5
40 approximately half of the growth in total loans in April is
 4 explained by the increase in dollar loans.
30

 3
 Commercial loans in pesos registered a slight
20 Automobile sales increase in April ($40 million). This was the result of the
 2 increase in financing implemented through documents
10 Chattel mortgage loans (eje der.) (single-signature documents, discounted documents and purchased documents),
 1 which in April amounted to $240 million (2.2%), was
 0 0 partially offset by the decline in advances, which
 Source: BCRA based on own data and ADEFAApr-96 Apr-97 Apr-98 Apr-99 Apr-00 Apr-01 Apr-02 Apr-03 Apr-04 Apr-05 Apr-06decreased $180 million (2.1%) and other loans that
 fell $20 million (0.5%). It should be noted that the good performance
3 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of of documents is explained, at least in part, by recent
 entities to financial trusts. regulatory changes implemented by the BCRA aimed at facilitating
 access to bank credit by companies, particularly SMEs.
4 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006 As mentioned in the previous report, as of April, appraisals are no longer
 required for the discount of checks issued by
Chart 4.3 drawers classified in normal situation, and financial entities
 can make provisions for these financings at one percent and do
 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee (avg. monthly change) not need to evaluate the payment capacity of assignors.
 175
 150 In the case of consumption loans, during March
 they grew $560 million (4.0%), an increase led by
125 Mortgage the increase in personal loans, which rose $440
100 Chattel mortgage million (5.4%). For their part, credit card financings
 75 increased $120 million (2%).
50

 25 In a context in which automobile sales continue to be high
 0 (see Chart 4.2), chattel mortgage loans
-25

-50

-75
-100 continued showing sustained growth. During April
Source: BCRA Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06
 increased by $110 million (4.1%). Similar increases were recorded in
 mortgage loans, their increase amounted to $120 million and
 more than doubled that registered in the previous month. In this way mortgage
 loans accumulated 11 consecutive months of
 growth (see Chart 4.3).

 5. Interest Rates

 5.1. Securities issued by the BCRA4

 In general, the interest rates in the primary market of
 LEBAC remained at March levels. However, in the
 Chart 5.1.1 case of the shorter duration security, a decline of
 0.1 p.p. was observed. During the month, LEBAC of 1 year were placed again, for which
 
 Primary Market Yields 11.5% was paid. On the other hand, among NOBAC also

 28-Mar-06 25-Apr-06 the average placement term increased, because they stopped
 % % 12 LEBAC - TNA 15 NOBAC adjustable by BADLAR bidding for 9-month securities, which were replaced by 1-
 private banks year securities. The securities placed continued to be those offering

 11 14 variable coupons adjustable according to the BADLAR paid by

 10 13 private banks. In the last bidding of April the NOBAC with

 9 12 residual term close to 2 years were placed with a return 0.5

 8 11 p.p. below that corresponding to late March (see Chart

 7 10 5.1.1).

 6 9
 0 100 200 300 4000 200 400 600 800 At the end of April the amount in circulation of the securities issued
Source: BCRA duration (days) by the BCRA amounted to VN $29,258 million, being 4% higher

 than that in effect one month earlier. The increase occurred
 basically in the NOBAC segment and was verified among
 private banks and other legal entities (mainly
 institutional investors). The only group that recorded a
 net decrease in its holdings of securities issued by the BCRA was the
 one composed of public banks.

4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

 Chart 5.2.1.1 5.2. Interfinancial Markets

 Amount Traded in Repo Operations by the BCRA
 billions of
 $ 1
4.5 5.2.1. Repo Market

4.0
3.5 Comm. A 4399
 MF The BCRA maintained the interest rates of repo
3.0 Round REPO operations. In this way, passive repos continued to be agreed at

2.5 4.5% and 5% for 1 day and 7 days, respectively; while active

2.0 repos for 7 days continued to be granted at 7%. On the other hand, the

1.5 average interest rate for all negotiated operations –

1.0 including those in which the BCRA did not participate- was located

0.5 at 6% in the 1-day segment, 0.4 p.p. below the previous month.

0.0
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 The average daily amount traded by the BCRA

 Source: BCRA through all enabled modalities was $2,602 million,
 12% higher than that traded in March (see Chart 5.2.1.1). All types
 of operations showed increases during the month, although
 repos negotiated by Mutual Funds (MF) of money market stood out
 to comply with liquidity margins, in line with the increase in equity
 shown in the period (see Section 7.3.2).

 Chart 5.2.2.1

 millions of $ TNA, % Interbank Market The balance of passive repos at the end of April was $4,486 million,

1,600 1-day stock Stock up to 7 calendar days 12 while that of active repos was located at $232 million, after

 Stock up to 15 calendar days Interest rate at 7 calendar days (right axis)
1,400 Interest rate at 1 business day (right axis) reaching a maximum close to $670 million in mid-month.

 10

1,200

 8
1,000

 800 6 1
 5.2.2. Interbank Market

 600
 4
 The interbank market slightly reduced its activity

 400
 2 during April from the high levels observed during the previous month,
 while interest rates fell sharply.
5.3. Passive Interest Rates¹

During April, passive interest rates presented increases in all maturity tranches. In placements of 30 to 59 days, an increase of 0.5 p.p. was observed where the average interest rate was 6.3% and equaled that of placements of 60 days. In longer maturities, the interest rate was 7.4%, which implied an increase of 1.1 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.3.1).

In the shortest maturity segment, the BADLAR interest rate (deposits of more than one million pesos of 30 to 35 days maturity) was 7.1% on average, 0.7 p.p. higher than that observed during the previous month. The rate corresponding to private banks, which had experienced an increase during the second fortnight of March, began April at around 9%, a level at which it remained for the rest of the month (see Graph 5.3.2). These banks concentrate a greater share of deposits from financial service provider companies (AFJP, FCI, insurance companies) and enterprises. Meanwhile, in public banks, wholesale interest rates averaged 4.7%, which represented an increase in relation to those of the previous month of 0.5 p.p.. In turn, they presented greater intramonthly volatility, reaching a maximum of 6%. At the end of the month, public banks registered a decrease in this interest rate segment, both for deposits from the public sector and from companies, which was due, in part, to the greater liquidity experienced by this group of banks.

The interest rates for retail deposits (placements
4.0 5.5 for amounts less than $100,000) in the short term continued the

3.5 trend of previous months, showing sustained
4.5 increase in private banks and a new upward adjustment in public
3.0

2.5 3.5 banks (see Graph 5.3.2). The interest rate spread

2.0 2.5 between retail and wholesale deposits in private banks

Sep-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Sep-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 continues at an average of 3 percentage points, while in public
Source: BCRA entities the difference is smaller, 0.9 percentage points.

Analyzing by type of account holder, financial service
providing companies maintained the returns on their
fixed-term placements at rates slightly above 9% and were
concentrated mainly at 30-day terms. For the rest of the
Graph 5.3.3 companies, the interest rate for deposits of 30 to 59 days averaged
Fixed-Term Deposit Returns in Pesos 6.6% and for families 6.2%, similar in both cases to those of 60
(by type of depositor)
% days. A greater increase was recorded in placements for more than 90
MARCH 2006 APRIL 2006 Natural Persons days, although there was a smaller number of placements compared
Financial Services
Legal Persons - other with previous months (see Graph 5.3.3).

10

9

8
5.4. Active Interest Rates¹
7

6 In credit lines with shorter terms, active interest rates

5 declined slightly during the month. However, for

4 longer-term financing, some increases were recorded.
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90
Note: Operations with fixed-term adjustable by CER are not included. days days

Source: BCRA

⁵ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to February 2006, the
values for March and April 2006 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in
Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

7 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

Graph 5.4.1 During April the interest rates for current account

TNA, % Commercial Loans advances recorded a slight decline, partly due to lower
(interest rate weighted monthly average by amount) demand from companies and in line with the
Interest Rate on Current Account Advances decline in interbank interest rates. The interest rate
Advances % (monthly average by amount bracket) %

25 35 for wholesale advances was 14.5% showing a decrease
30 Documents of 0.2 percentage points compared to the previous month, while for
20 30 retail advances (amounts less than $100,000) the interest rate

15 25 declined 0.3 percentage points and stood at 27%. In recent months, the
10 20 interest rate for these financings has shown a downward trend,
20 More than $1,000,000 and accumulated a decline of 3 percentage points compared to
Up to $100,000 - secondary axis December of last year. In financings through
5 15 documents with single signature the interest rate rose 0.5 percentage
Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 points and stood at 12.8% (see Graph 5.4.1). In this case the amount
15 of documents granted to SMEs was 35% of the total, which

10 represented an increase of 5% in relation to the previous month.

With regard to financings of loans with real
5 guarantees, interest rates rose slightly. In mortgage
Source: BCRA Oct-03 Apr-04 Oct-04 Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06 loans an increase of 0.3 percentage points was observed where
the interest rate was 11.6%. The same variation was recorded in
pledge loans whose interest rate stood at 9.7% (see

Graph 5.4.2
TNA, % Active Interest Rates Graph 5.4.2). In the case of mortgage loans, 70% of
 45 (average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
 the loans granted during the month corresponded to families, of

 40 Personal Cards which 40% was for amounts under $100,000. Both in mortgage
 Mortgage Pledge loans and in pledge loans, the amount of new loans granted was

 35 higher than that observed in the last two months.

 30

 25 In the case of personal loans, a decrease in the average
 interest rate was registered again, in this case of 0.2 p.p., which
 20 resulted in a level of 24.8%. In the same line was the interest rate
 for credit card financing which continued declining slightly and,
 15 according to the latest available information, during March it was
 27.4% showing a decrease of 0.4 p.p. with respect to February (see
 10 Graph 5.4.2).

 5
Source: BCRA Oct-03 Apr-04 Oct-04 Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06
 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 6

 At the end of April, the stock of international reserves totaled
 Graph 6.1 US$22,400 million, US$851 million (3.9%) above the level
 thousands of BCRA International Reserves recorded at the end of March (see Graph 6.1).
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign exchange and time deposits)

 30
 thousands of This increase is explained mainly by the inflow of foreign exchange
 millions of US$ APRIL 2006 purchased in the Unique and Free Foreign Exchange Market by the
 22.6 BCRA, which amounted to US$1,220 million. Other factors that
 22.4 influenced positively the evolution of international reserves were
 26
 22.2 the gains from valuation of the repo rate and its returns. On the
 22.0 other hand, government operations generated a net outflow, due to
 22 21.8 the payment of obligations with international organizations and
 21.6 local debt in foreign currency.
 21.4
 18 1-Apr 8-Apr 15-Apr 22-Apr 29-Apr During April, the peso interrupted the upward trend with
 respect to the dollar that it had been showing since the beginning
 14 of the year. In effect, both in the spot market and in the futures
 10 market, the peso appreciated with respect to the North American
 6 currency, presenting a variation close to 0.35% in both cases (see
 7
 Graph 6.2). In relation to the real and the euro, the peso continued
 Jan-01 Oct-01 Jul-02 Apr-03 Jan-04 Oct-04 Jul-05 Apr-06 depreciating, showing variations of 0.7% and 1.7% respectively.
Source: BCRA In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate
 6 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated. Index, the peso remained stable with respect to the basket of
 7 Transactions arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX) at 1 month term (segment that represents 70% of total operated). currencies of its main trading partners, accumulating a depreciation
 of 4.5% in the last 12 months.
 8 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

 Graph 6.2 The traded volumes increased again in the spot market,
 Foreign Exchange Market presenting an average variation of 10.5% in relation to March (see
 (Monthly Averages) Graph 6.2). The increase was distributed homogeneously between
 millions Spot market volume (SIOPEL+Brokers) the Electronic Broker Market (MEC) and the Electronic Operations
 of US$ Futures market volume (OCT-MAE+ROFEX) $/US$ System (SIOPEL). The arranged operations averaged $101 million
 320 Spot exchange rate (TC reference) -right axis- 3.10 and $179 million respectively. The presence of the BCRA in these
 Futures exchange rate (ROFEX, 30 days) -right axis- markets increased 4 p.p., encompassing 12% of total traded.
 280 3.05
 240 3.00
 200
 160 2.95
 120
 80 2.90
 40
 0 2.85
 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06
Source: BCRA
The amounts traded in the futures market also grew in April, showing an average increase of 6.3% (see Graph 6.2). The entirety of the increase took place in the MAE Futures Market, in the Negotiated Operations trading session (OCT-MAE), where the average daily volume traded

passed from US$15 million in March to US$21 million in April. On the contrary, operations carried out through the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX) decreased slightly, averaging US$73 million during the month under analysis. The participation of the BCRA in these markets was reduced by 6.5 p.p., resulting in 5.4% in April.

7. Capital Market

7.1. Equities

The local stock market benefited once again from a rise in stock prices. In April, the MERVAL index increased 6%, reaching 1,909 points. Since the end of last year, said index achieved a return of 24%, while in the last 12 months the yield rose to 41%.

In Latin America, positive returns were registered in the leading indices of the stock markets with the highest trading volume. Since the end of the previous year, and measured in dollars, the IGBVL (Peru) and the BOVESPA (Brazil) were the stock indices that achieved the greatest return, having accumulated increases of 54% and 34% respectively. In the case of the IPC (Mexico) and the IGPA (Chile), they increased moderately, registering variations of 12% and 8% in the last four months. For its part, the MERVAL index measured in dollars increased by 23% in the period, placing itself in third place among the stock indices considered.

The volatility of the MERVAL increased slightly in April, an inverse result to what happened in the region. In particular, the volatility of stock returns increased in Argentina and in Mexico, while monthly decreases in volatility were observed in the rest of the stock exchanges in Latin America. In annualized terms and measured in dollars, the volatility of 22 trading sessions of the MERVAL index was close to 19% during April, a level that is below the average of the last 12 months (see Graph 7.1.2).

In the stock market, the daily volumes traded remained stable in relation to the previous month. In particular, in April the daily traded volume was $83 million and the average of the first 4 months of the year is slightly above the same period of the previous year.

7.2. Public Securities

The spread of Argentine sovereign external debt measured by the EMBI index contracted slightly by 0.3 p.p. in April. The same pattern was evident in the rest of Latin America, where spreads were reduced together by 0.16 p.p. due, in part, to the decrease of 0.17 p.p. of Brazil's spreads. The reduction of spreads was also verified in emerging countries in general, as evidenced by the decrease of 0.14 p.p. in the EMBI+.

In effect, the yield curve in dollars shifted
5.0 Boden 14 slightly toward higher yields in almost all maturity brackets, 

4.0 PRO 12 although to a greater extent in the shorter brackets. In terms of 

PRE 08 31-Mar parity, losses during the month were moderate. The largest loss 

3.0 Boden 08 was that of Boden 13, whose parity decreased 3.1%, followed by 

30-Apr Boden 07 that of PAR which was reduced 1.2%. The rest of the instruments 

2.0 in the dollar bracket remained practically unchanged.

1.0

0.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
Duration (years) The yield curve of instruments adjusted by CER registered a 

Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute shift toward higher returns (see Graph 7.2.2). Measured in terms of 

parity, the reduction in the short end of the curve was slight, while 

in the medium and long terms the declines in parities were greater. 

For example, PRO12 fell 2.5%, while Boden 14 and Bogar did so by 

2.3% and 1.8%, respectively. In the long bracket, DISC and PAR 

decreased in parity by 0.6% and 5%, respectively.

Graph 7.2.3 The quotations of units linked to GDP (U.V.P.) remained very 

in millions Daily Trading Volume of Public Securities close to the maximum levels reached in March, following the strong 

of pesos (daily averages) increases recorded in the first quarter. It is worth noting that in 

1,800 the first four months of the year, said instruments increased by 84% 

and 86% in the case of the unit in pesos and in dollars (N.Y.), 

1,600 Jan-Apr = $1,336 daily respectively. In April, however, variations were -1% for U.V.P. in 

1,400 Average year 2005 = $1,117 daily pesos and 7% for those denominated in dollars (N.Y.).

1,200

1,000 The average amounts traded daily on the Buenos Aires Stock 

800 Exchange (BCBA) and in the Electronic Open Market (MAE) fell 

Average year 2004 = $588 sharply in April. In particular, the amounts traded daily decreased 

600 from $1,510 million in March to $860 million in April. It is worth 

400 noting that 40% of the decline corresponded to operations executed 

200 on the BCBA, while the remainder corresponds to a decrease in 

0 operations executed on the MAE.

Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06

Source: BCRA based on MAE and Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

10 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

Graph 7.3.1.1 7.3. Institutional Investors

$ Quotation of Negotiable Securities Linked to GDP in Pesos
10 (closing prices)

16-Mar
9 GDP Publication 7.3.1. Pension Fund Administrators
Q4-05
8

7 15-Mar / 12-Apr The investment portfolio of Pension Fund Administrators 

+16.3% (AFJP) reached $74,862 million on April 15. This level was 1.5% 

6 ($1,100 million) higher than what they had presented one month 

earlier and was similar to what they had at the end of March.

5

4

3
25-Nov-05 15-Dec-05 4-Jan-06 24-Jan-06 13-Feb-06 5-Mar-06 25-Mar-06 The portfolio segment that registered the greatest increase in the 

Source: Own elaboration based on BCBA data period was that comprised of futures and options contracts, which 

rose $620 million (17%). This increase was driven by the rise in the 

quotations of negotiable securities linked to GDP in pesos (see 

Graph 7.3.1.1), which in turn were favored by the publication of 

GDP data for the fourth quarter of 2005, whose growth left a 

statistical carryover of 3.6% for the current year.
Graph 7.3.1.2 The other type of placements that also contributed
 p.p. Main Actions That Explain the Increase in the Portfolio of
30 AFJP in an important way to the increase in the portfolio of
 (from March 15 to April 15)
 +179 M. institutional investors is composed of shares of domestic
25 Variation in AFJP portfolio and foreign companies, which grew $590 million (3.5%). The
 Variation in quotation increase was concentrated in four of the most liquid securities (see
20
 Graph 7.3.1.2) and in three of them it was due mainly to the rise

15 in quotations, while in the other case it would be related to
 +51 M. +335 M. the issuance of new shares in the New York market.

10 +139 M.

 5

 0 7.3.2. Investment Funds

 ALUAR MACROSIDERAR TENARIS
 BANSUD
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from SAFJP and BCBA The equity of investment funds (FCI) in
 pesos showed in the month of April an increase greater than $829 million
 (7%). This behavior was driven mainly by the
 rise in the equity of money market and equity
 variable instruments that was also accompanied by the increase of
 assets from the rest of the funds.

 The equity of money market recorded towards the end of month
 Graph 7.3.2.1 an increase of $403 million (10.2%) (see Graph 7.3.2.1). This increase
 Money Market Funds is explained, in part, by new subscriptions from
 thousands of institutional clients (AFJP, ART, etc.) and large companies that, facing the
 millions of $ Apr-06 (equity)
 expiration in May of the income tax, chose to
 5.6
 keep their liquid resources in these funds. Despite the decrease
 5.2 of 2.05 p.p. in the remuneration of the liquidity margin8, which
 represents 40% of the portfolio, the returns of these funds
 4.8
 remained at levels similar to those of the previous month, around
 4.4
 5.1%. This responded to the relatively higher remuneration
 4.0
 they received for their fixed-term deposits.
 3.6

 3.2 Equity funds presented an increase of
 $342 million (5.8%). For their part, the performance of funds with
 2.8
 portfolios composed of local assets stood at 4.6%, due to the
 2.4
 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 Apr-06good performance of the MERVAL index (see Section 7.1).

Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI

8 See Communicado N°48.503.

 11 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

 Graph 7.3.2.2 Finally, fixed income funds also registered a
 Fixed Income Funds positive change in equity in April, which was around $65 million
millions of $ (Equity at end of month)
 (3.8%). These funds yielded a return of 0.4%. On the other
 2.500 Year 2006
 Accumulated monthly equity variation 2006 $82 M hand, the equity of mixed income funds continues
 Accumulated monthly equity variation 2005
 Accumulated monthly equity variation 2004 increasing, showing in April an increase of $18 million (7.1%).
 2.000 Equity Dec-03
 Its return stood at 3.0%.

 1.500 Year 2005

 $1.317 M

 1.000
 7.4. Private Securities

 Year 2004
 500 $300 M
 Banco Hipotecario announced the placement of series 5 of ONs

 0 for US$250 million, within the framework of the Global Program for

 Dec-03 Apr-04 Aug-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Aug-05 Dec-05 Apr-06ON issuance with a maximum authorized amount of US$1,200
 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI
 million. The maturity term of the new security will be 10 years
 from the date of issuance. On the other hand, it will pay interest
 in semi-annual form at a fixed rate of 9.75% per annum and will be
 fully amortized at the time of maturity.
 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments,
 a differentiation continues to be observed between
 Graph 7.4.1 companies that complied with their financial obligations
 Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds and those that had to resort to the restructuring of
YTM % their debts after defaulting following the 2001-02 crisis. In

16 terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs

14 issued by companies that underwent restructuring

12 processes was located on average at 3.7 p.p., 0.3 p.p. higher than that of the previous

10 month (see Chart 7.4.1).

8

6 Non-restructured* (30-Apr-06)

4 Restructured (30-Apr-06)
 Non-restructured* (30-Mar-06) 9
 Restructured (30-Mar-06) 7.5. Financial Trusts
2

0
 012345678 duration (years)9
*Corresponds to ON of issuers that have not incurred payment default

Source: Own elaboration based on Deutsche Bank data In April, 16 Financial Trusts (FF) were placed for
$470 million (see Chart 7.5.1), of which two were in
 foreign currency. Said amount resulted close to the placement
 levels of the last two months and 70% higher than the placement
 of the same month of the previous year. In this way, the accumulated 2006
 amounts to $2,450 million and doubles that achieved in the same period
 of the previous year.

 Consumer financing was the underlying asset type
 Chart 7.5.1 most important of the month, distributed between personal loans and
 Amounts of Financial Trusts Issued credit card coupons (37% and 32% of total issued,
 respectively) (see Chart 7.5.2). These underlyings are those that
millions of $

1,400
 1,230 concentrate the largest part of emissions in each period, with
1,200 1,144 the exception of those months in which public securities and/or
 mortgage loans were securitized in high amounts.
1,000

 800 Other assets securitized in the month were mortgage loans
 (15%) and leasing contracts and future cash flows
 600 580 593 (8% each).

 427 452 468389
 400 304 317 293 Financial entities regulated by the BCRA were the
 273 principal trust settlors, with 40% of the month's emission (see Chart
 200 157 7.5.2), having securitized mortgage loans, credit card coupons
 and personal loans. Unregulated financial entities followed
 0
 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr in importance (30%) and retailers
 (19%), which transferred in greater measure credit card coupons
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data and personal loans. As fiduciaries, entities regulated by the
9 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered. BCRA continue to stand out,
 concentrating more than 70% of the month's emission, while the
 Chart 7.5.2 remainder was in the hands of unregulated entities, whose participation
 Underlying Assets and Trust Settlors has been growing.
 (participation in April 2006 emissions)

 Underlying Assets Trust Settlors The average duration of titles issued in April was 10
 months, almost 4 months higher than that of March (see Chart 7.5.3). The
 Mortgage
 Loans increase responds to the fact that in the month an FF was issued with
 15% Leasing Retailers mortgage loans as underlying, with greater duration. In recent
 Contracts 19% months a relative stabilization in duration is observed,
 8% moving in a range of between 5 and 10 months. On the other hand, the
 Future Flows average duration of titles issued with personal loans
 Personal Loans and Other 8% Unregulated as underlyings remained stable at 6 months, while that
 37% 30% Financial Entities of credit cards was located at 7 months, the same as in March.

 Financial Entities
 Credit Card 40% Other Chart 7.5.3
 Coupons 11% Average Duration of FF Titles
 32%

 months
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data 40
 Average total FF duration
 35 35
 Average FF duration with Personal Loans as Underlyings

 30

 25

 20

 17
 15

 11 11 1099
 10 9 10
 6 6 6
 7 7
 5
 5 5
0
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06
 * Duration is determined by the nature of the loans (underlying) that are transferred to each FF in the corresponding period.
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV, MAE and BCBA

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.
 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Apr-06 Monthly Last 12 monthsMar-06Feb-06Apr-05
 NominalRealNominalReal
 Monetary base 60,229 58,490 58,426 49,923 3.0% 2.0% 20.6% 8.0%
 Monetary circulation 47,288 46,576 46,643 36,597 1.5% 0.5% 29.2% 15.7%
 In the public's hands 42,611 42,223 42,260 32,847 0.9% -0.1% 29.7% 16.2%
 In financial entities 4,677 4,353 4,384 3,750 7.4% 6.4% 24.7% 11.7%
 Current account at the BCRA 12,941 11,914 11,783 13,326 8.6% 7.5% -2.9% -13.0%
 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 1,810 1,795 2,683 5,377 0.8% -0.2% -66.3% -69.9%
 Assets 384 485 175 23 -20.9% -21.7% 1535.8% 1364.8%
 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 10,207 13,561 15,589 15,624 -24.7% -25.5% -34.7% -41.5%
 In dollars 38 37 60 52 2.2% -26.5%

 NOBAC 18,217 14,332 10,058 1,960 27.1% 25.8% 829.3% 732.2%

 International reserves of the BCRA 21,866 20,873 20,059 20,618 4.8% 6.1%
 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 125,216 124,193 122,919 107,381 0.8% -0.2% 16.6% 4.4%
 Current account (2) 36,070 36,275 35,914 29,775 -0.6% -1.5% 21.1% 8.5%
 Savings account 26,556 27,671 27,047 21,830 -4.0% -5.0% 21.6% 8.9%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 46,210 43,820 43,438 40,072 5.5% 4.4% 15.3% 3.3%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 7,254 7,472 7,463 6,641 -2.9% -3.9% 9.2% -2.2%
 CEDRO with CER 30 30 30 1,112 0.7% -0.3% -97.3% -97.6%
 Other deposits (3) 9,095 8,925 9,028 7,951 1.9% 0.9% 14.4% 2.4%

 Deposits of the private sector 92,375 90,617 89,879 80,800 1.9% 0.9% 14.3% 2.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 32,840 33,576 33,040 26,582 -2.2% -3.2% 23.5% 10.6%
 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4,695 4,443 4,320 3,686 5.7% 27.4%
 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 62,216 62,290 62,264 55,050 -0.1% -1.1% 13.0% 1.2%

 Loans to the private sector 48,984 48,249 47,539 36,100 1.5% 0.5% 35.7% 21.5%
 Advances 8,213 8,390 8,425 6,457 -2.1% -3.1% 27.2% 13.9%
 Documents 11,264 11,021 10,902 7,019 2.2% 1.2% 60.5% 43.7%
 Mortgages 8,847 8,728 8,717 8,689 1.4% 0.4% 1.8% -8.8%
 Pledges 2,682 2,575 2,491 1,797 4.1% 3.1% 49.2% 33.6%
 Personal loans 8,594 8,193 7,855 5,064 4.9% 3.8% 69.7% 52.0%
 Credit cards 5,829 5,768 5,591 3,485 1.1% 0.1% 67.3% 49.8%
 Others 3,556 3,574 3,559 3,590 -0.5% -1.5% -0.9% -11.3%
 Loans to the public sector 13,232 14,040 14,725 18,950 -5.8% -6.7% -30.2% -37.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 2,902 2,698 2,546 1,989 7.6% 45.9%
 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (circulating in the public's hands + current account in pesos) 78,681 78,498 78,174 62,622 0.2% -0.8% 25.6% 12.5%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 105,237 106,168 105,220 84,452 -0.9% -1.9% 24.6% 11.6%
 M3 (circulating in the public's hands + total deposits in pesos) 167,826 166,416 165,178 140,228 0.8% -0.2% 19.7% 7.2%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 182,228 180,082 178,435 150,922 1.2% 0.2% 20.7% 8.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (circulating in the public's hands + private current account in pesos) 66,490 65,442 65,281 52,335 1.6% 0.6% 27.0% 13.8%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 87,879 86,723 86,637 71,253 1.3% 0.3% 23.3% 10.4%
 M3 (circulating in the public's hands + total private deposits in pesos) 134,986 132,840 132,138 113,647 1.6% 0.6% 18.8% 6.4%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 149,387 146,506 145,395 124,340 2.0% 1.0% 20.1% 7.6%
# AVERAGE VARIATIONS

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2006 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| Monetary base | 1.739 | 3.0% | 874 | 1.5% | 4.402 | 7.9% | 10.306 | 20.6% |
| Financial sector | -849 | -1.5% | -4.185 | -7.1% | -2.957 | -5.3% | -9.745 | -19.5% |
| Public sector | 13 | 0.0% | -1.365 | -2.3% | -1.732 | -3.1% | -5.106 | -10.2% |
| Temporary advances + profit transfers | -429 |  | -402 |  | 27 |  | 1.715 |  |
| Use of national government account | 125 |  | -1.321 |  | -1.852 |  | -1.280 |  |
| External credit | 316 |  | 358 |  | 93 |  | -5.541 |  |
| Private external sector | 2.612 | 4.5% | 8.342 | 14.1% | 10.539 | 18.9% | 34.573 | 69.3% |
| BCRA securities | -99 | -0.2% | -1.793 | -3.0% | -1.093 | -2.0% | -8.180 | -16.4% |
| Others | 62 | 0.1% | -125 | -0.2% | -355 | -0.6% | -1.237 | -2.5% |
| International reserves | 993 | 4.8% | 2.258 | 11.5% | -5.397 | -19.8% | 1.247 | 6.1% |
| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 850 | 4.1% | 2.720 | 13.9% | 3.442 | 12.6% | 11.728 | 56.9% |
| Payment to international organizations | -418 | -2.0% | -2.076 | -10.6% | -10.829 | -39.7% | -13.813 | -67.0% |
| Other public sector operations | 321 | 1.5% | 1.178 | 6.0% | 1.442 | 5.3% | 3.237 | 15.7% |
| Minimum cash | 44 | 0.2% | 66 | 0.3% | 30 | 0.1% | -645 | -3.1% |
| Valuation repo rate | 105 | 0.5% | 85 | 0.4% | 160 | 0.6% | -102 | -0.5% |
| Others | 92 | 0.4% | 286 | 1.5% | 357 | 1.3% | 843 | 4.1% |

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

2 Net of unified funds utilization.

3 Net of BODEN recorded.

4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

**Sources:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System. 14 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

---

# INTEREST RATES

Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Feb-06 | Dec-05 | Apr-05 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (1 day)** |
| Rate | 7.48 | 8.17 | 5.35 | 6.73 | 2.76 |
| Amount traded | 901 | 953 | 745 | 912 | 332 |
| **Fixed-term deposit** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30 days | 6.29 | 5.62 | 5.48 | 4.74 | 3.10 |
| 60 days or more | 6.77 | 6.41 | 6.28 | 5.87 | 3.98 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 7.06 | 6.37 | 6.06 | 5.50 | 3.25 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 9.00 | 8.21 | 7.38 | 7.48 | 3.97 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30 days | 0.72 | 0.67 | 0.66 | 0.58 | 0.34 |
| 60 days or more | 1.28 | 1.31 | 1.15 | 1.11 | 0.89 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.61 | 0.56 | 0.58 | 0.55 | 0.36 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.81 | 1.44 | 0.75 | 0.98 | 1.21 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Feb-06 | Dec-05 | Apr-05 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Prime in pesos at 30 days | 7.70 | 7.41 | 7.47 | 7.14 | 5.60 |
| **Repos in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 8.62 | 8.82 | 7.78 | 7.85 | 4.03 |
| Amount traded (total terms) | 110 | 105 | 92 | 92 | 67 |
| **Loans to private sector in pesos (1)** |
| Current account advances | 17.10 | 17.30 | 16.67 | 17.06 | 14.26 |
| Documents on own signature | 12.84 | 12.33 | 12.13 | 11.54 | 9.19 |
| Mortgage loans | 11.56 | 11.33 | 11.36 | 11.55 | 11.33 |
| Pledge loans | 9.71 | 9.41 | 9.40 | 9.86 | 10.18 |
| Personal loans | 24.78 | 24.96 | 25.80 | 25.33 | 26.67 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 27.41 | 27.76 | 28.01 | 28.34 |

## International Interest Rates

| | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Feb-06 | Dec-05 | Apr-05 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** |
| 1 month | 4.92 | 4.76 | 4.58 | 4.36 | 2.98 |
| 6 months | 5.20 | 5.05 | 4.92 | 4.67 | 3.38 |
| **US Treasury Bond** |
| 2 years | 4.88 | 4.73 | 4.66 | 4.39 | 3.63 |
| 10 years | 4.98 | 4.72 | 4.56 | 4.46 | 4.32 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 4.75 | 4.55 | 4.50 | 4.17 | 2.75 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 16.17 | 16.67 | 17.25 | 18.21 | 19.35 |

(1) Data until September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from October are estimations made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

---

# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES

Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

| | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Feb-06 | Dec-05 | Apr-05 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA repo rates** |
| Passive 1 day | 4.50 | 4.50 | 4.50 | 4.48 | s/o |
| Passive 7 days | 5.00 | 5.00 | 5.00 | 4.98 | 3.23 |
| Active 7 days | 7.00 | 6.77 | 6.00 | 6.00 | 3.73 |
| **Total round REPO rates** |
| 1 day | 5.97 | 6.36 | 4.69 | 4.86 | 2.62 |
| 7 days | 5.92 | 5.81 | 5.20 | 5.20 | 3.23 |
| Amount traded in round REPO repos (daily average) | 2.056 | 1.749 | 2.418 | 2.708 | 1.197 |
# LEBAC RATES IN PESOS
1 month 6.61 6.71 6.79 6.71 4.10
2 months 6.86 6.90 6.99 6.91 n/a
3 months 7.18 7.24 7.25 7.30 5.26
9 months n/a n/a n/a n/a 6.08
12 months 11.50 n/a n/a n/a 6.99

# NOBAC MARGIN IN PESOS WITH VARIABLE COUPON

9 months BADLAR Private Banks 2.65 2.99 3.11 n/a n/a
1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.67 n/a n/a n/a n/a
2 years BADLAR Private Banks 4.07 4.92 5.53 4.72 n/a
At 2 Years BADLAR T/B n/a n/a 6.19 6.26 3.75

# AMOUNT TRADED OF LEBAC AND NOBAC IN THE SECONDARY MARKET (DAILY AVERAGE) 51 149 109 98 100

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Apr-06 Mar-06 Feb-06 Dec-05 Apr-05

## Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.07 3.08 3.07 3.02 2.90
BCRA Reference 3.07 3.08 3.07 3.01 2.90

## Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.07 3.08 3.07 3.04 2.90
ROFEX 1 month 3.07 3.08 3.07 3.02 2.90
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1029 3748 135 228 113

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.44 1.43 1.42 1.32 1.13
Euro (Pesos per Euro) 3.77 3.70 3.67 3.58 3.75

# CAPITAL MARKET Apr-06 Mar-06 Feb-06 Dec-05 Apr-05

## MERVAL
Index 1,878 1,794 1,709 1,530 1,364
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 84 99 101 79 61

## Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 91.53 92.04 92.22 88.60 83.10
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 98.36 99.23 95.77 85.62 n/a
BODEN 2014 ($) 86.77 89.07 91.23 88.48 n/a
DISCOUNT ($) 96.16 98.75 100.83 94.73 n/a

## Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 321 306 308 438 655
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 208 212 217 272 318

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – APRIL 2006

## 9. GLOSSARY

AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
y-o-y: Year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total peso deposits from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokerage Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VN: Nominal Value.

17
