# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
FEBRUARY 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. **Summary** 1
   - The Central Bank is deepening the shift in the bias of monetary policy initiated the previous year. To do this, it sets the evolution of Means of payment (M2) as the variable to monitor for compliance with its monetary program, in place of the Monetary Base, and directs its decisions to achieve a deceleration of the year-over-year growth of the new target variable throughout the year.
   
   - Means of payment (M2) remained in line with what was projected in the 2006 Monetary Program, standing at $105,200 million, close to the lower band established for the first quarter of the year.
   
   - In relation to the previous month, M2 presented a decline of $1,120 million (-1.1%) as a consequence of a decrease in currency in circulation held by the public and in transactional deposits, in equal proportion. On the contrary, fixed-term deposits increased $1,010 million (2%), continuing with the growth trend initiated the previous month. In this way, the broader monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) remained relatively stable.
   
   - Once liquidity levels were recovered, financial entities again increased their holdings of repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and, furthermore, continued canceling their debts with this institution. In this way, the financial sector generated a monetary contraction of $2,264 million. Therefore, the financial sector continued to be a factor of monetary absorption, and together with the contractionary effect of the public sector ($1,237 million), contribute to ensuring monetary prudence.
   
   - Loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly variation of 1.9%. During the month, a deceleration in the growth of consumer loans could be appreciated. The BCRA continued making regulatory changes aimed at favoring the increase of long-term credit and investment. It has expanded the use of guarantee trusts to undertakings with industrial and commercial purposes, previously limited to housing construction projects, and has decided to exclude from the calculation of immobilized assets the guarantees that financial entities constitute to carry out imports of capital goods within the framework of ALADI agreements. It is expected that these measures, together with others recently adopted, will contribute to credit growth in the productive sector and favor investment.
   
   - During February, the policy interest rates (repurchase agreements and nominal LEBAC) remained at the same levels they have presented since December. Once the end-of-year illiquidity was overcome, the main market interest rates showed a decline. The interbank lending rate stood at 5.35%, 1.8 p.p. below that of the previous month. For its part, the BADLAR rate (deposits of more than one million pesos with 30 to 35-day terms) from private banks also declined (0.8 p.p.), although it should be noted that it is at a level higher (more than 2 p.p.) than the average for the year 2005.
   
   - In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated during February 1.7% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and has accumulated a depreciation of 2.7% in the last twelve months.

2. Monetary Aggregates 2

3. Bank Liquidity 3

4. Loans 4

5. Interest Rates 6
   5.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 6
   5.2. Interbank Markets 6
   5.2.1 Repurchase Agreement Market 6
   5.2.2 Interbank Market 7
   5.3. Passive Interest Rates 7
   5.4. Active Interest Rates 8

6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 9

7. Capital Markets 10
   7.1. Stocks 10
   7.2. Public Securities 10
   7.3. Institutional Investors 12
   7.3.1 Pension Fund Administrators 12
   7.3.2 Mutual Investment Funds 12
   7.4. Private Securities 13
   7.5. Financial Trusts 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 15
P1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

Graph 2.1

M2 and PM 2006 2. Monetary Aggregates

billions of $
130 M2
 During February, the means of payment (M2) evolved in line
 M2 - 30-day moving average
125 PM 2006 Bands with what was projected in the 2006 Monetary Program (PM 2006),
 standing at $105,206 million, close to the lower band
120 established for the first quarter of the year (see Graph 2.1). In

115 relation to the previous month, M2 presented a decline of $1,120
 million (-1.1%) as a consequence of the decrease in the same

110 proportion of cash in the hands of the public and of transactional
 deposits.
105

100 Cash in the hands of the public was reduced by $450 million (-
 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
 Source: BCRA 1.1%), driven by the lower demand that is seasonally observed
 in February (see Graph 2.2).

 For its part, sight deposits registered a decline of $670
 million (-1.0%). The greater part of this decrease corresponded to
 placements of the public sector, which were reduced by $730 million
 (-3.8%), while private deposits showed a slight increase close to
 Graph 2.2 $70 million (0.2%). In the case of public sector placements, its
 decrease was fundamentally due to the use of resources for the
 billions of Cash in the Hands of the Public cancellation of temporary advances with the BCRA. In the case of
 $ (base index 100=1-Nov, rescaled to values of 1-Nov-05) private deposits, the average variation in February was strongly
 influenced by the positive carryover from the previous month, given
 48 2004 that throughout the month these deposits decreased by more than
 2005 $980 million (-2.2%). The greater part of this decline was
 46
 concentrated in the remunerated sight segment (savings accounts and
 2006
 special current accounts) and was associated in part with the lower
 44 returns that banks offered in this segment.

 The broader monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) remained stable
 42 in February, because the aforementioned decrease in the means of
 payment was offset by the behavior of time placements of the
 40 private sector, which continued growing significantly.

 38
 Indeed, private fixed-term deposits increased in February by
 36 $1,040 million (2.7%), continuing with the growing trend initiated
 Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar the previous month due, in part, to the transfer of funds from sight
 Source: BCRA accounts. The new placements once again concentrated in the
 shortest-term bracket (30-59 days). For its part, the stock of fixed-
 Graph 2.3 term placements of the public sector did not present significant
 variations, showing a decline close to $30 million (-0.3%), although
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos changes were observed in terms of contractual structure (see
 (average monthly variation - February 2006) Graph 2.3).
 millions of $ PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTOR
1,400 $1,044 M - $27 M
 For its part, deposits in dollars registered in February an
1,200 increase of US$200 million ($710 million) that concentrated in
 the segment of transactional placements. Particularly, sight
1,000 deposits of the private sector (mostly savings accounts) increased
 by US$60 million while those of the public sector rose by US$80
 800 million. Time placements of the private sector registered an
 600 increase of US$35 million while those of the public sector did not
 show changes (see Graph 2.4). The average stock of deposits in
 400 foreign currency amounted to US$4,320 million.
 200

 0

-200

-400
-600
 30-59 60-89 90- 180- +366 with 30-59 60-89 90- 180- +366 with
 days days 179 365 days CER days days 179 365 days CER
 days days days days
Source: BCRA without CER without CER

2 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006
**Chart 2.4** In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos and

Monthly Var. Deposits in Dollars Stock in dollars (M3*) presented in February an average monthly increase
millions of US$ billions of US$ of $720 million (0.4%), which translated into an year-on-year increase
of 19.3%. The largest part of the growth of this aggregate corresponded to the dollar segment.

Regarding primary money creation, the Monetary Base (BM) average decreased $928 million (1.6%) and was positioned at $58,326 million.

The BCRA continued buying foreign currency in the Free Exchange Market, within the framework of its reserve accumulation policy, increasing them by approximately US$850 million, which caused a monetary expansion of $2,839 million.

After meeting the minimum cash requirements of the December-February quarter, financial entities again increased their holdings of repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and, furthermore, continued canceling their debts with this institution. In this way, the financial sector generated a monetary contraction of $2,264 million, a figure that includes both the collections of rediscounts provided in the schedule established by the "matching" as well as the advance cancellations that some banks decided to make, and incorporates the net increase in passive repurchase agreements for the BCRA and the net placement of LEBAC and NOBAC.

It is important to note that 2 of the 3 entities that still maintain debts contracted due to illiquidity situations during the 2001 crisis continued making advance cancellations during March and that, combined, the collection of rediscounts at the beginning of that month caused a reduction of the BM of more than $1,800 million.

**Chart 2.5**
Factors Explaining the Monetary Base thousands of (Average Variation, February 2006)
millions of $

Finally, the public sector also generated a decrease in the BM. In February the monetary contraction attributable to this sector reached $1,237 million (see Chart 2.5) and was associated with the cancellation of temporary advances. The contractionary character of the public sector and the financial sector contribute to ensuring monetary prudence.

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Chart 3.1**
Bank liquidity in pesos Bank liquidity (which includes cash in banks, balances in current accounts at the BCRA and passive repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA) represented in February 15.4% of deposits in pesos, a level slightly lower than the previous month. The lower liquidity is explained, in part, by the use of the accumulated surplus in the position of minimum quarterly cash. Some entities used funds from their current accounts at the BCRA and from the repurchase agreements they had arranged with this institution for the cancellation of rediscounts, in the first days of the month. If the BCRA securities held in the portfolios of the entities are computed, bank liquidity was around 32% of deposits in pesos, approximately 0.7 p.p. less than in January. By bank group, the behavior was not homogeneous, the bank liquidity including LEBAC and NOBAC of the public banks group decreased 1.9 p.p.

**Chart 3.2**
% of Minimum cash position while that of the private banks group showed a slight increase of half a percentage point
deposits (see Chart 3.1).

---

*3 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006*
3.0

2.0 With respect to minimum cash requirements, in February the
 entities closed the quarterly position that began in December.
1.0 EM Position Throughout the quarter, the behavior was heterogeneous.
 0.4% The entities presented a deficit position in December, in
0.0 deposits response to the greater seasonal demand for liquidity from
 families and businesses, which was subsequently compensated in
-1.0 January and remained practically unchanged during February. The
 average minimum cash position of the three months closed at
-2.0 Accumulated position approximately 0.4% of deposits in pesos. Said liquidity
 Daily position surplus is equivalent to that maintained by entities in previous
-3.0 months (see Chart 3.2).

 October November December January February

-4.0 It is worth mentioning that, as of February, the obligation to
 maintain a 100% reserve requirement on demand deposits and
 other obligations in pesos came into effect, whose remuneration
 exceeds 75% of the average BADLAR rate of private banks for the
 previous month.

Chart 4.1 In the foreign currency deposits segment, the minimum
 cash position reached approximately 27% of dollar deposits in
 millions of $ Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos February. Given that the increase in dollar deposits was not applied
 (Average monthly variation) to other destinations but was rather maintained in current
1,000 Commercial loans accounts at the BCRA, the foreign currency liquidity surplus in
 Consumer loans February was somewhat higher than last month.
750 Loans with real guarantee

500 4. Loans

250 Loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly
 0 1 2 variation of $900 million (1.9%). Although growth continues
 to be widespread in both commercial and consumption lines as
-250 well as in longer-term financing with real guarantees, a
 -500 reduction in the growth rate of consumer loans was observed
 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.2 In February, consumer loans increased $520 million
 millions of $ Consumer Loans (3.9%), which implies a deceleration in its growth rate;
500 (average monthly variation) it had grown 6.4% per month on average in the last 6 months.
450 Personal loans Personal loans increased $430 million while credit card
400 Credit cards financing increased only $90 million (see Chart 4.2), which
 responded, in part, to the end of promotional purchases in
350 interest-free installments that had been in effect until January.
300

250 Commercial loans increased $210 million (0.9%) on average
 during the month. This increase was led by the behavior of
200 advances which, after having declined in January due to
150 seasonal factors, increased $180 million (2.2%) during
 February. It is worth noting that the increase is significantly
100 larger between the end of the month.
50

0 With respect to January 31, advances increased $910 million,
 Source: BCRA and a large part of said increase was concentrated in the last
 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 days of February. This increase would be originated, in part, by

Chart 4.3 greater demand for funds by some companies in the oil
 millions of $ Commercial Loans thousands of sector. In this way, advances ended the month with a value of
1,000 (average monthly variation) millions of $ $510 million higher than their monthly average, leaving a

 9.2
 Advances
 9.0 $910M
800 8.8
 8.6 $510M
 8.4 $180M
 8.2
600 8.0

---

²The loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

**4 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006**
7.8 Daily Balance
 important "statistical carryover" for March (see Graph 4.3).
 7.6 Monthly Average
 400 7.4 Additionally, "other loans" increased by $50

 7.2
 Sep-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Jan-06 Feb-06
 million (1.4%) while documents decreased by $20
 million (0.2%).

 0

 -200 For its part, favored by the good performance of

 Advances Documents Others sales of agricultural machinery and automobiles, financing
 -400 with chattel mortgage guarantee continued to show a firm growth rate
 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06
Source: BCRA (see Graph 4.4), and registered in February a new
 increase of $100 million (4%). In the case of mortgage loans,
 for the ninth consecutive month, new financing exceeded
 amortizations and prepayments in amount, so they showed
 a new increase, on this occasion of $80 million.

Graph 4.4

 thousands of In the case of loans in foreign currency, these
 millions of $ Chattel mortgage loans and agricultural machinery millions of $
 3.5 (sales of tractors, harvesters and seeders) 700 increased slightly during the month (US$49 million, 2%),

 Billing for sales of agricultural machinery (right axis) an increase that responded mainly to the behavior of
 Chattel mortgage loans (average) 600
 3.0 documents (linked to export financing operations)
 500 and, to a lesser extent, to credit card financing.

 2.5
 400
 The BCRA continued to make regulatory changes within

 300
 the framework of the adopted policy aimed at favoring the increase
 2.0
 in long-term credit and investment, elements necessary for the
 200
 development of productive activity. In this sense, in February the
 1.5
 100 BCRA has expanded the use of guarantee trusts to
 1.0 0 enterprises with industrial as well as commercial destinations (previously
 Source: Own elaboration Mar-02 Aug-02 Jan-03 Jun-03 Nov-03 Apr-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 Jul-05 Dec-05limited to projects intended for housing construction³).
 Additionally, the BCRA decided to exclude from the calculation of
 immobilized assets the guarantees that financial entities constitute
 to carry out imports of capital goods framed in
 ALADI⁴ agreements. These measures add to others taken
 recently, such as having admitted the application of resources
 from foreign currency deposits to financing of
 capital goods imports and having accepted the deferral
 Graph 5.1.1 Market Yields Primary Market of losses caused by injunctions for an amount equivalent
 to the new long-term loans that are granted to customers of the
 28-Feb-06 31-Jan-06 commercial portfolio⁵. For the coming months, it is expected that these
 % %
 9 LEBAC - TNA 6 NOBAC - Margin over BADLAR measures contribute to the growth of credit to the productive sector,
 private banks
 favoring investment.

 8 5

 7 4

 6 3

 5 2
 0 50 100 150 2000 200 400 600 800
 Source: BCRA duration (days)

 3 See Com A 4501.
 4 See Com A 4502.
 5 See Com A 4453 and Com A 4439.

 5 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

 Graph 5.1.2 5. Interest Rates

 FV, thousands of Securities Issued by the Central Bank
 millions of $
 30
 3 to 4 years NOBAC
 2 to 3 years
 25 9 months
 More than 12 months 5.1. Securities issued by the BCRA
 20 9 to 12 months
 4 to 6 months LEBAC
 2 to 3 months
 15 1 month

 10 The interest rates paid in the primary placements of

 LEBAC and NOBAC were located at the same levels registered
 5 during January (see Graph 5.1.1). Thus, in the last
 0 auction of February, LEBAC of shorter duration (49 days) were
 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Feb-06 awarded at 6.75%, while those of 70 and 91 days, were
 placed at 6.97% and 7.25%, respectively. With regard to
5.2.2. Interbank Market

6 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006
Interbank market interest rates (call), which had reached peaks close to 10% at the beginning of January, began to decline during the second half of January, once banks restored their liquidity levels (see Chart 5.2.2.1). For 1 business day operations, which currently represent around 80% of total trading, the interest rate
Chart 5.2.2.2 that had reached 9.7% in January was subsequently reduced until reaching a
Call Market minimum of 4.6% in mid-February and then recovered to end the month at
millions of $ (average stock) 6.3%. In this way, once the year-end illiquidity was overcome, the interbank market interest rate was
located on average at 5.4%, a level 1.8 p.p. lower than that of February (see
Chart 5.2.1.1).

Likewise, greater liquidity was reflected in less activity in the interbank market. The average outstanding amount was $880 million in February, which implies a decline of more than $80 million
Public from the previous month and $250 million compared to December.
Priv. Nacional Additionally, a lower participation of the group of public banks could be appreciated in the amounts granted,
Cap. May. Extranjero which went from representing 22% of the total in January to 12% during February (see
Chart 5.2.2.2).

5.3. Passive Interest Rates¹

Passive interest rates showed disparate behavior. While in wholesale placements interest rates presented a marked downward trend, in retail deposits (fixed terms of less than $100,000) they continued to rise. As a result, the average interest rate was 5.7%, showing an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to the previous month.

Chart 5.3.1 Observing the behavior by maturity bracket, in deposits from 30 to 59 days the average interest rate
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos remained at 5.5%. In contrast, in placements of 60 to 89 days and more than 90
(weighted average monthly rate by amount traded) days of maturity, interest rates rose 0.1 p.p. and 0.3 p.p. to stand at 5.9% and 6.6%,
% respectively (See Chart 5.3.1).

In the wholesale segment of shorter maturity, the BADLAR interest rate (deposits of more than one million pesos from 30 to 35 days maturity) showed a decline of 0.8 p.p. for private banks, which was a reflection, fundamentally, of greater market liquidity. It should be noted that this rate is at a level higher (more than 2 p.p.) than the average for 2005. In contrast, the BADLAR rate for public banks, although it presented more intramonthly volatility, on average remained at 4.8%. On the other hand, in retail deposits of private entities the BADLAR interest rate remained at the same level as the previous month of 5.4%, while in public banks it was 3.6% showing an increase of 0.7 p.p.. As can be seen in Chart 5.3.2, the average rate of public banking had remained constant during 2005 at levels lower than the rest of the market, beginning to make, starting in January, upward adjustments.

Chart 5.3.2 Finally, in sight accounts, the interest rate showed
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
(5-day moving average)

February Private Banks Public Banks Total
% Less than $100,000 % Greater than $1,000,000 BADLAR
2.3 1.5 a decrease of 0.1 p.p., registering an average of 0.9% in
 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 February. This decrease is due, mainly, to a decrease in the
Source: BCRA interest rate of wholesale accounts in the private sector that
 was reduced from 3.2% in January to 2.7% in February, following the
 declining trend of the BADLAR rate.

 Chart 5.4.1

TNA, % Commercial Loans 5.4. Active Interest Rates¹ 6
 35 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)

 30 Advances
 Documents Active interest rates presented slight positive variations
 25 during February, mainly in loans granted for medium and long
 term, while those for shorter term financing decreased slightly.

 20

 15 The interest rate corresponding to advances in current
 account interrupted the increasing trend of recent months,

 10 presenting a decrease of 0.3 p.p. and placing itself at 17.2%. In the
 case of documents granted on signature only, the average interest
 5 rate was 11.9%, which implied an increase of 0.4 p.p.
Source: BCRA Aug-03 Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.4.1). At the same time, in
 recent months an increase in their average term was recorded; while
 documented loans on signature only for a term exceeding 180 days
 comprised 40% of the total a year ago, they currently represent more
 than 50%, and those granted for periods of less than 30 days
 constitute less than 10%.

 Chart 5.4.2 The interest rate of personal loans remained relatively
 TNA, % Active Interest Rates stable at 25.1%. In the case of credit card financing, although
 55 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount) information for February is not yet available, according to the
 latest available information, in January the interest rate decreased
 45 Cards Personal 0.3 p.p., placing itself at 27.7%.
 Mortgage Secured

 35 Finally, the interest rate of mortgage loans was placed at
 11.9%, which implies an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to the
 25 previous month. Meanwhile, the interest rate corresponding to
 secured loans, after having reached a minimum in January,
 15 showed an increase of 0.5 p.p. to stand at 9.9% (see Chart 5.4.2).

 5
 Source: BCRA Aug-03 Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
December 2005, the values for January and February 2006 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data from
loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

 Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market⁷

 International Reserves of the BCRA
 thousands of
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)
 30 thousands of FEBRUARY 2006
 millions of US$
 20.6
 At the end of February the stock of international reserves
 26 20.4

 20.2 amounted to US$20,532 million, presenting an increase of US$842
 20.0
 22 19.8 million (4.3%) in relation to the previous month (see Chart 6.1).

 19.6

 18 19.4 The majority of the increase corresponded to the inflow of
 1-Feb 6-Feb 11-Feb 16-Feb 21-Feb 26-Feb foreign currency from purchases made by the BCRA in the Sole and
 14
 Free Foreign Exchange Market, which totaled US$863 million. These
 10 were partially offset by payments made by the BCRA, which
 amounted to US$100 million, and by the net outflow of
6 reserves generated by the government, which totaled US$92 million. In
 Jan-01 Sep-01 May-02 Jan-03 Sep-03 May-04 Jan-05 Sep-05
 Source: BCRA effect, although the government placed debt in dollars (US$750
 million) and made purchases in the market through the BCRA
 (US$70 million), the inflow of foreign exchange for such reasons was more than
 offset by payments to international organizations (US$668
 million) and the settlement of other obligations in foreign
 currency. The remainder of the variation in international reserves is
 explained by the inflow of rotating funds associated with
 Chart 6.2 financing of provincial projects by international organizations, the
 Explanatory Factors of International Reserves positive variation of the current accounts of
 millions of US$
1,000 entities at the BCRA, the losses from valuation of repo rate and
 863 842 the gains from returns (see Chart 6.2).

 800
 During February, the peso continued to depreciate against the
 600 dollar in both the spot market (0.8%) and the forward market8
 (0.6%). In relation to the real, the peso's depreciation was
 400 significantly greater, approaching 5.8%, while with respect to
 the euro, the peso appreciated 0.7%. In real terms, according to the
 200 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated
 1.7% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading
 65 57 54
 0 partners and has accumulated a depreciation of
 2.7% in the last 12 months (see Chart 6.3).
 -92 -104
-200
 External Sector Public Sector Private Rotating Payments of BCRA Sight Deposits Other International Reserves
 Funds Sector
Source: BCRA With respect to traded volumes, operations
 conducted in the spot market increased 10.4%. The entire increase
 corresponded to the segment of operations arranged through
 the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL), which after the
 sharp decline evidenced in January, recovered in February,
 averaging US$157 million daily. On the other hand, the average
 amount traded daily in the Electronic Brokers Market (MEC)
 Chart 6.3 continued to decline in February, totaling
 Dec-01=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate ($/Basket)* US$73 million, 11.1% less than in January. 92% of the
 300 operations that took place in the spot market corresponded
 to financial and exchange entities, and the remainder to the BCRA, which continues
 250 decreasing its participation.

 200 In the forward market, a new decrease in the
 amounts traded was observed, which was around 28.6%. In the Rosario
 150 Forward Market (ROFEX) the average volume traded daily
 reached US$43 million and BCRA intervention represented 3.5%
 100 of the total traded, a level significantly lower than the previous
 month. For its part, in the MAE Futures Market, in the
 50 round of Forward Arranged Operations (OCT-MAE), the
 Dec-99 Sep-00 Jun-01 Mar-02 Dec-02 Sep-03 Jun-04 Mar-05 Dec-05 average volume traded daily amounted to US$10
 *Increase/decrease implies peso depreciation/appreciation.
 Source: BCRA

 7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
 8 Operations arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX) at 1 month maturity (segment representing 70% of total
 traded).

 9 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

 Chart 7.1.1
 million and BCRA participation in this market also
 Return Stock Market Returns in Latin America
 (in USD) decreased, resulting in 1.1% in February.

 70 65.9

 60

 50 1 Month
 Dec-2005 43.5
 40 12 months 7. Capital Market

 30 25.4

 20 7.1. Stocks

 9.4 6.6
 10 5.2 4.0

 0
 -4.6 -1.4 The evolution of the stock market during February
 -10
 MERVAL (Argentina) IPC (Mexico) BOVESPA (Brazil) contrasts with the strong rise recorded during the previous month. In
Source: Bloomberg In particular, the MERVAL fell 4.5% in February, after having
registered an increase of 16.2% in January. This evolution leaves the
index at 1,714 points, or 11.1% above the last day of the
previous year.

The behavior in the region was mixed, with rises
and falls of different magnitudes in different countries. However,
since the end of the previous year, it stands out that Latin American
Chart 7.1.2 stock exchanges showed favorable performance in the

Volatility (%) stock markets in the region. This observation is consistent with the
(22 trading sessions) Volatility of the stock market in the region favorable evolution that is expected for said economies during the

60 MERVAL (Argentina) current year. Since the end of the previous year, and measured in dollars, the
55 IPC (Mexico) IGBVL (Peru) and the BOVESPA (Brazil) were those that achieved
50 BOVESPA (Brazil) IGPA (Chile)

45 the most significant increases, accumulating 31% and 25%

40 respectively. The evolution of the IGPA was somewhat more moderate

35 (Chile) and of the IPC (Mexico) which increased, in that order, 5% and 7%.

30 It is worth mentioning that the MERVAL index, when measured in

25 dollars, increased in the same period 9.4%.

20

15 The volatility of the MERVAL remained at the levels

10 observed in the previous months. In particular, the volatility of
dic-04 mar-05 apr-05 jun-05 aug-05 oct-05 dec-05 feb-06 returns is found at levels close to 25% in annualized terms.

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data It is interesting to note that since the beginning of the year, a
gradual stabilization in the volatility of returns of the local stock
market has been observed, in contrast with what happened in other
comparable Latin American stock markets (see Chart 7.1.2).

The daily volumes traded in the stock market
remained at the same levels as in previous months, around
70 million pesos. This evolution
Chart 7.2.1 maintains the gradual upward trend in traded amounts
that was observed during 2005 and since mid-
Evolution of the relative value of debt
DISC US$ / DISC $ denominated in dollars and pesos 2004.

0.82

0.81 DISC US$ (Argentine Law) / DISC$

0.80

0.79

0.78
7.2. Public Securities
0.77

0.76 The spreads on Argentina's sovereign external debt
contracted during February as did those of the rest of emerging
0.75 economies. This is reflected in the contraction of 0.26 p.p. of the
1-dec 16-dec 31-dec 15-jan 30-jan 14-feb EMBI+ index, which groups the external debt spreads of said

Source: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange countries. In the case of Latin America, spreads narrowed by 0.33

10 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

Chart 7.2.2 p.p. Within this group, the improvement in the spreads of
Yield Curves Yield Curves in Pesos external debt of Argentina and Brazil stand out, of 0.86 p.p. and
annual (%) 0.45 p.p.
6.5 DISC $ respectively.

5.5 PAR $ The improvement in the quotations of debt instruments

4.5 Bogar was stronger in the segment of debt in dollars than in that
denominated in pesos. This evolution contrasted with what had
3.5 Boden 14 occurred during 2005, where the largest increases had
benefited debt in pesos indexed to the CER (see Chart 7.2.1).
2.5 31-Jan
PRO 12
1.5 28-Feb Within the yield curve of instruments
indexed to the CER, a slight increase in the
PRE 08
0.5 Boden 08

-0.5
Boden 07 yields in the short end of the curve, while in the -1.5
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 longer duration segment yields decreased (see
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute Graph 7.2.2). In terms of parity, the reduction in
the quotations of shorter duration instruments was 0.7%
for the PRE08 and 0.2% in the BODEN 14. The instruments of
longer duration registered increases that amounted to 3.8% in
the case of DISC and 3.7% in the case of PAR.

In the dollar debt segment, the yield curve
Graph 7.2.3 shifted at all maturities towards lower
Annual Return (%) Yield Curves in Dollars Spread (p.p.)
10.0 1.3 yields, although the decrease was significant in the longer
Boden 15 maturities (see Graph 7.2.3). Indeed, the sharp decrease in yields
9.0 1.0 caused that curve to invert in the segment ranging
Boden 13 DISC PAR
from BODEN 15 and PAR. The decrease in spreads with
USD
respect to the yield curve of U.S. Treasury securities
8.0 0.8 Boden 12
was in all cases greater than the fall of the
returns of Argentina's dollar-denominated securities, because
7.0 0.5 not only was a decrease in the returns of Argentine debt observed
in the period but also an increase
31-Jan
6.0 28-Feb 0.3 in the returns of the U.S. Treasury curve. In terms of parity,
the improvements in the quotations of dollar-denominated
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve (31-Jan) securities were very significant, from 1.9% in the case of BODEN 13 to
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve (28-Feb)
5.0 0.0 12.2% and 14% in the case of DISC and PAR, respectively.
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

GDP-linked units maintained the positive evolution
they registered since their separation from the debt securities
delivered in the sovereign debt restructuring. In
particular, with respect to January, said instruments
increased 7.5% and 10.4% for the case of the unit in pesos and in
dollars (New York Law), respectively.

Graph 7.2.4
The average amounts traded daily on the Buenos Aires
in millions Traded Volume of Public Securities
Stock Exchange (BCBA) and on the Open Electronic
(daily averages)
Market (MAE), increased substantially during
1,800 February. In said month, an average amount of daily operations
1,628
1,600 of 1,630 million pesos was achieved which would constitute a maximum in the
historical series. It is worth noting that during 2005 the daily amounts
1,400 traded averaged in the year approximately 1,113 million pesos, and
1,200 2005 year average = $1,113 daily millions that the maximum reached in September was close to $1,530
1,000 (see Graph 7.2.4).
800
2004 year average = $588 million
600

400

200

0
Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06
Source: BCRA based on MAE and Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

11 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

Graph 7.3.1.1 7.3. Institutional Investors9

Variation of AFJP Placements
(First half of February)

Nat. Public Sec.
7.3.1. Administrators of Pension Funds and Pensions
Futures and
Options

Mutual Funds

Trusts
Other According to the latest available information, as of February 15
Investments the investment portfolio of the Administrators of Pension Funds
Fixed-Term Deposits and Pensions (AFJP) amounted to $71,836 million, a level
Obligations similar to what was recorded at the end of January. However, the different
Neg. Stock types of placements showed heterogeneous behaviors in
 the course of the first part of February (see Graph 7.3.1.1).
 -1,000 -800 -600 -400 -200 0 200 400 600
 Source: Own elaboration based on SAFJP millions of $

In this way, investments in securities issued by the
national government showed an increase of $350 million.
Likewise, Futures and Options Contracts, which include holdings
of units linked to GDP, also registered an
increase in the period, of $145 million.

Graph 7.3.2.1 Other segments that also showed variations
 thousands of Money Market Funds positive were placements in mutual funds
 (equity) Feb-06 ($120 million) and in financial trusts ($90 million). In the
 millions of $ first case, money market funds in pesos were the ones that

 5.6 concentrated the growth; while among financial
 trusts the holdings of Millenium Trust II Serie I and
 5.2 Radar Serie 5 increased, which in both cases have loans
 4.8 guaranteed as underlying assets.

 4.4

 4.0 On the other hand, holdings of variable income securities,
 3.6 both those issued by local and foreign companies,
 showed a decrease. Thus, placements in stocks
 3.2 led to a decline in investments of around $800 million
 2.8 (widespread among most of the securities).
 2.4
 1-Jun-05 14-Jul-05 26-Aug-05 7-Oct-05 21-Nov-05 3-Jan-06 14-Feb-06
 Source: BCRA

 7.3.2. Mutual Funds¹

 Mutual funds (FCI) in pesos maintained
 in February the upward trend that they began the previous month,
 presenting a patrimonial increase greater than $1,070 million
 Graph 7.3.2.2 (9.8%), induced by the rise in equity of variable income funds
 and fixed-term and money market funds.
 Variable Income Funds
 millions of $ Index
 6,200 Equity Variable Income Funds 2,000 The equity of money market funds registered an
 5,700 MERVAL (right axis) 1,900 increase of $398 million (10.9%) (see Graph 7.3.2.1). This increase
 5,200 1,800 was due, in part, to the transfer of resources from sight
 4,700 1,700 accounts by institutional clients (AFJP, ART, etc.) and large
 4,200 1,600 companies, due to the decrease in their returns. In
 3,700 1,500 turn, unlike the previous three months, in February these
 3,200 1,400 funds offered more interesting returns, which in annual terms
 2,700 1,300 amounted to 5.49%.
 2,200 1,200

 1,700 1,100
 1,200 1,000 On the other hand, the equity of variable income funds
 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 grew $566 million (11.1%). The increase was concentrated in a
 Source: BCRA and CAFCI small group of funds whose portfolios are composed of assets from
 Brazil, USA, Europe and Asia, which increased their equity by
 ⁹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated. $685 million. While the equity of funds that
 invest in the local market contracted $115 million, due
 12 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006 mainly to the decrease in the value of their share prices due to
 the poor performance of the MERVAL index during the month under
 analysis (see Graph 7.3.2.2). The decline in prices of assets in the
 portfolio of these funds had a negative impact on their returns, which
 stood at -4.74% annualized.

 Graph 7.4.1 Finally, fixed income funds also registered a

 Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds positive patrimonial variation in February, close to $110 million
 YTM % (5.9%), which is explained by the good performance of the
 16 debt markets, due to the inflow of capital throughout the region. These funds
 14 yielded in February a profitability of 1.25%. Finally, the
 12
The equity of mixed-income funds was reduced by $5.2 million (2%) and its performance declined, resulting in annual terms of -0.92%.

**7.4. Private Securities**

Non-restructured* (24-Feb)
Restructured (24-Feb)
Non-restructured* (30-Jan)
Restructured (30-Jan)

Duration (years)

*Corresponds to ONs from issuers that have not incurred payment default
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data and others

In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, a differentiation continues to be observed between companies that adhered to compliance with their financial obligations and those that had to resort to debt restructuring after defaulting following the 2001-02 crisis. In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs issued by companies that underwent restructuring processes was placed on average at 3.1 p.p., 0.5 p.p. higher than that of the previous month (see Graph 7.4.1).

**7.5. Financial Trusts**

**Graph 7.5.1**
**Amounts Issued through Financial Trusts**
(millions of $)

Thirteen Financial Trusts (FF) were placed in the month for a total of $452 million, an amount that more than doubled the placement of the same month in 2005 and was driven mainly by the securitization of consumer loans (see Graph 7.5.1). In turn, 2 of the 13 new securitizations were first series.

Within the underlying assets, personal loans were the main type of securitized assets, which represent 93% of the total issued (see Graph 7.5.2). These were transferred in 52% by regulated financial entities, in 42% by retailers (of household items sales) and in 6% by credit card companies. Commercial credits, bills of exchange and credit card coupons were also securitized, but to a lesser extent.

Among the settlors (those who transfer their financial assets to the FF), regulated financial entities represented 49% of the total issued, followed by retailers (44%) and non-regulated financial entities (5%), among others. In recent months, the relative participation of non-regulated financial entities, retailers and other subjects¹¹ among the settlors has been increasing significantly with respect to the previous year, while regulated financial entities continue to stand out, especially in those months of securitization of public securities (Synthetic Trusts). Among the trustees (those who manage the FFs), regulated financial entities represented 88% of what was issued in the month, while the remaining 12% corresponded to other non-regulated entities, these latter seeing their participation gradually increase with respect to the previous year.

**Graph 7.5.2**
**Underlying Assets of FF**
(% of total issued - February 2006)

Commercial Credits: 4%
Credit Card Coupons: 1%
Bills of Exchange and Others: 2%
Personal Credits: 93%

The yield rate of senior securities (in pesos at fixed rate) was placed at 12% on average, 1 p.p. below the average recorded in January. On the other hand, the weighted average duration of securities issued by the FFs was 6.4 months, 3.3 months lower than that of January.

---

¹⁰ Financial trusts from the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

¹¹ Others includes holders of private bonds, SMEs, mutual associations, etc.

---

13 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006
14 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.
 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Feb-06 Monthly Last 12 monthsJan-06Dec-05Feb-05
 NominalRealNominalReal
 Monetary base 58.426 59.355 55.827 49.467 -1.6% -2.0% 18.1% 5.9%
 Monetary circulation 46.643 47.136 46.008 35.779 -1.0% -1.4% 30.4% 16.9%
 In the hands of the public 42.265 42.717 41.320 32.197 -1.1% -1.4% 31.3% 17.8%
 In financial entities 4.378 4.419 4.688 3.582 -0.9% -1.3% 22.2% 9.6%
 Current account at the BCRA 11.783 12.218 9.819 13.688 -3.6% -3.9% -13.9% -22.8%
 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 2.683 2.598 4.250 7.115 3.3% 2.9% -62.3% -66.2%
 Assets 175 371 237 10 -52.9% -53.1% 1664.5% 1482.7%
 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)
 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 15.589 18.083 19.678 14.167 -13.8% -14.1% 10.0% -1.3%
 In dollars 60 73 48 53 -18.0% 12.6%

 NOBAC 10.058 7.389 6.393 1.631 36.1% 35.6% 516.6% 453.1%
 International reserves of the BCRA 20.059 19.608 27.262 20.526 2.3% -2.3%
 Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 122.936 122.478 120.902 104.934 0.4% 0.0% 17.2% 5.1%
 Current account (2) 35.895 37.643 37.051 29.173 -4.6% -5.0% 23.0% 10.4%
 Savings account 27.046 25.964 25.471 21.688 4.2% 3.8% 24.7% 11.9%
 Fixed term non-adjustable by CER 43.447 42.514 41.718 38.448 2.2% 1.8% 13.0% 1.4%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 7.460 7.386 7.396 6.330 1.0% 0.6% 17.8% 5.7%
 CEDRO with CER 30 29 33 1.423 1.2% 0.8% -97.9% -98.1%
 Other deposits (3) 9.058 8.942 9.233 7.873 1.3% 0.9% 15.1% 3.2%
 Deposits of the private sector 89.872 88.727 87.956 78.056 1.3% 0.9% 15.1% 3.3%
 Deposits of the public sector 33.064 33.751 32.945 26.878 -2.0% -2.4% 23.0% 10.3%
 Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 4.321 4.119 4.009 4.257 4.9% 1.5%
 Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 62.284 62.084 60.896 54.822 0.3% -0.1% 13.6% 1.9%
 Loans to the private sector 47.547 46.843 45.583 34.855 1.5% 1.1% 36.4% 22.4%
 Advances 8.447 8.266 8.489 6.279 2.2% 1.8% 34.5% 20.7%
 Documents 10.884 10.901 10.323 6.732 -0.2% -0.6% 61.7% 45.0%
 Mortgage loans 8.715 8.664 8.610 8.769 0.6% 0.2% -0.6% -10.9%
 Pledge loans 2.490 2.394 2.288 1.711 4.0% 3.6% 45.5% 30.5%
 Personal loans 7.875 7.616 7.149 4.606 3.4% 3.0% 71.0% 53.4%
 Credit cards 5.581 5.493 5.115 3.306 1.6% 1.2% 68.8% 51.4%
 Others 3.555 3.507 3.610 3.451 1.4% 1.0% 3.0% -7.6%
 Loans to the public sector 14.737 15.242 15.312 19.967 -3.3% -3.7% -26.2% -33.8%
 Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 2.546 2.500 2.456 1.810 1.8% 40.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 78.160 80.360 78.371 61.369 -2.7% -3.1% 27.4% 14.2%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 105.206 106.325 103.842 83.058 -1.1% -1.4% 26.7% 13.6%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 165.201 165.195 162.221 137.131 0.0% -0.4% 20.5% 8.1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 178.460 177.740 174.303 149.544 0.4% 0.0% 19.3% 7.0%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 65.277 65.664 64.396 50.889 -0.6% -1.0% 28.3% 15.1%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 86.631 87.016 85.238 69.395 -0.4% -0.8% 24.8% 12.0%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 132.138 131.445 129.276 110.253 0.5% 0.1% 19.8% 7.5%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 145.396 143.989 141.358 122.666 1.0% 0.6% 18.5% 6.3%
 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2006 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT - FEBRUARY 2006

**Monetary Base** -928 -1.6% 2.520 4.5% 2.599 4.7% 8.960 18.1%
**Financial Sector** -2.414 -4.1% -2.951 -5.3% -1.185 -2.1% -7.600 -15.4%
**Public Sector** -1.237 -2.1% -2.407 -4.3% -1.604 -2.9% -4.586 -9.3%
 Temporary advances + transfer of profits -1.006 -719 -577 1.545
 Utilization of the national government account -7 -226 -539 -955
 External credit -223 -1.461 -488 -5.177
**Private External Sector** 2.839 4.8% 6.876 12.3% 5.036 9.0% 30.559 61.8%
**BCRA Securities** 152 0.3% 1.582 2.8% 852 1.5% -7.982 -16.1%
**Others** -269 -0.5% -579 -1.0% -499 -0.9% -1.431 -2.9%
**International Reserves** 451 2.3% -6.442 -24.3% -7.204 -26.4% -468 -2.3%
**Intervention in the foreign exchange market** 928 4.7% 2.264 8.5% 1.650 6.1% 10.423 50.8%
**Payment to international organizations** -1.005 -5.1% -9.903 -37.4% -9.759 -35.8% -14.110 -68.7%
**Other operations of the public sector** 351 1.8% 785 3.0% 615 2.3% 4.188 20.4%
**Minimum cash** 96 0.5% 49 0.2% 61 0.2% -1.520 -7.4%
**Valuation repo rate** -20 -0.1% 118 0.4% 55 0.2% -226 -1.1%
**Others** 102 0.5% 245 0.9% 173 0.6% 778 3.8%

 ¹ Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 ² Net of unified funds utilization.
 ³ Net of BODEN accounted for.
 ⁴ The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

 Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

---

**Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.**

**Passive Interest Rates** | Feb-06 | Jan-06 | Dec-05 | Nov-05 | Feb-05

**Call in pesos (1 day)**
Rate | 5.35 | 7.17 | 6.73 | 6.62 | 2.18
Amount operated | 740 | 814 | 912 | 924 | 266

**Fixed Term**
**In pesos**
 30 days | 5.48 | 5.32 | 4.74 | 4.43 | 2.70
 60 days or more | 6.28 | 6.01 | 5.87 | 5.34 | 3.42
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 6.06 | 6.23 | 5.50 | 5.08 | 2.63
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 7.38 | 8.22 | 7.48 | 6.78 | 2.93

**In dollars**
 30 days | 0.66 | 0.60 | 0.58 | 0.60 | 0.27
 60 days or more | 1.15 | 1.12 | 1.11 | 1.12 | 0.62
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.58 | 0.63 | 0.55 | 0.61 | 0.24
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.75 | 1.06 | 0.98 | 1.06 | 0.75

**Active Interest Rates** | Feb-06 | Jan-06 | Dec-05 | Nov-05 | Feb-05
**Prime in pesos at 30 days** | 7.47 | 7.53 | 7.14 | 6.70 | 5.41

**Repurchase agreements in pesos**
 Gross interest rate at 30 days | 7.78 | 8.12 | 7.85 | 7.11 | 3.07
 Amount operated (total terms) | 92 | 97 | 92 | 93 | 71

**Loans to the private sector in pesos ⁽¹⁾**
 Overdrafts in current account | 17.20 | 17.46 | 17.02 | 16.80 | 13.92
 Documents at sole signature | 11.92 | 11.54 | 11.67 | 11.00 | 9.79
 Mortgages | 11.87 | 11.72 | 11.47 | 11.39 | 11.26
 Pledges | 9.94 | 9.47 | 10.27 | 10.04 | 11.26
 Personal loans | 25.05 | 25.00 | 25.08 | 25.16 | 26.70
 Credit cards | n/d | 27.68 | 27.99 | 28.07 | 26.95

**International Interest Rates** | Feb-06 | Jan-06 | Dec-05 | Nov-05 | Feb-05
**LIBOR**
 1 month | 4.58 | 4.48 | 4.36 | 4.15 | 2.61
 6 months | 4.92 | 4.73 | 4.67 | 4.55 | 3.05

**US Treasury Bond**
 2 years | 4.66 | 4.39 | 4.39 | 4.41 | 3.38
 10 years | 4.56 | 4.40 | 4.46 | 4.53 | 4.16

**FED Funds Rate** | 4.50 | 4.26 | 4.17 | 4.00 | 2.49

**SELIC (at 1 year)** | 17.25 | 17.69 | 18.21 | 18.89 | 18.45

 ⁽¹⁾ Data up to September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from October are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report – FEBRUARY 2006

---

**Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.**

**Reference Interest Rates** | Feb-06 | Jan-06 | Dec-05 | Nov-05 | Feb-05

**BCRA repurchase rates**
 Passive 1 day | 4.50 | 4.50 | 4.48 | 4.00 | n/a
 Passive 7 days | 5.00 | 5.00 | 4.98 | 4.50 | 2.75
 Active 7 days | 6.00 | 6.00 | 6.00 | 5.78 | 3.25

**Total REPO round repurchase rates**
 1 day | 4.68 | 5.25 | 4.86 | 4.91 | 2.08
 7 days | 5.45 | 5.37 | 5.20 | 4.79 | 2.75
Amount traded in REPO round passes (daily average) 2.635 2.194 2.708 1.527 1.520

LEBAC rates in pesos
1 month 6.79 6.77 6.71 6.72 2.98
2 months 6.99 6.92 6.91 n/o n/o
3 months 7.25 7.13 7.30 7.26 4.01
9 months n/o n/o n/o 8.15 5.47
12 months n/o n/o n/o 8.90 5.91

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon
9 months BADLAR Private Banks 3.11 2.98 n/o n/o n/o
2 years BADLAR Private Banks 5.53 5.33 4.72 5.09 n/o
2 years BADLAR Total 6.19 6.25 6.26 5.14 n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in secondary market (daily average) n/d 186 100 135 57

Foreign Exchange Market Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Feb-05

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.07 3.04 3.02 2.97 2.92
BCRA Reference 3.07 3.05 3.01 2.97 2.92

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.07 3.06 3.04 2.98 2.91
ROFEX 1 month 3.07 3.05 3.02 2.97 2.91
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 135 180 228 270 56

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.42 1.35 1.32 1.34 1.12

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.67 3.69 3.58 3.50 3.80

Capital Market Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Feb-05

MERVAL
Index 1.709 1.666 1.530 1.608 1.493
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 101 92 79 78 115

Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.22 90.29 88.60 89.04 87.16
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 95.77 89.04 85.62 n/o n/o
BODEN 2014 ($) 91.23 89.52 88.48 90.35 n/o
DISCOUNT ($) 100.83 95.71 94.73 94.78 n/o

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 308 413 438 417 455
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 217 251 272 278 290

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

17
