# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
MAY 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 3
5. Interest Rates 4
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 4
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 5
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 7
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Stocks 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Common Investment Funds 10
   - Private Securities 11
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clearly stated:
Monthly Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• The means of payment in pesos (M2) followed a trajectory that placed them near the lower limit of the range provided for June in the 2006 Monetary Program (PM 2006), reaching an average balance of approximately $108,480 million. This level allows for forecasting compliance with PM 2006 in the second quarter. In a month of high tax concentration and record tax collection, the increase in means of payment was explained fundamentally by the rise in sight deposits of the public sector.

• The BCRA continued with its prudential policy of accumulating international reserves. The monetary effect thereof was sterilized through various instruments, among which repo operations stood out, and to a lesser extent the placement of LEBACs and NOBACs.

• Banking liquidity increased to 17% of the total of deposits in pesos (resulting 1.5 percentage points higher than in April) driven by the increase in liquidity in the group of public entities, which originated from strong tax collection.

• During the month the monetary authority decided to increase the interest rates of its repo operations by 0.5 percentage points, arranging 1-day passive repos at 5%, 7-day repos at 5.5% and 7-day active repos at 7.5%. The call market continued showing great activity, while interest rates declined although presenting significant fluctuations. Among passive interest rates, those for the shortest-term placements remained relatively stable, interrupting the growing trend they had been showing. By contrast, in longer terms the upward trend continued. Active interest rates were also generally maintained, with the exception of current account advance rates which declined due to the greater relative participation of financing to large companies, which generally access financing at lower rates.

• In a favorable macroeconomic context and favored by the adequate regulatory incentives established by the BCRA aimed at extending maturities and exercising prudent management of associated risks, loans to the private sector continued showing important dynamism during May. In year-over-year terms, they accumulate growth of 39.1%, which in real terms amounts to 24.7%. They currently represent approximately 10% of GDP, which implies a recovery of approximately 3 percentage points with respect to the minimum levels recorded in early 2004.

• At the end of May, the stock of international reserves stood at US$24,162 million, increasing by US$1,762 million during the month. Thus, in just 5 months, 60% of the payment made for the cancellation of the entire debt with the IMF has already been recovered.

• In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso appreciated 0.2% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulates a depreciation of 3.5% over the last 12 months.

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
# Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

**Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**

**M2 and Monetary Program**

(thousands of millions of $)

Means of payment in pesos (M2) followed a trajectory that placed them near the lower limit of the range foreseen for June 2006 in the Monetary Program 2006 (PM 2006), reaching an average balance of around $108,480 million. This level allows us to foresee compliance with PM 2006 in the second quarter (see Graph 2.1).

It should be noted that in May sight deposits presented seasonal behavior related to the strong expiration of income tax on the fiscal year that ended in December 2005. As a consequence, most of the monthly increase in M2 was explained by the growth of sight deposits ($2,860 million, 4.6%), fundamentally from the public sector, which increased $1,900 million driven by the inflow of funds from tax collection, which in the month reached a record level.

Currency in circulation by the public showed a modest monthly increase of $370 million (0.9%), with year-on-year growth 6 percentage points lower than that recorded six months ago.

**Graph 2.2 Monetary Aggregates in Pesos**
**(average monthly variation - MAY 2006)**

Since time deposits also registered a monthly increase, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) grew $4,260 million (2.5%) (see Graph 2.2). In particular, in May fixed-term deposits rose $980 million (1.8%), mainly as a consequence of the increase shown by private sector placements ($640 million). The evolution of the latter followed a similar trajectory to that of the previous year with increases concentrated in the second half of the month, a period in which deposit balances are reconstituted after facing the tax expiration (see Graph 2.3).

For its part, deposits in foreign currency increased US$200 million (4.4%), driven by the growth of private sector placements. In this regard, private sight deposits increased US$100 million, while time placements increased by US$80 million. Public sector deposits remained virtually unchanged and, in this way, the stock of foreign currency deposits rose to US$4,900 million.

In short, the broadest monetary aggregate, considering placements in pesos and dollars (M3*) showed a monthly growth of $4,820 million and 20.7% in year-on-year terms.

On the other hand, the Monetary Base (BM) was located at $61,105 million, $876 million above the April level. Most of the increase experienced corresponded to a rise in reserve requirements derived not only from the increase in deposits but also from the change in their composition, skewed toward sight deposits. On the supply side, the expansion generated through the purchase of foreign currency that the BCRA carried out within the framework of its international reserves accumulation policy – accentuated by the
# TASK COMPLETED

Below is the English translation of the provided Spanish text from the Central Bank of Argentina's monthly report (May 2006):

---

2005 2006 positive seasonality that foreign exchange settlements present in
41.0 the month-, was sterilized by more than 80%. Among the factors of
40.5 monetary contraction, the repos stood out, which were mostly
30-Apr 7-May 14-May 21-May 28-May arranged with banks in which the public sector maintains its deposits and which, given the significant inflow of funds
Note: the 2005 levels were rescaled based on April 30, 2006. coming from tax collection, had excess resources
Source: BCRA at their disposal that they allocated to this market. These entities also had an important role in the placements of LEBAC and

2 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006 NOBAC. Likewise, the operations of the public sector generated
a slight contraction of the MB (see Chart 2.4).

Chart 2.4
thousands of Factors Explaining the Monetary Base
millions of $ (avg. variation May 2006)
6 3. Banking Liquidity¹
4.9
5
4 Banking liquidity² increased to 17% of total deposits
3 3 (1.5 p.p. higher than in April) driven by the increase in liquidity in the group of public entities resulting from strong
2
0.9 tax collection this month. As mentioned, public banks applied
1 most of the funds received to the arrangement of reverse repos
0 with the BCRA. The group of private banks, for its part, maintained
-0.1 -0.2 its average liquidity at levels similar to those of the previous month.

-1
-1.2
-2 By bank group, a very marked intra-monthly behavior was
-2.4 observed. The liquidity of private banks that had started the month
-3 at exceptionally high levels, was reduced during the first half of
External Repos BCRA Rediscounts Public Sector Monetary May due to deposit withdrawals for tax payment deadlines, and
Factor Titles Base recovered in the second half of the month through collection of
Source: BCRA amortization of guaranteed loans. As a counterpart, the liquidity of
public banks increased, mainly in the first fifteen days of May, due
to tax collection receipts and remained high until the end of the
month (see Chart 3.1).

Chart 3.1
Banking Liquidity in Pesos The position of minimum cash also reflected the
intra-monthly movements typical of a month with strong tax payment
Banking liquidity deadlines. In this regard, an exceptionally higher surplus of
% of Banking liquidity + LEBAC and NOBAC % of minimum cash was observed in private banks in the first days of
deposits deposits the month, which allowed financial entities to meet fund outflows
42 Private Banks Public Banks 42 on the days of tax payments during the first half of the month and close
39 May May 39 their average monthly minimum cash position at a level similar to
36 36 that of previous months (see Chart 3.2). The group of public banks,
33 33 for its part, showed behavior in line with that evidenced in other
30 30 months, given that extraordinary funds received from tax collection
27 27 were not maintained in current accounts at the BCRA but were
24 24 mostly allocated to arranging repos with the BCRA. The minimum
21 21 cash position in the total system was approximately 0.5% of total
18 18 peso deposits, similar also to that of previous months.

15 15
12 12 In the foreign currency deposits segment, the minimum cash
Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 position remained practically constant at around 25% of total
Source: BCRA deposits in dollars.

Chart 3.2
Minimum Cash Position in Pesos 4. Loans¹³

Last 7 days Daily Accumulated
% of % of In a favorable macroeconomic context and favored by the
deposits Private Banks deposits Public Banks adequate regulatory incentives established by the BCRA
3.0 3.0

2.5 2.5

2.0 2.0

1.5 1.5

1.0 1.0

0.5 0.5

0.0 0.0

-0.5 -0.5

---
-1.0 -1.0 aimed at extending terms and exercising prudent management of

-1.5 -1.5 associated risks, loans to the private sector continued

-2.0 -2.0
Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 showing significant dynamism during May. In annual terms,

Source: BCRA

2 Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos for the BCRA as a percentage of deposits

3 Loan figures are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

3 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Graph 4.1 they accumulated growth of 39.1%, which in real terms amounted
Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector % to 24.7% (see Graph 4.1). With respect to GDP, they currently
% represent around 10%, a figure which, although still small in
60 25 relation to history or in comparison with neighboring countries,
23 reflects a recovery of approximately 3 percentage points with
40 39.1 respect to the minimum levels recorded at the beginning of 2004.
21
24.7 In the last three months, foreign currency financing regained
20 19 importance, linked to export financing, a fact that was facilitated
17 by the relaxation of documentary support requirements to be
0 15 presented, ordered by the BCRA (see Graph 4.2). In March, dollar
13 loans increased by US$220 million (7.9%).
-20 +2.9 p.p. 11
i.a. var. in nominal terms
-40 i.a. var. in real terms - deflated by CPI 9 In the peso segment, commercial financing regained renewed
7 vitality, increasing by $520 million (2.3%) during the month. This
In terms of GDP (right axis)
increase is explained almost entirely by the behavior of advances,
-60 5
Dec-97 Sep-98 Jun-99 Mar-00 Dec-00 Sep-01 Jun-02 Mar-03 Dec-03 Sep-04 Jun-05 Mar-06 which increased by $510 million (6.2%). This was due to the fact
Source: BCRA that in a month of high concentration of tax payments, funding
needs by companies increased. The increase between end-of-month
is even greater (amounting to $1,000 million) and would leave a
statistical carryover for June (of around $270 million). On the
other hand, financing instruments through documents and "other
Graph 4.2 loans" barely grew.
Loans to the Private Sector
% (var. of monthly averages by currency in terms of total) In a framework of gradual growth in the wage bill and family
4 spending, consumer financing recorded an increase of $750
3 million (4%), the largest increase since December of the previous
2 year (see Graph 4.3). This significant increase was possible thanks
1 to an increase of $480 million in personal loans and $270 million
0 in credit card financing, which is partly explained because on the
-1 eve of the start of the FIFA World Cup championship, sales of
-2 Total loans appliances and household items increased.

-3 Loans denominated in pesos
-4 Loans denominated in foreign currency Finally, financing with real guarantees continued to grow, both
in the case of pledge loans and those with mortgage guarantee,
Apr-03 Aug-03 Dec-03 Apr-04 Aug-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Aug-05 Dec-05 Apr-06 which increased by $130 million (4.7%) and $50 million (0.5%)
Source: BCRA respectively. It should be noted that mortgage loans have already
accumulated 12 consecutive months of increases.

5. Interest Rates

Graph 4.3
Consumer Loans and Sales of Appliances
thousands of Titles issued by the BCRA 4
1997=100 millions of $
290 17
Sales Supermarkets - Electronics and household articles
Personal + Cards (average) (Right axis) In May, the process of extending the maturity
15
240 of the portfolio of securities issued by the BCRA continued. Thus, in the middle of the month

13 LEBAC auctions of shorter duration –1 and 2 months- were discontinued, and
190 11 furthermore, LEBAC in pesos with 1-year maturity continued to be regularly
awarded. Likewise, when considering the offers received, it was observed that in
140 9 the month the preference for those securities that pay fixed interest rates increased
at the expense of those that pay variable coupon based on
7
90 the BADLAR interest rate (see Chart 5.1).

5
40 3 In this way, at the end of May the composition of the stock in

Ene-97 Ene-98 Ene-99 Ene-00 Ene-01 Ene-02 Ene-03 Ene-04 Ene-05 Ene-06 circulation of the securities in pesos issued by the BCRA changed

Source: BCRA based on information from BCRA itself and INDEC

4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

4 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Chart 5. 1 significantly compared to that in effect at the end of 2005. The ones that most
Demand for LEBAC and NOBAC gained participation were securities of between 9 months and 2 years,

VN, thousands of
millions of $ 28 60 which came to constitute 49% of the VN $30,443 million in

9 90 150 circulation as of May 31, while at the end of last year they only
8 182 270 represented 23%. This increase was mainly at
364 2-3 years the expense of the participation of LEBAC of up to 3 months (see

7 Chart 5.2).

6
5 With respect to placement interest rates, in the

4 last auction of the month the 1-year LEBAC was awarded at 11.9%, 0.3
3 basis points above the rate paid at the end of April. On the other hand, in
65% 2 the NOBAC segment, the rates were lower than those of the previous month,
1 recording decreases of 0.5 basis points. Thus, the one with 11 months
14% 0
Ene-06 Feb-06 Mar-06 Abr-06 May-06 of residual maturity was placed at 11.01%, while the one with 24 months was

Source: BCRA awarded at 12.26%.

Interbank Markets

Repo Market1

Continuing with the policy of gradual interest rate increases,
in the middle of May the BCRA decided to increase the interest
Chart 5.2 rates of its repo operations by 0.5 basis points. In this way, from
Structure of Balance of LEBAC and NOBAC then on it began to arrange 1-day passive repos at 5% and those

DECEMBER 2005 MAY 2006of 7 days at 5.5%. Likewise, 7-day active repos began to
More than 2 years More than 2 yearsUp to 1 month
9% 3% 6% be arranged at 7.5%.
Up to 1 month From 1 to 3 months
23% 14%

From 1 to 2 years From 1 to 2 years The amount traded with the BCRA increased significantly
18% 39% compared to the previous month and the daily average reached $3,263

From 3 to 6 months million (see Chart 5.3). The increase was evident in operations
From 9 to 12 months 13% arranged through the REPO round, where public entities
5%
placed excess funds from sector deposits.
From 6 to 9 months From 1 to 3 months Public
10% 26% From 9 to 12 months From 6 to 9 months
From 3 to 6 months 11% 14%
9%
Source: BCRA On the other hand, at the end of the month the payment of
amortization services for guaranteed loans was made, which temporarily
increased the available resources for some entities, which decided to
allocate them to the repo market. This contributed to the balance of passive
repos being located in the last days of May at maximum levels for the current
year. However, it is expected that this level will decrease again as these
entities direct the funds to other longer-term investments.

Chart 5. 3 Interbank Market1
Amount Traded in Repos by the BCRA
thousands of
millions of $
4.5 FCI In a month of elevated tax concentration and of

4.0 Com. A 4399 (overnight) important government obligation payments to local debt holders, the
REPO Round call market continued to show great activity,
3.5
3.0 while interest rates continued declining although

2.5 presenting significant fluctuations.

2.0
During the first half of May, the greater funding needs
1.5
of companies linked to tax payments, which
1.0
reduced liquidity for a group of banks, put upward pressure on
0.5
interest rates and caused great volatility. The 1-day call rate
0.0
May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Ene-06 Mar-06 May-06 increased up to reaching a peak of 8.7%, to then resume in

Source: BCRA the second half of the month its downward trajectory and end the month at
5.2%. The end-of-month level turned out to be just 0.2 p.p. higher than the new
reference interest rate level established by the BCRA

5 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Graphic 5.4 through its 1-day passive repo operations (see Graphic 5.4).
Interest Rates for Call and Repo Operations The May average stood at 5.9% which implies a decline
% %
11 11 of 1.5 p.p. compared to the previous month. Similar behavior was

10 10 observed in the case of the interest rate for 7-day operations,

Repo Broker BCRA at 7 days whose average stood at 7.1%.
9 Call at 1 day 9

8 Repos at 1 day 8
Call at 7 days The outstanding call stock continued at elevated levels, above
7 BCRA Passive Repos at 1 day 7
$1,100 million and the average of the first 5 months of 2006

6 6 is more than double that in effect in the same period a year ago.

5 5
By group of banks, the behavior of private entities
4 4 of national capital is noteworthy, who had started the month

3 3 with a net borrowing position (contributing with their demand for

2 2 funds to the increase in interest rates), which they reversed mid-

1 1 month (see Graphic 5.5). Also observed in the first
02-May-05 27-Jul-05 21-Oct-05 16-Ene-06 11-Abr-06
Source: BCRA half of the month are smaller net amounts borrowed by foreign entities
and smaller amounts granted by public banking, which
is consistent with the evolution of liquidity described by group of
banks (see Section 3).

Passive Interest Rates1

Graphic 5.5 During May the interest rates for placements at more
millions of $ Interbank Market % short-term (30 to 59 days) maintained the same levels as the
500 (Daily net position by group of entities and interest rate) 12
previous month, interrupting the growing trend that had been
400 11
observed in passive rates. On the contrary, in longer
300 10
terms the upward trend continued.
200 9

100 8 In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR interest rate of

0 private banks remained relatively stable and ended the month
7
-100 at 8.8% which implies that intra-month changes in liquidity
6
-200 did not affect this market. The BADLAR interest rate of public banks
-300 5 also did not present major variations, maintaining at

-400 4 5%. However, the total BADLAR interest rate, although it ended the month
# Translation to English

-500 Foreign 3 months at the same levels as the previous month (7.1%), showed
 Private National
 Public again a wide intramonthly variation as a consequence
-600 Interest rate (right axis) 2
 1-Mar 13-Mar 22-Mar 3-Apr 12-Apr 25-Apr 5-May 16-May 26-May
Source: BCRA of the diverse composition of deposits by bank group. Thus,
 during the second week of the month, as the relative importance
 of public sector placements diminished, which are found in their great
 majority in public banks and at lower rates, the total
 interest rate began to rise. After the third week this group of
 banks again increased their participation within the total amount
 of placements, which again produced the decline of the total
 interest rate (See Chart 5.6).
 Chart 5.6 Interest rates on retail deposits (placements
 BADLAR Interest Rate for amounts less than $100,000) in the short term also
 fixed-term deposits in pesos of 30-35 days exceeding $1 million
 % (5-day moving average) did not show significant variation, increasing on average 0.1 p.p.. The
10 retail rate in public banks was 4.2% and in private
 Total banks 6.4%.
 Public Banks
 Private Banks
 8
 Finally, unlike short-term deposits, the
 7
 6 interest rates for longer terms (regardless of the amount bracket)
 maintained the rising trend. In this way, for
 5 deposits at 60 days an increase of 0.9 p.p. was recorded and for more than
 90 days the increase was 0.6 p.p., the average interest rates
 4 were placed at 7.2% and 8% respectively (See Chart 5.7).
 3
 2
 Sep-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Apr-06 May-06
Source: BCRA

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

 Chart 5.7 Active Interest Rates1 5
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 (weighted monthly average by amount traded)
 % With respect to active interest rates, they
 9 30 to 59 days remained generally relatively stable with the exception of a
 8 60 to 89 days decline in current account advance rates.
 more than 90 days
 7 Although during the month there was an increase in the amount of
 6 advances granted, which was mainly to large companies,
 5 interest rates remained on a downward trend in line with those of
 the interbank market and presenting less volatility than it. The
 4 average interest rate for advances was 17.5% which
 3 represented a decline of 0.5 p.p.. Meanwhile, for financing
 2 through documents signed solely it remained stable at 12.7%
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06
 Note: Operations with fixed terms adjustable by CER are not included. (see Chart 5.8).

 Source: BCRA
 Interest rates for financing with real collateral also showed
 no variations. Mortgage loans continued with marked growth in the
 amount of new loans granted, which thus far this year doubles what
 was granted in the same period of the previous year. The average
 interest rate applied to these loans was 11.5% and for those with
 pledge collateral was 10%.
 Chart 5.8 On the other hand, the interest rate for personal loans
 TNA, % Commercial Loans continues in decline, placing its average in May at 23.7%.
 30 (Weighted monthly average interest rate by amount) In this regard, although when analyzing operations at the level of each
 Advances financial entity no significant variations are observed in the interest rates
 25 Documents that they agree to, for some time now a greater participation of loans
 granted by banks has been recorded to the detriment of those granted by
 20 financial companies, which generally apply higher interest rates
15 higher rates. This change in the composition of personal loans is responsible for the variation in the average interest rate. Finally, in the case of financing with credit cards, although information is not yet available to estimate the May rate, in April it remained at 27.3%.

5
Nov-03 May-04 Nov-04 May-05 Nov-05 May-06
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market6

At the end of May, the stock of international reserves stood at US$24,162 million, increasing US$1,762 million during the month (see Chart 6.1). In this way, in just 5 months, 60% of the payment made to the IMF at the beginning of the year has been recovered. The Grafico 6.1
increase is explained mainly by the BCRA's purchases of foreign currency (which account for 76% of the monthly increase) in response to the abundant liquidation of foreign currency by exporters typical of this time of year. Also, although to a lesser extent, the placement of government debt (Bonar V and Boden 2012) had a favorable impact by generating a net inflow of foreign currency (22%).

BCRA International Reserves
thousands of millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)

In May, the peso appreciated in relation to the dollar, repeating the same behavior observed in the previous month. In both the spot market and the forward market7, said appreciation was 0.3% (see Chart 6.2). The peso exhibited the same behavior with respect to the real (which reversed the bullish trend observed until the Grafico 6.2
previous month), whose variation was 2.3%. On the contrary, with respect to the euro, the peso depreciated 3.7%. In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso appreciated 0.2%

$/USD Foreign Exchange Market
$/EUR $/REAL (monthly averages)

with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulates a depreciation of 3.5% over the last 12 months.

Peso/Dollar - spot market
Peso/Dollar - forward market (ROFEX at 30 days) The trading volumes in the spot market continued to increase in May, although at a lower rate than that
Peso/Real - right axis
Peso/Euro observed in previous months (see Chart 6.3). Said increase was explained by a 4% increase in volumes traded in the Electronic Brokers Market (MEC) and 8% in the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL). Such operations were, in

---

5 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly reporting requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to March 2006, the values for April and May 2006 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

6 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated.

7 Operations arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX) with a 1-month term.

7 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006
2.8 1.0 average, for $109 million and $187 million respectively. On the
 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06
 Source: BCRA other hand, the BCRA's participation in said markets was 17% of
 the total traded, greater than the previous month by 5 p.p..
 In the futures market, the operations arranged in
 May were significantly higher than those from the previous month (see
 Chart 6.3). The increases were distributed homogeneously among the
 volumes traded both in the MAE Futures Market
 as well as in the Rosario Term Market (ROFEX). In them, the
 operations averaged $29 million and $100 million, 34% and 37%
 Chart 6.3 higher than last month, respectively. The BCRA's participation
 Volumes Traded in the Foreign Exchange Market in said markets remained at 5%.

 (monthly averages)
 millions Spot market
 of US$ Futures market %

 350 BCRA participation in the spot market (right axis) 25
 BCRA participation in the futures market (right axis) 7. Capital Market

 300
 20
 250 Equities

 200 15

 150 The MERVAL index declined 13.4% in May, leaving the
 10
 return from the beginning of the year at 7.2% (see Chart 7.1).
 100
 5 Likewise, in the last twelve months, the return of the same index
 50 rose to 11.3%, resulting barely negative when measured in

 0 0 real terms. The reduction in quotations in the local stock market
 May-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 May-06was a particular case of an increase in the aversion to

 Source: BCRA
 global risk of investors. Indeed, the fall in
 quotations was observed in all high-yield assets,
 while an immediate decrease was verified in the rate of the
 U.S. Treasury 10-year bond reflecting greater demand
 for assets considered as risk-free (see Chart 7.2).
 Chart 7.1 Likewise, when compared with other stock markets
 Local Equity Market in the region, the index measured in dollars also showed a fall

millions of $ MERVAL very strong. Thus measured, the MERVAL index fell 14.4%, only

200 2000
 Amount traded MERVAL (right axis) below the Brazilian stock index (BOVESPA) which declined
180 1900
 18.1% with respect to the previous month. The index that represents the
160 1800
 securities market of Mexico (IPC) contracted 11.7% along with the
140 1700
 securities market of Chile (IGPA) which decreased by 4.3%. In the
120 1600
 case of Peru (IGBVL), the market increased by 1.2% in
100 1500
 80 1400 comparison with the previous month.

 60 1300 The volatility of the MERVAL index increased strongly

 40 1200 in May, as did the rest of the risk assets. Indeed,

 20 1100 the volatility of 21 annualized rounds reached 41% versus 21%

 0 1000 recorded in April. It should be noted that the increase in volatility
 jan-05 mar-05 may-05 jul-05 sep-05 nov-05 jan-06 mar-06 may-06

Source: Bloomberg of the stock market of Argentina maintained a similar pattern to
 that observed in the region, and in the more
 developed stock markets. For example, the historical volatility of the S&P 500, also
 increased in the month. (see Chart 7.3).

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

 Chart 7.2 The volume traded (daily average) in the market

 Local Stock Market Index and U.S. Treasury Bond Rate
 MERVAL Rate in % of 10 years of the U.S.equities was $79 million, an amount similar to that observed

 1,950 5.25
 from the end of the previous year and $15 million above the amount traded
 1,900 MERVAL (Left Axis) 5.20
 12 months ago.
 1,850 Rate of the Treasury bond of 10
 years of the U.S. 5.15
 1,800

 1,750 5.10
 Public Securities

 1,700 5.05

 1,650 The prices of sovereign debt securities also
 5.00
 1,600 reflected the increase in aversion to global risk observed in

 1,550 4.95the period. In particular, the spreads of external debt of the

 1,500 4.90emerging markets deteriorated by 37 bps, reaching 215

 28-Apr 10-May 19-May 31-Maybps., as measured by the EMBI+. In the case of Latin America, the
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
the same measurement shows that the deterioration was similar to that of the rest of
the emerging countries, increasing by 40bps. In the case of
Argentina and Brazil, the increase in the spreads of their external debt securities
was marginally higher, registering 55bps. in both
cases, although Argentina's spread level was positioned at 369 bps.,
above Brazil's 273 bps. Likewise, as can be
seen in the spread curves (see Chart 7.4), the increase
in dollar yields above those of the U.S. Treasury
bond curve was more pronounced in the case of the
Chart 7.3 longer duration
instruments, while in the shorter
instruments the spread increase was slight.
Volatility (%) Volatility (%)
(22 trading sessions) Stock Market Volatility (22 trading sessions)
60 24 In terms of parities, debt securities denominated

MERVAL (Argentina) in dollars registered a decline across the different durations.
IPC (Mexico)
50 BOVESPA (Brazil) 20 For example, in the environment of a 4-year duration, BONAR V

S&P 500 (USA) (Right Axis)
registered a decrease close to 0.7%, while at
40 16 longer durations the declines were stronger, reaching 5.7% and

30 12 6.5% in the case of DISC and PAR, respectively. It should be noted
that the dollar yield of instruments denominated in
20 8 this currency are in a range between 8.8% and 9.3% (see
Chart 7.4).
10 4
The real yield curve shifted toward higher
0 0 yields in all its segments (see Chart 7.5). Taking the
May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 case of Boden 08, real yields in the short segment of the

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data curve went from 1.7% to 2.8%. In the middle segment, yields
went from 4.3% to 5.5% for Boden 14, and in the long segment the
yield of DISC increased from 6.1% to 6.9% in the
same period. In terms of parities, the declines were 1.4%
for Boden 08, 6.4% for Boden 14 and 9.5% in the case of
Chart 7.4 DISC.

Annual Yield (%) Yield Curves in Dollars During the month, the National Government carried out two
Spread (p.p.) primary debt placements,
10.0 1.3 totaling an effective value of US$682
million and an increase in nominal value of debt close to

9.0 Boden 13 DISC PAR 1.0 US$739 million. Of the two placements, one corresponded to a
Boden 15 USD placement in the capital market while the other
Boden 12 BONAR
8.0 0.8 corresponded to a private operation. The first consisted of the
placement of a BONAR V at a dollar yield of 8.09% at
7.0 0.5 an average term of 4.9 years, while in the second a
Boden 12 was placed at a yield of 7.52% at an average term
6.0 30-Apr 0.3 of 3.2 years. It should be noted that in terms of spreads, the
31-May placements improved the conditions achieved since the beginning of
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve 31-May the year, in both cases.
5.0 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve 30-Apr 0.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 The volume traded of public securities (daily average)
amounted to $935 million, an amount that exceeds by around
Duration (years) 10% that traded in the previous month. It should be noted that of the total

Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute Chart 7.5 traded in public securities, three quarters correspond to

Annual Real Yield (%) Real Yield Curves in Pesos operations carried out in the MAE (Electronic Open Market)
8.0 while the remaining operations were carried out at the Buenos Aires

DISC $ Stock Exchange.
7.0 PAR $
Bogar

6.0 Boden 14

5.0 PRO 12
Institutional Investors

4.0 PRE 08 30-Apr

3.0 Boden 08 31-May Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds

2.0 Boden 07
1.0 The investment portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) reached $75,243 million on May 15. This implied an increase in the portfolio of 0.5% in the
 last 30 days and of 35% with respect to the same day of the previous year.
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

 This slight increase responds to the fact that the portfolio increase originated by new contributions, intended mainly to increase the position in securities ($707 million) and Mutual Investment Funds ($290 million), was partially compensated by the declines in stock markets, which on the date the AFJP portfolio was computed had not been fully recorded (see Chart 7.6). It is expected that when information for the complete month becomes available, a patrimonial decline associated with market performance will be recorded.

 Chart 7.6
 in millions of $ Sources of Explanation of Variation in AFJP Patrimony

800 Mutual Investment Funds

 The patrimony of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos decreased in May around $225 million (1.8%). Due to the patrimonial decline suffered mainly by variable income funds and accompanied by fixed income funds, which in turn was partially compensated by the increase in fixed-term and money market funds.

 Money market funds registered during the first days and until mid-month an expected patrimonial decrease due to the payment of income taxes and personal property taxes. This trend was partially compensated during the second half by the entry of new subscriptions from institutional clients (AFJP, ART, etc.), giving rise to a net increase in monthly patrimony of $615 million (14.1%) (see Chart 7.7).

 The profitability of these funds ended above the previous month's level, at 5.3%. This responded to the relatively higher remuneration they receive for their fixed-term deposits.

 Chart 7.7
 Money Market Funds

 With respect to variable income funds, the trend evident since the beginning of the year was reversed. During the month under analysis, patrimony decreased $768 million (12.2%) (see Chart 7.8). This responded mainly to the poor performance suffered by emerging markets (MERVAL, BOVESPA, etc.) against a scenario of greater volatility that negatively impacted the performance of these funds, which was positioned at 12.2%. It should be noted that of the total decrease suffered in patrimony during the current month, 70% ($534 million) occurred in specialized funds that concentrate their investments abroad, mainly in Latin America and Asia.

 Finally, fixed income funds presented a decline of $59 million (3.3%), while mixed income funds exhibited a decrease of $13.6 million (4.9%). In terms of performance, these funds yielded negative profitability of 1.0% and 5.4% respectively.

 Chart 7.8
 Variable Income Funds

 Títulos Privados [Private Securities]

 Central Puerto, a thermoelectric power generator, concluded the process of restructuring its financial debt, achieving a reduction of more than 50% of its liabilities, in default since February 2002. The new debt amount (US$182 million) will mature in 2011.
2,200 1,200 amortizing capital on a semi-annual basis and paying interest

1,100 quarterly at a rate of between 5% and 6.1%, among other

1,200 1,000 established conditions.
Jan-05 Feb-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Mar-06 May-06

Source: BCRA and CAFCI Metrogas, a natural gas distributor, announced the end of the
process of exchanging its financial liabilities, which had been initiated
in November 2003 and subsequently modified in 2005. The
debt, which in March 2006 amounted to $1.7 billion
(approximately US$550 million), was reduced to US$300
million through the repurchase of debt in cash (for a total of
US$126 million) and the issuance of three series of ONs, all of them with
maturity in December 2014 and fixed coupon, increasing and with semi-annual
payments: i) series 1 for US$236 million, with amortization of
capital in 10 semi-annual installments; ii) series 2-A for US$6.3 million,
Graph 7.9 amortizable in six semi-annual installments and iii) series 2-B for €26.1
million, with amortization in six semi-annual installments.
Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds
IRR % Camuzzi Gas Pampeana, a natural gas distributor, announced the
issuance of ONs series 3 for $50 million, with maturity in 2009
16
and at variable rate.
14

12 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, a differentiation
10 continues to be observed between companies that complied with the fulfillment
of their financial obligations and those that had to resort to the restructuring of
8
their debts after defaulting following the 2001-02 crisis. In terms of IRR, the
6 Non-restructured* (30-May-06)
additional premium required for ONs issued by companies that carried out
4 Restructured (30-May-06)
Non-restructured* (30-Apr-06) restructuring processes was located on average at 3.1 p.p., 0.5 p.p. lower than that
2 Restructured (30-Apr-06)
0 of the previous month (see Graph 7.9).
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Duration (years)
*Corresponds to ONs from issuers that have not incurred in payment default
Source: Own elaboration based on data from Bloomberg and others

Financial Trusts

Graph 7.10 In May, 17 Financial Trusts (FF) were placed for
$460 million, an amount similar to the average of the last three months
Amounts Issued Through Financial Trusts (see Graph 7.10). Compared to the same month of the previous year, the
millions May placement was significantly higher (194%).
of $

1,400 The securitization of consumer financing (personal loans plus credit card
1,230
1,200 1,144 coupons) was the main driver of the new FFs for the fourth consecutive month,
explaining more than 90% of the total issued (see Graph 7.11). Half of these
1,000
financings were securitized by financial entities regulated by the BCRA and
800 the remainder distributed among retailers (34%) and unregulated entities (8%),
580 593
468 464 among others. Leasing contracts were also securitized.
600 427 452
400 389
304 317 293 The cut rate of class A securities in pesos (both at fixed and variable rate)
200 157 issued in May remained at 12% on average, the same as in the previous month.
0 With respect to class B securities in pesos and at variable rate, which by nature
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May have durations greater than nine months (because they pay interest and return
capital once the class A securities are paid off), their average cut rate was 14%
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and BCBA data (reaching up to 16% for some particular FF). On the other hand, the
8 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered. average duration of the securities issued in May was reduced to six months,
due to the types of underlying assets securitized in the month.
11 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Graph 7.11
Underlying Assets
May 2006

Leasing
Contracts
8%
# LOANS

**Personal Loans 86%**
**Credit Card Vouchers 6%**

By the first quarter of 2006, the total stock of underlying assets amounted to approximately $10,500 million (see Chart 7.12), experiencing a quarterly variation of approximately $1,400 million. This increase is explained almost completely by the development of Financial Trusts with public securities as underlying assets.

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and BCBA data

Regarding the rest of the assets, such as consumer financing, mortgage loans and others, it is observed that liquidations (Financial Trusts written off) exceeded issuances. As of March 2006, the stock of underlying assets (excluding public securities) represents 11% of the stock of loans granted to the private sector by the banking system.

**Chart 7.12**
**Underlying Assets of Financial Trusts**
**thousands of Stocks and quarterly variations**
**millions of $**

| | Stock | variations |
|---|---|---|
| | 13 | |
| | 11 | 10.5 |
| | 9 | 9.1 |
| 6.7 | 6.9 | |
| 7 | 5.9 | 5.6 |
| 5 | | |
| 3 | | |
| 1 | | |
| -1 | 2004-IV | 2005-I | 2005-II | 2005-III | 2005-IV | 2006-I* |

* Provisional figures
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV

---

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

**Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.**

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | May-06 | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | May-05 | Monthly Percentage Variations | Last 12 months | | 
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| **Monetary Base** | 61,105 | 60,229 | 58,490 | 50,981 | 1.5% | 0.6% | 19.9% | 7.1% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 47,442 | 47,288 | 46,576 | 37,361 | 0.3% | -0.5% | 27.0% | 13.5% |
| In public hands | 42,979 | 42,611 | 42,222 | 33,587 | 0.9% | 0.1% | 28.0% | 14.4% |
| In financial entities | 4,463 | 4,678 | 4,355 | 3,773 | -4.6% | -5.3% | 18.3% | 5.7% |
| **Current account at the BCRA** | 13,663 | 12,941 | 11,914 | 13,621 | 5.6% | 4.7% | 0.3% | -10.4% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 4,130 | 1,810 | 1,795 | 5,252 | 128.2% | 126.4% | -21.4% | -29.7% |
| Assets | 287 | 384 | 485 | 43 | -25.2% | -25.8% | 571.6% | 500.2% |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)** | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 9,272 | 10,207 | 13,561 | 16,418 | -9.2% | -9.9% | -43.5% | -49.5% |
| In dollars | 38 | 38 | 37 | 43 | 0.3% | -10.8% | | |
| **NOBAC** | 20,536 | 18,217 | 14,332 | 2,203 | 12.7% | 11.8% | 832.0% | 732.9% |
| **International Reserves of the BCRA** | 23,691 | 21,866 | 20,873 | 21,602 | 8.3% | 9.7% | | |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 129,151 | 125,258 | 124,204 | 109,637 | 3.1% | 2.3% | 17.8% | 5.3% |
| Current account (2) | 37,946 | 36,075 | 36,269 | 30,881 | 5.2% | 4.4% | 22.9% | 9.8% |
| Savings account | 27,559 | 26,574 | 27,674 | 22,282 | 3.7% | 2.9% | 23.7% | 10.5% |
| Fixed term not adjustable by CER | 47,419 | 46,230 | 43,821 | 40,797 | 2.6% | 1.8% | 16.2% | 3.9% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER | 7,053 | 7,259 | 7,472 | 6,463 | -2.8% | -3.6% | 9.1% | -2.5% |
| CEDRO with CER | 30 | 30 | 30 | 938 | 0.7% | -0.1% | -96.8% | -97.1% |
| Other deposits (3) | 9,144 | 9,090 | 8,938 | 8,277 | 0.6% | -0.2% | 10.5% | -1.3% |
| **Deposits of private sector** | 93,978 | 92,434 | 90,612 | 81,825 | 1.7% | 0.9% | 14.9% | 2.6% |
| **Deposits of public sector** | 35,173 | 32,824 | 33,591 | 27,812 | 7.2% | 6.3% | 26.5% | 13.0% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 4,903 | 4,698 | 4,448 | 4,077 | 4.4% | 20.3% | | |
| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 62,979 | 62,221 | 62,287 | 56,174 | 1.2% | 0.4% | 12.1% | 0.2% |
| **Loans to private sector** | 50,258 | 48,996 | 48,247 | 37,232 | 2.6% | 1.8% | 35.0% | 20.6% |
| Advances | 8,718 | 8,210 | 8,390 | 6,698 | 6.2% | 5.3% | 30.2% | 16.3% |
| Documents | 11,274 | 11,266 | 11,021 | 7,415 | 0.1% | -0.7% | 52.0% | 35.9% |
| Mortgage | 8,869 | 8,842 | 8,728 | 8,713 | 0.3% | -0.5% | 1.8% | -9.0% |
| Secured by chattel | 2,807 | 2,682 | 2,575 | 1,867 | 4.7% | 3.8% | 50.3% | 34.3% |
| Personal | 8,914 | 8,594 | 8,192 | 5,357 | 3.7% | 2.9% | 66.4% | 48.7% |
| Credit cards | 6,124 | 5,858 | 5,769 | 3,554 | 4.5% | 3.7% | 72.3% | 54.0% |
| Others | 3,552 | 3,545 | 3,571 | 3,629 | 0.2% | -0.6% | -2.1% | -12.5% |
| **Loans to public sector** | 12,721 | 13,225 | 14,040 | 18,941 | -3.8% | -4.6% | -32.8% | -40.0% |
| **Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 3,128 | 2,905 | 2,698 | 2,020 | 7.7% | 54.9% | | |

---

12 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006
# Total Monetary Aggregates (1)
M1 (cash in public hands + current accounts in pesos) 80.925 78.686 78.491 64.468 2.8% 2.0% 25.5% 12.2%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 108.484 105.260 106.165 86.750 3.1% 2.2% 25.1% 11.8%
M3 (cash in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 172.130 167.869 166.425 143.224 2.5% 1.7% 20.2% 7.4%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 187.101 182.278 180.106 155.014 2.6% 1.8% 20.7% 7.9%

## Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (cash in public hands + private current accounts in pesos) 67.618 66.518 65.435 53.624 1.7% 0.8% 26.1% 12.7%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 89.254 87.925 86.719 72.430 1.5% 0.7% 23.2% 10.1%
M3 (cash in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 136.958 135.044 132.834 115.412 1.4% 0.6% 18.7% 6.1%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 151.929 149.454 146.515 127.202 1.7% 0.8% 19.4% 6.7%

## Average Variations
Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2006 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base 876 0.0% 2.678 4.6% 5.278 9.5% 11.182 22.4%
Financial sector -2.498 -4.1% -4.269 -7.3% -5.454 -9.8% -12.243 -24.5%
Public sector -221 -0.4% -551 -0.9% -2.344 -4.2% -6.520 -13.1%
Temporary advances + profit transfers 540 1.144 567 2.255
Use of national government account -752 -2.266 -2.995 -3.224
External credit -10 572 84 -5.551
Private external sector 4.854 7.9% 10.357 17.7% 15.393 27.6% 39.427 79.0%
BCRA Securities -1.189 -1.9% -3.132 -5.4% -2.283 -4.1% -9.369 -18.8%
Others -69 -0.1% 273 0.5% -34 -0.1% -113 -0.2%

International reserves 1.826 0.0% 3.633 18.1% -3.571 -13.1% 3.073 14.9%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.592 6.7% 3.383 16.9% 5.033 18.5% 13.319 64.6%
Payments to international organizations -305 -1.3% -1.375 -6.9% -11.134 -40.8% -14.118 -68.5%
Other public sector operations -2 0.0% 825 4.1% 1.440 5.3% 3.234 15.7%
Minimum cash 86 0.4% 55 0.3% 116 0.4% -559 -2.7%
Repo rate valuation 159 0.7% 264 1.3% 320 1.2% 58 0.3%
Others 296 1.2% 480 2.4% 654 2.4% 1.139 5.5%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting Scheme.

13 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Interest rates in percentage nominal annual basis and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

**Passive Interest Rates** | May-06 | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Dec-05 | May-05

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 5.99 7.46 8.19 6.73 3.30
Amount traded 913 930 986 912 474

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 6.45 6.29 5.62 4.74 3.57
60 days or more 7.50 6.77 6.41 5.87 4.59
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.02 7.06 6.37 5.50 3.94
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.95 9.00 8.21 7.48 4.94

In dollars
30 days 0.71 0.72 0.67 0.58 0.38
60 days or more 1.29 1.28 1.31 1.11 1.07
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.56 0.61 0.56 0.55 0.46
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.94 0.81 1.44 0.98 1.53

**Active Interest Rates** | May-06 | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Dec-05 | May-05

Prime in pesos at 30 days 8.14 7.70 7.41 7.14 6.12

Repos in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.22 8.62 8.82 7.85 4.67
Amount traded (total terms) 136 110 105 92 73

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
Advances on current account 17.51 18.01 17.34 17.11 14.42
Documents on sole signature 12.71 12.77 12.11 11.55 9.61
Mortgages 11.47 11.58 11.36 11.55 11.31
Pledges 10.01 10.39 10.15 10.12 9.95
Personal loans 23.74 23.99 24.69 25.33 26.12
Credit cards n/a 27.27 27.35 27.93 27.68

**International Interest Rates** | May-06 | Apr-06 | Mar-06 | Dec-05 | May-05
# LIBOR
1 month 5.08 4.92 4.76 4.36 3.09
6 months 5.29 5.20 5.05 4.67 3.48

US Treasury Bond
2 years 4.96 4.88 4.73 4.39 3.63
10 years 5.10 4.98 4.72 4.46 4.13

FED Funds Rate 4.93 4.75 4.55 4.17 2.99

SELIC (at 1 year) 15.75 16.17 16.67 18.21 19.60

(1) Data through March correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from April and May are estimations made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

14 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006

Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates May-06 Apr-06 Mar-06 Dec-05 May-05

BCRA Pass-through Rates
Liabilities 1 day 4.79 4.50 4.50 4.48 n/a
Liabilities 7 days 5.29 5.00 5.00 4.98 3.75
Assets 7 days 7.29 7.0 6.77 6.0 4.23

Total REPO Round Pass-through Rates
1 day 5.38 5.97 6.36 4.86 3.27
7 days 5.51 5.92 5.81 5.20 3.76

Amount operated in REPO round pass-throughs (daily average) 2,256 2,056 1,749 2,708 1,252

LEBAC Rates in Pesos
1 month 6.61 6.61 6.71 6.71 5.22
2 months 6.82 6.86 6.90 6.91 n/a
3 months 7.08 7.18 7.24 7.30 5.94
9 months 10.33 n/a n/a n/a 6.48
12 months 11.68 11.50 n/a n/a 7.24

NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon
9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a 2.65 2.99 n/a n/a
1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.14 2.67 n/a n/a n/a
2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.38 4.07 4.92 4.72 2.58
2 years BADLAR Total n/a n/a n/a 6.26 3.16

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 25 51 159 98 212

Foreign Exchange Market May-06 Apr-06 Mar-06 Dec-05 May-05

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.05 3.07 3.08 3.02 2.89
BCRA Reference 3.05 3.07 3.08 3.01 2.89

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.07 3.07 3.08 3.04 2.89
ROFEX 1 month 3.06 3.07 3.08 3.02 2.89
Amount operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) 308 225 229 228 119

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.41 1.44 1.43 1.32 1.18

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 3.90 3.77 3.70 3.58 3.67

Capital Market May-06 Apr-06 Mar-06 Dec-05 May-05

MERVAL
Index 1,751 1,878 1,794 1,530 1,436
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 80 84 99 79 71

Government Bonds (at par value)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.41 91.53 92.04 88.60 85.72
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 95.67 98.36 99.23 85.62 n/a
BODEN 2014 ($) 84.49 86.77 89.07 88.48 77.56
DISCOUNT ($) 93.68 96.16 98.75 94.73 n/a

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 325 321 306 438 556
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 214 208 212 273 304

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

15 Monthly Monetary Report – MAY 2006
# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Mutual investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
y.o.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Broker Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System of Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral real exchange rate.
IRR: Internal rate of return.
TNA: Annual nominal rate.
VN: Nominal value.

16
