# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
JANUARY 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 4
4. Loans 5
5. Interest Rates 6
   5.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 6
   5.2. Interfinancial Markets 6
      5.2.1 Repurchase Agreement Market 6
      5.2.2 Interbank Market 7
   5.3. Passive Interest Rates 7
   5.4. Active Interest Rates 8
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 9
7. Capital Markets 10
   7.1. Equities 10
   7.2. Public Securities 11
   7.3. Institutional Investors 12
      7.3.1 Pension Fund Administrators 12
      7.3.2 Mutual Funds 12
   7.4. Private Securities 13
   7.5. Financial Trusts 13
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 15

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• The evolution of the money supply (M2) remained in line with what was projected in the 2006 Monetary Program, standing at $106,209 million, 4.3% below the upper limit and barely 1.6% above the lower limit, established as the range for the first quarter. Performance in March close to the lower band is consistent with the deceleration in the year-on-year growth of M2 projected in the program for the remainder of the year.

• The BCRA developed the 2006 Monetary Program based on quantitative targets for monetary aggregates, placing the focus for monitoring its compliance on M2. The use of M2 in the program responds to the positive transformations observed in the banking and financial system in recent years and has as a consequence a tighter control of monetary variables than that allowed by the monetary base (BM). Furthermore, as is well known, M2 is the monetary aggregate that has the closest relationship with the price level, whose stability is the objective of monetary policy. It should be noted that the upper limit of the Monetary Program implies growth of M2 in 2006 of 21.2%, much lower than that observed in the last three years (36%, 33%, and 25%, in 2003, 2004, and 2005, respectively), which reflects the deepening of the shift in the bias of monetary policy initiated in early 2005.

• The early repayment of rediscounts during January was $590 million and in February reached $1,550 million. In these operations the financial sector continued to be a factor of monetary absorption, and together with the contractionary effect of the public sector, they constitute a safeguard of monetary prudence.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to show sustained growth, registering a monthly variation of 3.1%. However, compared to December some commercial loan lines, specifically advances, decreased slightly, which is consistent with the seasonal behavior characteristic of the month, for which reason the monthly variation of total loans resulted lower than in the previous months.

• The BCRA made no changes in the interest rates of its repurchase agreement operations, maintaining the corridor of the 7-day term segment in the range of 5%-6%. As for the interest rates and the implicit margins in the placements of LEBAC and NOBAC, respectively, they remained at levels similar to those recorded in the last auction in December. The interest rates of the interbank market were converging gradually to the corridor established by the BCRA as a short-term reference. In contrast, the interest rate on deposits between 30 and 59 days maturity rose 0.4 p.p., registering an average of 5.5% in January. Similar increase (0.4 p.p.) presented the interest rate on current account advances, while that of pledge loans, that of documents at sole signature and that of personal loans decreased 0.7 p.p., 0.4 p.p., and 0.2 p.p. respectively.

• In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated, during January, 1.1% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulated in the last 12 months a depreciation of 0.7%.
P1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to in this report are monthly averages of daily balances.

Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

2. Monetary Aggregates

The evolution of the means of payment (M2) in January remained in line with what was projected in the 2006 Monetary Program (PM 2006), standing at $106,209 million, near the lower band established for the first quarter of the year (see Chart 2.1). Compliance in March close to the lower band is consistent with the deceleration of year-on-year M2 growth projected in the program for the rest of the year. It should be noted that the upper limit of the PM implies an M2 growth in 2006 of Chart 2.1 21.2%, much lower than that observed in the last three years (36%, 33% M2 and Monetary Program and 25%, in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively), which reflects the thousands of deepening of the change in the bias of monetary policy millions of $ initiated in early 2005.
130
Daily series

125 30-day moving average M2 showed a monthly increase of $2,380 million
Bands PM 2006 which corresponded in large part to the increase in currency held by the
120 public ($1,380 million), in line with its seasonal behavior at this time
of year, while transactional deposits, both public and private, showed
115 average increases of $680 million and $320 million respectively. It should
110 be noted that the variations observed on average were strongly influenced
by the "carryover" effect of the significant increase evidenced in the latter
105 part of the previous month (see Charts 2.2).
100
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Source: BCRA

In fact, when analyzing the figures between end of month, a slight decline in M2 is observed, close to $120 million.

Regarding currency held by the public, between end of month a decline of $1,470 million (-3.4%) is observed as a result of the seasonal behavior of economic agents who, after high demand for currency in December and early January, returned to deposits.

Chart 2.2

thousands of M2 For its part, demand deposits registered an increase
millions of $ (Base index 1-Jan=100, rescaled to values of 1-Jan-06) between end of month of $1,340 million (2.1%). Most of this increase corresponded to
116 placements by the public sector, which increased around $1,240 million (6.7%). This
114 2003 2004 increase was due to the strong inflow of tax revenues, part of which
112 2005 2006 were used by the national government for the cancellation of temporary
advances it had received from the BCRA. In the case of private sector
110 deposits, the variation between end of month was slightly positive, not
108 exceeding $100 million (0.2%). It should be noted that in December these
106 deposits had shown substantial growth thanks to inflows from time deposits,
due to greater seasonal liquidity needs, ending the month with a very
104 high balance. Thus, the modest increase observed in January is reasonable
102 and reflects, in part, the return of funds towards fixed-term deposits.

100
Jan Feb Mar The broader monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed in
Source: BCRA January an average increase of 1.8% ($2,850 million), which implied year-on-year growth of 20.7%. The increase in this aggregate was driven by the already mentioned increase in means of payment, since fixed-term placements, both from the public sector and the private sector, showed positive variations although clearly smaller, which amounted to $190 million (1.7%)

2 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

and $600 million (1.6%) respectively, while other deposits decreased $310 million (3.4%).

Chart 2.4
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
(variation 31-Jan-06 vs. 31-Dec-05)
---

## Fixed-Term Deposits without CER

Like in the case of M2, the average growth of
**PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTOR**
millions of $ Fixed-Term Deposits with CER this aggregate contains a strong carryover component, which invites

1,500 a more detailed analysis of the figures between end of month. In

1,250 effect, when comparing the balances at end of month, an

1,000 increase in M3 of less than 1% ($1,480 million) is observed.

750

500 Both fixed-term deposits from the public sector and those

250 from the private sector showed positive variations between end of

0 month in January, which were around $450 million (4.1%) and $950

-250 million (2.5%) respectively. In the case of public deposits, $100

-500 million of the increase corresponded to the segment adjustable by
 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more
 days days days days than 366 days days days days than 366 CER, while the rest was distributed homogeneously between the
 days days
 Source: BCRA segments of less than 90 days and 6 to 12 months. In the case of
 private placements, the shortest-term segment concentrated all new
 funds, registering an increase of $1,440 million; while deposits of
 more than 60 days and CER-adjustable deposits showed negative
 variations, which were around $370 million and $120 million

**Chart 2.5** respectively (see Chart 2.4).

**Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock**
**millions of US$ billions of US$**

550 For its part, the stock of CEDRO adjusted by CER, which

450 4.0 consists of certificates with pending judicial actions awaiting

350 resolution, showed no variations during January.

250

150 3.0 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos and in

50 dollars (M3*) showed in January an average monthly increase

-50 2.0 of 1.9% ($3,310 million), which translated into a positive

-150 year-on-year variation of 19.5%. Most of the growth

-250 corresponded to the peso segment, previously described, since

 Dep. S. Public 1.0 deposits in dollars remained relatively stable during January.

-350 Dep. S. Private

-450 Total (2nd. axis) In effect, dollar placements grew by only

-550 0.0 US$110 million. The increase was concentrated almost entirely in the
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 fixed-term deposit segment. Specifically, private fixed-term
 Source: BCRA deposits increased by US$90 million and those from the public
 sector increased by US$10 million (see Chart 2.5). In this way,
 the total stock of dollar deposits totaled in January nearly US$4,120
 million, a level similar to that of the same month of the previous
 year. The change in composition between public and private
 deposits in the total should be taken into account; while a year ago
 private placements represented 60% of total dollar deposits, at
 present they represent almost 90%, evidencing an increase of
 US$1,000 million in the last 12 months.

**Chart 2.6**

**thousands Factors Explaining the Monetary Base**
**millions of $ (Average Variation, January 2006)**

4 With respect to primary money creation, the Monetary Base

 (BM) average was positioned at $59,355 million. The greater

3 BM with respect to December reflected the recomposition of the
 current accounts of entities at the BCRA, following a December

 characterized by high seasonal demand for liquidity, and within

2 the framework of a minimum cash position for the quarter
 December-February. Therefore, the increase in BM in January is

 1 mostly explained by the excess integration of minimum cash by

 entities, which compensated for the shortfall they incurred in

0 December.

 As a consequence, most of the BM expansion came from the

-1 transfer of voluntary liquidity from entities, which...

 S. External Reverse BCRA Titles Re-discounts Public Sector Base

 Private Monetary

 Source: BCRA

---

**3 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006**
Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (Average monthly variation)

During January loans in pesos to the private sector continued growing, and registered a monthly variation of 3.1% ($1,410 million). However, some loan lines
500 reduced their growth rate, in accordance with the characteristic seasonal behavior of the month.

250 This seasonal deceleration is especially evident in commercial
0 loans, which reduced their growth from $960 million (4.5%) in
December to $270 million (1.2%) during January (see Chart 4.1).
-250 This is explained by the behavior of advances (see Chart 4.2),
which, as has occurred in previous years, were reduced during
-500 January, on this occasion by $210 million (-2.5% monthly).
Source: BCRADec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Additionally, "other loans" decreased by $100 million (-2.5%).
In contrast, loans executed through documents continued growing,
and registered in January an increase of $580 million (5.6%), a
large part of which corresponds to "statistical carryover" generated
by the strong growth experienced at the end of December.

Chart 4.2
millions of $ Commercial Loans On the other hand, consumer loans continued with the
800 (avg. monthly variation) strong growth rate they have been showing in recent months,
registering an increase in January of $890 million. Personal
600 Advances Documents Others loans increased by $520 million in January. Credit card
financings increased by $370 million, an increase that while
400 slightly lower than that of December, was foreseeable given the
seasonality that characterizes them (see Chart 4.3).
200

0 For their part, favored by the good performance of
machinery and automotive sales, financings with pledge
-200 guarantee continued showing a strong growth rate, and registered
in January an increase of $110 million. In the case of mortgage
-400 loans, for the eighth consecutive month, new financings exceeded
Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 in amount the amortizations and prepayments, so they showed a
Source: BCRA new increase, on this occasion of $150 million.

Finally, loans in foreign currency increased slightly during
Chart 4.3 the month (US$36 million, 1.6%), an increase that responded
millions of $ Consumer Loans fundamentally to the behavior of documents, linked to export
500 (avg. monthly variation) financing operations.

400 Personal loans

Credit cards

300

200

100

0

-100

-200
Source: BCRADec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05

2 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of
credits in portfolio from entities to financial trusts.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

Chart 5.1.1 5. Interest Rates

Primary Market Yields

9% LEBAC - TNA 8% NOBAC - Margin over BADLAR
5.1. Securities issued by the BCRA
8
6

7

4 The implicit interest rates in LEBAC auctions maintained
6 31-Jan-06 levels similar to those registered in the last December auction.
27-Dec-05 In this group of securities, those of shorter duration continued
2 being those that concentrated the largest part of placements.
5 Thus, at the end of January, the interest rate
Total 31-Jan Priv. Banks 31-Jan
Total 27-Dec Priv. Banks 27-Dec
4 0
0 50 100 150 2000 200 400 600 800 of the 56-day LEBACs was located at 6.8%, while the one
Source: BCRA Duration (days)
 corresponding to 77 days was 7%. LEBACs of 98 and 182 days were also placed at 7.25% and 7.9%, respectively. At the end of
 January, the NOBACs of 9 months and 2 years that accrue coupons based
 on the BADLAR of private banks were placed with
 margins of 3 p.p. and 5.5 p.p. over the same, respectively. On the
 other hand, those that pay a coupon related to the BADLAR of the total
 of financial entities, with 14 months of remaining term, were
 Chart 5.2.1.1 awarded with a margin of 6.2 p.p. over that rate (see Chart
 5.1.1).
 Amount Traded in Repos by the BCRA
 thousands of
 millions of $
 4.5 In the month, the total amount in circulation of LEBACs and

 4.0 NOBACs decreased 4% and was located at the end of January at NV $25,316
 Com. A 4399 million3. The decrease occurred in the LEBAC segment in
 3.5 FCI

 3.0 Repo Floor pesos, while NOBACs registered an increase with respect to

 2.5 their outstanding balance at the end of 2005. Thus, on the last day of January, 64%

 2.0 of the total balance of securities issued by the BCRA was composed of

 1.5 LEBACs and NOBACs in pesos not adjustable by CER, while 35%

 1.0 was comprised of securities adjustable by this coefficient. The

 0.5 small remaining amount was made up of LEBACs issued in

 0.0 dollars.

 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06

 Source: BCRA

 5.2. Interfinancial Markets

 5.2.1. Repo Market

 Chart 5.2.2.1 The BCRA maintained its short-term reference interest rates at the
 Interest Rates for Call and Repo Operations same levels they presented in December, so the corridor for

 % (average rate weighted by amount) % 7-day operations continued to be located at 5%-6%

 10 10 and 1-day passive repos were agreed at 4.5%. On the other hand, the interest
 9 BCRA Repo Corridor at 7 days 9 rate corresponding to all of the operations

 8 Call at 1 day 8 agreed upon in the 1-day REPO floor, also including those

 Repos at 1 day
 7 Call at 7 days 7 in which the BCRA does not intervene, showed an upward trend

 Passive Repos BCRA at 1 day until mid-month, reaching a maximum of 6.15%

 6 6 on January 17 and, from then on began to decline. In

 5 5 summary, the monthly average for this rate was located at 5.25%, 0.4

 4 4 p.p. above the one registered in December.

 3 3

 2 2 The average daily amount negotiated by the BCRA was

 1 1 of $2,903 million. The amount traded with investment common
 31-Dec 3-Feb 9-Mar 14-Apr 18-May 23-Jun 27-Jul 31-Aug 4-Oct 8-Nov 13-Dec 16-Jan funds remained unchanged with respect to December (see Chart
 Source: BCRA

 3 Does not include the outstanding balance for the arrangement of repo operations.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 Chart 5.2.2.2 5.2.1.1). On the other hand, the average amount negotiated by third parties
 (operations in which the BCRA does not intervene) continued showing
 Call Market
 millions of $ (average stock) significant dynamism and was located at around $650 million.

 600
 500
 400 At the end of January, the stock of passive repos for the BCRA,

 300 including all enabled modalities, was $4,372 million,

 200 while that of active repos was $248 million.

 100

 0
 -100
 -200
 -300
 -400

 5.2.2. Interbank Market
 -500
 -600 Public
 -700 Private National
 Cap. Major. Foreign
-900 During January the interest rates of the interbank market
 Dec-04 Feb-05 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05
 Source: BCRA (call) decreased sharply realigning themselves with the range
 established by the BCRA through its repo operations. This
 occurred once the greatest seasonal liquidity needs of
 families and companies characteristic of end of December
 and beginning of January were overcome, and in a context in which the BCRA had
 modified the minimum liquidity requirements demanded,
 establishing a joint position for the period comprised of
Chart 5.3.1 December to February, in order to mitigate their effects in the monetary
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 (monthly average weighted by amount operated) market. For operations at 1 business day, which currently
 %
7.0 represent around 80% of the total, the interest rate that had
6.5 30 to 59 days ended December at the highest level of the year, around 8.5%, and
6.0 60 to 89 days continued rising in early January reaching levels
 more than 90 days
5.5 higher than 9.5% then that trend reversed and decreased
5.0 sharply ending January at 5.5% (see Chart 5.2.2.1).

4.5

4.0 The amounts in force remained elevated during January,
3.5 averaging $960 million, and it is worth noting that a lower
3.0 participation of the group of foreign banks could be observed in the
2.5 amounts taken that went from representing 71% of the total in
2.0 December to 63% during January (see Chart 5.2.2.2).
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA

 5.3. Passive Interest Rates

 Passive interest rates continued to rise,
 registering a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. in the overall average
 with an interest rate of 5.6%.
 Chart 5.3.2 In the case of deposits between 30 and 59 days, the average
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 (5-day moving average) interest rate went from 5.1% in December to 5.5% in January. When
 January Private Banks Public Banks Total analyzing by type of account holder, an increase of 0.8 p.p. was
 % Less than $100,000 % More than $1,000,000
 6.3 8.5 registered in the rates of placements of legal entities providing
 BADLAR
 5.8 financial services and of 0.6 p.p. in deposits of natural
 7.5
 persons, while the increase was 0.2 p.p. in deposits of the
 5.3 6.5
 public sector. In the same manner, the average interest rate of
 4.8
 5.5 placements between 60 and 89 days rose from 5.5% to 5.7% and in
 4.3
 4.5 deposits of more than 90 days increased from 6.1% to 6.3%. In these
 3.8 two maturity brackets the main increases were in the interest
 3.3 3.5
 rates of placements of legal entities, with positive variations

 2.8 2.5 of 1.4 p.p. and 0.9 p.p. respectively while the interest rates of
 2.3 1.5 placements of the public sector decreased 0.2 p.p. on average in
 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Apr-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 the same maturity brackets
 Source: BCRA (see Chart 5.3.1.).

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 Chart 5.4.1 When analyzing the rate structure in the shortest maturity
 TNA, % Commercial Loans segment a heterogeneous behavior is observed. In the wholesale
 35 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
 segment of fixed-term deposits higher than $1 million a decrease

 Advances in the interest rate was registered, starting from the second week of the
 30
 Documents month driven mainly by private banks. In effect, the BADLAR
 interest rate of private banks went from 8.3% during the
 25
 first days of January to 8% towards the end of the month; while the total
 20 BADLAR rate presented an increase of 1 p.p. with respect to the last
 week of the previous month, ending January with an interest rate
15 average of 6.2%, as a consequence of the increase observed in
 the BADLAR rate of public banks. In the retail segment

 10 (fixed-term deposits less than $100,000) of private banks, interest rates
 continued with the growing trend ending January

 5 at an average of 5.4% (0.4 p.p. above December); in public
 Source: BCRAAug-03 Dec-03 Apr-04 Aug-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Aug-05 Dec-05
 entities the variation was 0.2 p.p. reaching an average interest rate
 of 3% (See Graph 5.3.2).

 5.4. Active Interest Rates⁴
Graph 5.4.2

TNA, % Consumer Loans
50 (Average weighted monthly interest rate by amount)
 Active interest rates did not present homogeneous
 behavior: while those corresponding to current account
45
 Credit Cards advances continued with slight increases, the interest rates
 Personal on documents, consumer financing and pledge-backed
 loans showed new declines.

40

35 The interest rate corresponding to current account
 advances continued presenting an upward trend with an
 increase of 0.3 p.p. compared to the previous month and reached an
30 average of 17.4%. In contrast, the interest rate on loans
 implemented through documents with sole signature declined by the

25 same proportion, 0.3 p.p., standing at an average of 11.3%
 (see Graph 5.4.1).
20
Source: BCRASep-03 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06

 For personal loans, the interest rate showed a decline
 greater than in recent months, averaging 24.1% in
Graph 5.4.3 January, which implies a decrease of 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month.
 In the case of credit card financing, although information is not yet

 TNA, % Loans with Real Collateral available to estimate the January rate, according to the latest available
 25 (Average weighted monthly interest rate by amount)
 information in December it was reduced by 0.6 p.p., whereby the average
 stood at 27.4% (see Graph 5.4.2).

 Mortgage Loans
 20 Finally, in the case of mortgage loans the interest rate

 Pledge-backed did not register significant variations standing at 11.6%,
 15 with an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to the previous month. Meanwhile,
 the interest rate corresponding to pledge-backed loans, although it
 presented slight decreases since May of the previous year, this last

 10 month showed a greater decline reaching an interest rate
 of 9.4%, which implies a decrease of 0.7 p.p. compared to the previous
 month. This variation is observed together with a significant increase

 5 in the volume of new pledge-backed loans granted which, as already
Source: BCRASep-03 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06
 mentioned in previous reports, is explained fundamentally by the

 ⁴ The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement which presents information
 through November 2005, the values for December and January 2006 were estimated from the daily SISCEN 18 requirement, with data on
 loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 8 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 Graph 6.1 financing policy of some groups in the automotive sector related
 International Reserves of BCRA to financial entities (see Graph 5.4.3).
 thousands of
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time placements)
 30 thousands of JANUARY 2006
 millions of US$
 30

 28
 26 26

 PAYMENT
 24 TO THE IMF
 22 US$9,530 M
 22 20 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

 18

 16
 18 1-Jan 6-Jan 11-Jan 16-Jan 21-Jan 26-Jan 31-Jan

 14 During the first days of January the payment of the total
 debt contracted with the IMF was made effective. The operation
 totaled US$9,530 million and was implemented by BCRA⁵, as

 10 mentioned in the last monthly monetary report (see Graph 6.1).
6

Ene-01 Sep-01 May-02 Ene-03 Sep-03 May-04 Ene-05 Sep-05

Source: BCRA Although in the month under analysis, the stock of reserves decreased by US$8,388 million, the net monthly variation of the payment to the IMF was positive and amounted to US$1,142 million, mainly due to foreign currency purchases made by the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange Market, which totaled US$860 million. For its part, the government generated an increase in reserves of US$150 million, as a consequence of the placement of debt in dollars (US$250 million), which was partially offset by payment to other international organizations (US$75 million) and other payments in foreign currency (US$25 million). The remainder of the variation in international reserves is explained by the negative variation of the current accounts of entities at the BCRA, gains from forward exchange valuation and reserve yields (see Chart 6.2).

Chart 6.2

Explanatory Factors of International Reserves
millions of US$

1,000 860
800
600
400
236
200 150
-104 -8,388 -9,530
0
-200
-400
-600
-800
-10,000 -1,000

Exchange Intervention Public Sector Sight Deposits Other Payment to IMF International Reserves
Commercial

Source: BCRA

Chart 6.3

Foreign Exchange Market
Traded volume futures market -OCT MAE+ROFEX- (right axis)
Traded volume spot market -SIOPEL+Brokers- (right axis)
$/US$ Future exchange rate (ROFEX, 30 days)
3.09 Spot exchange rate (Reference exchange rate)
3.07 800
700
3.05 600
500
3.03
400
3.01 300
200
2.99
100
2.97
0
2.95
1-Dec-05 12-Dec-05 20-Dec-05 28-Dec-05 5-Jan-06 13-Jan-06 23-Jan-06 31-Jan-06

Source: BCRA, MAE and ROFEX

During January, both in the spot market and in the futures market,6 the peso depreciated around 1% on average with respect to the dollar (see Chart 6.3). Both in relation to the euro and to the real, the depreciation of the peso was even greater, around 3.3% and 1.9% respectively. In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso depreciated 1.1% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulated a depreciation of 0.7% over the last 12 months.

With respect to traded volumes, operations carried out in the spot market decreased 22%. The majority of the decline corresponded to the segment of operations arranged through the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL), which averaged US$126 million daily in January, a level 27% lower than in December; while in the Brokers Electronic Market, the average amount traded daily totaled US$83 million, 12% less than the previous month. 87% of the operations that took place in the spot market corresponded to financial entities and the remainder to the BCRA.

In the futures market, a decrease in the amounts traded in the month was also noted, which amounted to 7%. In the Rosario Term Market, the average volume traded daily reached US$59 million in January, showing a decrease of 10% compared to December. The BCRA's intervention in this market represented 13% of the total traded, 28% lower than its participation in the previous month. For its part, in the MAE Futures Market, in the Term Arranged Operations session (OCT), the average volume traded daily was US$15 million, 8.5% higher than in December. It should be noted that as of January, the BCRA began operating in this market, reaching a participation of 6.2% of the total traded.

Chart 7.1.1

in % Emerging Stock Markets Risk/Return Ratio
50
Turkey
45

7. Capital Markets

7.1. Stocks

---

5 Decree 1601/2005 and Resolution 49/2005.

6 Operations arranged in the Rosario Term Market (ROFEX) at 1 month term (segment representing 70% of total traded).

9 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006
40
 35 Mexico Argentina
 South Africa The local stock market did not differ from the rest of the
 30
 25 emerging stock markets. The MERVAL index, which is
 Brazil composed of the most representative companies, increased
 20 Chile

 15 16.2% in the first month of the year. Said increase

 10 allowed the index to be positioned at a level of 1,794 points, which

 5 represents a historical maximum. In year-over-year terms, the

 0 increase was 30%, in line with the returns recorded in the
 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 region and in accordance with the volatility of the local market (see Chart
 Annualized Volatility % (2005 average) 7.1.1).

 It should be noted that the increase recorded in the MERVAL
 during January contrasts with three consecutive months of
 contraction. In fact, since September 2005, the variation in the
 index level had accumulated a contraction of 9%. The sectors
 that led the increase in the month were steel and oil, in
 keeping with the favorable future expectations for said
 markets.
Chart 7.1.2

 Local Stock Market The rest of the exchanges in the region and in the risk category
 millions of $ MERVAL also obtained very significant returns. In Latin America, the
200 1900
 IGBVL (Peru) increased 17%, the BOVESPA (Brazil) did so by
180 1800
 Amount traded MERVAL (right axis) 15% and the MEXBOL (Mexico) increased by 6%, while the IGPA
160 1700
 (Chile) increased only 4%. In the same risk category,
140 1600
120 although in other regions, the evolution was very similar. For example,

 1500 the XU100 index (Turkey) increased 12% during January,
100
 1400 while the JALSH (South Africa) did so by 9%. It is interesting
 80
 60 1300 to note that during the month, the stock indices of Argentina,

 40 1200 Brazil, Peru, South Africa and Turkey reached historical highs,

 20 1100 reflecting the good moment that the stock markets

 0 1000 of emerging countries are going through.

 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06

 Source: Bloomberg The volatility of the MERVAL decreased slightly, positioning
 itself at around 19% annually, declining from levels of 25%
 during last December. The volumes traded in the stock market
 increased very slightly, reaching on average $70 million daily
 (see Chart 7.1.2).

 10 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 7.2. Public Securities

 The quotations of local Public Securities increased
 during January due to lower global risk aversion, as evidenced
 by the increase in risk-free rates and in the decrease in the
 yields of risk assets. In particular, the U.S. Treasury curve remained
Chart 7.2.1 inverted during the entire month, although it shifted slightly toward
 higher yields across all terms. In contrast, the securities

 Yield of external debt of emerging economies, observed a
 annual (%) Yield Curves in Dollars contraction in spreads. In particular, the EMBI+ decreased by 0.28
10.5
 p.p. while the impact was greater in Argentina, whose spread
10.0 Boden 13
 measured by the same index decreased by 0.64 p.p.. For the case of
 DISC USD PAR USD
 9.5 Brazil the contraction was 0.45 p.p. while for

 9.0 Boden 12 Latin America as a whole it was 0.40 p.p..

 8.5 The yield curve of domestic securities

 8.0 denominated in dollars shifted toward lower yields across

 Dec 29 Jan 31 all segments. Likewise, in terms of spreads, the contraction

 7.5 resulted greater in the case of shorter instruments. For

 7.0 example, the spread of the Boden 12 contracted 1.13 p.p., while

 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 that of the DISC did so by 0.64 p.p. Said compression in spreads

Duration (in years) translated into an increase in quotations (at par) of 3% and 4.1%

Source: Argentine Capital Market Institute for the Boden 12 and the DISC, respectively.
The real yield curve of domestic securities denominated in pesos had a similar behavior to the yield curve in dollars, although its displacement resulted equally across all maturities (see Graph 7.2.2). Measured in parity, the DISC and PAR are those that presented the largest increases, of 3.5% and 3.8% respectively. In the shortest term, capital gains were also significant, although smaller in magnitude. For example, the parity of Boden 14 increased by 3.8%, while Bogar and PRO 12 did so by approximately 2%.

The units linked to GDP, for their part, registered a significant increase. It is worth mentioning, however, that three units linked to GDP coexist that trade independently. In particular, the increase for the unit denominated in pesos with Argentine Law was 22.4%, while for those denominated in dollars the increase was 34% and 31% for the Argentine Law and New York Law units, respectively.

The daily amounts traded remained stable with respect to the previous month. In particular, the average daily amount traded in January reached $1,346 million when the amount traded on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) and that traded on the Electronic Open Market (MAE) are added.

11 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

7.3. Institutional Investors7

7.3.1. Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds

The investment portfolio of the Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds (AFJP) was located at the end of January at $71,874 million, 7.5% ($5,015 million) above the level recorded at the end of 2005. With the exception of placements in negotiable obligations and fixed-term deposits, all items in the portfolio showed positive variations with respect to the previous month (see Graph 7.3.1.1).

Includes financial trusts and futures and options contracts

In line with the good performance shown by the more liquid equity securities, the holdings of shares of local and foreign companies was the type of asset that experienced the largest increase in January. In this way, this segment of the portfolio concentrated $1,800 million of the total increase.

Another one of the investments that registered a significant increase was placements in mutual funds, which increased around $1,500 million, explaining a good part of the growth shown by funds in the month.

The positive evolution evidenced by securities issued by the national government was also reflected in the increase in the items National Public Securities ($760 million) and the corresponding Futures and Options Contracts ($590 million). The latter includes holdings of units linked to GDP.

Likewise, the AFJP continued to participate actively in the subscription of financial trusts and, in January increased their holdings of this type of assets by $640 million; of which $600 million corresponded to the acquisition of participations in the Millennium Trust II Series 1 trust, and the rest to the purchase of part of the trusts issued by Supervielle bank. In both cases, the trusts corresponded to the securitization of guaranteed loans.
# 7.3.2. Investment Funds

Source: BCRA

Investment funds in pesos showed in January a patrimonial increase exceeding $1,820 million (20.1%), driven by the rise in the equity of variable income instruments which was accompanied by the increase in assets of the remaining funds.

The patrimony of money market funds during the month of January reflected $224 million above the level at the end of December, which represents a positive monthly variation of 6.6%. Unlike the previous month, this increase is explained, in part, by the choice

7 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

that institutional clients (AFJP, ART, etc.) and large companies made to transfer resources from remunerated sight accounts to money market funds (see Chart 7.3.2.1) and this was due to the fact that fixed-term deposits offered during the month
Chart 7.3.2.2 a more attractive interest rate. The profitability of this type of

Variable Income Funds funds ended January at 5.64%.

millions of $ Index
5,400 Equity Variable Income Funds 2,000
5,200 On the other hand, variable income funds showed a
5,000 MERVAL (right axis) 1,900
4,800 significant increase of $1,413 million (38.3%). Said increase
4,600 1,800
4,400 corresponded mainly to the inflow of new resources,
4,200 1,700
4,000 coming from institutional investors (AFJP, ART, etc.) and
3,800 1,600
3,600
3,400 1,500 large companies, attracted by the good performance of the MERVAL
3,200
3,000 1,400 index, highlighting the banking and steel sectors (see
2,800
2,600 1,300 Chart 7.3.2.2) which had a positive impact on the returns of
2,400
2,200 1,200 these funds. It should be added that greater diversification of
2,000
1,800 investment is being observed since there are specialized funds in
1,600 1,100
1,400 which 100% of resources can be placed abroad,
1,200 1,000
 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jun-05 Aug-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Jan-06highlighting Brazil and the Asian continent. The rise in

Source: BCRA and CAFCI
 quotations of assets in the portfolio of these funds had a
 positive impact on their returns, which stood at 13.66%.

 Chart 7.4.1 Finally, fixed income funds also recorded a
 Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds positive patrimonial variation in January, which was around $149 million
 YTM %
 16 (8.7%), which is explained by the inflow of capital throughout the region,

 14 given the good performance of debt markets. In
 12 terms of returns, these funds yielded a profitability of
 10 1.97%. On the other hand, the patrimony of mixed income
 8 funds continues to increase monthly; during the January period

 6 Non-restructured* (30-Jan) it ended with an increase of $32 million (14.4%) and its return was

 Restructured (30-Jan) 4 placed at 7.67%.

 Non-restructured* (31-Dec)

 2 Restructured (31-Dec)

 0
 012345678 duration (years)

 *Corresponds to ONs from issuers that have not incurred in payment default
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data and others

# 7.4. Private Securities

Banco Hipotecario issued new ONs for US$100 million, corresponding to tranche 2 of series 4. The new securities will pay interest of 9.75% on a semi-annual basis and will mature in 2010.

In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments, a differentiation continues to be observed between companies that adhered to the fulfillment of their financial obligations and those that had to resort to restructuring their debts after falling into default following the 2001-02 crisis. In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs

Chart 7.5.1 Financial Trusts Issued

(amounts)

millions of $

1,400
1,230 issued by companies that underwent restructuring processes
 1,200 1,144
 was located on average at 2.6 p.p., barely 0.1 p.p. lower than that of the previous

 1,000 month (see Graph 7.4.1).

 800

 644
 600 580 593

 427
 400 293 7.5. Financial Trusts8
 273 304317

 200 154 176157
 11 Financial Trusts (FF) were issued in the month
 0
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06for $1,144 million, an amount that stands out for this time of year
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data (five times greater than the same month of the previous year), and that was

 8 Financial trusts from the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 driven mainly by the securitization of public securities (see
 Graph 7.5.2 Graph 7.5.1).
 Underlying Assets of Financial Trusts
 (% of total issued in the month - January 2006)
 Regarding the underlying assets of the month, the number of
 securitizations of public securities (Guaranteed Loans) was
 historic maximum, giving rise to 4 FF of the 11 issued and
 Personal Credits representing 88% of the total issued (see Graph 7.5.2). Also
 5% Business
 Credits 4 FF were securitized with personal loans as underlying assets, and
 3%
 Credit Card Coupons to a lesser extent credit card coupons, business credits

 and bills of exchange.
 Public Securities 3%
 88%
 Bills of Exchange and
 Others The role of settlor (who transfers assets to the FF) and trustee
 1% (who manages the FF) was concentrated mainly in financial entities
 regulated by the BCRA, at 88% and 95%
 respectively.
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data

 The average duration of the underlying loans that were
 securitized in the month (not considering public securities) was
 9.7 months, higher than that of December by 3.4 months. In the case of
 those FF that have personal loans as underlying assets, their
 duration remained at 6 months, while that of credit cards
 doubled from the previous month, standing at 14.5 months (see
 Graph 7.5.3 Graph 7.5.3).

 Average Duration* of Underlying Loans

months

 40 35.3

 35

 30

 25

 20

 15 10.6
 10 9.2 7.3 9.1 10.8
 5.2 6.3

 5

 0
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05

* Duration is determined by the nature of each loan (underlying asset) that is transferred to an FF. That is why its
behavior is shown as irregular depending on the loans securitized in the month. This is reinforced, furthermore, because in
the last year the variety of underlying assets has been increasing.
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA data

 14 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.
 Monthly averages Average percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Jan-06 Monthly Last 12 monthsDec-05Nov-05Jan-05
 NominalRealNominalReal
 Monetary base 59,355 55,827 55,906 50,094 6.3% 5.0% 18.5% 5.7%
 Monetary circulation 47,136 46,008 43,207 36,365 2.5% 1.2% 29.6% 15.6%
 In the hands of the public 42,689 41,309 39,026 32,636 3.3% 2.0% 30.8% 16.7%
 In financial entities 4,447 4,698 4,181 3,728 -5.3% -6.5% 19.3% 6.4%
 Current account at the BCRA 12,218 9,819 12,699 13,730 24.4% 22.9% -11.0% -20.6%
 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 2,598 4,250 3,398 7,590 -38.9% -39.6% -65.8% -69.5%
 Assets 371 237 277 19 56.7% 54.7% 1,825.3% 1,617.4%

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)
 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 18,083 19,678 21,113 13,592 -8.1% -9.3% 33.0% 18.7%
 In dollars 73 48 48 54 50.8% 34.7%
 NOBAC 7,389 6,393 5,463 1,467 15.6% 14.1% 403.6% 349.3%
# International Reserves and Monetary Aggregates

International reserves of the BCRA 19,608 27,262 26,501 19,841 -28.1% -1.2%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 122,368 120,901 118,428 104,091 1.2% -0.1% 17.6% 4.9%

Current account (2) 37,551 37,050 33,364 30,153 1.4% 0.1% 24.5% 11.1%

Savings account 25,969 25,471 25,164 21,958 2.0% 0.7% 18.3% 5.5%

Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 42,514 41,718 42,819 37,169 1.9% 0.6% 14.4% 2.0%

Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 7,386 7,396 7,527 5,599 -0.1% -1.4% 31.9% 17.7%

CEDRO with CER 29 33 36 1,556 -12.1% -13.2% -98.1% -98.3%

Other deposits (3) 8,919 9,233 9,519 7,657 -3.4% -4.6% 16.5% 3.9%

Deposits of the private sector 88,671 87,956 86,144 76,317 0.8% -0.5% 16.2% 3.6%

Deposits of the public sector 33,698 32,945 32,284 27,775 2.3% 1.0% 21.3% 8.2%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 4,119 4,009 3,912 4,053 2.8% 1.6%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 62,209 60,923 59,578 54,561 2.1% 0.8% 14.0% 1.7%

Loans to the private sector 46,852 45,585 43,743 34,435 2.8% 1.5% 36.1% 21.4%

Advances 8,282 8,491 8,402 6,112 -2.5% -3.7% 35.5% 20.9%

Documents 10,902 10,320 9,686 6,732 5.6% 4.3% 62.0% 44.5%

Mortgage loans 8,665 8,611 8,583 8,756 0.6% -0.6% -1.0% -11.7%

Pledge loans 2,394 2,288 2,195 1,677 4.6% 3.3% 42.7% 27.3%

Personal loans 7,617 7,149 6,845 4,451 6.5% 5.2% 71.1% 52.6%

Credit cards 5,485 5,113 4,659 3,222 7.3% 5.9% 70.2% 51.9%

Others 3,507 3,612 3,373 3,484 -2.9% -4.1% 0.7% -10.2%

Loans to the public sector 15,357 15,338 15,836 20,127 0.1% -1.1% -23.7% -31.9%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 2,497 2,455 2,498 1,753 1.7% 42.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (cash in circulation + current account in pesos) 80,240 78,360 72,390 62,789 2.4% 1.1% 27.8% 14.0%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 106,209 103,831 97,554 84,746 2.3% 1.0% 25.3% 11.8%

M3 (cash in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 165,057 162,211 157,454 136,728 1.8% 0.5% 20.7% 7.7%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 177,603 174,292 169,060 148,671 1.9% 0.6% 19.5% 6.6%

Private monetary aggregates

M1 (cash in circulation + private current account in pesos) 65,582 64,386 60,943 51,035 1.9% 0.6% 28.5% 14.6%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 86,929 85,227 80,549 69,318 2.0% 0.7% 25.4% 11.9%

M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 131,360 129,265 125,170 108,953 1.6% 0.3% 20.6% 7.6%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 143,905 141,347 136,775 120,896 1.8% 0.5% 19.0% 6.2%

Average variations

Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2006 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3,528 6.3% 4,263 7.7% 3,528 6.3% 9,261 18.5%

Financial sector 1,228 2.2% -570 -1.0% 1,228 2.2% -5,782 -11.5%

Public sector -367 -0.7% -1,716 -3.1% -367 -0.7% -3,702 -7.4%

Temporary advances + transfer of profits 429 167 429 2,205

Use of the national government account -532 -724 -532 -1,169

External credit -265 -1,160 -265 -4,738

Private external sector 2,197 3.9% 5,208 9.5% 2,197 3.9% 28,950 57.8%

BCRA securities 700 1.3% 1,717 3.1% 700 1.3% -8,831 -17.6%

Others -230 -0.4% -376 -0.7% -230 -0.4% -1,375 -2.7%

International reserves -7,655 -28.1% -6,439 -24.7% -7,655 -28.1% -233 -1.2%

Intervention in the foreign exchange market 722 2.6% 1,733 6.7% 722 2.6% 9,909 49.9%

Payment to international organizations -8,753 -32.1% -9,222 -35.4% -8,753 -32.1% -13,373 -67.4%

Other public sector operations 264 1.0% 874 3.4% 264 1.0% 4,222 21.3%

Minimum cash -35 -0.1% -85 -0.3% -35 -0.1% -1,484 -7.5%

Valuation type of repo 76 0.3% 49 0.2% 76 0.3% -238 -1.2%

Others 71 0.3% 212 0.8% 71 0.3% 731 3.7%
1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 15 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05
 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 7.17 6.73 6.62 4.65 2.18
 Amount operated 814 912 924 810 267

 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 5.32 4.74 4.43 4.09 2.83
 60 days or more 6.01 5.87 5.34 5.26 3.47
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 6.23 5.50 5.08 4.63 2.78
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.22 7.48 6.78 6.10 3.21

 In dollars
 30 days 0.60 0.58 0.60 0.58 0.30
 60 days or more 1.12 1.11 1.12 1.02 0.69
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.63 0.55 0.61 0.56 0.27
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.06 0.98 1.06 1.24 0.78

 Active Interest Rates Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 7.53 7.14 6.70 6.39 5.59

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.12 7.85 7.11 6.34 3.39
 Amount operated (total terms) 97 92 93 90 73
 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Overdrafts in current account 17.43 17.06 16.79 16.48 13.84
 Documents on sole signature 11.30 11.60 11.12 10.73 9.80
 Mortgages 11.63 11.56 11.37 11.03 11.08
 Pledges 9.41 10.17 10.10 10.34 11.00
 Personal loans 24.05 24.42 24.49 24.65 26.17
 Credit cards n/a 27.41 27.96 27.59 27.37

 International Interest Rates Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05
 LIBOR

 1 month 4.48 4.36 4.15 3.99 2.49
 6 months 4.73 4.67 4.55 4.36 2.89
 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.39 4.39 4.41 4.26 3.21
 10 years 4.40 4.46 4.53 4.46 4.21

 FED Funds Rate 4.26 4.17 4.00 3.75 2.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 17.69 18.21 18.89 19.30 17.94

 (1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for October are estimations made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 16 Monthly Monetary Report – JANUARY 2006

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 4.50 4.48 4.00 3.76 n/a
 Passive 7 days 5.00 4.98 4.50 4.26 2.69
 Active 7 days 6.00 6.00 5.78 5.26 3.19

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 5.25 4.86 4.91 3.72 2.19
 7 days 5.37 5.20 4.79 4.46 2.69
 Amount operated in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 2,194 2,708 1,527 1,769 1,657

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 6.77 6.71 6.72 6.23 2.99
 2 months 6.92 6.91 n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 7.13 7.30 7.26 6.95 3.64
 9 months n/a n/a 8.15 8.13 5.68
 12 months n/a n/a 8.90 8.90 6.07

 Margin of NOBAC in pesos with variable coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 2.98 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 5.33 4.72 5.09 3.87 n/a
 2 years BADLAR Total 6.25 6.26 5.14 n/a n/a

 Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 186 100 135 167 92

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.04 3.02 2.97 2.97 2.94
 BCRA Reference 3.05 3.01 2.97 2.97 2.95

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.06 3.04 2.98 2.98 2.94
 ROFEX 1 month 3.05 3.02 2.97 2.97 2.94
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 180 228 270 201 58

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.35 1.32 1.34 1.32 1.09

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.69 3.58 3.50 3.57 3.86

 Capital Market Jan-06 Dec-05 Nov-05 Oct-05 Jan-05

MERVAL
 Index 1,666 1,530 1,608 1,618 1,340
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 92 79 78 114 44
# Government Bonds (at par)

BODEN 2012 (US$) 90.29 88.60 89.04 87.69 83.68
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 89.04 85.62 n/a n/a n/a
BODEN 2014 ($) 89.52 88.48 90.35 90.11 n/a
DISCOUNT ($) 95.71 94.73 94.78 n/a n/a

Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 413 438 417 432 606
EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 250 271 278 299 287

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

17
