1. Summary 1
• The average level of monetary aggregates (M2) was positioned at $112,870 million, showing a trajectory in line with that foreseen in the 2006 Monetary Program. The behavior of M2 was associated with seasonal factors, due to the fact that the winter recess and the payment of bonuses drive the transactional demand for money. The monthly increase, seasonally adjusted in real terms, was 0.5%.

• During the month, fixed-term placements continued to increase ($1,240 million), from both the public and private sectors. This behavior would be influenced by the regulatory changes that the BCRA has been implementing with the objective of encouraging the lengthening of the term of financing for financial entities and stimulating savings, which will allow deepening the dynamics of financing for productive investment. Additionally, sight deposits in pesos increased $960 million, totaling $2,260 million the monthly increase in deposits.

• Loans to the private sector continued growing and in the month increased more than $2,000 million (3.4%), acquiring renewed dynamism in commercial financing, which greatly exceeded consumer financing. Regarding mortgage loans, during the month they registered an increase of $150 million (1.7%). Within the framework of the policy adopted to promote the increase of long-term credit, as of August the BCRA has implemented measures to facilitate access to new mortgage financing of up to $100,000 for single-family housing and permanent occupancy.

• The BCRA introduced modifications in the reserve requirement policy that will begin to take effect as of August. In this way, with the increase in immediate liquidity (cash and current accounts at the BCRA), as a percentage of total deposits, on the one hand the financial system is strengthened and on the other hand the prudence of monetary policy is consolidated, maintaining both the stability of private credit growth and that of interest rates in the financial market.

• Interest rates, both active and passive, remained stable in July.

• The BCRA continued with its prudential policy of accumulating international reserves. Its monetary effect was compensated in the month mainly by the sterilization carried out through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, and by the contractionary effect of public sector operations, which canceled temporary advances with the BCRA with resources deposited in the local financial system.

---

## 2. Monetary Aggregates1

**Graph 2.1**
Evolution of M2 and Monetary Program
thousands of
millions of $

130
125  M2
120  Bands PM 2006
115
110
105

In July, the average of monetary aggregates in pesos (M2) showed a trajectory in line with that foreseen in the 2006 Monetary Program (see Graph 2.1).

The winter recess and the payment of bonuses drive the demand for transactional money. As a consequence, M2 grew $3,100 million in nominal terms in the month of July, although the

---

**CONTENTS**
1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Bank Liquidity 3
4. Loans 3
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 7
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Stocks 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Mutual Investment Funds 10
   - Private Securities 11
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

**For inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:**
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report JULY 2006
# 100 monthly increase seasonally adjusted and in real terms² was only 0.5%. In the first half of the year, the M2 increase in nominal terms had been 5.7% while in real terms seasonally adjusted the increase had been barely 3% (see Chart 2.2).

Demand deposits in pesos increased $960 million (1.5%) and, once again, were driven by private sector placements, which registered an increase of $1,550 million. In the first part of the month, deposits in savings accounts of this sector were nourished mainly by the payment of bonuses. On the other hand, demand deposits of the public sector showed a decline of $590 million.

Public sector placements were the ones that contributed most to the increase in term deposits, which in total grew $1,300 million in the month. On the other hand, term deposits of the private sector grew $230 million and among them continued to be observed an asymmetric behavior between those agreed for amounts less than $1 million and those of greater value. Thus, in July the former continued to grow, while those greater than $1 million maintained the downward trend they have shown since May (see Chart 2.3).

As a consequence of the above, the broadest monetary aggregate in local currency (M3) showed a monthly increase of $4,400 million³.

For its part, deposits in foreign currency maintained their growth rate with an increase that in July exceeded US$160 million. The increase was concentrated mostly in term placements of the private sector. Public sector deposits showed a slight increase in demand accounts that was close to US$50 million.

As a consequence, in July, the broadest aggregate in pesos and dollars (M3*) grew $4,920 million.

With regard to primary money, foreign currency purchases continued to be partially sterilized with the different available regulatory instruments. In July, the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC stood out as a sterilization mechanism, while public sector operations also contributed to generating monetary contraction. In this latter case, it was mainly associated with the effect that the payment of temporary advances in the second half of the previous month had on July's average.

² Deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).
³ Includes an increase of "other deposits" of $70 million.

2 Monetary Report JULY 2006

Financial entities continued canceling rediscounts within the framework of the "matching" scheme and by this means a decrease in the Monetary Base also originated. On the other hand, repo operations had an expansive effect because some entities canceled part of their passive repo balances (for the BCRA).

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

In July, renewed interest by financial entities in securities issued by the BCRA was evident. Thus, liquidity
Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 held in LEBAC and NOBAC increased in July almost 1 p.p. of the total
 Source: BCRA
 of deposits in pesos. This behavior was generalized, both
 in private and public banks (see Chart 3.1). On the
 contrary, a reduction was observed in the liquidity of banks
 held in repos arranged with the BCRA, while the funds
 integrated as banking reserves were maintained practically at
 the same levels as the previous month.

 Chart 4.1 In this way, with an integration and a requirement
 Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector thousands of
 % (monthly var.) millions of $ average at levels similar to those in June, the surplus of
 9 3
 minimum cash in pesos was also maintained constant at

 6 2 approximately 0.5% of total deposits in pesos.

 3 1
 The surplus of minimum cash in foreign currency

 0 0 was maintained elevated in July and totaled around 20% of the
 total deposits in dollars.
-3 -1

-6 -2 The BCRA introduced modifications to the reserve policy

 Amount (right axis) that will become effective as of August. In this way,
-9 -3
 % in nominal terms with the increase in immediate liquidity (cash and current

-12 % in real terms - deflated by CPI -4 accounts at the BCRA), as a percentage of total deposits,

 Jun-97 Jun-98 Jun-99 Jun-00 Jun-01 Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06
Source: BCRA on the one hand strengthens the financial system and on the other hand
 consolidates the prudence of monetary policy, maintaining both the
 stability of the increase in private credit and that of the interest
 rates of the financial market.

 The evidence from the last days of July shows that the
 measure had no impact on the monetary market, as can
 be seen in the evolution of interest rates.

 Chart 4.2 4. Loans¹ 4

 millions of $ Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
 1,250 (Monthly average var.)
 Commercial loans In a favorable macroeconomic context and driven by

 1,000 Consumer loans
 Loans with real guarantee an adequate regulatory framework established by the BCRA aimed at

 750 extending terms and exercising prudent management of the risks
 associated with, loans to the private sector (in pesos and foreign
 currency) continued with their sustained growth rate and in

 500 July registered an increase of over $2,000 million (3.4%) (see

 250 Chart 4.1). In year-on-year terms, they accumulated a
 nominal increase of 39.8% and 26.4% in real terms.

 0 In the peso segment, commercial financing acquired renewed
 dynamism that in the month increased
-250

 -500 $1,140 million (4.7%), significantly exceeding that of consumer
 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06

 Source: BCRA

 ¹ The loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios
 of entities to financial trusts.

 ³ Monetary Report JULY 2006

Chart 4.3 financing (see Chart 4.2). The increase was
 thousands of
 millions of $ Commercial Loans
 (Advances, documents and other loans in pesos and foreign currency) driven by the behavior of advances, which
71.5
 increased $650 million (6.9%). This line had already increased

61.5 $500 million in May and $770 million in June, in line with
 -46%
 the high liquidity needs of companies as a reflection of
51.5
 the significant tax payment deadlines and bonus payments.

41.5 Likewise, financing instruments through documents
 grew $330 million (2.9%) regaining the vitality they had
 31.5
 lost in recent months. This fact was favored by the
 +87%
21.5 normative changes implemented by the BCRA in early April,
 In nominal terms
 In real terms (deflated by CPI) aimed at facilitating access by companies, particularly
11.5
 Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs), to bank credit. Since

 1.5 then no valuations are required for the discounting of checks

 Apr-96 Apr-97 Apr-98 Apr-99 Apr-00 Apr-01 Apr-02 Apr-03 Apr-04 Apr-05 Apr-06 issued by drawers classified in normal situation, and financial
 Source: BCRA
 entities can provision these financings at 1%
 without needing to evaluate the payment capacity of assignees.

 Regarding loans in foreign currency,
 fundamentally linked to the financing of export activity,
 they continued gaining importance, a fact that was
 
 Chart 5.1 facilitated by the relaxation implemented by the BCRA regarding the
 Primary Market Yields requirements for supporting documentation to be presented. In July, loans
 to the private sector in dollars increased by US$120
 25-Jul-06 27-Jun-06 million (3.9%).
 % %
 13 LEBAC - TNA 7 NOBAC - margin over BADLAR Thus, the firm growth of commercial credit
 private banks
 12 6 (both in pesos and foreign currency), which constitutes a vital
 input for financing productive activity,
 11 5
 managed to reverse more than one-third of the decline recorded in
 10 4 real terms since the end of 1999 and practically all of the
 decline in nominal terms (see Chart 4.3).
 9 3

 8 2 On the contrary, consumer financings decelerated
 their growth rate. In the month they increased by only $310
 7 1
 million (1.9%), an increase that is the smallest since August
 6 0 2004. The slower growth during the month is fundamentally explained
 0 100 200 300 4000 200 400 600 800 by credit card financings (-$150 million, -2.4%)
 Source: BCRA duration (days) which, after having grown strongly in the two previous months
 thanks to television sales motivated by the world soccer championship,
 registered in July net debt cancellations with resources from the
 collection of bonuses. Personal loans continued with a firm growth
 rate, increasing $460 million (4.9%) in the month, in a context of
 
 Chart 5.2 gradual growth of consumption and the wage bill.

 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC
 VN, thousands of (by residual term)
 millions of $ Finally, in the case of mortgage loans, during the
 month they again registered a significant increase, of $150 million
 40 More than 2 years (1.7%). Within the framework of the policy adopted to promote
 35 More than 2 years an increase in long-term credit, as of August the BCRA has
 30 implemented easier requirements for granting new
 25 37% 41%
 9 to 12 months mortgage financings of up to $100,000 for sole family housing
 20 of permanent occupation. The measure is aimed at
 6 to 9 months
 15 6% 9% flexibilizing the requirement for minimum capital, while maintaining
 the prudential criterion applied in the matter, given the specifications
 3 to 6 months
 10 23% 17% regarding the amount of financing and the characteristics of the
 1 to 3 months properties. As for loans with pledged guarantees, during the
 5
 Up to 1 month month they increased $120 million (4%).
 0 8% 5%
 30-Jun-06 31-Jul-06
 4 Monetary Report JULY 2006

 Chart 5.3 5. Interest Rates
 Reverse Repos Arranged by the BCRA
 thousands of (average daily amounts, average monthly balances) thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
5 Amount Operated REPO Round Amount Operated Com. A 4399 (overnight) 8 Securities issued by the BCRA5
 Amount Operated FCI Stock Passive Repos (right axis) 7
4 In the primary LEBAC market, the interest rate paid
 6
5 for the 12-month instruments did not show significant changes
3
 during the course of the month. On the other hand, for LEBAC of
 4
 6 and 9 months the interest rates showed slight increases between
2 3
 late June and July (see Graph 5.1). However, in the first

 2 auctions of the month they had registered decreases, which were
1
 1 reversed in the last placements of the period. On the other hand,

0 0 the margins over BADLAR of the rates of NOBAC with

 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Ene-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06variable income slightly declined and in the last
 placement of July turned out to be 0.1 p.p. lower than those paid a
Source: BCRA month earlier.

 The total balance of securities issued by the BCRA at the end of July
 was 7% higher than that in effect at the end of June and amounted
 to VN $34,632 million. The increase in the amount in circulation was
 
 Graph 5.4 produced through the placement of longer-term instruments,
 which gained participation in the total (see Graph 5.2). Ultimately,
 millions of $ Call Operations %
1,600 (monthly averages) 9 the average residual duration of the issued securities increased 20 days
 Amount at other terms (up to 15 calendar days)
 Amount at 7 calendar days between late month and at the end of July was around one year.
 Amount at 1 business day 8
1,400 Rate at 7 days
 Rate at 1 day
1,200 7

1,000 6 Interfinancial Markets

 5
 800
 4 Repurchase Agreement Market1
 600
 3

 400 2 In July the BCRA maintained the interest rates that it applies

 200 to repurchase agreement operations that it enters into in all its
 1
 modalities. In this way, it continued entering into passive and
 0 0 active repurchase agreements for 7 days at 5.75% and 8%,
 Jan-06 Feb-06 Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 Jun-06 Jul-06 respectively. Simultaneously it continued agreeing passive
Source: BCRA repurchase agreements for 1 day paying 5.25%. On the other
 hand, the average interest rate for 1 day that includes all
 operations entered into (also those in which the BCRA is not
 counterparty) increased 0.9 p.p., in line with the interest rates
 of the interbank lending market.

 The average amount traded daily by the BCRA
 decreased 19% compared to June and was explained by the lower
 number of operations in the segment traded through the
 REPO round and in which investment funds
 
 Graph 5.5 (FCI) of money market operate to meet their liquidity requirements.
 Call Interest Rate Average and Standard Deviation In the first case, the decrease was related to the greater
 
 At 1 Business Day At 7 Days liquidity needs faced by financial entities at
 % % the beginning of each month, which in July are accentuated by the greater
 12 12
 demand for demand deposits and currency circulation linked

 10 10 to the payment of bonuses. On the other hand, the repurchase
 -0.3 p.p. 9.2%
 agreements entered into by
 8 7.7% 8
 +2.5 p.p. the FCI decreased, in line with the behavior shown by their
 6 +1.9 p.p. 6 assets, also affected by the same
 factors.

 4 4
 Consequently, the average balance of passive repurchase
 Daily Average Average
 2 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation 2 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation agreements for the BCRA registered a monthly decrease similar to
 the previous year (see Graph 5.3). For its part, the balance of active
 0 0
 28-Apr 18-May 7-Jun 27-Jun 17-Jul 28-Apr 18-May 7-Jun 27-Jun 17-Jul repurchase agreements continued to be located at low levels and showed
Source: BCRA a slight decline compared to June.

 5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 5 Monetary Report JULY 2006

 
 Graph 5.6 Interbank Market1

 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 (5-day moving average) During July the interbank market rates rose slightly,
 July Private Banks Public Banks Total while the volumes traded increased.
 % Greater than $1,000,000 % Less than $100,000
 10.5 BADLAR 7.5

 9.5 6.5
 8.5 In the 1 business day segment, during the month the interest rate
5.5 stood at 7.7% which implies an increase of 0.6 percentage points with respect to the
7.5
previous month (see Chart 5.4). Similar increases were recorded in operations at
6.5 4.5
7 days maturity which reached a level of 8.5%, slightly exceeding
5.5 3.5 the previous maximum recorded in March.

4.5
2.5
3.5 The increase in interest rates did not occur monotonously

2.5 1.5 during the month (see Chart 5.5). Rather, the rates that
Jan-06 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Jan-06 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06
Source: BCRA had risen at the end of June due to greater liquidity needs
of companies to meet tax payments and
bonuses, remained at elevated levels during the first
week of July (around 8% for 1-day operations and 9%
for 7-day operations) to then decline in the second week and
recover at the end of the month. Despite this, a certain
Chart 5.7 reduction in intraday volatility could be appreciated (measured as the deviation of
operations of the day with respect to the average of said day), which in the
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos case of 1 business day operations resulted 0.3 percentage points during July.
(monthly average weighted by amount traded)

% Yield by type of depositor

% Natural Persons
10.0 12 JUNE 2006 JULY 2006 Financial Services During the month the average amount traded amounted to $1,160
Legal Persons - other
11 Public Sector
9.5
10 million daily, which implies an increase of $140 million
9.0 9

8 from the previous maximum recorded the previous month.
8.5 7
8.0 6

5
7.5 4
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90
days days
7.0 Passive Interest Rates¹

6.5 30 to 59 days

6.0 60 to 89 days
5.5 more than 90 days In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR interest rate of

5.0 private banks ended the month at 9.4% showing on two

Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 occasions an increase of 0.1 percentage points: during the first days of the
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA month and toward the last week. In the case of public banks, the
BADLAR interest rate ended the month at 5.9% showing an
increase of 1.2 percentage points with respect to the last days of the previous month,
an increase that is explained by greater participation of deposits
from the private sector, which were agreed at interest rates
higher than those received by public sector deposits.
As a result, the total BADLAR interest rate continued with great
volatility during the month (see Chart 5.6) depending on the
daily weighting of each of the two sectors.
Chart 5.8

TNA, % Meanwhile, retail deposits (less than $100,000)
Commercial Loans
25 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount) practically did not register changes in the interest rates paid

Advances both by private and public banks whose

Documents averages ended at 6.7% and 4.2% respectively.
20
Finally, in placements at 60 days maturity an
increase of 0.2 percentage points was verified with an interest rate that registered an
15
average of 7.2%, while in deposits at more than 90 days the
increase was 1.3 percentage points where the interest rate stood at 8.2%,

10 recovering the level it presented in previous months (in June
it had declined due to greater participation of deposits
from the public sector) and increasing slightly with respect to May before

5 the increase in placements by institutional investors
Source: BCRA Nov-03 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 Mar-06 Jul-06
(AFJP, FCI, etc.) made in this bracket at an average interest rate
of 11.6% (see Chart 5.7).

6 Monetary Report JULY 2006

Chart 5.9 Active Interest Rates¹ 6

Active Interest Rates
TNA, % (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount) Regarding the active interest rates, they
40
Personal Credit Cards remained stable, both for short-term financing
35 Mortgages and Chattel Mortgages as well as for longer-term loans.

30
In current account advances, the interest rate
25 remained relatively stable during the month, registering a level of
20 16.6%. Continued strong growth was observed in this credit line,
concentrated mostly in large companies that
15 increased their relative participation. In amounts greater than $1
10 million, the average interest rate is approximately 13.6%
while for amounts less than $100,000 the
5 average interest rate is 30.1%. For its part, the interest rate
nov-03 may-04 nov-04 may-05 nov-05 may-06
Source: BCRA on documents signed solely was placed at 13.2% (see Chart 5.8).

On loans with real guarantees, the interest rate on
mortgage loans remained stable at 11.7%, while the
interest rate on chattel mortgage loans presented a decrease
of 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month, placing it at 10.8%. On this
Chart 6.1 occasion, the reduction was related mainly to the

thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA decrease in the highest interest rates, taking into account
millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)
that in these financings the range of interest rates charged is
30 broad as they range from financings at 0% rate in the case of
some financial companies related to the automotive sector up to 26%
US$ 26.223 M
approximately.
26

22 Finally, in personal loans an
increase of 0.2 p.p. was observed in the average interest rate which was placed

18 at 24.2% while in credit card financing,
although July data is not yet available, during June they
14 remained stable at 27.6% (see Chart 5.9).

10

6
Jul-01 May-02 Mar-03 Jan-04 Nov-04 Sep-05 Jul-06
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market7

July ended with a reserve level of US$26,223 million,
3% higher than the previous month (see Chart 6.1). The BCRA had a
participation in the foreign exchange market similar to that of last month
in a context of high liquidation of foreign currency by exporters
Chart 6.2 (see Chart 6.2). The public sector was contractionary in terms of

Foreign Exchange Intervention versus the reserves as its external payments more than offset its

millions Foreign Currency Liquidation by Exporters debt placements in dollars (Boden 2012 and Bonar V). In this
of US$
way, by July 80% of the reserve decline has been recovered
1,800 Foreign Exchange Intervention
associated with the payment made to the IMF at the beginning of the year.
1,600 Foreign Currency Liquidation

1,400
In the foreign exchange market, July ended with a (reference)
1,200
exchange rate of 3.08 pesos per dollar, practically the same level
1,000
as the previous month. In contrast, with respect to the real and the euro, the peso
800
depreciated 2.7% and 0.2% respectively.
600

400 The volumes traded in the foreign exchange market
200 decreased both in the spot market and in the futures market;
0 behavior similar to that observed in June. In the case

Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 of the spot market (through the Electronic Operations System -

Source: own elaboration based on BCRA and CIARA data

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to May 2006, the
values of June and July 2006 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in
Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.
7 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise indicated.

7 Monetary Report JULY 2006

Chart 7.1 SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokers Market -MEC-), the
10-year U.S. Treasury bond rate operations agreed were reduced to US$226 million in
in %
5.45 average (11%), while the participation of the BCRA was
 13%, higher by 3 p.p. than the previous month. On the other
 5.25 hand, in the Futures market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario
 Term Market –ROFEX-) the traded volumes were
 5.05 US$89 million average, 5% lower than those in June, and the
 
 4.85 BCRA's participation was just 1%.

 4.65

 4.45 7. Capital Market

 4.25
 dec-05 jan-06 mar-06 mar-06 apr-06 may-06 jun-06 jul-06 Global risk aversion again impacted the volatility of financial

 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data markets. Indeed, from July 11th, a significant increase in market
 volatility was observed as the military escalation in the Middle East
 intensified. The increase in volatility caused a rebalancing in the
 portfolios of agents who liquidated riskier positions in exchange for
 risk-free assets. In this way, a fall in stock market quotations was
 observed in both developed and emerging countries, and a decrease
 in American Treasury bond yields (see Charts 7.1 and 7.2). It is
 noteworthy that the decrease in yields in the U.S. caused an
 increase in the valuations of external and domestic debt of some
Chart 7.2 emerging countries.

 Evolution of Stock Exchanges in the World
 30-jun-06=100
 120 (World, U.S., Europe, Japan and Latin America)

 115 Equities

 110
 105 The Merval index, which groups the most relevant equities in
 the stock market, did not escape the fall in stock exchanges at the
 100 global level, although it recovered in the second half of the month.
 Indeed, the slight monthly decrease of 0.5% implied a strong
 95 recovery of the order of 5.5% with respect to the lows observed

 90 MSCI-World in July.
 MSCI-Europe
 85 MSCI-Japan
 MSCI-Latin America
 80 S&P 500 In general, measured in dollars, the impact in the Latin
 
 75 American region of the increase in quotation volatility was
 
 mar-06 apr-06 may-06 jun-06 jul-06 negative, although in most cases it was reversed in the second half
 
 Source: BCRA based on Morgan Stanley Capital International and Bloomberg data of the month. Somewhat different was the case of the Peruvian
 stock market, which again showed positive returns, even when the
 rest of the markets lowered their quotations. Indeed, Peru's IGBVL
 stock index increased by 10% during the month, accumulating a
 return of 97% since the end of the previous year. In the case of
 Mexico's IPC index, although the evolution of said securities
 market was strongly influenced by political tensions due to
 presidential elections, it resulted in an increase of 8.5% in the
 month. In the case of Brazil, despite the decrease of 50 b.p. of the
 SELIC rate in mid-month, the Bovespa index rose just 0.6%. Like
 the case of Argentina's Merval index, which decreased by 0.2%, the
 stock market in Chile showed a downward trend, falling 0.1% in
 the month.

Chart 7.3

 Volatility (%) Volatility (%) The volatility of returns in the stock markets of Latin America
 (22 sessions) Stock market volatility (22 sessions)
 70 20 replicated what happened in developed markets, which although it
 MERVAL (Argentina) decreased slightly, remained at elevated levels. Indeed, the
 60 IPC (Mexico) volatility of the Merval index decreased slightly, recording a
 BOVESPA (Brazil) 16 volatility of 22 sessions of 24% towards the end of the month, a
 50 S&P 500 (U.S.) (Right axis) level lower than the 32% recorded at the end of June (see Chart
 12 7.3). The same behavior was observed in the region, with the
 40
 exception of Mexico, which due to elections, was
 30 8

 20
 4

 10
 0 0
 
 dec-05 jan-06 mar-06 mar-06 apr-06 may-06 jun-06 jul-06

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data.

 8 Monetary Report JULY 2006

Chart 7.4
**Yield Curves Yield Curves in Pesos** increased slightly the volatility of its stock market.
annual real (%)
 8.0
 DISC $
 7.0 Bogar PAR $ The volume of transactions traded daily in the

 6.0 Boden 14 Buenos Aires securities market was $39 million on
 PRO 12 average, well below the amounts traded in the previous
 5.0
 months. The volume from the previous month was also low, which
 4.0 30-Jun contrasts with the average of the first half of the year, in which
 PRE 08
 3.0 31-Jul operations were conducted daily at $74 million on average.
 Boden 08

 2.0 Boden 07

 1.0

 0.0 Public Securities

 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
 Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Securities Market Institute The yield curve of U.S. Treasury bonds
 flattened during the month, basically for two reasons. First,
 due to the increase in global risk aversion that led to
 increased demand for assets perceived as less
 risky. Second, it should be noted that during July, U.S. GDP
 data for the second quarter became available. The reading of the
 data resulted in a sharp reduction in the probability of future
 increases in interest rates at meetings of the Federal Reserve's
 Monetary Policy Committee, after the August 8th meeting,
 Chart 7.5 suggesting greater risk of a slowdown in the U.S. economy.

 **Yield
 Yield Curves in Dollars Spread (p.p.)**
 annual (%)
 10.0 1.3
 Paradoxically, such circumstances motivated a contraction of

 9.0 Boden 13 1.0 spreads in external debt of emerging markets. In
 Boden 15 DISC PAR particular, the emerging markets spread index EMBI+
 Boden 12 BONAR USD
 8.0 0.8 contracted by 25 b.p., reaching a level of 196 b.p. at the end of the month. The

 7.0 0.5 same behavior was observed in the Latin America region,
 where the index contracted by similar magnitude, led by

 6.0 30-Jun 0.3 Argentina and Brazil, which achieved improvements in the spreads of their external
 31-Jul debt. In the case of Argentina, the index was positioned at 346 b.p.
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve 31-Jul
 5.0 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve 30-Jun 0.0 after falling 39 b.p. during the month, while in the case of Brazil,
 the index fell by 31 b.p., positioning itself at 223 b.p. at the end of the month. The
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
 Duration (years) yield curve of securities denominated in dollars
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Securities Market Institute was reduced toward lower yields at all maturities, just as the

 real yield curve, which also shifted
 parallel toward a lower level (see Charts 7.4 and 7.5).

 During the month, the National Government carried out two
 placements of debt denominated in dollars that jointly reached an
 effective value of US$886 million, or US$982 million in nominal
 Chart 7.6 value. The average weighted cut annual yield of the month

 in millions of was 8.45%, while the average placement term was of
 $ Sources of Explanation of Variation
 400 in the Net Worth of the AFJP 3.86 years. This yield implies a spread above the yield curve
 344
 of U.S. Treasury securities of 340 b.p.
 300

 213 It should be noted that of the two placements, one of them
 200
 corresponded to a private placement, while the other
 100 placement was of public offering. In the private placement a
 Boden 12 denominated in dollars was issued, while in the public
 0
 offering a Bonar V was placed, in the same currency.
 -100 -41
-139
 -200
 -197
 The trading volume of public securities (on a daily average)
 -300 -260
 -313 registered an increase with respect to previous months. In
 -400 effect, $1,038 million were traded daily, an amount more
 Total Public Fixed-term Foreign Investment Futures and Other
 Investments Securities Titles Funds Common Funds Options similar to those that had been reached during last year, or in
 the first quarter of the year. It is worth noting that in June and May,

 9 Monetary Report JULY 2006

 Graph 7.7
 a daily amount of $847 million and $936 million had been traded
 Money Market Funds respectively.
 thousands of
 millions of $ Jul-06 (patrimony)

5.6

5.2 Institutional Investors

4.8

4.4 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

4.0
 The investment portfolio of Pension and Retirement Fund
3.6 Administrators (AFJP) totaled $73,638 million as of July 15.
3.2 When measured from the end of the previous month, the decrease in

2.8 the portfolio value was $197 million or 0.3%.

2.4
 Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Apr-06 May-06 Jul-06

Source: BCRA and CAFCI When analyzing the different lines of the pension funds' balance
sheet (see Graph 7.6), a reduction in exposure to variable income is
visualized, both from abroad and domestic, and an increase in the
relative participation of fixed income. With the information available
as of July 15, it is observed that on the side of increases, the line
of domestic public securities stands out, which increased by $344
million while fixed-term deposits increased by $213 million. On the
other side, the decline in the value of equity holdings in general
was significant, with domestic equities falling $130 million and
foreign equities $313 million. Finally, Mutual Investment Funds
decreased by $260 million, and futures and options contracts fell
by $139 million in value.

 Graph 7.8
 Patrimony of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of millions $
 14 Fixed-term and money Mutual Investment Funds

 12 Fixed income

 Mixed income

 10 Variable income The patrimony of the FCI in pesos registered a decrease of $186
 million (1.7%), driven by a decrease in the patrimony of money
 8 market instruments.

 6 Money market funds toward the end of the month presented a
 contraction of $383 million (8.9%). The patrimony of these funds
 4 did not manage to recover from the decline evidenced the previous
 month (see Graph 7.7), as a consequence of redemptions made to
 2 face the significant expenditures of companies at the end of the
 0 first semester. The profitability at the end of the month was 5.42%.
 Mar-03 Jul-03 Nov-03 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 Mar-06 Jul-06
 It is also worth noting that in recent months the incorporation of
Source: BCRA and CAFCI short-term fixed income instruments (such as Financial Trusts –FF–
 and LEBAC) has been observed in money market portfolios.

 Regarding variable income funds, these presented an increase
 of $86 million (1.8%), since despite the volatility observed in the
 Graph 7.9 last two months, the entry of new investors who chose Latin
 America as a destination for their investments through this type
 Yield Curves of Corporate Bonds of fund was verified. In terms of profitability, these funds were
 IRR % positioned at 0.3%.

 16

 14 Finally, the patrimony of fixed income funds exhibited a positive
 12 patrimonial variation in July (see Graph 7.8), close to $96 million
 10 (5.1%), which can be explained fundamentally by the entry of new
 8 subscribers attracted by attractive prices of domestic debt bonds
 6 and a notable improvement in profitability. In the
 Non-restructured* (31-Jul-06)
 4 Restructured (31-Jul-06)
2 Not Restructured* (30-Jun-06) case of funds that possess short-term instruments, the
 Restructured (30-Jun-06) yield during the month was 1.21%; while for funds
 0
 012345678 that possess long-term instruments it stood at 2.65%. On the other
 *Corresponds to ON of issuers that have not incurred in cessation of payments duration (years)

 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data

 10 Monetary Report JULY 2006

 Graph 7.10 hand, mixed-income funds grew by $13 million (5.1%) and
 Amounts issued through Financial Trusts their yield showed a loss of 2.01%.
 millions
 of $
 1,400
 1,230
 1,200 1,145
 Private Securities

 1,000

 800 Electricidad Argentina S.A. announced an acceptance of 99% of
 580 593 its creditors regarding the debt restructuring proposal in default
 600 situation. For this purpose, the issuance of different classes of ONs
 427 452 468 464 454
 389 was arranged, which were placed for US$85.2 million.
 400 317 293 272

 200 Multicanal communicated the exchange of a portion of its debt in

 0 default for new ONs to be issued, of different class and for a

 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 total of US$223.2 million, with maturities in 7 and 10 years.

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and BCBA data
 Pan American Energy, Argentine branch, announced the upcoming
 issuance of series 4 of ONs for US$250 million for early August.
 The new securities will mature in 2012 and will amortize capital in
 two equal payments close to the end of the life of the instruments;
 furthermore they will pay a coupon of 7.75% semi-annually. Standard
 & Poor's, risk rating agency, assigned the AAA (local) rating to the
 new debt.
 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments
 Graph 7.11 a differentiation continues to be observed between companies that
 Underlying Assets complied with their financial obligations and those that had to resort
 to debt restructuring after falling into default after the 2001-02 crisis.
 July 2006 Year-to-date 2006 In terms of YTM, the additional premium required for ONs issued
 by companies that underwent restructuring processes stood at an
 average of 4.7 p.p., 0.9 p.p. higher than that of the previous month
 (see Graph 7.9).

 Personal Loans Mortgage Loans
 2%
 69% Credit Card Coupons Credit Card
 Personal Loans Coupons 29% Others *
 6%
 17%

 Bills of Exchange and Financial Trusts 8
 Others
 2%
 Public Securities
 47% Personal Loans
 28%

 * Includes commercial credits, leasing contracts, future cash flows, pledge credits and bills of exchange.
 In July, 17 Financial Trusts (FF) were placed for approximately
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and BCBA data $450 million, a volume again close to the average placement of the
 last six months, following the decline recorded in June (see Graph
 7.10). In this way, the year-to-date total amounts to more than
 $3,640 million and represents 70% of the total placement of 2005.

 The most securitized assets in July were, for the sixth consecutive
 month, consumer financing. In fact, personal loans and credit card
 coupons concentrated almost the entire total of underlying assets for
 Graph 7.12 the month (see Graph 7.11). In the year-to-date accumulation, the
 same trend is verified.
 %
14

13 Among the settlors, financial entities not regulated by the BCRA
12 stood out, which securitized 65% of July's total. Others that also
11 participated were retail stores (21%), mainly selling household
10 items and home appliances, and regulated entities (12%).
9
Main monetary and financial variables

| | **Monthly Averages** | | | **Percentage Variations Average** | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | **Jul-06** | **Jun-06** | **May-06** | **Jul-05** | **Monthly Nominal** | **Nominal Last 12 months** | **Real Last 12 months** |
| **Monetary Base** | 65.135 | 62.726 | 61.105 | 54.367 | 3.8% | 19.8% | 7.9% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 50.729 | 48.598 | 47.442 | 40.709 | 4.4% | 24.6% | 12.2% |
| In the hands of the public | 46.013 | 43.871 | 42.955 | 36.543 | 4.9% | 25.9% | 13.4% |
| In financial entities | 4.716 | 4.727 | 4.487 | 4.167 | -0.2% | 13.2% | 1.9% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 14.406 | 14.128 | 13.663 | 13.658 | 2.0% | 5.5% | -5.0% |

**Stock of Repurchase Agreements**

| Liabilities | 3.715 | 4.373 | 4.130 | 4.940 | -15.0% | -24.8% | -32.3% |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Assets | 198 | 189 | 287 | 59 | 4.6% | 234.0% | 200.8% |

**Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)**

**LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)**

| In pesos | 9.393 | 9.718 | 9.272 | 19.693 | -3.3% | -52.3% | -57.0% |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| In dollars | 3.838 | 3.838 | 3.340 | 0.0% | 13.5% | |

**NOBAC** | 23.683 | 21.378 | 20.536 | 3.656 | 10.8% | 547.7% | 483.4% |

**International Reserves of the BCRA** | 26.041 | 24.837 | 23.691 | 24.015 | 4.8% | 8.4% |

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** | 134.969 | 132.707 | 129.145 | 113.097 | 1.7% | 19.3% | 7.5% |
| Current account (2) | 38.804 | 39.538 | 37.943 | 31.322 | -1.9% | 23.9% | 11.6% |
| Savings account | 28.057 | 26.358 | 27.566 | 24.849 | 6.4% | 12.9% | 1.7% |
| Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER | 52.222 | 50.614 | 47.415 | 41.784 | 3.2% | 25.0% | 12.6% |
| Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER | 6.597 | 6.974 | 7.052 | 6.308 | -5.4% | 4.6% | -5.8% |
| CEDRO with CER | 29 | 29 | 30 | 598 | 0.5% | -95.1% | -95.6% |
| Other deposits (3) | 9.260 | 9.195 | 9.139 | 8.235 | 0.7% | 12.4% | 1.3% |

**Deposits of the private sector** | 97.184 | 95.414 | 93.994 | 83.111 | 1.9% | 16.9% | 5.3% |

**Deposits of the public sector** | 37.785 | 37.293 | 35.151 | 29.986 | 1.3% | 26.0% | 13.5% |

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** | 5.195 | 5.031 | 4.906 | 3.781 | 3.3% | 37.4% |
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 66,227 64,545 63,024 56,594 2.6% 1.9% 17.0% 5.4%

Loans to the private sector 53,726 52,188 50,299 38,929 2.9% 2.2% 38.0% 24.3%
Advances 10,126 9,476 8,709 7,515 6.9% 6.1% 34.7% 21.4%
Documents 11,795 11,464 11,271 7,932 2.9% 2.2% 48.7% 33.9%
Mortgage loans 9,134 8,978 8,864 8,615 1.7% 1.0% 6.0% -4.5%
Pledge loans 2,973 2,937 2,807 1,919 1.2% 0.5% 54.9% 39.5%
Personal loans 9,857 9,382 8,970 5,655 5.1% 4.3% 74.3% 57.0%
Credit cards 6,197 6,461 6,126 3,803 -4.1% -4.8% 62.9% 46.8%
Others 3,644 3,491 3,553 3,489 4.4% 3.6% 4.4% -5.9%

Loans to the public sector 12,501 12,357 12,725 17,665 1.2% 0.4% -29.2% -36.3%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3,380 3,259 3,133 2,423 3.7% 39.5%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (cash in the hands of the public + current accounts in pesos) 84,817 83,409 80,899 67,864 1.7% 1.0% 25.0% 12.6%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 112,874 109,767 108,465 92,714 2.8% 2.1% 21.7% 9.7%
M3 (cash in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 180,982 176,578 172,101 149,639 2.5% 1.8% 20.9% 8.9%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 196,994 192,076 187,079 160,488 2.6% 1.8% 22.7% 10.6%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (cash in the hands of the public + private current accounts in pesos) 70,011 68,428 67,597 57,026 2.3% 1.6% 22.8% 10.6%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 94,347 90,657 89,238 77,231 4.1% 3.3% 22.2% 10.0%
M3 (cash in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 143,197 139,285 136,949 119,653 2.8% 2.1% 19.7% 7.8%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 159,210 154,783 151,928 130,502 2.9% 2.1% 22.0% 9.9%

Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2006 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2,408 3.7% 4,906 7.5% 9,308 14.3% 13,613 20.9%
Financial sector 715 1.1% -2,122 -3.3% -5,079 -7.8% -10,710 -16.4%
Public sector -475 -0.7% -1,253 -1.9% -3,376 -5.2% -7,105 -10.9%
Temporary advances + transfers of profits -966 -845 -818 233
Use of the national government account 1,132 -609 -2,852 -3,540
External credit -641 201 295 -3,798
Private external sector 3,687 5.7% 11,756 18.0% 22,295 34.2% 38,866 59.7%
BCRA Titles -1,570 -2.4% -3,695 -5.7% -4,789 -7.4% -7,738 -11.9%
Others 51 0.1% 220 0.3% 256 0.4% 299 0.5%

International reserves 1,204 0.0% 4,176 -9.0% -1,221 -9.0% 3,482 -9.0%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1,196 4.6% 3,837 14.7% 7,279 28.0% 12,981 49.8%
Payment to international organizations 7 2 0.3% -164 -0.6% -10,993 -42.2% -13,158 -50.5%
Other public sector operations -153 -0.6% 342 1.3% 1,784 6.9% 3,227 12.4%
Minimum cash -193 -0.7% -315 -1.2% -285 -1.1% -769 -3.0%
Pass rate valuation 72 0.3% 70 0.3% 230 0.9% 147 0.6%
Others 209 0.8% 406 1.6% 763 2.9% 1,054 4.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

13 Monetary Report JULY 2006

Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 7.75 7.19 5.99 6.73 5.04
Amount traded 1,159 1,014 913 912 551

Fixed-term deposits
In pesos
30 days 6.90 6.56 6.45 4.74 4.10
60 days or more 7.98 7.30 7.50 5.87 4.89
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.33 6.76 7.02 5.50 4.72
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.17 8.90 8.95 7.48 5.95
In dollars
 30 days 0.92 0.84 0.71 0.58 0.39
 60 days or more 1.45 1.57 1.29 1.11 0.92
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.82 0.75 0.56 0.55 0.25
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.80 1.90 0.94 0.98 1.50

 Active Interest Rates Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 9.09 8.93 8.14 7.14 6.55

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.38 8.62 8.22 7.85 6.33
 Amount traded (total terms) 95 100 136 92 73

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 16.60 16.50 16.91 17.11 13.98
 Single signature documents 13.15 13.04 12.81 11.54 10.26
 Mortgages 11.70 11.74 11.79 11.55 11.22
 Secured loans 10.76 11.14 11.00 10.12 9.97
 Personal loans 24.15 23.90 24.28 25.33 26.69
 Credit cards n/a 27.58 27.62 27.93 28.35

 International Interest Rates Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

 LIBOR
 1 month 5.37 5.24 5.08 4.36 3.42
 6 months 5.58 5.49 5.29 4.67 3.83

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 5.12 5.11 4.96 4.39 3.86
 10 years 5.08 5.10 5.10 4.46 4.16

 FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.02 4.93 4.17 3.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 15.06 15.25 15.75 18.21 19.75

 (1) Data through May corresponds to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while those from June and July are estimates made
 based on the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report JULY 2006

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 5.25 5.17 4.79 4.48 3.75
 Liabilities 7 days 5.75 5.67 5.29 4.98 4.25
 Assets 7 days 8.0 7.79 7.29 6.0 5.25

 Total repo market rates
 1 day 6.80 5.88 5.18 4.86 3.99
 7 days 6.01 5.97 5.44 5.20 4.29

 Amount traded in REPO market repos (daily average) 1,767 2,068 2,523 2,708 2,329

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month n/o n/o 6.61 6.71 5.94
 2 months n/o n/o 6.82 6.91 n/o
 3 months 7.20 7.30 7.08 7.30 6.85
 9 months 10.23 10.26 10.33 n/o 7.85
 12 months 12.07 11.98 11.68 n/o 8.23

 NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.07 3.34 2.14 n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.75 2.32 3.38 4.72 n/o
 2 years BADLAR Total n/o n/o n/o 6.26 2.56

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 47 41 27 98 146

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.08 3.08 3.05 3.02 2.87
 BCRA Reference 3.08 3.08 3.05 3.01 2.87

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.09 3.10 3.07 3.04 2.87
 ROFEX 1 month 3.09 3.09 3.06 3.02 2.87
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 199 186 308 228 138

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.41 1.37 1.41 1.32 1.21

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.91 3.90 3.90 3.58 3.46

 Capital Market Jul-06 Jun-06 May-06 Dec-05 Jul-05

 MERVAL
 Index 1,679 1,605 1,751 1,530 1,443
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 46 59 80 79 78

 Government Bonds (in parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.94 91.93 92.41 88.60 88.72
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 90.45 94.45 95.67 85.62 n/o
 BODEN 2014 ($) 80.22 79.84 84.49 88.48 83.25
 DISCOUNT ($) 88.24 86.98 93.68 94.73 n/o

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 337 395 325 438 534
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 214 235 214 273 334

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 15 Monetary Report JULY 2006

9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** National State Bond.

**BONAR V:** Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CC:** Current account.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DISC:** Discount Bond.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging markets bonds index.

**FCI:** Investment common funds.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the USA.

**FF:** Financial trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-over-year.

**IGBVL:** Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

**IGPA:** Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MAE:** Electronic Open Market.

**MEC:** Electronic Brokers Market.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MEXBOL:** Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Term Agreed Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.

**PAR:** Par Bond.

**PBI:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and medium-sized enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SELIC:** Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIOPEL:** Electronic Operations System.

**SISCEN:** Centralized Information Requirements System.

**TCRM:** Multilateral real exchange rate.

**TIR:** Internal rate of return.

**TNA:** Annual nominal rate.

**Monetary Report JULY 2006**

**VN:** Nominal value.
