# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
Monthly Monetary Report
MARCH 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

2. Monetary Aggregates 2

3. Banking Liquidity 3

4. Loans 4

5. Interest Rates 5
   5.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   5.2. Interfinancial Markets 6
   5.2.1 Repurchase Agreement Market 6
   5.2.2 Interbank Market 6
   5.3. Passive Interest Rates 7
   5.4. Active Interest Rates 8

6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 9

7. Capital Markets 10
   7.1. Equities 10
   7.2. Public Securities 11
   7.3. Institutional Investors 11
   7.3.1 Pension Fund Administrators 11
   7.3.2 Investment Funds 12
   7.4. Private Securities 13
   7.5. Financial Trusts 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 14

9. Glossary 17

---

## 1. Summary

• The Central Bank (BCRA) comfortably met the target established in the Monetary Program (PM) for the first quarter of 2006, and has accumulated eleven consecutive quarters of compliance. The average level of money supply (M2) was positioned at $106,181 million, very close to the lower limit of the PM bands and approximately $4,750 million below the upper limit. In relation to the previous month, M2 showed an increase of $960 million (0.9%) which is explained mainly by the increase in sight deposits of the public sector.

• The Monetary Base (BM) was positioned at $58,490 million. The monetary contraction generated from rediscount cancellations, net placements of LEBAC and NOBAC and absorption from the public sector compensated for foreign currency purchases to accumulate reserves and the decrease in the balance of reverse repurchase agreements for the BCRA.

• The BCRA adopted a series of measures aimed at encouraging savings and, therefore, investment. As of April it increased the reserve requirement coefficient on sight deposits in pesos by 2 percentage points and stopped remuneration on them. Likewise it reduced to 50% of the BADLAR rate, the maximum ceiling for remuneration of sight accounts from which they have a 100% reserve requirement, while it reduced from 2.55% to 0.50% the remuneration of reverse repurchase agreements that Investment Funds (FCI) conduct at the BCRA in order to integrate their liquidity margin.

• Loans to the private sector continued to grow at a sustained pace and reached, in real terms, an annual growth rate of 25%. The growth was widespread across all types of loans, while financings in foreign currency acquired renewed dynamism, linked mainly to export activities.

• In early April the BCRA issued regulatory changes aimed at facilitating access to bank credit for companies, particularly SMEs. From now on, valuations are not required for checks issued by drawers classified in normal situation, and financial institutions can provision these financings at one percent and do not need to evaluate the payment capacity of assignors.

• The BCRA increased by 1 percentage point the interest rate on active repurchase agreements at 7 days maturity, which was positioned at 7% at the end of March; the interest rates on reverse repurchase agreements remained at the same levels in effect since the beginning of December, at 4.5% in the case of 1 day maturity and 5% for operations at 7 days maturity. During March greater activity could be observed in the interbank market, while significant volatility in interest rates was evident. For its part, the BADLAR rate of private banks rose 0.8 percentage points and reached a level of 8.2%.

• At the end of March the stock of international reserves amounted to US$21,549 million, showing an increase of US$1,017 million (5.0%) in relation to the previous month.

---

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

Graph 2.1

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006
thousands of M2
millions of $

130 In March, the means of payment (M2) evolved in line
M2
125 M2, 30-day moving average with what was projected in the Monetary Program 2006 (PM 2006),
PM 2006 Bands
positioning itself at $106,181 million, very close to the lower limit of the
120
band established for the first quarter of the year (see Chart 2.1).

115 In this way, eleven consecutive quarters of

110 compliance with the Monetary Program accumulate. In relation to the previous month, M2 presented an increase of $960 million (0.9%) and its year-on-year growth rate declined 0.2 p.p., to stand at 26.5%.

105

100 The dynamics evidenced by the means of payment are explained

95 mainly by the increase in transactional deposits

90 (see Chart 2.2), given that cash in the hands of the public
Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06
Source: BCRA remained relatively stable in March, showing a decline close to $30 million (-0.1%).

Demand deposits registered an increase of $990 million (1.6%). Most of this increase corresponded to placements by the public sector ($860 million, 4.6%), while private deposits presented more moderate growth
Chart 2.2 ($130 million, 0.3%). It should be noted that, in both cases, towards the end of the month abrupt movements of funds occurred that significantly affected the stocks at the end of March. In the case of public sector placements, in the last week of the month an important decline was noted, associated with the transfer of resources from Social Security to time deposits. On the contrary, demand placements by the private sector presented a strong increase. As a result of both behaviors, between the end of the month total demand deposits decreased by around $1,300 million.

Monetary Aggregates in Pesos
(average variation March vs. February 2006)

Public Sector
Other Deposits Private Sector

Time Deposits The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) also evolved positively in March, increasing $1,200 million, as a consequence of the increase in time placements that was added to the aforementioned increase in means of payment.

Demand Deposits

Bills and Coins In effect, fixed-term deposits continued to grow in March and presented a variation of $340 million in relation to the previous month. The increase occurred fundamentally in the last days of the month due to the aforementioned transfer of public funds from demand accounts and the influx of new private placements. The new public deposits were concentrated in the
Chart 2.3 90 to 179-day segment. For their part, private placements were agreed basically in the 60 to 89-day segment, while shorter-term deposits (30-59 days), contrary to what had been observed during the last few months, presented a negative variation (see Chart 2.3).

Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
(variation 31-Mar-06 vs. 28-Feb-06)

millions of $ Fixed-Term Deposits without CER Foreign currency deposits increased US$120 million in March, mainly due to the increase in demand deposits by the public sector, which amounted to US$75 million. Private sector deposits also presented a positive variation in March, totaling US$45 million. This increase was composed of an increase of US$35 million in time placements and a rise of US$10 million in demand deposits (see Chart 2.4). As a consequence, the average stock of foreign currency deposits amounted to US$4,440 million.

PRIVATE SECTOR PUBLIC SECTOR
Fixed-Term Deposits with CER

30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more than 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 more than
days days days days 366 days days days days 366 days days

Source: BCRA

2 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006
# Graph 2.4

In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos and dollars (M3*) showed in March a monthly increase of $1,610 million (0.9%), which translated into an annual increase of 19.3%.

With regard to primary money, the average Monetary Base (MB) stood at $58,490 million.

The cancellations of rediscounts generated in March a monetary contraction of $2,456 million. In this way, the remaining balance of BCRA assistance to entities during the 2001-02 crisis was reduced to $6,374 million.

Additionally, in March the balance of securities issued by the BCRA increased, which also caused a reduction in the MB of $1,843 million. In these placements, in addition to banks, other legal entities had important participation.

# Graph 2.5

Finally, in March the public sector contributed with a monetary contraction of $141 million, as a result of the "drag" effect of operations carried out in February.

The factors that caused MB expansion were foreign currency purchases ($2,892 million) and reverse repo operations ($1,533 million) arranged by the BCRA (see Graph 2.5). The monetary expansion explained by reverse repo operations was associated, mainly, with liquidity needs arising from the aforementioned rediscount cancellations.

---

# 3. Bank Liquidity¹

Bank liquidity² decreased in March as a consequence of some entities reducing their reverse repo position with the BCRA to attend to the cancellation of rediscounts. However, given that banks showed during the month a renewed interest in the LEBAC and NOBAC issued by the BCRA, if these securities are also computed in the liquidity definition, it remained practically constant at around 32% of deposits.

# Graph 3.1

By bank group, the behavior was disparate. Thus, bank liquidity, including LEBAC and NOBAC, decreased in the group of public banks that was the main participant in the early cancellation of rediscounts, while it increased in the group of private banks which strongly expanded in March their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC (see Graph 3.1).

---

The liquidity maintained by banks in cash and in current accounts of the BCRA exceeded the minimum cash requirements established by this institution by approximately 0.5% of deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2). In foreign currency, the surplus of minimum cash was around 25% of dollar deposits.

# Graph 3.2

It should be noted that, to encourage productive investment and savings, the BCRA implemented as of April a series of measures, which include raising the reserve requirement coefficient on demand deposits in pesos by 2 p.p. (from 15% to 17%), cease remuneration of balances

---

¹ Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and passive reverse repos with the BCRA.

² Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006
Integration of EM in $ of accounts in pesos opened by entities in the BCRA that
 22
 EM Requirement in $ correspond to reserve requirements on demand deposits3 and reduce to 50%

 20 of the BADLAR rate, the maximum ceiling for remuneration of demand

 18 accounts from which entities have a 100% reserve requirement4.

 16

 14

 12
 4. Loans1 5

 10
 Nov-03 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05
 * The quarterly position December-05 / February-06 and the March position are estimated. Loans to the private sector continued accelerating their
 growth rate during March (see Chart 4.1), and reached
 their highest year-on-year growth rate, both in nominal
 terms (38.9%) and in real terms (25%). Growth
 Table 1 was generalized across all types of loans, both in
 in percentage commercial and consumer loans and those with real
 Communication A 4509 guarantees, while financing in foreign currency acquired
 Reserve Coef. Mar-06 Abr-06renewed dynamism, linked mainly to export-related activities.

 Sight Dep. 15 17
 Time Dep.
 up to 29 days 14 14
 30 to 59 days 11 11Commercial loans in pesos continued
 60 to 89 days 7 7increasing during March and, according to the expected
 90 to 179 days 2 2seasonal behavior, their growth was relatively lower than in
 180 to 365 days 1 1previous months. In the month they increased only $100 million
 +365 days 0 0(0.4%), although they maintain a firm growth rate in year-on-year
 Remuneration CC in BCRA Mar-06 Abr-06terms (39%) (see Chart 4.2). This month, the growth of this
 Requirement sight dep. 2.55 -portfolio was explained basically by the increase in financing
 Requirement time dep. 2.55 2.55arranged through documents (single signature documents,
 Communication A 4518 discounted documents and purchased documents), which
 100% Reserve Mar-06 Abr-06increased $120 million (1.1%). "Other loans" increased
 Sight dep. and oblig. in pesos
 with remun. higher than BADLAR rate 75 50$20 million (0.5%), while advances decreased $30 million
 by:
 (-0.4%) on average. It should be noted that throughout the month
 advances recorded a decline of $670 million. This was due to the
 fact that in the last days of February and beginning of March,
 advances had registered unusually high increases caused by specific
 liquidity demands from some companies, increases that were
 rapidly reversed.

 Chart 4.1

 % Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector
50 (year-on-year var. of monthly averages)

 It is worth noting that at the beginning of April the BCRA implemented

40 regulatory changes aimed at facilitating access by companies,

30 particularly SMEs, to bank credit. Going forward, appraisals are not

20 required for the discount of checks issued by

10 drawers classified in normal situation, and financial entities

 0 can provision these financings at one percent and do not

-10 need to evaluate the payment capacity of assignees6. It is expected

-20 In nominal terms that for the coming months this will consolidate the growth of

-30 In real terms - deflated by CPI document discounting.

-40

-50 In the case of consumer loans, during March

-60 they grew $620 million (4.6%), an increase that was led by
 Aug-97 May-98 Feb-99 Nov-99 Aug-00 May-01 Feb-02 Nov-02 Aug-03 May-04 Feb-05 Nov-05
Source: BCRA the increase in personal loans, which rose $420

 3 See Communication A 4509.

 4 See Communication A 4518.

 5 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, basically caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.

 6 See Communication A 4522.

 4 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006
**Chart 4.2** millions (5.3%). For its part, financing with credit cards increased $200 million (3.6%).

% Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
80
(year-on-year variation of monthly averages)

In a context of high sales of automobiles and
60 agricultural machinery, secured loans continued
Commercial
Consumer showing sustained growth. During March they increased
40
Real guarantee $90 million (3.4%) and reached a year-on-year variation of 47.6%
(32.9% in real terms). For its part, mortgage loans
20 accumulated 10 consecutive months of growth (see Chart 4.3)
and in the month they increased $60 million (0.6%).
0
Finally, in the case of financing in foreign
-20 currency, during March they gained renewed momentum,
increasing US$150 million (6.3%). Said increase was
-40 explained by the behavior of documents linked to
Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 exports.
Source: BCRA

**5. Interest Rates**

**Chart 4.3** **5.1. Securities Issued by the BCRA7**

millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
150 (Monthly average variation)

The interest rates paid in the primary placements of
100 Mortgages LEBAC and NOBAC in March decreased slightly compared to those
Secured of February. Thus, at the end of March, the 28-day LEBAC was
placed at 6.69% and the 63-day one at 6.85%. These levels were
50 0.05 p.p. and 0.12 p.p. lower than those recorded by the respective
rates a month earlier. The cut margins of the NOBAC that pay
0 adjustable coupon according to BADLAR also presented
monthly decreases. Thus, in the last auction of the month the
-50 securities of 9 and 24 months were awarded with margins of 2.8 p.p. and
4.73 p.p., respectively. That is, they decreased 0.07 p.p. in the
-100 first case and 0.28 p.p. in the latter.
Source: BCRA Dec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06

At the end of March, the total amount in circulation of LEBAC and
NOBAC was VN $28,179 million, 6% higher than that in effect a
month earlier. As in previous months, the securities that
increased their participation in the total balance were the NOBAC
(see Chart 5.1.1). In this way, on the last day of March the
NOBAC that pay adjustable coupon according to BADLAR concentrated
45% of the total amount in circulation. On the other hand, 30% was
made up of LEBAC in pesos not adjusted by CER and the rest
**Chart 5.1.1** was made up of securities adjusted by CER.

VN, thousands of Securities Issued by the Central Bank

millions of $ So far this year, legal entities had an
30 2 to 3 years important participation in primary placements. Although it is
9 months NOBAC observed that net placements in the first auctions
25 3 to 4 years were negative, this was linked to the fall in holdings of
More than 12 months
9 to 12 months LEBAC by banks, while the rest of legal entities increased
20 4 to 6 months their placements in LEBAC or NOBAC. Likewise, in the first
2 to 3 months auctions of March, where the month's awards were concentrated,
15 1 month the participation of the rest of legal entities was around
50% (see Chart 5.1.2).
10

5

0
Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Feb-06 Mar-06

Source: BCRA

7 In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where another specification is indicated.

5 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

**Chart 5.1.2** **5.2. Interbank Markets**
Variation of Stock of Securities in Pesos
(According to purchases in the primary market)
VN, millions of $

1,200 **5.2.1. Repo Market1**
1,000
Legal Entities Banks
800 For operations conducted in the REPO session, the
600 BCRA increased by 1 p.p. the interest rate on 7-day active repos
 and set it at 7% at the end of March. On the other hand, the interest rates
 400
 on passive repos were maintained at the same levels as in
 200
 February, 4.5% in the case of 1 day and 5% for 7-day transactions.
 0 For its part, the average interest rates that also include

-200 operations in which the BCRA is not a counterparty registered

-400 monthly increases. Thus, in the 1-day segment, the average
 4-Jan 11-Jan 18-Jan 25-Jan 1-Feb 8-Feb 15-Feb 22-Feb 1-Mar 8-Mar 15-Mar 22-Mar 29-Marmonthly rate operated was 6.4%, 1.7 p.p. higher than that of

Source: BCRA
 February.

 On the other hand, at the end of March, and taking into account the
 new provisions on minimum cash, the BCRA arranged that the
 interest rate applied to repos agreed by money market investment
 funds to comply with liquidity margins be reduced from 2.55% to 0.5%. In this way
Gráfico 5.2.1.1 it seeks to maintain the balance of incentives between remunerated
 Amount Operated in Repos by the BCRA current accounts and money market funds, since both
 billions of $
 4.5

 4.0 instruments have similar characteristics.
 3.5 Com. A 4399
 FCI The average amount negotiated daily by the BCRA
 3.0 REPO Round reached $2,332 million, which represented a decrease of 27%

 2.5 with respect to February (see Chart 5.2.1.1). The reduction was due to the fact that

 2.0 some banks used funds they maintained in this market

 1.5 to cancel rediscounts, acquire LEBAC or NOBAC and to

 1.0 face liquidity needs resulting from the return of daily

 0.5 minimum cash requirements to the levels prior to the

 0.0 December-February quarterly position. Greater liquidity needs
 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 were also reflected in an increase in the amount negotiated
 Source: BCRA in repos between third parties (operations in which the
 BCRA does not intervene). Thus, in this segment of the market,
 an average of $690 million was traded daily, 15% more than in the
 previous month.

 Furthermore, as of March 10, the BCRA began to
 arrange repos using public securities issued by the National
 Government8 as underlying assets. These operations can
 be carried out for up to 30 days and the assets that can be received as
Chart 5.2.2.1 counterparty to the securities are: pesos, US dollars,

 Interbank Market euros or securities denominated in those currencies. During the month, the
 millions of $ TNA, %
 1,600 Stock at 1 business day Stock up to 7 calendar days 12 operations conducted under this framework were in exchange for US
 1,400 Interest rate at 7 calendar days (right axis) dollars and totaled US$7 million.
 Interest rate at 1 business day (right axis)
 10

 1,200

 8
 1,000
 5.2.2. Interbank Market
 800 6

 600 During March, greater activity could be observed in the
 4

 400 interbank market, while significant volatility was evident

 2 in interest rates (see Chart 5.2.2.1).
 200

 0 0
 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Mar-06
 Source: BCRA

 8 These repos were enabled by Communication A 4508.

 6 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

 Chart 5.2.2.2 At the beginning of the month, a series of factors combined and
 Call and EM Position reduced banking liquidity, generating upward pressure on interest
 millions of $ % rates. As mentioned earlier, some banks

 3,500 Accumulated EM Position 12 made significant advance cancellations of rediscounts,
 3,000 Call
 10 so they had to go out to raise funds in the interbank
 2,500
 2,000 market to be able to complete all payments. To this
 8
 1,500

 1,000 6 was added the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC in the market
500 primary (see Section 5.1) and an increase in liquidity demand
 0 4 on the part of companies, which raised their balances of advances

 -500 2 on current account (see Section 4). Additionally, along with the

 -1.000 completion of the minimum cash position together for the quarter

 -1.500 Joint Position Dec-Feb* March Position*0december-february, starting in March, the minimum daily requirement
 1-Dec 16-Dec 31-Dec 15-Jan 30-Jan 14-Feb 1-Mar 16-Mar 31-Mar
 * Estimated Data was raised, so the available supply of funds was reduced. All this

 Source: BCRA had an impact on the interbank market, putting upward pressure on interest
 rates.

 The interest rate that had ended February around
 6.4% rose sharply in early March, reaching a peak
 of 10.2%. Then, once bank liquidity began to be
 restored, interest rates began to decline (see Chart
Chart 5.2.2.3 5.2.2.2) reaching a level of 5.4%, while the amounts
 millions of $ Call Market % operated were increasing. Finally, on the last day of the
 500 (Net daily position by group of entities and interest rate) 12 month, in view of the changes in the liquidity regulation in force from
 400
 April (see Section 3), interest rates grew again
 300 10 sharply.
 200
 100 8 Operating volumes increased significantly
 0 in the second half of the month, as financial entities
 6
-100 were recovering their liquidity levels. The average stock
-200 4 for March was $1,140 million, which implies an
 increase of 28% compared to the previous month.
-300
-400 Foreign 2 By group of banks, the greater prominence that
 Private Nat. public banking acquired as a net provider of funds is notable
-500 Public (see Chart 5.2.2.3). Likewise, the group of private entities of national
 Interest Rate (right axis) capital went from being a net provider of funds in February, to
-600 0 a net demander during the first half of March, to later
 1-Dec 16-Dec 31-Dec 15-Jan 30-Jan 14-Feb 1-Mar 16-Mar 31-Mar reverse its position in the second half of the month.
Source: BCRA
 
 5.3. Passive Interest Rates1

 During March there were increases in the interest
 Chart 5.3.1 rates of short-term fixed deposits, although in parallel at
 longer terms interest rates declined.

 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 (5-day moving average) In the shortest-term segment, the BADLAR interest rate
 (deposits of more than one million pesos of 30 to 35 days
 March Private Banks Public Banks Total BADLAR BADLAR term) of private banks began the month in ascent, in line
 % Less than $100,000 % Greater than $1,000,000
 6.0 9.0 with interbank market interest rates. From the
 5.5
 third week, although greater liquidity was observed and a decline
 8.0
 5.0 in interbank rates, banks continued a policy of
 7.0 greater capture of time deposits, due to the changes in the
 4.5
 6.0 minimum cash regulations that would govern from April,
 4.0
 5.0 maintaining interest rates at the levels of the first
 3.5
 4.0 weeks, and thus increasing the amount captured. In this
 3.0
 way, the average BADLAR rate of private banks was 8.2%
 2.5 3.0 reaching the same level as January and exceeding by 0.8 p.p. that of
 2.0 2.0 February. In retail deposits of private entities, the rate
 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06
 Source: BCRA

 7 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

 Chart 5.3.2
# Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos

The interest rate rose 0.3 percentage points and reached 5.8% in the last days of March (monthly average weighted by amount operated). On the other hand, in public entities the interest rates for 30 to 59 days remained constant at 3.6% for retail deposits and fell 0.1 percentage points for wholesale deposits, positioning itself at 4.2% for 60 to 89 days (See Graph 5.3.1).

Unlike the evolution of the BADLAR rate, the average interest rate for deposits of more than 90 days showed a decline of 0.4 percentage points and was positioned at 6.2%. This was mainly due to a decrease in the returns on placements of legal entities added to an increase in the amount of deposits from the public sector which generally present, interest rates lower than the rest of the placements (see Graph 5.3.2).

Finally, by type of account holder, the most significant change was observed in the placements of financial services companies (AFJP, FCI, insurance companies), which experienced an increase of 1.1 percentage points in the returns on deposits at 30 days, of 1.2 percentage points in those of placements between 60 and 89 days and of 0.2 percentage points for deposits with terms greater than 90 days (see Graph 5.3.3).

## 5.4. Active Interest Rates¹

Active interest rates registered slight increases, with the exception of personal loans where the interest rate fell again.

During March the interest rates corresponding to overdrafts in current accounts continued with their upward trend. The average interest rate was positioned at 17.7% which represented an increase of 0.5 percentage points (see Graph 5.4.1) led by overdrafts granted to companies. For documents on sole signature, the average interest rate was 11.8% maintaining the same level as the previous month. Within this credit line, documents for SMEs currently comprise 30% of the total and of these 53% was granted at terms exceeding 180 days, while among documents granted to large companies 70% were granted at terms less than 6 months.

The interest rate for mortgage loans was 11.4%, practically at the levels of the previous month. Within this line 70% was granted to families for amounts up to $250,000 and the average interest rate was 10.7% while for companies the average interest rate was 12.7% where the amounts granted were superior to $1 million. With respect to pawn loans the average interest rate was 9.6%, 0.3 percentage points higher than that of the previous month while it accumulates a decline of 1.4 percentage points compared to a year ago (see Graph 5.4.2) accompanied by an increase of 40% in the volume granted.

Finally, the interest rate for personal loans fell 0.2 percentage points and was positioned at 25.6%. Continuing with a
9 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until January 2006, the values for February and March 2006 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

8 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

Graph 5.4.2 dynamic growth of new loans granted, an extension in the terms is observed. While a year ago 25% of these matured in less than one year, currently only 17% is concentrated in that segment. For financing with credit cards, although March information is not yet available, according to the latest available information, in February the interest rate fell 0.2 p.p., standing at 27.9% (see Graph 5.4.2).

Interest Rates Active (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
TNA, %
50
45 Personal Cards
40 Mortgages Pledged Loans
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
Source: BCRA Sep-03 Mar-04 Sep-04 Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market10

At the end of March, the stock of international reserves amounted to US$21,549 million, presenting an increase of US$1,017 million (5.0%) in relation to the previous month (see Graph 6.1).

The majority of the increase corresponded to the inflow of foreign currency purchased in the Unique and Free Exchange Market (MULC) by the BCRA, which totaled US$870 million, a level similar to that of the previous month. That, plus the inflows originated in the minimum cash of dollar deposits of financial entities more than compensated for the outflow of foreign currency caused by the cancellation of obligations with international organizations (US$228 million).

Graph 6.1
BCRA International Reserves
thousands of
millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and short-term placements)
30 thousands of MARCH 2006
26 millions of US$
21.6
21.4
21.2
22
21.0
20.8
18
20.6
20.4
1-Mar 6-Mar 11-Mar 16-Mar 21-Mar 26-Mar 31-Mar
14

10

6
Jan-01 Sep-01 May-02 Jan-03 Sep-03 May-04 Jan-05 Sep-05
Source: BCRA

Other factors that had a positive influence on the evolution of international reserves in March were the inflow of rotational funds (US$67 million), gains from exchange rate valuation of repo (US$35 million), the positive yield of reserves and the entry of foreign currency resulting from the new operations of repos in foreign currency11 (see Section 5.2.1). All these positive flows were partially offset by payments made by the BCRA, which amounted to US$307 million (see Graph 6.2).

During March, the peso depreciated again against the dollar both in the spot market and in the futures market12, presenting in both cases a variation of 0.2%. The exchange rate of the peso also depreciated in relation to the real and the euro, showing variations of 0.5% and 1% respectively. In real terms, according to the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index, the peso appreciated approximately 0.5% with respect to the basket of currencies of its main trading partners and accumulates in the last 12 months a depreciation close to 5%.

In terms of traded volumes, the operations arranged in the spot market continued to grow, presenting an average increase of 10% in relation to February (see Graph 6.3). The most important increase (25.3%) took place in the Electronic Brokers Market (MEC), where the amounts traded had been declining since the end of last year. For its part, operations carried out through the Electronic Operations System (SIOPEL) grew 2.8% compared to the previous month, averaging US$162 million daily. In both markets the presence of the BCRA remained stable, covering 8% of total trading.

Graph 6.2
Explanation Factors of International Reserves
millions of US$ (March 2006)
1,200
1,017
1,000
870
800
600
400
230
200 152
67
5
0
-200
-400 -307
External S. Public S. Net Payments Funds Deposits Others International
Private BCRA Reserves
Rotating Sight
Source: BCRA

Finally, contrary to the declining trend that had been observed since the end of last year, the amounts

10 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.
11 See Communication A 4508.
12 Operations arranged in the Rosario Forward Market (ROFEX) at 1 month term (segment representing 70% of total traded volume).

9 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

Graph 6.3
Foreign Exchange Market traded in the futures market showed a significant
(Monthly Averages) increase, which amounted to 63.9% (see Graph 6.3). The greatest

millions Spot market volume (SIOPEL+Brokers)
of US$ Futures market volume (OCT-MAE+ROFEX) $/US$ dynamism was concentrated in the Rosario Forward Market
320 Spot exchange rate (TC reference) -right axis- 3.10 (ROFEX), where the average daily traded volume went
Futures exchange rate (ROFEX, 30 days) -right axis-
280 from US$44 million in February to US$74 million in March. The
3.05
240 operations carried out through the MAE Futures Market, in
200 3.00 the Forward Arranged Operations session (OCT-MAE), also
160 3.00 increased, although in smaller proportion, averaging
120 2.95 US$15 million during the month under analysis. The BCRA's
80 participation in these markets also grew, resulting in 11.9% in
2.90
40 March.
0 2.85
Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06
Source: BCRA

7. Capital Market

7.1. Stock Market

Stock market quotations in the Argentine stock market increased significantly in March. The MERVAL index, which comprises the most significant companies listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA), registered an increase of 5.05%

Graph 7.1.1 compared to the previous month. In this way, that index reached a
Local Stock Market level of 1,800 points, which allowed accumulating a return close to
millions of $ MERVAL 17% since the end of 2005.

200 1900
180 1800 Comparing with respect to the other stock exchanges in
Traded Amount MERVAL (right axis)
160 1700 Latin America, the MERVAL was the most favored even taking into
140 1600 account the nominal depreciation of the peso in the period. In particular,
120 1500 the MERVAL index increased 4.7%, above Mexico's MEXBOL
100 1400 (0.8%). On the other hand, negative variations were recorded in
80 1300 the leading indices of the stock exchanges in Brazil, Chile and Peru.
60 1200 Specifically, it was observed that Peru's IGBVL (-3.6%) was the one
40 1100 that registered the greatest decrease, followed by Brazil's BOVESPA
20 1000 (-2.7%) and Chile's IGPA (-1.4%).

0
Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06
Source: Bloomberg

In terms of volatility of stock market returns, it is observed that the MERVAL registered a decrease in the same in March. In fact, the volatility of MERVAL returns fell to a level of 20% from 25% registered in the previous month. It is interesting to observe that the same behavior was recorded in the main stock exchanges in the region, which would suggest that it is not a strictly local phenomenon.

Graph 7.2.1
The volume of operations in the stock market was spreads in Evolution of spreads in Argentina and in the Region spreads in higher than in previous months (see Graph 7.1.1). During the
basic points basic points period, the daily average of traded volume reached $87
550 350 million, an amount higher than those observed since the beginning of
the year.
500 300
EMBI Argentina
EMBI Latin America (Right Axis)

450 250

7.2. Public Securities
400 200

The spreads of Argentine external debt were reduced in
350 150 March. Likewise, it is important to note that this reduction was not
due to a drop in the yields of Argentine national government debt,
300 100 but rather to an increase and a change in
31-Dec 15-Jan 30-Jan 14-Feb 1-Mar 16-Mar 31-Mar pending the curve of U.S. Treasury bonds. With
Source: Bloomberg

 10 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

 Graph 7.2.2 respect to other emerging countries, Argentine external debt

Yield Curves in Pesos benefited from a reduction in its EMBI index of 0.1 p.p. while
 annual (%) 
 6.5 DISC $ the EMBI+, which groups all debt markets
 5.5 PAR $ external debt of emerging countries, remained at its February
 Bogar level
 4.5 (see Graph 7.2.1).
 Boden 14
 3.5 PRO 12

 2.5 The curve of CER-indexed instruments shifted
 PRE 08 28-Feb towards higher yields in all segments. Likewise, it is
 1.5 Boden 08 31-Mar noted that in the shorter segment, the increase in yields
 Boden 07 was higher, decreasing the slope of the yield curve.
 0.5
 In terms of parity, the fall in quotations was
 -0.5 approximately 3% in the short and medium segments of the curve,

 -1.5 although in the longer duration segments the fall in quotations
 0358101315182023 was higher. For example, in the case of long-duration instruments
 Duration (years) like the DISC and PAR, the fall in parity was 4.2% and 7.9%
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Stock Market Institute respectively (see Graph 7.2.2).

 The yield curve in dollars also shifted
 towards higher yields in almost all segments (see Graph
 7.2.3). Likewise, due to the increase and change in the slope
 of the U.S. Treasury debt curve during the period, the
 variation in spreads was less homogeneous. The fall in
 Graph 7.2.3 prices was somewhat less than in the peso-indexed segment

 Yield Curves in Dollars CER, especially in the short and medium segment of the curve.
 annual (%) Spread (p.p.) For example, the largest fall in terms of parity in that segment
10.0 1.3 corresponded to that of Boden 13 which was reduced by 1.5%. In

 Boden 15 the long segment of the curve, the falls in parities were of greater
 9.0 Boden 13 DISC PAR 1.0 magnitude, registering decreases of around 2.6% and 7.6%
 USD for the DISC and PAR, respectively.
 8.0 0.8
 Boden 12 GDP-linked units continued with the favorable
 7.0 0.5 evolution registered since their separation from the debt securities
 delivered in the sovereign debt restructuring. It is noteworthy that
 6.0 28-Feb 0.3 in February the units in pesos and dollars (New York Law) had
 31-Mar recorded increases of 7.5% and 10.4% and that in March, they
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve (31-Jan)
 5.0 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve (28-Feb)0.0 again registered substantial increases of 40% and 20%
 respectively.
 0358101315182023
 Duration (years) The average amounts traded daily on the BCBA and in
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Stock Market Institute the Electronic Open Market (MAE) remained at the same levels as
 the previous month. In particular, the average daily volume was
 $1,525 million, composed of a volume traded on the MAE of
 $1,024 million and on the BCBA of $501 million.

 Graph 7.3.1.1

 Variation of the Composition of the AFJP Portfolio 7.3. Institutional Investors
 (15-February to 15-March)

 Nat. Pub. Sec.
 7.3.1. Administrators of Retirement and Pension
 Futures and
 Options Funds

 MF The investment portfolio of the Administrators of Retirement
 Trusts and Pension Funds (AFJP) was $73,764 million on
 Other 15 March. Compared to the 15th of the previous month, the
 Investments increase in the portfolio was almost $2,000 million.
Savings Accounts
 Negotiable The placements that showed the greatest increase were
 Obligations Mutual Investment Funds, with an increase of $730 million
 Shares

 -200 -100 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
Source: Own elaboration based on SAFJP millions of $ with respect to February 15 (see Chart 7.3.1.1). Among these,

11 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

Chart 7.3.2.1 AFJPs mostly increased their holdings of Money Market
thousands of Funds
(equity) that invest in Brazilian variable income which, in the period analyzed,
millions of $ Mar-06
5.6 showed increases in their quotations.

5.2
Another item that showed significant growth
4.8
was that of stocks, which increased $600 million. Among them, Tenaris
4.4 stood out, whose quotation reached a maximum value on March 15.
4.0 Additionally, Futures Contracts and Options also registered an increase,
3.6 which totaled approximately $530 million and was mainly related to the
increase in prices of negotiable securities linked to GDP.
3.2

2.8 Finally, it is important to mention that the AFJPs
2.4 continued to actively participate in the subscription of financial
Jun-05 Jul-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Mar-06
Source: BCRA trusts. Thus, between mid-February and March, holdings of this
class of assets in their portfolio grew $150 million. In this period, the
increase was due to the increase in placements in the Millenium Trust II
Series I trust, whose underlying assets are guaranteed loans.

Chart 7.3.2.2
Variable Income Funds

millions of $ Index
6,200 Equity of Variable Income Funds 2,000

5,700 MERVAL (right axis) 1,900

5,200 1,800 7.3.2. Mutual Investment Funds

4,700 1,700

4,200 1,600 The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos

3,700 1,500 decreased in March by approximately $74 million (0.6%) due to the

3,200 1,400 equity reduction of fixed income and money market funds, which was

2,700 1,300 partially offset by the increase in the equity of variable income and

2,200 1,200 mixed income funds.

1,700 1,100

1,200 1,000 The equity of money market funds ended March at $99 million
Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Oct-05 Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Mar-06
Source: BCRA and CAFCI below the previous month's level, which represented a negative
monthly variation of 2.5% (see Chart 7.3.2.1). In terms of
performance, this type of fund ended March at 5.43% (TNA). As
mentioned, the BCRA implemented a decrease in the remuneration of
passive repos that Mutual Investment Funds (FCI) perform at the
BCRA13 in order to integrate the liquidity margin required by the
National Securities Commission (CNV), which may explain, in part, the
caution observed among investors during March.

With respect to variable income funds, the trend evidenced since
Chart 7.4.1 the beginning of the year was maintained. During the month under
analysis, the equity increased $257 million (4.5%) (see Chart 7.3.2.2).
Bond Yield Curves of Corporate This was mainly due to the influx of new investors rather than to the
TIR % increase in the value of their fund shares. The annualized performance
of these funds stood at 4.34%. On the other hand, funds that invest in
16 Brazil and Asia continued to increase their equity.

14
For their part, fixed income funds showed a negative equity
12 variation of $242 million (12.3%). In terms of performance, they

10 yielded negative returns of 1.36%.

8
Finally, the equity of mixed income funds changed trend,
6 Non-restructured* (30-Mar) showing a positive equity variation of $10 million (3.9%) and its
Restructured (30-Jan) performance stood at 0.95%.
4 Non-restructured* (24-Feb)
Restructured (24-Feb)
2

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 duration (years)
*Corresponds to ON from issuers that have not incurred in payment default
Source: Own elaboration based on Deutsche Bank data

13 See Communiqué No. 48503.

12 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006
Graph 7.5.1 7.4. Private Securities
 Amounts issued through Financial Trusts
 Loma Negra announced the placement of US$100 million, the
millions of $ entirety of the amount of ONs authorized to issue, maturing in
1.400
 1.230 March 2013. The debt securities will amortize 100% on the
1.200 1.144
 maturity date and will pay interest semiannually at a fixed rate of
1.000 7.25% annually.

 800
 644 580 593
 600
 427 452 389 In the secondary market for corporate debt instruments,
 400 273 304 317 293
 continued differentiation is observed between companies that
 200 157
 complied with their financial obligations and those that had to
 0 resort to debt restructuring after defaulting following the 2001-02
 Mar-05 May-05 Jul-05 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06
 crisis. In terms of IRR, the additional premium required for ONs
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA
 issued by companies that underwent restructuring processes was
 located on average at 3.4 p.p., 0.2 p.p. higher than that of the
 previous month (see Graph 7.4.1).

 Graph 7.5.2
 Trusting Parties 7.5. Financial Trusts 14
 (% of total issued - March 2006)

 The placement of Financial Trusts (FF) amounted in March to
 Other Financial Entities $390 million, reaching an accumulated total of $1,990 million
 6% 17%
 in the first quarter of the year (see Graph 7.5.1). On the other hand, 3
 of the new 13 FF of the month were first series.
 Retails
 27% Total FF issuance was originated exclusively by the securitization
 of consumer loans, of which 55% corresponded to credit card
 Unregulated Financial Entities
 50%
 coupon payments and the remaining 45% to personal loans.

 * Others includes bond holders, selected SMEs, mutual associations, etc.
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV, MAE and BCBA Among the trusting parties (those who transfer their assets to
 finance themselves through the creation of FF), unregulated financial
 entities by the BCRA were the main securitizers (50%), followed by
 retails (27%) and regulated financial entities (17%), among others
 (see Graph 7.5.2). Regarding the trustees (those who manage the FF),
 regulated financial entities by the BCRA represented 74% and the
 remaining 26% were other unregulated entities.

 In December 2005, the total stock of underlying assets
 Graph 7.5.3 registered a quarterly increase of $2,210 million and amounted to
 approximately $9,050 million. Of this increase, approximately
 Holdings in Financial Trust Securities $1,500 million is explained by FF that have public securities as
 (Participation by Holder on Stock as of December 2005)
 underlying assets. Banks reduced their participation in said stock by
 11%, while AFJPs increased theirs by 9% and FCIs remained
 unchanged (see Graph 7.5.3).
 AFJPs
 16%

 FCI
 Banks 3%
 45%

 Others
 36%

 Source: Own elaboration based on BCRA, CNV and AFJP Superintendency

14 Financial trusts from the public sector are excluded from the analysis.

 13 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-06 Monthly Last 12 months Feb-06 Jan-06 Mar-05
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 58,490 58,426 59,355 49,779 0.1% -0.9% 17.5% 6.0%
 Monetary circulation 46,576 46,643 47,136 36,253 -0.1% -1.1% 28.5% 15.9%
 In the hands of the public 42,226 42,260 42,718 32,576 -0.1% -1.1% 29.6% 16.9%
 In financial entities 4,351 4,383 4,419 3,677 -0.7% -1.7% 18.3% 6.7%
 Current account at the BCRA 11,914 11,783 12,218 13,526 1.1% 0.1% -11.9% -20.6%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 1,795 2,683 2,598 5,229 -33.1% -33.8% -65.7% -69.0%
 Assets 485 175 371 18 177.7% 175.0% 2603.1% 2337.7%

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)
# LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos: 13,561 15,589 18,083 15,114 -13.0% -13.9% -10.3% -19.1%
In dollars: 37 60 73 52 -37.5% -28.1%

NOBAC: 14,332 10,058 7,389 1,806 42.5% 41.1% 693.4% 615.5%

International reserves of the BCRA: 20,873 20,059 19,608 20,741 4.1% 0.6%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1): 124,159 122,922 122,484 106,202 1.0% 0.0% 16.9% 5.4%
Current account (2): 36,283 35,916 37,656 29,300 1.0% 0.0% 23.8% 11.7%
Savings account: 27,672 27,047 25,964 22,059 2.3% 1.3% 25.4% 13.1%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER: 43,771 43,440 42,513 39,093 0.8% -0.2% 12.0% 1.0%
Fixed term adjustable by CER: 7,472 7,461 7,386 6,579 0.1% -0.8% 13.6% 2.4%
CEDRO with CER: 30 30 29 1,267 1.0% 0.0% -97.6% -97.9%
Other deposits (3): 8,930 9,029 8,936 7,905 -1.1% -2.1% 13.0% 1.9%

Deposits of the private sector: 90,585 89,878 88,736 79,563 0.8% -0.2% 13.9% 2.7%

Deposits of the public sector: 33,574 33,044 33,748 26,639 1.6% 0.6% 26.0% 13.7%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1): 4,442 4,320 4,119 4,161 2.8% 6.8%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1): 62,297 62,258 61,770 55,154 0.1% -0.9% 13.0% 1.9%

Loans to the private sector: 48,252 47,533 46,820 35,233 1.5% 0.5% 37.0% 23.5%
Advances: 8,391 8,425 8,263 6,326 -0.4% -1.4% 32.6% 19.6%
Documents: 11,022 10,902 10,902 6,815 1.1% 0.1% 61.7% 45.9%
Mortgages: 8,730 8,715 8,665 8,681 0.2% -0.8% 0.6% -9.3%
Pledges: 2,575 2,490 2,394 1,737 3.4% 2.4% 48.3% 33.7%
Personal loans: 8,193 7,855 7,595 4,802 4.3% 3.3% 70.6% 53.9%
Credit cards: 5,769 5,591 5,493 3,473 3.2% 2.2% 66.1% 49.8%
Others: 3,573 3,556 3,507 3,400 0.5% -0.5% 5.1% -5.2%

Loans to the public sector: 14,045 14,725 14,950 19,920 -4.6% -5.6% -29.5% -36.4%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1): 2,698 2,546 2,500 1,922 6.0% 40.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos): 78,509 78,176 80,373 61,875 0.4% -0.6% 26.9% 14.4%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos): 106,181 105,222 106,337 83,935 0.9% -0.1% 26.5% 14.1%
M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos): 166,384 165,182 165,201 138,778 0.7% -0.3% 19.9% 8.1%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars): 180,049 178,439 177,747 150,952 0.9% -0.1% 19.3% 7.6%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos): 65,457 65,281 65,665 51,587 0.3% -0.7% 26.9% 14.4%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos): 86,739 86,637 87,018 70,426 0.1% -0.9% 23.2% 11.1%
M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos): 132,811 132,138 131,453 112,138 0.5% -0.5% 18.4% 6.8%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars): 146,475 145,395 143,999 124,313 0.7% -0.3% 17.8% 6.3%

Average variations
Variation factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2006 | Last 12 months
                 | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base: 64 | 0.1% | 2,663 | 4.8% | 2,663 | 4.8% | 8,712 | 17.5%
Financial sector: -922 | -1.6% | -2,107 | -3.8% | -2,107 | -3.8% | -9,236 | -18.6%
Public sector: -141 | -0.2% | -1,745 | -3.1% | -1,745 | -3.1% | -4,940 | -9.9%
Temporary advances + transfer of profits: 1,032 | | 456 | | 456 | | 2,384 | 
Use of the national government account: -1,438 | | -1,978 | | -1,978 | | -2,378 | 
External credit: 265 | | -223 | | -223 | | -4,945 | 
Private external sector: 2,892 | 4.9% | 7,927 | 14.2% | 7,927 | 14.2% | 32,816 | 65.9%
BCRA securities: -1,843 | -3.2% | -994 | -1.8% | -994 | -1.8% | -8,723 | -17.5%
Others: 79 | 0.1% | -417 | -0.7% | -417 | -0.7% | -1,206 | -2.4%

International reserves: 814 | 4.1% | -6,390 | -23.4% | -6,390 | -23.4% | 131 | 0.6%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market: 0 | 0.0% | 1,650 | 6.1% | 1,650 | 6.1% | 10,225 | 49.3%
Payment to international organizations: 0 | 0.0% | -9,759 | -35.8% | -9,759 | -35.8% | -13,369 | -64.5%
Other public sector operations: 0 | 0.0% | 615 | 2.3% | 615 | 2.3% | 3,386 | 16.3%
Minimum cash: 0 | 0.0% | 61 | 0.2% | 61 | 0.2% | -1,354 | -6.5%
Repo exchange rate valuation: 0 | 0.0% | 55 | 0.2% | 55 | 0.2% | -276 | -1.3%
Others: 0 | 0.0% | 173 | 0.6% | 173 | 0.6% | 706 | 3.4%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified fund utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being carried out.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 14 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

 Interest rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.18 5.35 7.17 6.73 2.33
 Amount traded 949 745 814 912 353

 Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 5.62 5.48 5.32 4.74 2.79
 60 days or more 6.41 6.28 6.01 5.87 3.55
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 6.37 6.06 6.23 5.50 2.70
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.21 7.38 8.22 7.48 3.03

 In dollars
 30 days 0.67 0.66 0.60 0.58 0.30
 60 days or more 1.31 1.15 1.12 1.11 0.75
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.56 0.58 0.63 0.55 0.39
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.44 0.75 1.06 0.98 0.98

 Active Interest Rates Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 7.41 7.47 7.53 7.14 5.43

 Cauciones in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.82 7.78 8.12 7.85 3.13
 Amount traded (total of terms) 105 92 97 92 72

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 17.71 17.17 17.28 17.06 14.05
 Documents on signature alone 11.76 11.82 11.50 11.55 9.96
 Mortgages 11.43 11.34 11.13 11.55 11.48
 Pledge loans 9.65 9.33 9.47 10.17 11.01
 Personal loans 25.56 25.83 25.51 24.98 26.23
 Credit cards n/d 27.86 28.07 28.01 27.02

 International Interest Rates Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 LIBOR
 1 month 4.76 4.58 4.48 4.36 2.81
 6 months 5.05 4.92 4.73 4.67 3.28

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.73 4.66 4.39 4.39 3.70
 10 years 4.72 4.56 4.40 4.46 4.49

 FED Funds Rate 4.55 4.50 4.26 4.17 2.57

 SELIC (at 1 year) 16.67 17.25 17.69 18.21 18.96

 (1) Data through February correspond to the SISCEN 08 monthly information requirement, while those for March are estimates made based on the SISCEN 18 daily information requirement.

 15 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

 Interest rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 BCRA pass rates
 Passive 1 day 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.48 n/o
 Passive 7 days 5.00 5.00 5.00 4.98 2.75
 Active 7 days 6.77 6.00 6.00 6.00 3.25

 Total pass rates REPO round
 1 day 6.36 4.69 5.25 4.86 2.11
 7 days 5.81 5.20 5.37 5.20 2.75

 Amount traded of REPO round passes (daily average) 1,749 2,418 2,194 2,708 1,160

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month 6.71 6.79 6.77 6.71 3.25
 2 months 6.90 6.99 6.92 6.91 n/o
 3 months 7.24 7.25 7.13 7.30 4.39
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 5.75
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 5.95

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 3.11 3.11 2.98 n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 5.53 5.53 5.33 4.72 n/o
 2 years BADLAR Total 6.19 6.19 6.25 6.26 n/o

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in secondary market (daily average) 149 109 169 98 160

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.08 3.07 3.04 3.02 2.93
 BCRA Reference 3.08 3.07 3.05 3.01 2.93

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.08 3.07 3.06 3.04 2.93
 ROFEX 1 month 3.08 3.07 3.05 3.02 2.93
 Amount traded (total of terms, millions of pesos) 229 135 180 228 88

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.43 1.42 1.35 1.32 1.08

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 3.70 3.67 3.69 3.58 3.86

 Capital Market Mar-06 Feb-06 Jan-06 Dec-05 Mar-05

 MERVAL
 Index 1,794 1,709 1,666 1,530 1,462
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 99 101 92 79 91
# Government Bonds (at par)

BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.04 92.22 90.29 88.60 86.49
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.23 95.77 89.04 85.62 n/a
BODEN 2014 ($) 89.07 91.23 89.52 88.48 n/a
DISCOUNT ($) 98.75 100.83 95.71 94.73 n/a

# Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 306 308 413 438 508
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 212 217 251 272 291

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the biddings for each month.

16 Monthly Monetary Report – MARCH 2006

# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal rate of return.
APA: Annual Percentage Rate.
VN: Nominal Value.

17
