# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Bank Liquidity 4
4. Loans 5
5. Interest Rates 6
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 6
   - Interfinancial Markets 6
   - Repo Market 6
   - Interbank Market 7
   - Passive Interest Rates 7
   - Active Interest Rates 8
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 9
7. Capital Markets 10
   - Equities 10
   - Public Securities 10
   - Institutional Investors 11
   - Pension Fund Administrators 11
   - Investment Funds 11
   - Private Securities 12
   - Financial Trusts 13
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 14
9. Glossary 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely provided the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• The Central Bank met its monetary targets for the fourteenth consecutive quarter, having achieved means of payment (M2) at a level of approximately $123,500 million in December.

• The strict control of monetary aggregates was reflected in a sustained deceleration of the year-over-year growth rate of M2 which fell approximately 6 p.p. during the year, reaching in December a value around 18.9%, which was 3 p.p. lower than the estimated growth of nominal GDP.

• The Central Bank will continue with the policy of strict control of monetary aggregates in 2007. In this regard, the 2007 Monetary Program again establishes M2 as the monetary target, given that it is the aggregate that presents the greatest long-term relationship with prices. In the same, both the upper and lower limits imply a decline in the year-over-year growth rate of M2.

• The measures adopted by the Central Bank in recent months, aimed at extending the maturity of financing for financial entities, resulted in an annual increase of 34% in time deposits in pesos. In this way, it is the first year since the last crisis that this type of placements shows a growth rate higher than sight deposits (16%).

• The broader aggregate M3* (which includes cash in the hands of the public and the total deposits in pesos and dollars of the private and public sectors) represents 30.9% of GDP, a level lower than the maximum observed before the 2001 crisis (34%).

• Loans to the private sector (in pesos and foreign currency) increased $2,500 million (3.4%) in December and accumulated a nominal increase of 41.5% year-over-year and in real terms of 28.8%. Growth continues to be widespread across all credit lines.

• The Central Bank continued with its prudential strategy of accumulating International Reserves, which stood at the end of December at US$32,037 million.

• The Central Bank continued with the strategy of gradual increases in short-term reference interest rates. In 2006, increases accumulated of 1.25 p.p. in the case of passive operations and 2.25 p.p. in the case of active operations. Additionally, on January 3rd the BCRA adopted new increases, this time of 0.5 p.p. for 1-day passive operations and 0.25 p.p. for both active and passive operations at 7-day maturity.

• Continuing the deceleration process initiated at the beginning of 2006, inflation ended the year at single-digit values (9.8%), placing itself below the level of 2005 (12.3%), within the band between 8% and 11% stipulated for the year in the 2006 Monetary Program.

---

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

**Graph 2.1**
M2 and Cash in the Hands of the Public
(year-over-year var.)
%
35 | Cash in the Hands of the Public Nominal M2 Nominal

The Central Bank met for the fourteenth consecutive quarter the monetary targets, having achieved means of

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
payment in pesos (M2) an average level of $123,500 million in December.

During the year, the Central Bank continued with its policy of strict control of monetary aggregates, which was reflected in a sustained decline in the year-on-year growth rate of transactional money. By December, the annual growth rate of M2 showed a decline of 6 percentage points compared to a year ago, standing at 18.9%, that is, around 3 percentage points less than the estimated growth of nominal GDP. For its part, the growth of currency in circulation registered a decline of 7 percentage points in the same period. (see Chart 2.1).

In this way, during the course of 2006 the Central Bank ensured the equilibrium of the monetary market by sterilizing the excess money supply through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, the collection of rediscounts –both that provided for in the "matching" schedule and through the collection of early repayments– and its reserve requirement policy.

Table 1
M2 IV-06 I-07 II-07 III-07 IV-07
The Central Bank will continue with the policy of strict control of monetary aggregates in 2007. In this sense, the 2007 Monetary Program again establishes M2 as the monetary target, given that it is the aggregate that presents the greatest long-term relationship with prices. In it, it is foreseen that, as indicated in Table 1, that M2 growth continues to decelerate and furthermore, in the base scenario it is projected that its growth will be lower than that of nominal product.

Lower Band 123.095 128.472 130.849 137.986
Upper Band Balance 129.731 135.442 138.548 146.633 123.522
Lower Band 16.931 18.707 18.459 14.464
Y-o-y Var 19.656 15.9% 17.0% 16.4% 11.7%
nominal Upper Band 18.9% 23.566 25.677 26.158 23.111
22.2% 23.4% 23.3% 18.7%
M2/GDP Lower Band 17.9% 17.7% 16.0% 16.7% 17.3%
s.o. Upper Band 18.7% 16.8% 17.7% 18.4%

In December 2006 retail inflation measured by the GBA CPI was 1% monthly, a figure that while higher than expected by the market, was lower than that recorded in the same month of 2005 (1.1%). As in the last two months, most of the increase in the period was due to the rise in the Food and beverages item, which explained 0.63 percentage points (p.p.) of the monthly variation. This growth was associated, mainly, with the price increases due to some supply problems in Vegetables (3.8% monthly) and adjustments in Meat prices (3.8% monthly). In the year-on-year (y-o-y) comparison, the GBA CPI variation was 9.8%, resulting 2.5 p.p. lower than that achieved in December 2005 (12.3% y-o-y).

Chart 2.2
Evolution of CPI and Rest CPI (y-o-y var.)
%
15 14.2
12.3 In terms of the sub-indices that make up the CPI, a greater monthly increase was observed in the Rest CPI (approximation to underlying inflation), although this sub-index registered a new deceleration in its year-on-year variation, down to 10.2% y-o-y, showing a reduction of 4 p.p. compared to the increase recorded 12 months ago. Likewise, the Rest CPI continued explaining most of the difference in retail inflation compared to what occurred in 2005, although it should be noted that the diffusion of increases within this sub-index remains at elevated levels. For its part, Seasonal prices increased 1.7% in December (18.3% y-o-y), showing an acceleration in the month and in the year.

10.2 CPI Variation by Component 9.8
9 % (monthly var.)
5 4.1
4 3.8 Sep Oct Nov Dec
6 CPI 3
2 1.4 1.7
IPC Rest 0.9 0.9 0.7 1.0 0.6 1.0
1 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.2
0
3 -1 0.0 In any case, the GBA CPI variation ended 2006 within
-2
Seasonal CPI Regulated Rest CPI
0
Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06
Source: INDEC Chart 2.3

2 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
thousands of Cash in Circulation in Public Hands the bands stipulated in the 2006 Monetary Program (8-11%).
millions of $ (base 1-Mar-06 = $41.976 million)
58 Additionally, accompanying the deceleration of the indicator, the

56 expectations of CPI GBA increase for the current year were

 2005 being reduced and are currently located within the band of
54
 2006 between 7% and 11% projected in the MP 2007.
52

50
 In December M2 registered an increase of 4.9%, mainly reflecting
48 the increase in means of payment of individuals

46 that responded to the greater demand for money for transactions

44 typical of year-end (see Chart 2.3).

42

40 For its part, sight deposits in pesos of the public
 Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
 sector registered a practically null variation ($70 million)
 Source: BCRA
 in December.

 With respect to fixed-term deposits, they showed
 a decline of $220 million in the month, despite the increase of $220
 million in those corresponding to the private sector.

 Thus, the measures that the Central Bank implemented in the
 Chart 2.4 course of the year, aimed at extending the funding term of financial
 
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector entities, resulted in an annual increase of 34%
 thousands of monthly average balance
 millions of $ of fixed-term deposits in pesos. This increase amounted to new
 12 30 Up to 59 days placements of $16.800 million, composed of 56% in funds
 From 60 to 89 days
 20 From 90 to 179 days from the private sector.
 10 From 180 to 365 days
 10 From 366 or more

 8 0 Likewise, it is worth mentioning the increase in the participation of
 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06
 placements between 90 and 179 days of the private sector, to
 6
 the detriment of those up to 59 days, which in the last 2 months

 4 showed a slight decline (see Chart 2.4).

 2
 As a result, the average term of the deposits of the

 0 private sector reversed the declining trend that it had been
 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 showing up to that moment and which had also been driven by

 Source: BCRA the reduction in the participation of CER-adjusted deposits
 on the total of fixed-term placements (the minimum term for
 CER-adjusted deposits that was 270 days from February
 to April 2005 was raised from then to 365 days). In this
 way, in the last two months the average term of the total
 fixed-term deposits of the private sector remained at 108 days (see
 Chart 2.5).

 Chart 2.5 In the foreign currency segment, deposits did not

 Average Term of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector show significant variations during December. The stock of

 days % dollar deposits fell US$30 million essentially due to the
125 Participation of deposits adj. by CER on total FT (right axis) 20 decline in private sight deposits (US$70 million)

 Average term of fixed-term deposits partially compensated by the increase in fixed-term
120
 16 placements (US$40 million). For its part, public sector
110
 8 deposits registered no variations. Thus, at the end of the year, total
110
 dollar deposits exceeded US$5.500 million and
105
 accumulated growth during the year of nearly 40%.

 4 In summary, the broadest aggregate in pesos and dollars - M3* -
100
 represents 30.9% of GDP, a level lower than the maximums observed

 95 0 prior to the 2001 crisis (34%).

 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06
 Source: BCRA

 3 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos % of
 deposits deposits
 18 8 The banking liquidity ratio, defined as cash in
 Cash + CCBCRA banks, the bank current accounts at the BCRA and the reverse
 17 Passive Reverse Repos (right axis) 17.1% 7 repos arranged with the BCRA as a percentage of total
 16 6 deposits in pesos, was in December 17.5% (half a point
15 5 percentage points lower than the previous month). Due to greater liquidity needs of families and businesses, typical of year-end, entities chose to maintain greater available liquidity in cash and in their current accounts at the BCRA and lower liquidity tied up in reverse repos with the BCRA. Thus, liquidity maintained in reverse repos was reduced during December to 0.4% less than half a percentage point of deposits while liquidity maintained in cash and in current accounts at the BCRA increased to 17.1% of deposits (see Chart 3.1).

Additionally, entities reduced their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC during December. Thus, the broader liquidity ratio, including these securities, was 38.4% of deposits, approximately one percentage point less than last month.

Chart 3.2

% of Minimum Cash Position Given that during the month entities maintained larger funds in their current accounts at the BCRA and in cash, the minimum cash position showed itself to be widely in surplus.

It is worth noting that during December and through the month of February, entities must comply with a quarterly position that is computed as an average of 90 days. During the first 31 days of the period, the minimum cash surplus was approximately 0.9% of deposits, much higher than the 0.3% of previous months (see Chart 3.2, left quadrant).

Quarterly Position *Average of first 31 days of the quarter. Estimate made on subgroup of entities with greater participation in total deposit stock.

With respect to the distribution by entity of said surplus, in previous months almost all banks maintained a surplus of between 0% and 1% of their deposits, while in December the distribution of the position flattened out, showing more entities maintaining surpluses greater than 1% (see Chart 3.2, right quadrant). The greater minimum cash surplus maintained over the first part of the quarterly period was associated with an internal decision on liquidity management by the entities. The greater liquidity, in some cases, came from an extraordinary inflow of deposits linked to the collection of coupons tied to GDP, to the subscription of securities from the Gas Trust Fund I (see section 7) and to funds from provincial debt placements.

Chart 4.1

Millions of $ Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos

1,250 (Average monthly variation)

1,000 Commercial loans
Consumer loans
750 Loans with real guarantee

500

250

0

-250

-500
Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06

Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position remained in surplus at approximately 19% of total deposits in dollars. It is worth noting that, through Communication "A" 4602 the BCRA eliminated the requirement on special accounts in United States dollars intended for deposit of guarantees required in futures and options operations and the requirement on special sight accounts in foreign currency.

Source: BCRA

4 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
**Graph 4.2 4. Loans1 2**
millions of $ Consumer Loans
1,000 (avg. monthly change)
During December, total loans to the private sector (in
Personals
800 pesos and foreign currency) increased $2,500 million (3.4%). In
Credit cards 686
600 interannual terms, it accumulates a nominal increase of 41.5% and
456 485
452 28.8% in real terms. Growth continues to be widespread across all
400
297 lines, although consumer financing acquired greater dynamism (see
195 Graph 4.1), in a month when household spending is higher due to
200 seasonal reasons.

0 Consumer financing increased by approximately $1,170 million
during the month, an increase that was explained mainly by the

-200 increase in personal loans, of approximately $690 million. For its
Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 May-06 Aug-06 Nov-06 part, credit card financing grew again, by about $480 million, an
Source: BCRA increase very similar to that of the same month of the previous year
(see Graph 4.2), although much higher than that of 2004.

Commercial financing in pesos increased by $910 million during
the month. This increase was led by the performance of documents,
which increased by $560 million, while a significant extension in
**Graph 4.3** the term of this type of financing could be observed (see Section
7). Advances also continued to grow, rising by $310 million and
thousands of Pawn Loans and Automotive Sales thousands of "other loans," which increased by $40 million.
units millions of $
60 7 In the case of mortgage loans, for the third consecutive month
they registered an increase exceeding $200 million and accumulated
50 6 an increase of $1,780 million during the year. Likewise, in a context
5 of high automotive sales, which in recent months have reached the
40 highest sales levels since mid-1998 (see Graph 4.3), pawn loans
4 registered an increase of $140 million.
30
3 Lastly, loans in foreign currency, linked mainly to export
20 financing, increased by another US$30 million during the month,
Automotive sales 2 accumulating a rise of US$1,380 during the year.
Pawn loans (right axis) 1

0 0 By sector of economic activity, the growth of the services
Apr-96 Aug-97 Dec-98 Apr-00 Aug-01 Dec-02 Apr-04 Aug-05 Dec-06 sector as a recipient of loans is notable, which according to the
Source: BCRA based on own data and ADEFA latest available information corresponding to September 20063,
would have registered an interannual increase of 46.3%, raising
its participation in the total by approximately 2 p.p. (see Graph
**Graph 4.4** 4.4). In particular, it is worth highlighting the performance of
credit to postal and telecommunications companies, the real estate
thousands of service provider sector and land transport, which registered
millions of $ Loans to the Private Sector by Economic Activity
70 Participation interannual increases of 62%, 54.7%, and 39%, respectively.
Primary production 100%
Manufacturing industry 90%
60 Electricity, gas and water 80%
Construction 70%
50 Commerce 60%
Services 50%
40% 40 30%
20%
10%
30
0%
IIIT-05 IIIT-06

20

10

0
Mar-00 Dec-00 Sep-01 Jun-02 Mar-03 Dec-03 Sep-04 Jun-05 Mar-06
Source: BCRA

2 The loan figures are adjusted by accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.

3 This information comes from the SISCEN information system and can be found at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/estadistica/act2006.xls.

5 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

**Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates**
Evolution of LEBAC Interest Rates
TNA, % (monthly averages)
13 Securities issued by the BCRA4
12

11 In December, the average interest rates for placement
Primary of the LEBACs remained relatively stable.

Additionally, during the course of the month, titles with duration of 1 and 3 months were issued again, which were placed at average interest rates of 7.9% and 8%, respectively. On the other hand, with respect to NOBACs, in the first two auctions of the month, titles of 1 and 2 years were placed, while in the remaining ones, they were awarded only in the 2-year segment, due to the fact that in one case no bids were received and in another, because the Central Bank decided not to validate the interest rates offered. In the last placement, the interest rate of the 2-year NOBAC was 11.92%5, 0.35 percentage points higher than what resulted at the end of November.

In this way, the interest rates of the LEBACs continued in 2006 with the gradual upward trend that had already begun in 2005 (see Chart 5.1). The largest increases were recorded in LEBACs of longer duration, with increases close to 2 percentage points, while in the shorter-term segment the increases were approximately 1 percentage point.

After a slight reduction in the balance of outstanding titles was verified in December, compatible with the greater seasonal liquidity needs of that month, at the end of 2006 the total amount reached FN $40,860 million. During the year, the composition of the stock of titles by residual term changed significantly, generating a clear lengthening of the average maturity period. At the end of 2006, the greater part was composed of LEBACs and NOBACs of more than 9 months, while a year ago, more than half was made up of instruments of up to 3 months (see Chart 5.2).

## Interfinancial Markets

## Repo Market1

The interest rates on BCRA repo operations remained unchanged during December. However, during the year they accumulated increases of 1.25 percentage points in the case of passive operations and 2.25 percentage points in the case of active operations. Additionally, on January 3, the BCRA arranged new increases, this time of 0.5 percentage points for 1-day passive operations and 0.25 percentage points for 7-day passive and active operations. Thus, as of 2007, these operations are agreed at 6.25%, 6.5%, and 8.5%, respectively.

The average daily amount traded by the BCRA decreased 34% compared to November because, on one hand, public entities unwound their positions to meet year-end liquidity needs and, on the other hand, there was a drag effect on the average from the temporary holding of funds in repos by a bank. Thus, the reduction in the amount traded occurred mainly in transactions carried out in the REPO round. In contrast, in the segment in which mutual investment funds operate,

---

**Chart 5.1** [Reference to chart showing LEBAC rates]

**Chart 5.2** Composition of the Stock of Titles (residual term) - thousands of millions of $ - showing breakdown by maturity periods with percentages (48%, 26%, 23% visible)

**Chart 5.3** Repos Arranged by the BCRA (daily average amounts, monthly average balances) - thousands of millions of $

**Chart 5.4** Interest Rates for Call and Repo Operations (weighted average rate by amount) - %

**Footnotes:**
4. In this section, the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except as otherwise indicated.
5. This interest rate is composed of the average BADLAR rate of private banks from the week prior to the date of the last auction plus the margin resulting therefrom.

6. Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
10 10 money market, a slight increase was observed (see Graph 5.3), in
 line with the increase in assets of this type of investors (see
 9 9
 Section 7).

 8 8

 7 7 In summary, the average balance of passive repos arranged

 6 6 through all enabled modalities was $1,769 million in
 December; while the active ones, which remained at
 5 5
 significantly lower levels, this time totaled $103 million.
 4 BCRA Repo Broker at 7 days BCRA Passive Repos at 1 day 4
 Call at 7 days Repos at 1 day
 3 Call at 1 day 3

 01-Jun 03-Jul 01-Aug 31-Aug 29-Sep 31-Oct 30-Nov 03-JanInterbank Market (call)1
 Source: BCRA
 The interest rates for 1 business day operations in the
 interbank market showed relatively stable during the first
 half of December, at levels slightly above 8%. From then on they
 began to show increasing volatility, declining to values around
 7% and rising to levels above 9% to then decline again at
Graph 5.5 the beginning of January to 6.5%, registering the lowest values

 millions of $ Call Operations since October (see Graph 5.4). Said volatility responded in
 %
1,600 (monthly averages) 10 part to point-in-time liquidity demands from some entities, as

 9 well as to the fact that on days when there was no stock market
1,400
 Amount at other terms (up to 15 calendar days) activity fewer operations were conducted, in a context of generally high
 Amount at 7 calendar days 8
1,200 Amount at 1 business day liquidity (see Section 3).
 7
 Rate at 7 days
1,000 Rate at 1 day 6
 The interest rates on average, remained at the same
 800 5 levels recorded in November, at 8% in the case of operations

 600 4 at 1 business day, and 8.9% for operations at 7 days term

 3 (see Graph 5.5).
 400
 2

 200 1 The daily amount traded in pesos was close to $1,600

 0 0 million on average (see Graph 5.5), which implies an increase
 Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06
Source: BCRA of $200 million compared to the previous month, and nearly $700 million
 compared to a year ago. It is noteworthy that, as in November,
 some operations in foreign currency were observed again,
 an unusual practice since the end of convertibility. The average
 daily amount of these operations was less than US$50
 million and was concentrated practically in its entirety between
 two entities of the same shareholder group.

 By bank group, in the month public banking regained
 Graph 5.6 prominence as a net provider of funds, while private banks
 of national capital went from presenting a net borrowing
 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days position last month, to a net lending position in December.
 (5-day moving average)

 BADLAR private banks % BADLAR public banks Passive Interest Rates1
 %
 11 Retail (Up to $100,000) 8 Retail (Up to $100,000)

 10 9.8% 7

 9 6 The passive interest rates showed slight increases in
 5.6%

 8 5 the month across all term brackets. In private banks the BADLAR
 4.7% 4
 7.3% interest rate (fixed-term placements greater than $1 million
 4
 7
 for 30 to 35 days) showed an increase of 0.2 p.p. in the first
 6 3 week of December, reaching 9.8% and remained at this level
 5 2 during the rest of the month. Meanwhile, in public banks the BADLAR
 Jul-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06Jul-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06
 Source: BCRA interest rate showed a variation similar to that of the previous month

 7 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

 Graph 5.7 with an increase in mid-month, due to lower participation

 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector of public sector placements, which reversed in the final
 % monthly average weighted by amount traded weeks, ending in December at 5.6% (see Graph 5.6).
 10
30 to 59 days
9 60 to 89 days In the shorter-term retail segment, interest rates
More than 90 days increased by 0.1 p.p. both in public banks and in
8 private banks, where the average interest rates were 4.7% and
7.3% respectively.
7
When analyzing the structure of interest rates according to the
6 different maturity periods in the placements of the private sector, an
5 increase of 0.2 p.p. was observed in the month both in the maturity
of 30 to 59 days and in that of 60 to 89, thus the interest rates
4 rose to 7.8% and 8.0% respectively. Meanwhile, in the
Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 placements of more than 90 days the interest rate was 9.1% which
Source: BCRA represents an increase of 0.1 p.p. with respect to the previous month. Thus,
during the year the passive interest rates showed an increase of
2.5 p.p. in the shortest maturity and of 2.7 p.p. in the placements
greater than 90 days (see Chart 5.7).

From the variations mentioned, the main increases
Chart 5.8 were explained by the placements of the entities providing
Yield of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos financial services (AFJP, FCI, etc.) where in the fixed-term
(by type of depositor) deposits at 30 days the interest rate increased 1 p.p. reaching
%
NOVEMBER 2006 DECEMBER 2006 Natural Persons 9.8% and for placements of more than 90 days the interest rate
12 Financial Services rose to 10.9%. In deposits from the rest of the companies the
11 Legal Persons - other interest rates showed no variations, except for periods of
10 more than 90 days, which increased 0.4 p.p. with an interest rate
of 10.2% (see Chart 5.8).
9

8 Active Interest Rates¹ 6

7
The shorter-term active interest rates increased slightly during
6 the month, while for medium and long-term credits remained
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 stable.
days days
Note: Operations with fixed terms adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA The interest rates on current account advances began to
increase and were maintained at that level throughout the month,
presenting a behavior similar to interbank market rates; the
increase was driven by advances granted to large companies. The
Chart 5.9 average interest rate in December was 17% which represents an
TNA, % Commercial Loans increase of 0.6 p.p. with respect to the previous month. This interest
(Interest rate avg. monthly weighted by amount) rate level is the same as that from a year ago. However, analyzing
% Interest Rate on Advances by Holder the advances granted according to type of holder, it is observed that
14 Advances to companies, greater than $1 million 24 the interest rate charged for advances to companies for amounts
13 Advances to other companies and families - right axis 23 Advances greater than $1 million increased 2 p.p. during the year, reaching in
12 22 Documents December 13.4%, while the interest rate for advances granted
11 21 to other companies and families decreased 2.8 p.p. being in
10 20 December 19.5% (see Chart 5.7).
20
9 19

8 18 For its part, the interest rate for documents on signature alone
Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 remained stable at 13.2% where the amounts of documents
15 granted exceeded $1,200 million in the month, of which 47%

10

5
Source: BCRA Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to
October 2006, the values for November and December 2006 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data
on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to
revision.

8 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
Graph 5.10 was granted for periods longer than 180 days and only 15% was granted

Active Interest Rates by periods of less than 1 month.

TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)
35 Personal Cards With respect to mortgage loans, the interest rate
 Mortgages Pawn Loans was 11.3% presenting a decrease compared to the previous month
30 of 0.3 p.p.. This decrease was mainly due to an increase
 in the quantity of loans granted by public banks at
 25 interest rates slightly below the average. Although in the rest
 of the banks a continuous increase is observed in the amounts
 20 granted in this line of credit, the interest rates
 remained stable.
 15

 10 Interest rates on pawn loans also remained stable at
 10.5%. In this case, the amount of
 5 new credits granted was in recent months around
 Abr-04 Ago-04 Dic-04 Abr-05 Ago-05 Dic-05 Abr-06 Ago-06 Dic-06 $200 million per month and rates varied between 0% to
 Source: BCRA finance the purchase of automobiles and approximately 25%.

 The interest rate for personal loans did not register
 variations in the month, which was 24.7%, ending the year
 0.6 p.p. below the level they presented in December 2005.
 This evolution was accompanied by dynamic growth in the volume
Graph 6.1 of credits granted. In credit card financing, the interest rate
 BCRA International Reserves presented a slight decline of 0.1 p.p. placing itself at an average
 billions of US$ (gold, foreign exchange and time placements) of 26.3% in the month of November, latest available data (see
 Graph 5.10).
 30

 26

 22
 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market7

 18
 The stock of international reserves amounted at the end of
 14 December to US$32,037 million (see Graph 6.1), accumulating
 during the month an increase of approximately US$1,700 million.
 10 The balance achieved in the month marks a historical maximum
 and is the result of the prudential policy of reserve accumulation
 6 carried out by the BCRA. Having finished 2006, the reserves
 Ago-01 Abr-02 Dic-02 Ago-03 Abr-04 Dic-04 Ago-05 Abr-06 Dic-06 accumulated throughout the year total US$13,460 million, having
 Source: BCRA reversed, and by a wide margin, the fall in the stock caused by
 the payment for the cancellation of debt with the IMF.

 In the foreign exchange market, the average wholesale
 quotation of the peso against the dollar (Reference) appreciated
 Graph 6.2 0.5%, placing itself at 3.06 $/US$. Said quotation began the month
 declining until reaching the minimum value of the last 7 months
 Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) (and appreciating almost 2% compared to the maximum value of
 $/US$ October); then reversed the trend and recovered some ground at
 3,12 the end of the month (see Graph 6.2). Also with respect to the Real
 3,107 the peso quotation appreciated by 0.1% to 1.423 $/Real. In contrast,
 3,10 in relation to the euro the value of the peso depreciated, for the
 second consecutive month, by 1.83% placing itself at 4.04
 3,08 $/Euro.

 3,06 -1,9% Regarding the volumes traded, in the foreign exchange
 3,049 market, disparate behavior was observed in December between
 3,04 the spot market and the futures market. In particular, in the spot
 market the agreed operations (through the Electronic Operations
 3,02 System -SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokers Market -MEC-)
 01-Ene 05-Feb 12-Mar 16-Abr 21-May 25-Jun 30-Jul 03-Sep 08-Oct 12-Nov 17-Dic on a daily average increased almost 25%, reaching
 Source: BCRA

7 In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where otherwise specified.

 9Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
US$370 million (see Chart 6.3). In these markets, the BCRA had a
participation of 13%, 2 percentage points higher than it had the
previous month. In contrast, the daily average traded in the futures
market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario Forward Market –ROFEX-)
fell by 11% to US$99 million. Here the BCRA's contribution also
increased to represent 3% of the total operations traded.

Volatility Stock Market Volatility Volatility (%)
(%) (18 sessions)
(18 d )70 20

MERVAL (Argentina)

60 IPC (Mexico)
BOVESPA (Brazil) 16 7. Capital Markets
50 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis)

12 Equities

40

8
30 During December, the MERVAL index exhibited a significant
increase of around 6.30%, approaching 2,090 points
20 4
(establishing a record value). This index closed the 2006 fiscal year
10 0 with a return of 35.45%, a figure much higher than that recorded in

Dec-05 Feb-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Dec-06 2005, which was 12.21%.

Source: Prepared by the BCRA based on Bloomberg LP data.
In the same direction, in Latin America positive returns were
observed in the leading indices of the stock markets – measured in
dollars – that have the highest trading volume in the region. The
MERVAL index measured in dollars increased 6.10% in the period, an
increase lower than that recorded the previous month, and exceeded
by the IGBVL (Peru) with a growth of 12.96%, followed by the
BOVESPA (Brazil) which had an increase of 7.52% and the IPC
(Mexico) which exhibited an increase of 7.46%. With positive return
although lower, the IGPA (Chile) was positioned with an increase of
around 4.30%.
Chart 7.2

Return Average volatility of MERVAL increased during
Annual Real Yield Curves in Pesos
(%) December, behavior analogous to that observed in the stock exchanges
8.0
of Brazil and Peru, while decreases were observed in the volatility
7.0 DISC $
levels in the stock exchanges of Chile and Mexico. In annualized terms
Boden 14 PAR $ and measured in dollars, the 18-session volatility of the MERVAL
6.0
Bogar index during December was close to 20.28% (5 percentage points
5.0
PRO 12 higher than in November).
4.0
PRE 08 30-Nov
3.0 31-Dec
Boden 08 The volumes traded daily on average in the Argentine stock
market increased by $21 million. Thus, the average amount traded
2.0 Boden 07
was positioned at $81 million daily.
1.0

0.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute Public Securities

Contrary to what was recorded the previous month, during
December the spreads of Latin American external debt, measured by
the EMBI + Latin, decreased significantly, together 32 basis points.
The same pattern was verified in emerging countries in general, as
can be seen in the decrease of 30 basis points in the EMBI+. It is
truly remarkable the decrease in the spread in the Argentine case, it
was 82 basis points. The decrease in spreads is explained mainly by
an upward shift of the yield curve of US Treasury securities.

The yield curve of securities in pesos registered a shift toward
higher yields in the short term, remained unchanged in the medium
term, and shifted toward lower yields in the long term, always with
respect to the previous month. The yield curve of securities
denominated in dollars, in the same way, exhibited higher yields in
the short term, and lower yields in the long term.

The quotations of the units linked to GDP (U.V.P) Chart 7.3
had an excellent performance just as in the previous month. In the
Yield Annual Yield Curves in Dollars case of the one denominated in dollars (New York law), at the end of
(%) Spread (p.p.) the month, its level was positioned 6.67% above the level obtained at
the end of

Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
10.0 1.00 from November 1st, reaching a value of US$ 13.65. Whereas in the

 BONAR VII case of the U.V.P. denominated in pesos, although it obtained an increase
 9.0 Boden 13 DISC USD Boden 15
 0.75 in its quotation, this was smaller and stood at 4.85% (it ended the month

 8.0 Boden 12 PAR at $11.90).
 BONAR V USD
 0.50

 7.0 The traded volume of public securities (on a daily average)
 was substantially higher than that of the previous month, showing an
 30-Sep 0.25
 6.0 31-Dec increase of $62 million. In fact, during November a volume of
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve $1,223 million had been registered, while in
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve 30-Sep
 31-Dec December it was 1,285 million.

 5.0 0.00
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
 Duration (years)
 Source: Prepared by own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

 Institutional Investors

 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

 The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement Fund
 Administrators (AFJP) totaled $87,238 million on December 15th.
 In the year-on-year comparison, the assets of the AFJP showed an
 increase of 31.03% (19.19% in real terms).
Graph 7.4 When comparing with the November 15th data, an
 thousands of
 millions of $ Assets of the AFJPs increase in the portfolio of $3,078 million is observed (see Graph 7.4). The
 4.0
 monthly variation in the portfolio is explained by an increase of $1,327
 3.5
 million in the value of holdings of national public securities, the
 3.0
 increase in the value of the stock position in shares of $540 million and
 2.5 the increase in the FCl category of $518 million. In the same manner,
 2.0 it is worth mentioning the increase in the stock of securities issued by
 1.5 foreign companies of $529 million. On the downside, the decrease in
 1.0 the stock of fixed-term deposits stands out at $112 million.

 0.5

 0.0

-0.5
 Total Public Securities Foreign Assets FCl Available ONs Rest Fixed-Term
 Securities Deposits Mutual Investment Funds

 Source: SAFJP

 The assets of mutual investment funds (FCl) in pesos
 increased by $1,000 million during December, ending the month at a
 level close to $15,500 million (see Graph 7.5). It is important to note
 that it is the third consecutive month in which the funds exhibit strong
 asset growth. The increase in this last month was driven primarily by
 variable income funds and money market funds.

 The assets of variable income funds increased by
 approximately $500 million during December, a figure substantially
 higher than the increase observed the previous month (see Graph 7.6).
 In both months the asset increase is explained by an improvement in
 the value of the quotas, which was linked to the good performance
 exhibited by stock market indices, both in emerging countries and in
 developed countries. In this way, the profitability of variable income
 funds ended December at 7.12%, a level much higher than that
 achieved the previous month. Again, the high profitability was driven
 mainly by funds that invest in Latin American shares, while funds
 that invest in assets from Europe, the United States and
 Graph 7.5 Asia obtained lower profitability.

 thousands of Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 millions $
 18 The assets of money market funds showed an increase of
 approximately $380 million compared to the end of the previous
 16 Fixed income
 Mixed income month (and the monthly average variation was $900 million). This
 14 Variable income type of funds received primarily subscriptions from institutional
 12 Fixed-term and money investors (AFJP, ART, etc.) and from other companies. The
 magnitude of the average variation was driven by the transitory
 10
 placement of funds by companies, which
 8
6 had as their final objective to invest in the Gas I financial trust.
The profitability of this type of funds was located at 5.76% annual, 25
basis points below that recorded in the previous month.

For its part, the equity of fixed income funds registered
an increase of approximately $160 million during the month. This
increase is explained both by an increase in share units as well as
by an improvement in the quotation of public debt securities
issued by emerging countries. The profitability of this type of
funds was located at 0.76%, a level lower than that recorded in the
previous month; although it should be noted that long-term funds
obtained a higher profitability than short-term funds.

Finally, mixed income funds reached an equity of $300 million
at the close of the month and obtained a profitability of 1.90%.

**Variable Income Funds**

Banco Macro Bansud announced the placement of Series I of ONs
for US$150 million, maturing in 2036, within its Global debt
issuance Program for up to US$400 million. The securities will pay
a fixed interest rate of 9.75% until December 2016, and then a
variable rate of Libor plus 7.11 percentage points until the maturity
date. Furthermore, they have A3.ar and A(arg) ratings from Moody's
and Fitch Argentina, respectively.

Compañía Financiera Argentina placed Series I of ONs for
$120 million, maturing in 2008. The new securities will pay a
variable interest rate (Private Banks BADLAR) plus an applicable
margin of 2.55 percentage points per annum. Capital and interest
payments will be made quarterly.

Tarjetas Cuyanas S.A. announced the issuance of Series XVII of
ONs for $36.6 million. The securities, bullet type, have maturity in
2007 and will pay a fixed interest rate.

Banco Finansur announced the issuance of Series 1 of ONs for
$20 million, at a fixed interest rate (10.75%) and maturing 180
days from the date of issuance.

Clisa, a Latin American infrastructure and services company,
proceeded with the issuance of Series I of ONs for US$15 million,
as part of its Global issuance Program for up to US$100 million.
The new debt matures in December 2008, and will pay interest
semiannually.

**Financial Trusts**

The placement of Financial Trusts (FF) in December amounted to
$1,630 million through 41 FF launched, although $588 million were
placed through a single instrument, the Gas I Trust (see Chart 7.7).
Thus, December marks a record both in amount and in number of FF
placed, caused by the higher consumption levels typical of year-end,
and by the good performance shown by the FF market during 2006.
Thus the year ends with an accumulated placement of more than
$7,500 million and 202 FF placed.

The most important underlying assets of the month were consumer
financing (including personal loans and credit cards...

12 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
Source: Own preparation based on CNV and BCBA data credit), covering more than half of the total placement. Also, future cash flows acquired relevance, with 39% of the total, due to the Gas Trust I. Other securitized assets were commercial and chattel mortgage credits, leasing contracts and bills of exchange. In this way, consumer financing positioned itself as the most important underlying assets throughout 2006, representing 63% of the total issued throughout the year.

As fiduciaries, companies from the energy sector stood out in December (participants in the Gas Trust I) and from the export and agricultural sector, which together concentrated 45% of the total issued, within the "others" category (see Chart 7.8). On the other hand, financial entities not regulated by the BCRA and banks had similar participations (26% and 21% respectively). Throughout 2006, banks were the main fiduciaries, having securitized assets for more than $3,000 million.

Chart 7.8
Fiduciaries
(amounts issued - December 2006)

Others*
Financial Entities
Non-Regulated Financial Entities
Retail Commerce

* Includes the Gas Trust I.
Source: Own preparation based on CNV and BCBA

8 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
9 Private trust with public offering, promoted by the National Government for the purpose of carrying out works for the expansion of natural gas transport and distribution networks.

13 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Monthly Averages (Dec-06, Nov-06, Oct-06, Dec-05) | Average percentage variations (Last 12 months - Nominal and Real) |
|---|---|---|
| Monetary Base | 76,825 | 71,843 | 70,174 | 55,827 | 6.9% | 5.9% | 37.6% | 25.3% |
| Monetary Circulation | 56,158 | 52,248 | 51,621 | 46,008 | 7.5% | 6.4% | 22.1% | 11.1% |
| In the hands of the public | 50,952 | 47,850 | 47,338 | 41,320 | 6.5% | 5.4% | 23.3% | 12.3% |
| In financial entities | 5,206 | 4,398 | 4,283 | 4,688 | 18.4% | 17.2% | 11.0% | 1.1% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 20,667 | 19,595 | 18,554 | 9,819 | 5.5% | 4.4% | 110.5% | 91.6% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 1,619 | 3,577 | 3,415 | 5,560 | -54.7% | -55.2% | -70.9% | -73.5% |
| Assets | 104 | 82 | 56 | 237 | 25.7% | 24.4% | -56.3% | -60.2% |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements) | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 12,740 | 11,752 | 11,019 | 19,678 | 8.4% | 7.4% | -35.3% | -41.1% |
| In dollars | 18 | 18 | 18 | 48 | 0.0% | -62.3% | | |
| NOBAC | 28,089 | 29,006 | 27,893 | 6,393 | -3.2% | -4.1% | 339.4% | 300.0% |
| **BCRA International Reserves** | 31,167 | 29,760 | 28,390 | 27,262 | 4.7% | 14.3% | | |
| **Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** | 148,845 | 145,909 | 142,025 | 120,916 | 2.0% | 1.0% | 23.1% | 12.1% |
| Current account (2) | 44,163 | 42,685 | 40,246 | 37,075 | 3.5% | 2.5% | 19.1% | 8.4% |
| Savings account | 28,422 | 27,224 | 27,148 | 25,471 | 4.4% | 3.4% | 11.6% | 1.6% |
| Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER | 61,047 | 60,894 | 59,710 | 41,721 | 0.3% | -0.7% | 46.3% | 33.2% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 4,829 | 5,203 | 5,380 | 7,395 | -7.2% | -8.1% | -34.7% | -40.5% |
| CEDRO with CER | 26 | 26 | 28 | 33 | -2.2% | -3.2% | -23.4% | -30.3% |
| Other deposits (3) | 10,358 | 9,877 | 9,513 | 9,221 | 4.9% | 3.8% | 12.3% | 2.3% |
| **Deposits of the private sector** | 105,701 | 102,817 | 101,167 | 87,966 | 2.8% | 1.8% | 20.2% | 9.4% |
| **Deposits of the public sector** | 43,143 | 43,092 | 40,858 | 32,951 | 0.1% | -0.9% | 30.9% | 19.2% |
| **Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** | 5,519 | 5,549 | 5,457 | 4,009 | -0.5% | 37.6% | | |
| **Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** | 76,666 | 74,838 | 72,916 | 60,941 | 2.4% | 1.4% | 25.8% | 14.5% |
Loans to private sector 63.013 60.966 58.989 45.577 3.4% 2.4% 38.3% 25.9%
 Advances 11.608 11.295 10.852 8.488 2.8% 1.8% 36.8% 24.5%
 Documents 14.008 13.451 13.097 10.323 4.1% 3.1% 35.7% 23.5%
 Mortgage loans 9.856 9.821 9.606 8.610 0.4% -0.6% 14.5% 4.2%
 Pledge loans 3.647 3.503 3.360 2.288 4.1% 3.1% 59.4% 45.1%
 Personal loans 13.012 12.546 11.806 7.149 3.7% 2.7% 82.0% 65.7%
 Credit cards 7.273 6.803 6.594 5.116 6.9% 5.9% 42.2% 29.4%
 Others 3.609 3.547 3.674 3.604 1.7% 0.7% 0.1% -8.8%

 Loans to public sector 13.653 13.872 13.927 15.365 -1.6% -2.5% -11.1% -19.1%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.702 3.668 3.576 2.456 0.9% 50.7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 95.115 90.535 87.584 78.395 5.1% 4.0% 21.3% 10.5%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 123.537 117.759 114.731 103.865 4.9% 3.9% 18.9% 8.3%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 199.796 193.760 189.363 162.236 3.1% 2.1% 23.2% 12.1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 216.684 210.827 206.271 174.319 2.8% 1.8% 24.3% 13.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 77.966 73.793 72.599 64.398 5.7% 4.6% 21.1% 10.2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 103.015 97.307 96.119 85.239 5.9% 4.8% 20.9% 10.0%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 156.653 150.667 148.504 129.285 4.0% 3.0% 21.2% 10.3%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2006 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 4.981 6.5% 7.665 10.0% 20.997 27.3% 20.997 27.3%
 Financial sector -2.430 -3.2% -3.001 -3.9% -6.817 -8.9% -6.817 -8.9%
 Public sector -1.186 -1.5% -2.127 -2.8% -6.584 -8.6% -6.584 -8.6%
 Temporary advances + profit transfers 1.005 936 1.052 1.052
 National government account utilization -1.611 -1.579 -2.131 -2.131
 External credit -580 -1.484 -5.505 -5.505
 Private external sector 4.619 6.0% 10.985 14.3% 41.015 53.4% 41.015 53.4%
 BCRA securities 377 0.5% -1.791 -2.3% -10.154 -13.2% -10.154 -13.2%
 Others 3.601 4.7% 3.598 4.7% 3.538 4.6% 3.538 4.6%

 International reserves 1.407 4.5% 3.428 11.0% 3.905 12.5% 3.905 12.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.507 4.8% 3.569 11.4% 13.360 42.9% 13.360 42.9%
 Payments to international organizations -20 -0.1% -372 -1.2% -11.651 -37.4% -11.651 -37.4%
 Other public sector operations -7 0.0% -184 -0.6% 1.037 3.3% 1.037 3.3%
 Minimum cash -274 -0.9% -119 -0.4% -645 -2.1% -645 -2.1%
 Valuation repo rate 99 0.3% 204 0.7% 435 1.4% 435 1.4%
 Others 102 0.3% 330 1.1% 1.369 4.4% 1.369 4.4%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN recorded.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
 14
 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.02 8.02 6.67 7.58 6.73
 Amount operated 1.595 1.347 1.059 1.169 912

 Fixed term
 In pesos
 30 days 7.06 6.85 6.97 6.79 4.74
 60 days or more 7.86 8.22 8.02 7.56 5.87
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.91 7.40 7.18 7.33 5.50
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.80 9.59 9.47 9.45 7.48

 In dollars
 30 days 0.95 1.01 0.99 0.96 0.58
 60 days or more 1.92 1.74 1.65 1.55 1.11
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.93 0.74 0.88 1.11 0.55
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.99 2.49 2.25 2.50 0.98

 Active Interest Rates Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05
Prime in pesos at 30 days 9.59 9.52 9.34 9.38 7.14

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.82 8.71 8.76 8.91 7.85
Amount traded (total maturities) 112 108 105 101 92

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Current account advances 16.96 16.32 16.33 16.12 17.11
Documents on sole signature 13.22 13.16 12.74 12.96 11.54
Mortgage loans 11.35 11.64 11.93 11.52 11.55
Pledge loans 10.50 10.58 10.62 10.41 10.12
Personal loans 24.69 24.67 25.37 24.34 25.33
Credit cards n/d 26.28 26.34 26.38 27.93

International Interest Rates Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05

LIBOR
1 month 5.35 5.32 5.32 5.33 4.36
6 months 5.35 5.37 5.39 5.41 4.67

US Treasury Bond
2 years 4.67 4.74 4.79 4.77 4.39
10 years 4.56 4.59 4.72 4.71 4.46

FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 4.17

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.25 13.70 14.01 14.25 18.21

(1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from October and November are
estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

15 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006

Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
Liabilities 1 day 5.75 5.74 5.50 5.25 4.48
Liabilities 7 days 6.25 6.24 6.00 5.75 4.98
Assets 7 days 8.25 8.24 8.00 8.00 6.00

Total REPO market repurchase agreement rates
1 day 7.87 7.02 6.20 6.74 4.86
7 days 8.31 7.37 6.19 6.23 5.20

Amount traded in REPO market repurchase agreements (daily average) 2,427 3,159 2,511 1,884 2,708

LEBAC rates in pesos
1 month 7.90 n/o n/o n/o 6.71
2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 6.91
3 months 8.00 n/o n/o n/o 7.30
9 months 10.09 10.30 10.21 10.06 n/o
12 months 11.18 11.25 11.40 11.52 n/o

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon
9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.48 0.70 1.04 1.17 n/o
2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.10 1.98 2.35 2.67 4.72
2 years BADLAR Total n/o n/o n/o n/o 6.26

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 253 282 227 109

Foreign Exchange Market Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.06 3.07 3.10 3.10 3.02
BCRA Reference 3.06 3.08 3.10 3.10 3.01

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.07 3.08 3.11 3.11 3.04
ROFEX 1 month 3.07 3.08 3.10 3.10 3.02
Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 141 67 141 194 228

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.42 1.42 1.44 1.43 1.32

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.04 3.97 3.91 3.94 3.58

Capital Market Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05

MERVAL
Index 2,023 1,896 1,692 1,644 1,530
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 82 68 52 40 79

Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.37 93.10 92.88 91.99 88.60
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 104.94 101.93 98.78 97.31 85.62
BODEN 2014 ($) 87.92 86.25 83.61 83.16 88.48
DISCOUNT ($) 102.09 96.14 91.84 91.95 94.73

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 298 302 319 326 438
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 196 205 205 213 273

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

16 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2006
# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Mutual investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total peso deposits from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PBI: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VN: Nominal Value.

17
