# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 9
   - Equities 9
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 10
   - Private Securities 11
   - Financial Trusts 12
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited provided that the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• Means of payment (M2) were located at $117,750 million, consistent with the slowdown projected in the Monetary Program. During November there was a new decrease in the year-on-year variation of currency in circulation, which has already accumulated a decline of 8 percentage points with respect to December 2005.

• The BCRA continued with its prudential policy of accumulation of international reserves, which allowed it to raise the stock at the end of November to US$30,328 million, reaching its historical maximum. The monetary expansion generated by foreign currency purchases was sterilized with different instruments, ensuring equilibrium in the monetary market. Through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, the Monetary Base was contracted by $1,460 million and the public sector also originated a monetary contraction of $490 million. Likewise, the two entities that maintained balances due to illiquidity paid their debts according to the monthly schedule and generated a monetary contraction of $105 million.

• Fixed-term deposits continued growing, registering a total increase of $930 million, driven almost entirely by private sector placements. The majority of these were placed in deposits of up to 6 months, while public sector placements were placed mostly at up to 45 days maturity, given the greater liquidity needs at year-end. The year-on-year growth of fixed-term deposits continued to accelerate, and in November reached 31%.

• In October, the total loans to the private sector (in pesos and foreign currency) increased $2,300 million (3.3%). In year-on-year terms, it accumulates a nominal increase of 43% and 30% in real terms. Growth continues to be widespread across all lines, although it is noteworthy the acceleration that financing with real collateral has been experiencing, driven by the growing dynamism of mortgage loans.

• On November 2, the BCRA increased by 0.25 percentage points the reference interest rates for all repo operations, both passive and active. Thus, passive repo rates moved to 5.75% and 6.25%, for 1 and 7 days maturity respectively, and the active repo rate to 8.25%. For its part, the cut-off interest rates of the most demanded LEBAC –12 months- decreased by 0.2 percentage points; while the rest remained at similar levels to those of October or showed slight declines. On the other hand, at the end of November the cut-off rates of NOBAC adjustable by the BADLAR rate of private banks were located at 10.23% and 11.57% for the securities of one and two years maturity, respectively.

• In November 2006 retail inflation was 0.7% monthly, a figure that turned out to be lower than that verified in the same month of 2005 (1.2%) and lower than expected by the market. The majority of the month's increase was due to the rise in the Food and beverages category. For December, monthly inflation would be at levels lower than those of the same month of the previous year, allowing the variation in retail prices to remain within the range stipulated in this year's Monetary Program.
# MONETARY REPORT NOVEMBER 2006

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

**Graph 2.1 Evolution of M2 and Monetary Program**

In November, the average balance of means of payment (M2) was $117,750 million, consistent with the trajectory projected in the Monetary Program (see Graph 2.1).

During the period, M2 increased 2.6%, mainly through sight deposits, while currency in the hands of the public continued to decelerate its year-on-year growth, which accumulated a decline of 8 percentage points compared to December 2005.

Sight deposits rose $2,500 million (3.7%) fundamentally due to the growth shown by current account placements of the public sector. Funds from tax collection, which continued showing a very good performance, were directed to these accounts, driven mainly by the payment of the advance on income tax from companies that close their fiscal year in June and increasing fiscal resources linked to consumption and exports. Additionally, transfers of resources from provincial governments to sight deposits in the local financial system were verified. On the other hand, sight deposits of the private sector behaved according to its seasonal pattern and accumulated growth of $660 million (1.3%).

**Graph 2.2 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
(monthly average change - November 2006)

For its part, fixed-term deposits rose $930 million and were driven almost entirely by placements of the private sector. Among them, most of the new resources were allocated to the establishment of deposits of up to 6 months (see Graph 2.2). On the other hand, on the side of public sector placements, the effect of greater year-end liquidity needs predominated and the new funds were allocated, for the most part, toward placements of up to 45 days. In this way, fixed-term deposits continued strengthening their year-on-year growth rate, which in November reached 31%.

Consequently, the broader peso aggregate (M3) registered a monthly increase of $4,310 million.

Foreign currency deposits continued their growth path, registering a monthly increase of US$90 million in November. The increase was concentrated mostly in private sector term placements, while private sight deposits fell slightly. For its part, public sector placements remained virtually unchanged during the month. Thus, foreign currency deposits already exceed US$5,500 million and accumulate growth of almost 40% so far this year (see Graph 2.3).

**Graph 2.3 Deposits in Dollars**

In this way, the broadest aggregate in pesos and dollars, M3* presented a monthly growth of $4,470 million (see Graph 2.4).

With regard to primary money issuance, the expansion generated by foreign currency purchases during the month was sterilized mainly through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, which generated a contraction of $1,460 million. The public sector followed, which through the cancellation of temporary advances with deposits that they previously maintained in banks

2 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006
locals, caused a reduction in the monetary base of $490 million. While cancellations of rediscounts associated with the matching scheme contributed with a monetary contraction of $105 million.

**Chart 2.4
Monetary Aggregates
(average monthly variation - November 2006)**

Deposits in US$
Private Sector
Other Deposits
M3*
Time Deposits
M3
Sight Deposits
M2
Bills and Coins

Source: BCRA 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 millions of $

**Chart 2.5
Evolution of CPI and CPI Rest**

% (year-over-year var.)
15
12
9
6
3
0
-3

CPI. Variation by Component
% (monthly var.)
4.1 3.8
4
2 0.9 1.4
1 0.6 0.9 0.7 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.8 0.6
0
-1 0.0
-2 -1.0

IPC Rest | CPI Seasonal/Regulated (and/or volatile) | IPC Rest

Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06

Source: INDEC

In November 2006, retail inflation was 0.7% monthly, a figure that was lower than that verified in the same month of 2005 (1.2%) and lower than market expectations. As in October last, the largest part of the month's increase was due to the rise in the Food and beverages item which explained 0.5 percentage points (p.p.) of monthly inflation. This increase was associated, mainly, with the price increase for seasonal reasons of fruits (6.5% monthly) and vegetables (2.6% monthly). In the year-over-year comparison (y.o.y.) inflation observed a new reduction and stood at 10%, after having reached 12.3% in December last (see Chart 2.5). Year-to-date inflation reached 8.8%, which implied a reduction of 2.3 p.p. with respect to the cumulative increase in the same period of 2005.

In terms of the sub-indices that make up the CPI, the CPI Rest (approximation to underlying inflation) remained relatively contained, presenting an increase of 0.7% monthly, half that in the same month of 2005 (1.4%). This explained most of the difference in monthly inflation with respect to November of last year, also allowing the sub-index to register a new deceleration in its year-over-year variation, down to 9.1% y.o.y., 3.4 p.p. below that recorded in the last 12 months. In turn, Seasonal prices increased 1.4% in relation to the previous month (16.3% y.o.y.), an increase slightly lower than that observed in the same month of last year, when they increased 1.7%.

For December, monthly inflation is projected to be at levels lower than those of the same month of last year, allowing retail price variation to remain within the range stipulated in this year's Monetary Program.

**Chart 3.1
Bank Liquidity in pesos
(as % of deposits)**

Effective + CCBCRA | Effective + CCBCRA + Passive Repos | LEBAC and NOBAC Passive Repos (right axis)
21.5%
+0.3 p.p.
17.8%

18 | 8 | 22
16 | 6 | 20
14 | 4 | 18
12 | 2 | 16
10 | 0 | 14

Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06

**Chart 3.2**
% of deposits | Position of minimum cash requirement
2.0 | Accumulated Position
| Daily Position
1.5 |
1.0 |
0.5 |
0.3% |
0.0 |

Source: BCRA

**3. Bank Liquidity¹**

Bank liquidity, which includes cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive repos arranged by banks with the BCRA, was in November 17.8% of total deposits. Compared to last month, there was a slight increase of about 0.3 p.p. (see Chart 3.1). The increase occurred in current accounts opened at the BCRA and was associated mainly with a greater integration of minimum cash intended to cover this month defects in the minimum cash position that some entities had carried over from last month.

For its part, during November banks continued participating in LEBAC and NOBAC auctions. Thus, if these securities are computed as liquid resources, the bank liquidity ratio increased more than half a percentage point compared to October and exceeded 39% of total deposits in the month.

Regarding the requirements for minimum cash
-0.5 established by the BCRA, financial entities maintained an average surplus of around 0.3% of peso deposits in the month, approximately $350 million (see
-1.0
 deposits in pesos, approximately $350 million (see
-1.5 AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBERNOVEMBER

 Aug-06 Sep-06 Oct-06 Nov-06
 Source: BCRA
 3 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

 Chart 3.2). In its intra-monthly behavior, a wide deficit was observed in the position during the first half of the month which
 Chart 4.1 was associated with transfers that still needed to be covered from the October position in the case of some entities and with
100 defects related to the allocation of funds for the implementation of
 % Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
 (year-on-year var. of monthly averages) pending compensations due to the pesification of early 2002
80 in the case of other entities. Nevertheless, the deficit in the position
 Commercial during the first part of the month was offset by a wide surplus
60 Consumption in the second half of the month, which allowed the month to close with an
 Real guarantees average surplus similar to that of previous months.
40
 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position
20 remained in surplus. In November, an increase was recorded in dollar
 current accounts of banks at the BCRA, which responded in part to a
0 debt placement by provincial governments whose funds were deposited
 temporarily, until their negotiation in the foreign exchange market, in
-20 the current account of the agent bank.

-40 Chart 4.2
 thousands of Commercial Loans 4. Loans1 2
 millions of $ (Advances, documents and other loans in pesos and foreign currency)
71.5
 Dec-99 During November, total loans to the private sector
61.5 -41.4% (in pesos and foreign currency) increased $2,300 million (3.3%). In
 year-on-year terms, it accumulates a nominal increase of 43% and 30%
51.5 in real terms. Growth continues to be widespread across all lines,
 although the acceleration that financing with real guarantees is
41.5 experiencing is noteworthy (see Chart 4.1), driven by the growing
 Ene-02
 dynamism of mortgage loans.
31.5
 In nominal terms Jul-03 +103% Commercial financing in pesos increased by $670 million (2.4%) in
 In real terms (deflated by CPI) the month. This increase was led by the performance of advances,
21.5
 which increased by $450 million (4.1%), followed by documents,
11.5 which rose by $350 million (2.7%). This, added to the US$100 million
1.5 (2.8%) that commercial financing in dollars increased, led the stock
 Apr-96 Apr-97 Apr-98 Apr-99 Apr-00 Apr-01 Apr-02 Apr-03 Apr-04 Apr-05 Apr-06of commercial loans to a level close to $39,000 million, which
Source: BCRA represents in nominal terms the historical maximum (see Chart 4.2).
 However, in real terms, the current level would be 41.4% lower than
 that recorded in December 1999.

 Chart 4.3 For its part, consumer financing increased by more than
 millions of $ Consumer Loans $1,000 million (5.6%) in the month, an increase that was
800 (monthly average var.) explained mainly by the increase in personal loans (see Chart
 Personal loans
600 4.3), of $780 million. The greater increase recorded in November
 Credit cards
 and October would be explained, at least in part, by the financing of
500
 greater consumption associated with Mother's Day purchases, in mid-
400
 October, which left some carryover for November. At the same time,
300 credit card financing resumed growth, this time by more than $250
 million.
200

100 In the case of mortgage loans, the month again registered an
 increase of $250 million (2.6%). It should be noted
0

-100 Source: BCRADec-03 Mar-04 Jun-04 Sep-04 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06
2 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio from entities to financial trusts.

 4 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

 that the growing dynamism that has been observed in mortgage
 Chart 4.4 credit would be driven by financing intended for housing
 Mortgage Loans in Pesos Intended for Housing construction (see Chart 4.4). Likewise, in a context of
 millions of $ high vehicle sales, secured loans registered an increase
3.000 of $140 million (4.3%).

2.500

 Construction
2.000 Refurbishment
 Acquisition of New Units 5. Interest Rates
 Acquisition of Used Units
1.500
 Securities issued by the BCRA3
1.000

 500 In November, the interest rates of the most in-demand
 LEBAC cuts – 12 months – decreased by 0.2 p.p.; while the rest

 0 remained at similar levels to those in October or showed slight

 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06declines. On the other hand, at the end of November the cut rates of
Source: BCRA
 NOBAC adjustable by the BADLAR rate of private banks, were
 located at 10.23% and 11.57% for the one-year and two-year
 terms, respectively.

 The amount in circulation of total securities increased
 2.7% between end of month and reached VN $41,235 million at
 Chart 5.1 the end of November. In net terms, 75% of the placements
 were made through the issuance of NOBAC, which maintained
 Maturity Profile of LEBAC and NOBAC their participation in total securities at 71%, which contributes
 millions of $ as of 30-Nov-06 to a high proportion of maturities concentrating only from
3.500 100 December 2007 onwards (see Chart 5.1).
 90 Maturity
 % cumulative (right axis) 80
2.500 70

2.000 60 Interfinancial Markets
 51
 50
1.500 40
 Repurchase Agreement Market1
1.000 30

 20
 500 10 On November 2, the BCRA increased by 0.25 p.p. the reference

 0 0 interest rates for all repurchase operations, both passive

 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08and active. Thus, the passive repurchase rates moved to

 Source: BCRA 5.75% and 6.25%, for 1 and 7 days term respectively,
 and the active repurchase rate to 8.25%.

 In this way, the interest rates for the total operations,
 even in those where the BCRA is not a counterparty, reflected
 the increase in reference interest rates and the liquidity
 conditions prevailing in the market during the month, and
 showed an increase of approximately 0.8 p.p. in the most
 Chart 5.2 liquid segment (at 1 day).
 
 Repurchase Agreements Arranged by the BCRA
 thousands of (average daily amounts, average monthly balances) thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
5 Amount Traded REPO Round Amount Traded Com. A 4399 (overnight) 7 The average daily amount traded by the BCRA increased
 Amount Traded FCI Stock Passive Repurchases (right axis) 13% compared to the previous month. This increase reflected
 Stock Active Repurchases (right axis) 6 the change in the composition of the term of the arranged
4 operations, with greater participation in transactions agreed

 5 at 1 day. In part, this increase was due to an entity
 maintaining temporarily in this segment funds associated with
3 4
 the implementation of a pending compensation operation.

 2 3 Additionally, the growth in the stock of repurchases at 1 day is
 also explained by the increase in repurchase agreements arranged
2 by money market FCI, which in November increased their average
 1
 stock by 15% ($130 million).
1

0 0
 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06

Source: BCRA

 3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 5 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006
For its part, passive repos agreed by banks in the overnight session (enabled by Communication A 4399) decreased slightly in November, while active operations showed an increase of approximately $30 million on average (weighted average rate by amount) %.

**Graph 5.3**

**Interest Rates of Call Operations and Repos**

[Graph showing interest rate percentages from 3% to 11% with four lines representing: BCRA Repo Corridor at 7 days, BCRA Passive Repos at 1 day, Call at 7 days, and Call at 1 day, spanning from 01-Jun to 30-Nov]

Source: BCRA

## Interbank Market (call)1

The interest rates of operations at 1 business day of the interbank market, which had shown unusual stability during the past month, increased close to 2 p.p. in the first days of November (see Graph 5.3). This behavior was explained, in part, by a realignment to the new level of short-term reference interest rates established by the BCRA through its repo operations. Another portion of the increase is attributable to the situation of tighter liquidity evidenced during the first days of the month, due to the fact that some entities had carried forward "defects" in their EM position from the previous month, which resulted in greater requirements for this month (see Section 3). Once liquidity levels recovered, interest rates began to decline slightly, although they showed strong variability at the end of the month, when peaks exceeding 9% were reached, the highest levels recorded since mid-June. This end-of-month volatility was associated with the greater demand for liquidity by some entities in order to implement the pending compensation for pesification.

On average, they registered a level of 8% in the case of operations at 1 business day, and of 8.9% for operations at 7 days maturity, which implies an increase of 1.4 p.p. and 1.1 p.p. respectively compared to the previous month.

**Graph 5.4**

**Interfinancial Market**
**(average monthly amounts)**

[Graph showing millions of $ and % from January 1993 to November 2006, with four lines representing: Amount traded in dollars, Amount traded in pesos, Interest rate in dollars, and Interest rate in pesos]

Source: BCRA

The total daily amount traded (in pesos and dollars) was close to $1,500 million on average (see Graph 5.4). It is noteworthy that some operations in foreign currency were observed again, a practice not usual since the end of convertibility. The average daily amount of these operations was less than US$50 million and was concentrated almost entirely between two entities from the same shareholding group, while the amount of operations in pesos was located around $1,340 million.

By bank group, during the month the foreign banks group again acquired greater prominence (see Graph 5.5), both as providers of funds (which for the second consecutive month surpassed public banking), and in their role as takers of funds.

**Graph 5.5**

**Call Market**
**(average stock in millions of $)**

[Graph showing millions of $ from November 2004 to November 2006, with three categories: Public, Private National, and Large Cap Foreign]

Source: BCRA

## Passive Interest Rates1

Passive interest rates presented a slight rise during the month, in line with the increase in the rest of interest rates. In this way, in the wholesale segment, from the second week of November onwards the BADLAR interest rate of private banks rose 0.2 p.p., placing itself at 9.6%, and the BADLAR interest rate of public banks, although it presented greater volatility than that of private banks, also registered an average increase

---

6 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006
similar, moving from 5.6% in October to 5.8% in November (See
 Graph 5.6).
 Graph 5.6 Meanwhile, in the short-term retail segment, interest
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days rates continued relatively stable both for placements in public banks
 (5-day moving average)
 and private banks, where the average interest rates were 4.6% and
 BADLAR private banks BADLAR public banks 7.2% respectively.

 % %
 10.5 Retail (Up to $100,000) 8 Retail (Up to $100,000)
 When analyzing the total fixed-term operations, a greater
 9.5 7
 variation is observed in the interest rate of placements at terms
 8.5 6
 greater than 60 days. While the passive interest rate for deposits
 7.5 5 of 30 to 59 days was 6.8%, which represents an increase of 0.1 p.p.
 compared to the previous month, in the 60 to 89 day bracket the
 6.5 4
 average interest rate was 7.7%, showing an increase of 0.5 p.p.
 5.5 3
 during the month and, for deposits of more than 90 days the
 4.5 2 increase was 0.3 p.p. with an average interest rate of 8.7% (See
 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06
 Graph 5.7).

 Source: BCRA
 Finally, the placements of financial service providers (AFJP, FCI,
 etc.) once again registered an interest rate higher than the rest of
 the sectors with an average of 9.7% for 30-day placements and
 10.2% for placements of more than 90 days.

 Graph 5.7
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos
 weighted monthly average by amount traded
 %
10
 Active Interest Rates1 4

 9

 8 For its part, active interest rates continued relatively stable,
 with the exception of shorter-term rates that registered a slight
 7
 increase during the month.
 6

 5 30 to 59 days With respect to overdrafts on current accounts, there is
 4 60 to 89 days observed a majority participation in overdrafts granted to
 more than 90 days
 companies for more than $1 million. This participation increased
 3
 Sep-05 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06more than 10 p.p. during the year, currently reaching 73% of the
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included. total overdrafts granted (see Graph 5.8). This is why the average
Source: BCRA
 level of interest rate for this line of loans is very sensitive to the
 evolution of wholesale overdrafts, which in November increased
 0.6 p.p., influenced by the increase in the interbank interest rate.
 Therefore, the average interest rate for overdrafts on current
 Graph 5.8 accounts was 16.5% (0.3 p.p. increase), with the interest rate for
 Overdrafts granted by type of holder and amount bracket large companies of 12.3%, while retail overdrafts remained at
 millions
 31.7%.
 of $
 12,000 Companies with more than $1 million
 Meanwhile, documents granted on sole signature continue
 Companies between $100,000 and $1 million
 10,000 Companies with less than $100,000
 showing more heterogeneous participation with respect to holders
 Families and amounts granted monthly, where 51% are documents
 8,000
 larger than $1 million and the rest are loans to individuals and
 6,000 SMEs (See Graph 5.9). The average interest rate for this line of
 credit decreased 0.2 p.p., settling at 12.6%.

 4,000

 2,000 With respect to loans with real guarantees, the interest rate
 for mortgage loans continued unchanged at 11.5% while the level
 0 of loans granted continues to grow.
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06
 Source: BCRA
4 The information to elaborate this section comes from the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to September 2006, the values for October and November 2006 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

7 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

In recent months, the segment of mortgage loans that presented the greatest growth was the one granted to families for a period greater than 10 years. This segment currently exceeds 40% of the
Graph 5.9 total mortgage credits granted per month. On the other hand,

Documents granted by type of holder and amount bracket companies are those that take out loans with mortgage guarantee at millions shorter terms and make up 35% of the total. Meanwhile, in of $
1,600 Companies for more than $1 million pledge loans, the level of credits
Companies between $100,000 and $1 million granted per month remains stable and the interest rate rose
1,400 Companies for less than $100,000 slightly, reaching an average of 10.8%.
Families
1,200

1,000 Finally, in consumer loans, the interest rates remained at
800 the same levels as the previous month. The rate for personal loans
was 24.4% and for credit card financing the interest rate for the
600
month of October, the last available data, was 27.6% (See Graph 5.10).

400

200

0
Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06
Source: BCRA 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market5

Within the framework of the prudential policy of accumulating international reserves, the stock of BCRA reserves amounted to US$30,328 million at the end of November (see Graph 6.1), reaching a new historical high. During the month it increased by US$1,247 million and 15% compared to the same period of the previous year. The factor that best explained this increase was the purchase of foreign currency carried out by the BCRA.

Graph 5.10 In the foreign exchange market, the average wholesale quotation
TNA, % Active Interest Rates of the peso against the dollar (Reference) fell 0.7% and was
40 (monthly average weighted by amount) positioned at 3.076 $/US$ (see Graph 6.2). After having reached a
Cards Personal maximum of 3.1072 $/US$ at the beginning of October (the highest
35 Mortgage Advances since March 2003), the quotation of the US currency began a
Pledge Documents declining trajectory that only diminished at the end of the month. Among
30 the factors that most encouraged this fall in quotation is
found a greater supply of dollars in the Single and Free Foreign
25 Exchange Market (MULC), mainly due to the strong volume of dollars
20 liquidated by exporters, the decrease in the holding of liquid assets
in foreign currency by financial entities, and the sale of foreign
15 currency in the market by the new debt placed in dollars by provincial
10 governments, among others. The peso appreciated 1.2% against the real,
5 to end the month at an average value of 1.42 $/Real. In relation to
Source: BCRAFeb-04 May-04 Aug-04 Nov-04 Feb-05 May-05 Aug-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 May-06 Aug-06 Nov-06the euro, on the other hand, the peso depreciated 1.4% until reaching
3.96 $/Euro. It is noteworthy that in recent months there is a lower
Graph 6.1 volatility in the peso quotation with respect to its main trading partners
(see Graph 6.3).

thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and term placements)
30-Nov-06 In real terms and in accordance with the Real Exchange Rate
US$30,328 M Index Multilateral, the peso appreciated 0.9% against the
30 basket of currencies of its main trading partners, for the
third consecutive month, and accumulates an appreciation of
26 0.1% in the last 12 months.

22 In the foreign exchange market, operations were conducted in November

18
14 larger volumes, both in the Spot and Futures markets. In effect, in the Spot market (through the Electronic Operations System -SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokerage Market -MEC-) US$ 301 million average was traded, 26% more than in

Jul-01 Mar-02 Nov-02 Jul-03 Mar-04 Nov-04 Jul-05 Mar-06 Nov-06
Source: BCRA

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

8 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

October. In that market, the participation of the BCRA remained practically stable, at 11% of total operations. On the other hand, in the Futures market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario Term Market –ROFEX-), an average of US$111

Chart 6.2 million was traded, 16% more than in the previous month, and in these Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) venues the intervention of the BCRA was 1.7%.

$/US$

3.10

7. Capital Market

3.05
 $/US$
 3.12
 quotation
 3.00 3.10 avg. Nov. During November, the MERVAL index exhibited a significant 3.076 $/US$
 increase of around 10.4%, thus approaching 2,000 points. Since the end
 3.08 of last year, said index achieved a return of 27.5% while in the last 12 -1.22%
 2.95 3.06 months the return rose to 26.5%.
 3.04
 20-Aug 04-Sep 19-Sep 04-Oct 19-Oct 03-Nov 18-Nov
 2.90

 Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Sep-06 Nov-06

 Source: BCRA In the same direction, positive returns were recorded in Latin America in the leading indices of the stock markets that operate the largest volume in the region. The MERVAL index measured in dollars increased 11.23% in the period, which places it as the index with the highest growth in the month. It was followed by the IGBVL (Peru) and IPC (Mexico), having accumulated increases of 7.38% and 6.11% respectively. In the case of BOVESPA (Brazil) and IGPA (Chile), they had significant increases although somewhat lower, Chart 6.3 recording variations of 5.68% and 5.61%, respectively.

Monthly Variation* of Nominal Exchange Rate The average volatility of the MERVAL decreased slightly in November, behavior analogous to that observed in the stock exchanges of Brazil and Peru, while increases were observed in volatility levels in the rest of the stock exchanges in Latin America.

10%

8% On an annualized basis and measured in dollars, the volatility of 21

6% trading days of the MERVAL index during November was close to 15%

4% (16% in October).

2%

0% In the stock market, daily volumes traded on average increased, the -2% average amount traded was $58 million daily, reflecting an increase of
 -4% $11 million compared to the previous month.
 -6% $/US$
 $/Euro
 -8% $/Real

 -10%

 Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Public Securities

 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.

 Source: BCRA The spreads of Latin American external debt, measured by the EMBI, increased slightly in the month, by 8 basis points (see Chart 7.1). The same pattern was verified in emerging countries in general, as evidenced by the increase of 5 basis points in the EMBI+. In the case of Argentina, the increase was Chart 7.1 slightly lower (4 basis points). The spread increase was more

 spreads in Evolution of spreads in Argentina and in the Region spreads in linked to a downward shift in the yield curve of U.S. Treasury securities than to a higher yield in public securities denominated in dollars of the

 550 350
500 emerging countries.
 300
 EMBI Argentina
 EMBI Latin America (Right Axis)
 450 The yield curve of securities denominated in pesos registered a
 250
 shift towards lower yields in the short, medium and long-term
 400
 segments compared to the previous month, although said behavior
 200
 350 became more visible in the shortest segment. The yield curve of
 securities denominated in dollars, for its part, did not exhibit
 150
 300

 250 100
 31-Dec 31-Jan 28-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul 31-Aug 30-Sep 31-Oct 30-Nov 9
Source: Bloomberg Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

 large movements with respect to the previous month, registering
 higher yields in the short segment, lower in the medium segment
 and remained practically unchanged in the long segment (see
 Graphics 7.2 and 7.3).

 Graphic 7.2 The quotations of units linked to GDP (U.V.P) far
 exceeded the levels reached in March. In the case of the one
 Yield Annual Real Yield Curves in Pesos (%)
 denominated in dollars (New York law), at the end of the month, its
 8.0 level was positioned 16.26% above the level obtained at the end of
 7.0 DISC $ October, reaching a value of US$12.8. Similar increase was
 PAR $ registered by the U.V.P denominated in pesos, which increased its
 6.0
 quotation by 14.1% during the month (at the end of October they were
 5.0 Bogar quoted at $9.93, while at the end of November its value was
 Boden 14 positioned at $11.33).
 4.0 PRO 12
 Boden 07 31-Oct
 3.0 PRE 08 30-Nov The volume traded in public securities (on a daily average)
 was slightly higher than that of the previous month, showing an
 2.0
 increase of $30 million. In fact, while during October a volume of
 1.0 Boden 08 $1,194 million had been recorded, in November it was $1,223
 million.
 0.0
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute
Duration (years)

 Institutional Investors

 Pension and Retirement Funds Administrators

 Graphic 7.3 The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement
 Funds Administrators (AFJP) totaled $84,159 million as of November
 Yield Annual Yield Curves in Dollars (%) Spread (p.p.)
 15. In the year-on-year comparison, the assets of the AFJP showed
 10 1.00

 9 an increase of 29.97% (18.2% in real terms).
 BONAR VII Boden 15 0.75
 Boden 12 Boden 13 DISC USD When compared with the data from October 15, an increase in
 8 BONAR V PAR the portfolio of $4,582 million is observed. The monthly variation
 USD in the portfolio is explained by the increase of $1,388 million in
 0.50

 7 the value of public securities holdings, the increase in the value of
 the equity position of $1,163 million, the increase in the item of
 31-Oct 0.25
 6 30-Nov tradeable futures and options contracts by $846 million (U.V.P
 Spreads on the U.S. Treasury curve 30-Nov primarily). Likewise, it is worth noting the increase in the stock of
 Spreads on the U.S. Treasury curve 31-Oct securities issued by foreign corporations by $785 million. On the
 5 0.00 downside, there is a notable decrease in fixed-term deposits of
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
 Duration (years) $266 million.
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

 Investment Mutual Funds

 The assets of investment mutual funds (FCI) denominated in
 Graphic 7.4 pesos increased by $1,400 million (10.9%) during the month of
 November, when compared with the latest October data, ending the
 thousands of Assets of Investment Mutual Funds in Pesos month with assets close to $14,500 million. It should be noted that
 millions $ this is the second consecutive month that the funds registered strong
 16 asset growth. This asset increase was driven primarily by money
 Fixed income market funds and variable income funds.
 14
 Mixed income

 12 Variable income
# Fixed-term deposits and money

The equity funds' equity experienced an increase of $260 —despite the quantity of fund shares having decreased during November. This increase —contrary to what had been happening in previous months— is explained exclusively by an improvement in the value of the fund shares. Unlike the two previous months, a period in which funds that invest in Brazilian stocks subscribed a large quantity of fund shares, during the month under analysis said funds reduced them. The profitability of equity funds ended November at 4.22%, driven mainly by the high profitability of funds that invest in Latin American stocks, while funds that invest in assets from Europe, Asia and the Pacific obtained notably lower profitability rates.

The equity of money market funds exhibited an increase of $1,000 million (27%) with respect to the end of the previous month. This type of fund received subscriptions from institutional investors (AFJP, ART, etc) and from other companies mainly. The (annualized) profitability was positioned at 6%, 50 basis points below that of the previous month.

On the other hand, the equity of fixed-income funds increased $120 million (4.1%). This increase is due mainly to an improvement in the quotations of public securities issued by emerging countries, since the quantity of fund shares was reduced in the period under analysis. The profitability of this type of fund was positioned at 1.22%, a level higher than that obtained at the end of the previous month. Finally, the equity of mixed funds reached $300 million at the close of the month, exhibiting an increase of 5.7% and a profitability of 3.09%.

## Private Securities

Tarjeta Naranja, a non-bank credit card provider, announced the result of the placement of series IV of ONs for $307.9 million, maturing in 2011 and with payment of interest and amortization of capital on a semi-annual basis. The operation carried out proved to be unprecedented and of great significance because the new securities, issued in national currency, were placed abroad at a fixed interest rate (15.5%).

Transener S.A., an electricity transmission company, reported on the beginning of the subscription period for series 1 of ONs, at a fixed interest rate and maturing in 2016 for a maximum amount of US$250 million. The securities to be issued are within the Global Program of ONs issuance for up to US$300 million.

Compañía Financiera Argentina has initiated the subscription period for series I of ONs for up to $120 million, to be issued within the Global Program for a maximum of $200 million. The new securities will mature in 2008 and will pay a variable interest rate subject to the Badlar Private Banks rate.
Nov-05 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and BCBA Banco Macro Bansud announced the creation of a Global Program for the issuance of ONs, for a maximum amount of up to US$400 million, under which different classes of series denominated in dollars or other currencies could be issued. In this regard, the subscription period is open for the placement of series 1 of ONs for up to US$150 million, at fixed interest rate for the first 10 years, and then variable (Libor plus spread), maturing in 2036.

 11 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

 Banco Finansur announced the opening of the subscription period for series 1 of short-term ONs, for up to $20 million at fixed interest rate (10.75%) and maturing 180 days from the date of issuance. The securities to be issued are framed within the Global Program for debt issuance of up to $70 million.

 Financial Trusts6

 The issuance of financial trusts (FF) amounted in November to approximately $500 million (see Graph 7.6), through 18 new series launched. The amount was similar to the monthly average of placements for the year (except for January which was an unusually high month). The accumulated FF issuance for the year amounts to $5,900 million.

Graph 7.7
Underlying Assets
(amounts issued in %)

 November 2006 Accumulated 2006
 Furthermore, in the last three months there is a continuous decrease in the average amount issued by FF, which in November was $28.5 million and in August had reached a maximum of $43.6 million.

 Personal Loans Credit Card
 55% Leasing Contract Coupons Leasing Coupons Other*
 8% 3% Coupons
 Personal 3% 17%
 Loans Mortgage Bills of
 4% Exchange and
 Other
 2%

 Commercial Credits Personal Loans
 5% 42% Public
 Securities Bills of Exchange and Credit Card Coupons
 29%
 Other 26% 6%

 * Includes commercial loans, pledge loans and future cash flows

 Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and BCBA

 The underlying assets were grouped mainly in consumer financing, as has been observed throughout almost the entire year. In effect, in November these financings comprised more than 80% of the total securitized assets (between personal loans and credit card coupons) (see Graph 7.7). Other underlying assets transferred during the month were leasing contracts (7%) which, although with a small share of the total, have been showing very good performance.

 Non-regulated financial entities by the BCRA were the main settlors, having issued 67% of the total for the month. These exclusively securitized consumer financing. On the other hand, among regulated financial entities, only one bank intervened, which transferred personal loans and leasing contracts. Other settlors were exporting SMEs (which securitized bills of exchange) and agricultural companies (commercial loans), among others.

 Towards the 3rd quarter of the year, the stock of underlying assets7 amounted to $11,400 million, an amount similar to that of the previous quarter (see Graph 7.8). This stability would indicate that the reductions of FF would have been offset by the new FF issued. The stock of underlying assets (excluding public securities) represented approximately 10% of the total stock of private loans in the financial system.

Graph 7.8
Stock of Underlying Assets of FF
millions of $

14,000
 Stock
12,000 variations 11,281 11,487 11,389
10,000 8,240
8,000 6,921
6,000
4,000
2,000

0
 2005-III 2005-IV 2006-I 2006-II 2006-III
-2,000

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV

 6 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered
 7 The stock of underlying assets, prepared by the BCRA, arises from the information contained in each of the accounting statements (quarterly) of all FF issued to date. The stock mentioned in the 3rd quarter of the year is subject to modification.
# 12 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Monthly Averages ||||||| Percentage Variations Average ||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nov-06 | Oct-06 | Sep-06 | Nov-05 | Monthly | | Last 12 months | |
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 71,843 | 70,174 | 69,160 | 55,906 | 2.4% | 1.7% | 28.5% | 16.8% |
| Monetary circulation | 52,248 | 51,621 | 50,901 | 43,207 | 1.2% | 0.5% | 20.9% | 9.9% |
| In public hands | 47,853 | 47,338 | 46,730 | 39,026 | 1.1% | 0.4% | 22.6% | 11.5% |
| In financial entities | 4,395 | 4,283 | 4,171 | 4,181 | 2.6% | 1.9% | 5.1% | -4.4% |
| Current account at BCRA | 19,595 | 18,554 | 18,259 | 12,699 | 5.6% | 4.9% | 54.3% | 40.3% |

| Stock of Repos | | | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities | 2,335 | 2,349 | 2,018 | 3,398 | -0.6% | -1.3% | -31.3% | -37.5% |
| Assets | 82 | 56 | 125 | 277 | 48.1% | 47.0% | -70.3% | -73.0% |

| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | | | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LEBAC** (does not include portfolio for repos) | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 11,752 | 11,019 | 10,113 | 21,113 | 6.7% | 5.9% | -44.3% | -49.4% |
| In dollars | 1,818 | 1,818 | 480 | 0.0% | | -62.3% | |
| **NOBAC** | 29,006 | 27,893 | 27,706 | 5,463 | 4.0% | 3.3% | 431.0% | 382.8% |

| International reserves of BCRA | 29,760 | 28,390 | 27,740 | 26,501 | 4.8% | | 12.3% | |

| Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) | 145,819 | 142,025 | 139,400 | 118,430 | 2.7% | 1.9% | 23.1% | 12.0% |
| Current account (2) | 42,680 | 40,251 | 38,955 | 33,363 | 6.0% | 5.3% | 27.9% | 16.3% |
| Savings account | 27,220 | 27,148 | 26,705 | 25,164 | 0.3% | -0.4% | 8.2% | -1.6% |
| Fixed term not adjustable by CER | 60,812 | 59,707 | 58,527 | 42,823 | 1.9% | 1.1% | 42.0% | 29.1% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER | 5,204 | 5,380 | 5,662 | 7,527 | -3.3% | -3.9% | -30.9% | -37.1% |
| CEDRO with CER | 26 | 28 | 29 | 36 | -6.8% | -7.5% | -26.7% | -33.3% |
| Other deposits (3) | 9,878 | 9,512 | 9,522 | 9,518 | 3.9% | 3.1% | 3.8% | -5.6% |

| Deposits of private sector | 102,731 | 101,167 | 99,646 | 86,145 | 1.5% | 0.8% | 19.3% | 8.4% |

| Deposits of public sector | 43,089 | 40,858 | 39,754 | 32,284 | 5.5% | 4.7% | 33.5% | 21.4% |

| Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) | 5,548 | 5,456 | 5,317 | 3,912 | 1.7% | | 41.8% | |

| Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) | 73,113 | 71,164 | 69,152 | 59,631 | 2.7% | 2.0% | 22.6% | 11.5% |

| Loans to private sector | 60,995 | 58,991 | 56,854 | 43,741 | 3.4% | 2.7% | 39.4% | 26.8% |
| Advances | 11,300 | 10,854 | 10,408 | 8,403 | 4.1% | 3.4% | 34.5% | 22.3% |
| Documents | 13,450 | 13,097 | 12,605 | 9,686 | 2.7% | 2.0% | 38.9% | 26.3% |
| Mortgage | 9,828 | 9,605 | 9,393 | 8,583 | 2.3% | 1.6% | 14.5% | 4.1% |
| Pledge | 3,503 | 3,360 | 3,223 | 2,195 | 4.3% | 3.5% | 59.6% | 45.1% |
| Personal | 12,548 | 11,806 | 11,104 | 6,845 | 6.3% | 5.5% | 83.3% | 66.7% |
| Credit cards | 6,818 | 6,593 | 6,425 | 4,663 | 3.4% | 2.7% | 46.2% | 32.9% |
| Others | 3,548 | 3,674 | 3,696 | 3,366 | -3.4% | -4.1% | 5.4% | -4.2% |

| Loans to public sector | 12,118 | 12,173 | 12,298 | 15,890 | -0.5% | -1.2% | -23.7% | -30.7% |

| Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) | 3,811 | 3,716 | 3,607 | 2,431 | 2.5% | | 56.7% | |

| **Total monetary aggregates** (1) | | | | | | | | |
| M1 (circulation in public hands + current account in pesos) | 90,533 | 87,589 | 85,685 | 72,389 | 3.4% | 2.6% | 25.1% | 13.7% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 117,753 | 114,737 | 112,390 | 97,552 | 2.6% | 1.9% | 20.7% | 9.8% |
| M3 (circulation in public hands + total deposits in pesos) | 193,673 | 189,363 | 186,130 | 157,456 | 2.3% | 1.6% | 23.0% | 11.8% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) | 210,738 | 206,269 | 202,611 | 169,062 | 2.2% | 1.4% | 24.7% | 13.3% |

| **Private monetary aggregates** | | | | | | | | |
| M1 (circulation in public hands + private current account in pesos) | 73,789 | 72,603 | 71,462 | 60,941 | 1.6% | 0.9% | 21.1% | 10.1% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 97,298 | 96,123 | 94,428 | 80,547 | 1.2% | 0.5% | 20.8% | 9.8% |
| M3 (circulation in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) | 150,584 | 148,505 | 146,376 | 125,171 | 1.4% | 0.7% | 20.3% | 9.4% |

| **Variation factors** | Monthly | | Quarterly | | Accumulated 2006 | | Last 12 months | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
# MONETARY REPORT - NOVEMBER 2006

Monetary base 1.669 2.3% 4.576 6.4% 16.016 22.3% 16.752 23.3%
Financial sector -170 -0.2% 1.172 1.6% -4.388 -6.1% -6.186 -8.6%
Public sector -590 -0.8% -2.059 -2.9% -5.398 -7.5% -7.038 -9.8%
Temporary advances + utilities transfers -278 -180 47 -215
Use of national government account -42 -351 -520 -1.003
External credit -270 -1.528 -4.926 -5.820
Private external sector 3.919 5.5% 9.528 13.3% 36.396 50.7% 39.407 54.9%
BCRA Securities -1.460 -2.0% -4.123 -5.7% -10.531 -14.7% -9.514 -13.2%
Other -30 0.0% 59 0.1% -63 -0.1% 82 0.1%

International reserves 1.370 0.0% 2.736 -20.4% 2.498 -20.4% 3.713 -20.4%
Intervention in foreign exchange market 1.271 4.3% 3.087 10.4% 11.853 39.8% 12.864 43.2%
Payment to international organizations -65 -0.2% -766 -2.6% -11.630 -39.1% -12.134 -40.8%
Other public sector operations -240 -0.8% 68 0.2% 1.043 3.5% 1.647 5.5%
Minimum cash 162 0.5% -18 -0.1% -371 -1.2% -421 -1.4%
Valuation repo rate 144 0.5% 59 0.2% 336 1.1% 309 1.0%
Other 98 0.3% 307 1.0% 1.267 4.3% 1.448 4.9%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund usage.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month relative to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. 13 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05 Nov-05

Call in pesos (1 day)
Rate 8.02 6.67 7.58 6.73 6.62
Amount traded 1.346 1.059 1.169 912 924

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 6.85 6.97 6.79 4.74 4.43
60 days or more 8.22 8.02 7.56 5.87 5.34
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.40 7.18 7.33 5.50 5.08
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.59 9.47 9.45 7.48 6.78

In dollars
30 days 1.01 0.99 0.96 0.58 0.60
60 days or more 1.74 1.65 1.55 1.11 1.12
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.74 0.88 1.11 0.55 0.61
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.49 2.25 2.50 0.98 1.06

Active Interest Rates Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05 Nov-05

Prime in pesos at 30 days 9.52 9.34 9.38 7.14 6.70

Cauciones in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.71 8.76 8.91 7.85 7.11
Amount traded (total terms) 108 105 101 92 93

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
Overdrafts on current account 16.52 16.18 16.57 17.11 16.80
Documents on signature alone 12.62 12.78 12.94 11.54 10.98
Mortgages 11.53 11.41 11.52 11.55 11.39
Pledges 10.78 10.52 10.42 10.12 9.94
Personal 24.43 24.33 24.32 25.33 25.15
Credit cards n/a 27.64 27.69 27.93 28.33

International Interest Rates Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05 Nov-05

LIBOR
1 month 5.32 5.32 5.33 4.36 4.15
6 months 5.37 5.39 5.41 4.67 4.55

US Treasury Bond
2 years 4.74 4.79 4.77 4.39 4.41
10 years 4.59 4.72 4.71 4.46 4.53

FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 4.17 4.00

SELIC (1 year) 13.70 14.01 14.25 18.21 18.89

(1) Data through September correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while those from October and November are estimates made based on the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

14 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Nov-06 Oct-06 Sep-06 Dec-05 Nov-05

BCRA repo rates
Passive 1 day 5.74 5.50 5.25 4.48 4.00
Passive 7 days 6.24 6.00 5.75 4.98 4.50
Active 7 days 8.24 8.00 8.00 6.00 5.78

Total repo round rates
1 day 7.02 6.20 6.74 4.86 4.91
7 days 7.37 6.19 6.23 5.20 4.79

Amount traded in repo round operations (daily average) 3.159 2.511 1.884 2.708 1.527
Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 302 319 326 438 417
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 205 205 213 273 278

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

15 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

## 9. Glossary
AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: US Federal Reserve.
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual nominal rate.
VN: Nominal value.

16 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2006

17
