# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Monetary Report MARCH 2007

## CONTENTS
1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Bank Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Equities 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Mutual Investment Funds 11
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• Continuing with the deceleration trend initiated in 2005, the year-on-year growth of M2 in March was 7 percentage points lower than that of one year ago and lower than that of nominal gross product.

• The BCRA continued executing an aggressive sterilization policy, in order to guarantee equilibrium between the supply and demand for money. In March, the most intensively used sterilization instrument again was the placement of LEBACs and NOBACs, which generated a decrease in the monetary base (BM) of $2,783 million. Likewise, the total cancellation of rediscounts by one of the entities that still maintained debts incurred during the 2001-2002 crisis contributed importantly to sterilization. This raised the contractionary effect on the BM from the collection of rediscounts to $944 million in the month.

• Demand deposits continued losing their share in total deposits, with a decline of 0.4% in the month. By contrast, fixed-term deposits grew 3.1%. The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, accumulated a monthly increase of 1.2% ($2,580 million), which evidences the strength of demand for money in the broad sense.

• In order to complete the reference interest rate curve for the medium term and, at the same time, extend the average life of the portfolio of securities issued, during March the BCRA continued participating in the MAE SWAP round, where it continued exchanging 3-year variable rate instruments for others of shorter duration or, alternatively, fixed-rate securities for variable-rate species. Likewise, at the end of the month it again carried out an auction for this type of operations, where offers were received for $543 million, of which $243 million were awarded.

• Loans to the private sector increased by approximately $1,830 million (2.4%) in the month and by credit line, the increasingly dynamic loans with real guarantees stand out.

• The BCRA again increased 0.25 percentage points the interest rates for its repo operations. Thus, during the first quarter of 2007, the 7-day repo rates increased 0.75 percentage points, while the 1-day rate accumulated an increase of 1 percentage point.

• With the finalization of the quarterly minimum cash position, banks had to rebuild their liquidity levels, generating upward pressure on short-term interest rates. The BADLAR interest rate of private banks recorded in the first days of March an increase of 0.6 percentage points, placing it at 8.3%, and the interbank market interest rate rose 2 percentage points to reach 8.8%.

• At the end of March, the stock of international reserves amounted to US$36,849 million, close to the historical maximum that had been reached as of the publication date of this report.

• In March 2007, the Rest CPI (approximation to underlying inflation) showed an increase lower than that of the same month in 2006, continuing with the declining trend in year-on-year terms.

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report MARCH 2007
**Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**
**Evolution of M2 and Monetary Program**

In March, the average balance of means of payment (M2) was located at $126,710 million, within the range provided in the Monetary Program for this period. In this way, the BCRA completed a new quarter of compliance with monetary targets (see Graph 2.1).

M2 grew only 0.3% in the month and registered an annual variation 7 percentage points (p.p.) lower than that observed 12 months before. Likewise, following the trend that began the previous year, in the first quarter of 2007 the annual growth of M2 was lower than that of nominal gross domestic product (GDP).

In this way, transactional money that in the first quarter of 2005 was growing at a rate 11 p.p. higher than nominal GDP, in the first three months of the current year grew at a rate almost 1 p.p. lower than that variable.

The monthly variation of means of payment was influenced by the behavior of demand deposits in pesos, which presented a decrease of 0.4%, and continued in this way losing participation in the total of deposits.

**Graph 2.2**
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos**
**(average monthly variation - March 2007)**

Fixed-term deposits continued growing both through placements of the private sector and those of the public sector, and in the month increased by $2,160 million. In March, shorter-term placements predominated and the majority was concentrated in the segment of up to 59 days (see Graph 2.2). However, among private sector deposits, an increase was also observed in the segment of placements between 180 and 365 days, which comprise 12% of the total, and which since the beginning of the year show sustained growth. Thus, they accumulated in the first quarter of 2007 a percentage increase slightly higher than that of placements of up to 59 days (see Graph 2.3). Together, the new funds destined to fixed-term deposits allowed their annual growth rate to continue growing and be located at 28.4% in the case of private sector placements, while if those of the public sector are also considered it reached 42.1%.

The sustained growth of fixed-term placements continued driving the broader monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, which accumulated a monthly increase of 1.2% ($2,580 million), which shows the strength of demand for money in the broad sense.

In the foreign currency segment practically no variations were registered in the total of deposits. However, there was a slight change in the composition of placements of the private sector, registering an increase in fixed-term placements (US$70 million) to the detriment of demand deposits and others.

**Graph 2.3**
**Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector**
**(index base 29-Dec-06)**

In summary, M3*, which includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos and dollars, grew 1.1% ($2,510 million) in the month.

On the other hand, the BCRA continued executing an aggressive sterilization policy, guaranteeing the equilibrium of the money market. In March, the sterilization instrument most intensely used was again the primary placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, which generated a decrease in the monetary base of $2,783 million. Likewise, the total cancellation of debt in the concept of rediscounts of one of the entities that still maintained balances
% (year-on-year var.) for debts incurred during the 2001-2002 crisis, also
 15
 14.2 contributed in an important way to sterilization. In this way,
 14
 the average monthly effect on the monetary base of these
 13 operations was contractionary by $944 million.

 12 11.9

 11 In March 2007, underlying retail inflation measured

 10 10.3 by the IPC Rest showed a monthly increase of 1.4%, lower
 9.7
 9 than that of March 2006 (1.7%) but higher than the previous months.

 IPC Rest In this framework, the year-on-year variation of the IPC Rest rose to
 8
 Expectations IPC GBA 2007 (Dec-Dec) 10.3% (equivalent to a monthlyized variation of 0.8%),
 7 showing a reduction of 2.2 p.p. compared to the March record of the

 6 previous year, remaining at values similar to those of previous
 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Ene-06 Abr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Ene-07
 Source: INDEC and REM months. This reduction in inflation was mainly due to the
 evolution of service prices, while year-on-year increases in goods
 remained relatively stable.

 In summary, the IPC Rest continues in 2007 with the declining trend
 in year-on-year terms observed throughout the past year, which allows
 market expectations on retail inflation for the current year to
 continue within the band stipulated in the Monetary Program (7-11%).

 % of Banking Liquidity in Pesos % of
 deposits deposits

 18 8
 CCBCRA + Cash

 17 Passive Repos (right axis) 7
 3. Banking Liquidity¹
 16 6

 15 5
 The liquidity ratio, defined as cash in banks, the

 14 4 current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive repos arranged
 with the BCRA as a percentage of total deposits in pesos, decreased
 13 3 slightly –0.7 p.p.– in March and moved to 18% (see Chart 3.1). As
 for the composition of liquidity, in this month there was a transfer of
 12 2 funds from the repo market to deposits in current accounts at the
 BCRA, behavior associated with the end of the quarterly computation
 11 1 period of the minimum cash position. It is important to note that in
 February (last month of the December-February position), banks had
 10 0 excess resources that they had partially maintained in repo
 Jun-05 Ago-05 Oct-05 Dic-05 Feb-06 Abr-06 Jun-06 Ago-06 Oct-06 Dic-06 Feb-07
 Source: BCRA operations with the BCRA. In March, with the beginning of a new
 measurement period –monthly– of reserve requirements, entities
 reallocated part of these resources.

 Nevertheless, the excess minimum cash in pesos closed March at
Gráfico 3.2 approximately 0.3% of deposits (about $500 million), a percentage
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos similar to that reached in the last months of 2006 and to the position
 % deposits
 (estimated data) of the December 2006-February 2007 quarter. By bank group, the minimum
 25 cash position was also similar to what had been observed in previous
 23 EM Integration in $ months and, while private banks would have ended the month with an
 EM Requirement in $ excess of around 0.6% of their deposits, public banks would have
 21 closed March with a position of approximately 0.2% of their deposits.

 19

 17 On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment, banks

 continued maintaining an excess minimum cash position of around
 15 14% of total deposits in dollars.

 13

 11
 Ene-04 Abr-04 Jul-04 Oct-04 Ene-05 Abr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dic-06

 Source: BCRA

 3 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

 Chart 4.1 Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector
 % % 4. Loans¹²
 60 25

 23 Loans to the private sector increased approximately
 40 21 $1,830 million (2.4%) during March, to reach $78,150 million, an amount
 that, while elevated in nominal terms, as a percentage of GDP is
 20 19 relatively small (approximately
0 15 10.5%) in relation to other countries or with respect to the levels reached

 13 historic maximums achieved by the local financial system. In
 -20 11 this framework, in the last 12 months it accumulates an increase of

 y.o.y. in nominal terms 9 39.6% in nominal terms and 27.9% in real terms (see
 -40
 y.o.y. in real terms - deflated by CPI 7 Chart 4.1).
 -60 In terms of GDP (right axis) 5
 Dec-97 Dec-98 Dec-99 Dec-00 Dec-01 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 The increase for the month was led by increasingly
 Source: BCRA
 dynamic loans with real guarantees and by consumer financing, while
 commercial loans registered slight increases, after having recorded
 no growth in the two previous months. In this way, the year-on-year
 growth of financing with real guarantees in pesos (29%) surpassed for
 the first time that of commercial financing (26%) (see Chart 4.2).
 Chart 4.2
 % Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos With the end of the summer recess, commercial financing in
 (y.o.y. var. of monthly averages) pesos resumed growing, on this occasion around $350
 100
 million (1.2%). This increase was explained both by the behavior
 80 Commercial of advances, which increased $120 million (1.1%), as well as by
 Consumer documents, which grew $190 million (1.4%) and "other loans,"
 60 which increased $40 million (1.0%).
 Real guarantee
 40
 For its part, consumer financing increased $780 million (3.6%),
 20 an increase that, while still being high, turned out to be the smallest
 0 since August 2006. This increase is broken down into an increase of
 -20 $690 million (4.9%) of personal loans, and $90 million (1.1%) of
 -40 credit card financing. Although this line is showing the best
 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 recovery, in recent months it would be reducing its year-on-year
 Source: BCRA growth rate, which in March was located at around 60%, implying a
 decline of 15 percentage points with respect to the maximum reached
 in mid-2005.

 Loans with chattel mortgage guarantees continue showing a firm
 Chart 4.3 growth rate, while automobile sales to the domestic market reach
 new maximums. Chattel mortgage loans registered an increase of
millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee $120 million (3.2%) in the month, accumulating a year-on-year
 (monthly average var.) increase of 55.7%. For its part, mortgage loans registered their
 300
 largest monthly increase since their recovery (see Chart 4.3), having
 250 Mortgages grown in March $290 million (2.8%), accumulating a year-on-year
 Chattel mortgages increase of 21.1%. At the beginning of the month the BCRA introduced
 200
 modifications to the guidelines for origination and administration of
 150 mortgage loans, in order to facilitate access to these credit lines.
 100 These measures tend to improve the capacity to obtain long-term
 funds, by allowing the securitization of loans generated under
 50 homogeneous criteria, while also incorporating improvements, among
 which stands out the incorporation of alternative methods to the
 0 traditional ones for the analysis of credit granting, such as the
 -50 recently approved scoring and screening techniques. It is expected
 -100
 that these regulatory changes will contribute to bolster the growth
 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 of these credit lines.
 Source: BCRA

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities
 to financial trusts.

 4 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

 Chart 5.1 Finally, financing in foreign currency increased US$100
 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC million (2.5%) in the month, an increase that

 % NOBAC - Margins on BADLAR % LEBAC - TNA
 2.0 12
 1.6 11
10 was explained fundamentally by documents, linked

1.2 to foreign trade operations.

9

0.8
8

0.4 27-Mar 27-Mar
27-Feb 7 27-Feb 5. Interest Rates

0.0 6
0 200 400 600 800 1000 12000 200 400 600 800 Securities issued by the BCRA3
Source: BCRA duration (days)

In March the amount in circulation of LEBAC and NOBAC increased 5% and growth was evident in similar proportions in both types of securities. The increase occurred even with a slight flattening of the yield curves in the primary market. In this way, a decrease of 0.2 p.p. was recorded in the longest segment of the LEBAC curve, while the

Graph 5.2 margins over the BADLAR rate of private banks

BCRA Arranged Repos corresponding to NOBAC placements were reduced 0.1
thousands of (daily average amounts, interest rates at the end of each month)
millions of $ % p.p. between the end of February and March for the longer terms (see

5 Amount Operated FCI 10 Graph 5.1).
Amount Operated Com. A 4399 (overnight)
Amount Operated REPO Wheel 9
4 Interest Rate of Passive Repos 7 days (right axis) 7 In order to complete the curve of medium-term reference interest

rates and, at the same time, extend the average life of the portfolio
8 of securities it issues, during the course of March the Central Bank
3
continued participating in the MAE SWAP wheel, where it continued
7
2 exchanging variable rate instruments of 3 years for others of shorter

duration or, fixed rate securities for variable rate instruments. Likewise,
6 at the end of the month it held an auction again for this class of
5 operations, where offers were received for $543 million, of which
1
$243 million were awarded. The majority of the placement corresponded
4 to the sale of NOBAC adjustable by BADLAR of private banks of 3
Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 years in exchange for the purchase of securities of shorter duration.

Source: BCRA

Interfinancial Markets

Graph 5.3 Repo Market1

Interest Rates of Call Operations and Repos
% (weighted average rate by amount) % In mid-March the BCRA again increased 0.25 p.p.
11 11
March interest rates for repo operations in which it participates.
10 10 In this way, those with 7 days maturity began to trade at 7%

9 9 and 9%, for passive and active repos, respectively; while that

8 8 1-day passive repos began to be taken at 6.75%. Thus,

during the first quarter of 2007, the 7-day repo rates increased
7 7
0.75 p.p., while the 1-day rate accumulated an increase of 1 p.p.
(see Graph 5.2).
6 6

5 5
BCRA Repo Corridor at 7 days BCRA Passive Repos at 1 day As mentioned in Section 3, following the completion of
4 Call at 7 days Repos between 3rd parties at 1 day 4
Call at 1 day the quarterly period for compliance with reserve requirements,
3 3
01-Jun-06 14-Jul-06 28-Aug-06 09-Oct-06 22-Nov-06 08-Jan-07 19-Feb-07 a good portion of excess funds that were held in repos
Source: BCRA with the BCRA was transferred by financial entities toward

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

5 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

Graph 5.4 Call Operations
millions of $ % their current accounts, in order to meet the minimum cash
1,600 (monthly averages) 10 requirements of March. Consequently, during this month
Monto op. at other terms (up to 15 calendar days) 9
1,400 Amount op. at 7 calendar days there was a notable decrease in the balance of passive repos for
Amount op. at 1 business day 8
1,200 Interest rate of op. at 7 days
Interest rate of op. at 1 day 7 the BCRA.

1,000 6 On the other hand, during the month an increase in the

800 5 equity of money market FCIs was observed (see Section 7), which

600 4 explains why the repos that were arranged to meet their liquidity

margin were the only ones that grew in March.
3
 400
 2

 200 1 Interbank Market (call)1

 0 0
Source: BCRAJan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07After two months in which the interbank loan market remained calm with declining interest rates, at the beginning of March these increased to then return practically to previous levels (see Graph 5.3). With the change of month and the conclusion of the quarterly minimum cash position, banks had to restore their liquidity levels (see Section 3), generating upward pressure on short-term interest rates. Throughout the month and as banks regularized their liquidity situation, interest rates
 Graph 5.5 began to decline gradually, converging to the new levels established by the BCRA as a short-term reference
 Call Market through its repo operations.
 millions of $
 700
 600 Foreign
 500 Priv. Nat.
 400 Public Thus, the interest rate for one-business-day operations, which

 300 had ended at 6.9% reached a peak of 8.8% on March 2 and

 200 ended at 7.2%. Similar behavior was recorded for the interest rate

 100 for seven-day operations (See Graph 5.3).

 0

 -100
 -200 The amounts traded were around $1,130 million daily,

 -300 resulting in 14% higher than the previous month and continued

 -400 trading fundamentally at one-day term (see Graph 5.4).

 -500

 -600
 Mar-04 Sep-04 Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07By group of banks, it was observed that banks with predominantly foreign capital raised their net borrowing position, while public banking increased its amounts granted. Private banks with national capital went from being net lenders the previous month to net borrowers in March (see Graph 5.5).

 Passive Interest Rates1
 Graph 5.6
 BADLAR Interest Rate Passive interest rates presented different behavior

 % fixed-term deposits in pesos of 30-35 days over $1,000,000 by time segment showing slight increases in private sector placements of shorter terms and decreases in those of

 11 March Private Banks Public Banks Total longer terms.

 10

 9
 In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR interest rate of

 8 private banks which had fallen around 2 p.p. in the first two

 7 months of the year, recorded in the first days of March an

 6 increase of 0.6 p.p. placing it at 8.3%. This increase was in line

 5 with the evolution of interbank market interest rates and due to greater liquidity needs observed at the beginning of the month. Later, from the second week onwards, the rate remained stable at these levels. Meanwhile, the BADLAR interest rate of public banks presented a slight increase throughout the month ending at 7%, which represents an

 4
 3
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07
Source: BCRA increase of 0.5 p.p. with respect to the average level recorded the previous month (see Graph 5.6).

 Graph 5.7
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos When analyzing the total operations, a slight increase is

 monthly average weighted by amount traded observed in the average interest rate for placements of

 % 30 to 59 days, while for longer terms the average rates

10 of the month decreased. This is mainly due to an increase in interest rates for private sector placements in the shortest term. On the contrary, those of the public sector decreased for all time brackets, but since in the shortest bracket there is greater participation of private sector deposits it is only there where it was reflected

 9

 8

 7

 6

 5

---

6 Monetary Report MARCH 2007
30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90 days increase. In this way, the weighted average interest rate
 4
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07for the total operations was 7.1% in the 30 to 59 day bracket,
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA 7.6% in the 60 to 89 day bracket and 7.8% for placements of more
 than 90 days (see Chart 5.7).

 Within the placements of the private sector, the main
 increase was observed in the interest rate of deposits from
 companies providing financial services (AFJP, FCI,
 Chart 5.8 insurance companies, etc.), partially recovering January levels. Meanwhile, interest rates for family
 Fixed-Term Deposits Yield in Pesos deposits (by type of depositor) were not modified (see Chart 5.8).

 Private Individuals
 % FEBRUARY 2007 Financial Services MARCH 2007
 10 Legal Entities - other
 Public Sector

 9 Active Interest Rates1 4

 8 Active interest rates presented heterogeneous evolution during the
 month, mainly depending on the type of financing granted. Interest rates on shorter-
 7
 term loans showed an increase while those for longer-
 6 term periods remained relatively stable.
 5
 30 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 9030 to 59 days 60 to 89 days more than 90
 days days In this way, the interest rate for advances rose at the
 Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
 Source: BCRA beginning of the month in line with interbank market interest rates
 and after the first week they normalized. Said movement, driven mainly by advances granted to large companies, implied an increase in the weighted average monthly interest rate of 0.6 p.p., which stood at 16.8%. Meanwhile, the
 interest rate for documents with signature only presented a
 Chart 5.9 somewhat smaller increase and stood at 13% (see Chart 5.9).

TNA, % Commercial Loans
25 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 Advances Regarding mortgage loans, although
 Documents during March interest rates remained stable at 11%,
20 these have presented since January a level lower than that observed during
 2006 (0.7 p.p. lower than December). Within this line of credit, the average term of loans granted to families continues to
15 lengthen, which currently exceeds 13 years, while for those granted to companies, the average term continues at approximately 2 and a half years.

10 The interest rate for pawn loans was 9.7%,
 registering a slight increase compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, the
 5 interest rate for personal loans remained stable at
 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 Mar-06 Jul-06 Nov-06 Mar-07
Source: BCRA
 4 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to
 January 2007; the values for February and March 2007 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data from loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 7 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

 Chart 5.10 24.9%. Finally, for credit card financing, the
 Active Interest Rates interest rate corresponding to February, the last available
 TNA, % (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) information, was 25.9%, registering a slight decrease compared to January
 40 Credit Cards Personal (see Chart 5.10).

 Mortgage Pawn
 35

 30

 25 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market5

 20
 During March, the stock of international reserves totaled
 15 US$36,849 million, US$1,914 million (5.5%) above the level
 recorded at the end of February (see Chart 6.1).

10
5 This increase is explained mainly by the inflow of foreign currency
 Mar-04 Jul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 Mar-06 Jul-06 Nov-06 Mar-07
 Source: BCRA derived from purchases made by the BCRA in the Single and Free
 Exchange Market (MULC) whose amount was US$1,630 million
 in the month. Additionally, a decline of US$170 million was recorded due to
 payments made to international organizations, which was more than
 offset by the inflow of foreign currency of US$375 million, associated
 with other public sector operations. Additionally, financial entities
 Chart 6.1 reduced their balances in current accounts in foreign currency
 by US$140 million.

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)
 37 In the exchange market, the wholesale exchange rate of the peso
 against the dollar (Reference) remained stable, with the average monthly

 32 exchange rate at 3.101 $/US$. Meanwhile, the peso depreciated
 0.4% against the Real—where the exchange rate was 1.48 $/Real—
 27 and 1.2% against the Euro, reaching an average monthly exchange
 rate of 4.11 $/Euro.
 22

 17 Regarding trading volumes, increases were recorded both in the
 spot market and in the futures market. In the spot market, the average

 12 daily trading volume (through the Electronic Operations System
 -SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokers Market -MEC-) was US$378 million,
 7 which represents an increase of 15% compared to the previous month,
 thus recording the highest daily trading volume in recent years. In the
 Nov-01 Jul-02 Mar-03 Nov-03 Jul-04 Mar-05 Nov-05 Jul-06 Mar-07
 futures market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario Forward Market –ROFEX-),
 Source: BCRA the increase was 11% with a daily average of US$112 million. This increase
 was recorded in ROFEX market operations, with a daily average of US$89 million,
 while in the Forward Negotiated Operations round (OCT-MAE) the same volume
 as the previous month was maintained, US$23 million. Finally, the BCRA's
Chart 6.2 participation in the spot market was 9.8%, although in the futures
 market it did not participate during the month.
 Trading Volumes in the Exchange Market
millions of US$ (daily averages)
400 Spot market volume (SIOPEL+Brokers) 35%
 Future market volume (OCT-MAE+ROFEX)
350 BCRA share % spot - right axis 30
 BCRA share % futures - right axis
300 25

250 7. Capital Markets
 20
200
 15
150 Stocks

100 10

 5 The month of March was marked by a high level of
 50
 volatility and greater uncertainty both in the stock exchanges of
 0 0 emerging markets and in the stock markets of developed countries
 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07
Source: BCRA (See Chart 7.1). The behavior of the different stock exchanges

 5 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

 8Monetary Report MARCH 2007

Chart 7.1 worldwide was explained mainly by the performance of indicators of
 Volatility Volatility of the stock market Volatility (%)
 (%) (22 trading sessions) of the North American economy, and fears that
 70 20
 said economy would enter into recession.

 60 MERVAL (Argentina) 16

 IPC (Mexico) During March, the MERVAL index showed a positive variation
 50 BOVESPA (Brazil) of 1.7%, reaching a value of 2,102 points. In the last
 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 12
 40 twelve months, MERVAL obtained a return of 16.8%. On the other hand,
 said index achieved a return of 0.6% so far this year. Although the
 8
 30 index had a recovery during the month of March, it
 4 is at a level below the maximum reached of 2,219 points
 20 on February 26, prior to the correction that took place in stock exchanges
 10 0 around the world.

 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07
Source: Prepared by the BCRA based on Bloomberg LP data. In Latin America, the leading stock exchanges obtained positive returns in March measured in dollars. The IGBVL (Peru) registered an increase of 13.5%, in the same line the IPC (Mexico) increased 9.1% and the BOVESPA (Brazil) grew 7.3%. For its part the IGPA (Chile) and the MERVAL (Argentina) reached returns of 3.8% and 1.7% respectively. It should be noted that both the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real appreciated against the dollar, for this reason the return measured in dollars is substantially higher than that measured in the local currency.

Graph 7.2 The average volatility of the MERVAL decreased slightly in March, although it remained at an elevated level. The same behavior was observed in the remaining stock exchanges of Latin America. In annualized terms and measured in dollars, the volatility of 22 trading sessions of the MERVAL index was 27% (2.4 p.p. lower than that of February).

The volumes traded daily on average in the stock market decreased. The average amount traded reached $64 million daily, decreasing $17 million compared to the previous month.

From April, the MERVAL saw its composition altered with the entry of Banco Hipotecario, YPF, and the exit of Molinos. In this way the financial sector increases its weighting in the MERVAL.

Public Securities

In March the spread of emerging countries and Latin American countries reached historical lows. The spreads of Latin American external debt measured by the EMBI were reduced 23 b.p. during March. In the case of emerging countries in general the spread was reduced 19 b.p. as indicated by the EMBI+. In Argentina, the spread was reduced even more, 24 b.p., also measured by the EMBI (See Graph 7.2)

The yield curve of securities in pesos steepened as the yield of short-term securities fell and the yields of longer-term securities rose, while in the mid-term the curve showed mixed results (See Graph 7.3). Although the yield curve of securities denominated in dollars also steepened slightly, it exhibited heterogeneous behavior in each of the segments, where some yields fell and others rose (See Graph 7.4).

The units linked to GDP (U.V.P.) had a very good performance during the month. The U.V.P. denominated in dollars (New York law) closed the month with a value of US$ 13.8, reflecting an increase of 4.5% compared to February. In the same way the U.V.P. denominated in pesos reached a value of $11.9 at the end of the month, this value representing an increase of 3.9% compared to the previous month.

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) decreased compared to the level reached the previous month, it stood at $1,857 million, a figure $37 million lower than that recorded the previous month.

During the month of March no new placements were made.

Institutional Investors
# Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds6

**Chart 7.5 The investment portfolio of the Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds (AFJP)**

The patrimony of the Retirement and Pension Funds Administrators (AFJP) reached a value of $90,494 million pesos on March 15. Compared to the previous year, the patrimony of the AFJP increased 23% (12.4% in real terms).

When comparing the data from March 15 with the data from February 15, it becomes evident that patrimony decreased $1,860 million (2%). This patrimonial reduction is due to the poor performance of the assets valued at market that the AFJP maintain in portfolio, the yield was –2.4%. In the observed period, a correction in financial assets stands out, originated by the fall of the main Chinese stock exchange and other indicators of the North American economy that were not favorable. The monthly variation in the investment portfolio –does not include availabilities- was $-2,095 million and is explained by the fall of $630 million in the value of holdings of national public securities and the decrease of $690 million in the position that it maintains in foreign public securities. Finally, the value that the AFJP maintain in stocks also reduced by $360 million.

**Chart 7.6 Common Investment Funds**

**Money Market Funds in pesos**

The patrimony of the common investment funds (FCI) in pesos increased $1,565 million during March, reaching a value of $17,420 million (See Chart 7.5). In the month, patrimony grew 10%, a figure much higher than that achieved the previous month. Although all types of funds saw their patrimony increased, those that increased it the most were the fixed income and money market funds, which contrary to what had been happening in the previous months, the patrimony of the latter had a strong increase.

The patrimony of the variable income funds increased $320 million (5%) during March. The patrimonial increase is explained by an increase in the values of the quotashares since the quantity of quotashares decreased. The profitability reached a value of 4.2%.

6 At the time of preparing the report, the latest available information on the patrimony of the AFJP corresponds to the first half of the month under analysis.

**Chart 7.7 The patrimony of money market funds exhibited a positive variation of $660 million (15%) with respect to the end of February. Meanwhile the average variation was $520 million. The strong growth in the patrimony of this type of funds is explained because they were benefited by the elevated volatility and uncertainty prevailing in the markets during March. The profitability of this type of funds stood at 5.6% annually, 30 b.p. below that recorded the previous month (See Chart 7.6).**

**Financial Trust Funds in millions of pesos**

Finally, the patrimony of the fixed income funds grew $575 million. Said variation is due to an increase in the quantity of quotashares. The profitability was 0.7%, higher by 30 b.p. than the profitability recorded the previous month.

**Monetary Report MARCH 2007**

---

**Emissions of Financial Trust Funds7**

$700M
avg. 2006: $630M
avg. 2005: $430M

Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and others

**Financial Trust Funds7**
During March, financial trusts (FF) were placed for approximately $700 million, an amount that is around 70% higher than the previous month and 80% higher than the same month in 2006 (see Chart 7.7). It should be noted that unlike other months in which significant amounts were issued, in March no public securities were securitized.

**Chart 7.8**
**Financial Trusts**
**(Class A titles - weighted monthly averages by amount)**

As is customary, the most important underlying assets of the month were again consumer financing (personal loans and credit cards), which accounted for more than 72% of the total placement. Mortgage loans, real estate developments, and commercial credits were also securitized, whose amounts represented 11%, 9%, and 8% of the total emissions of the month, respectively. Regarding the securitization of mortgage loans, it is expected that the number of placements will increase in the medium term, encouraged by the modifications that the BCRA introduced in the guidelines for origination and administration of mortgage loans, aimed at facilitating the securitization of loans generated under homogeneous criteria⁸.

The main settlors continued to be retail businesses, which concentrated 37% of the issued amount, followed by unregulated financial institutions, with 28% and banks, with 19%. The remaining settlors, which concentrated the remaining 16%, corresponded to SMEs, companies producing and/or commercializing agricultural products, and investors.

**Chart 7.9**
**Stock of Underlying Assets of FF**
*millions of $*

Interest rates on cut experienced another decline. In March, the cut interest rate on senior titles at a fixed rate registered an average of 9.9%, which implies a decline of more than half a point with respect to last month and more than 2 percentage points with respect to December 2006 (see Chart 7.9, left quadrant).

At the same time, a very significant lengthening was verified in the average duration of senior titles, which again recorded unusually high values. It stood at 43 months in March, which is a result of the greater relative weight of placements of securities that have mortgage loans or commercial credits—in dollars—as underlying assets, with greater durations. The duration of securities constituted with personal loans as underlying assets resulted in 6.4 months, slightly higher than that of the previous month (see Chart 7.9, right quadrant).

**Chart 7.10**
**Stock of Securitized Loans***
*(by type of settlor)*
*thousands of millions of $* | %

Likewise, FF balance sheets were presented to the CNV. With this information it was possible to calculate the stock of FF in circulation, which as of December 2006 amounted to $13,200 million (see Chart 7.9) after registering an interannual increase of 60%.

In particular, the stock of those financial trusts with underlying assets comparable to loans (excluding those of public and private securities, of future income flows, those of

---

⁷ Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

⁸ See Com. A 4637 of March 7, 2007.

11 Monetary Report MARCH 2007
0 0 leasing contracts, etc.) amounted to $5,700 million in December,
 I-04 II-04 III-04 IV-04 I-05 II-05 III-05 IV-05 I-06 II-06 III-06 IV-06
* Assets of FF that have as underlying financing with credit cards, personal, mortgage, chattel or commercial loans are considered.
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV

 12 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-07 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-07Ene-07Mar-06
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 78,363 76,906 78,063 58,490 1.9% 1.1% 34.0% 22.8%
 Monetary circulation 58,136 57,333 57,550 46,576 1.4% 0.6% 24.8% 14.4%
 In public hands 53,251 52,629 52,739 42,222 1.2% 0.4% 26.1% 15.6%
 In financial entities 4,885 4,704 4,810 4,355 3.8% 3.0% 12.2% 2.8%
 Current account at the BCRA 20,227 19,573 20,513 11,914 3.3% 2.6% 69.8% 55.6%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 4,090 5,507 4,045 3,094 -25.7% -26.3% 32.2% 21.2%
 Assets 32 0 8 485 n/a n/a -93.4% -94.0%

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 14,866 13,611 13,007 13,561 9.2% 8.4% 9.6% 0.5%
 In dollars 818 183 70.3% -51.0%

 NOBAC 34,832 32,737 29,408 14,332 6.4% 5.6% 143.0% 122.7%

 International reserves of the BCRA 35,876 34,226 32,827 20,873 4.8% 71.9%

 Deposits from the private and public sector in pesos (1) 156,583 154,627 151,785 124,205 1.3% 0.5% 26.1% 15.5%
 Current account (2) 44,614 44,786 45,053 36,269 -0.4% -1.1% 23.0% 12.7%
 Savings account 28,844 28,961 28,723 27,673 -0.4% -1.2% 4.2% -4.5%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 68,494 66,288 63,545 43,823 3.3% 2.5% 56.3% 43.2%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 4,396 4,440 4,496 7,472 -1.0% -1.7% -41.2% -46.1%
 CEDRO with CER 25 25 25 30 0.9% 0.1% -16.1% -23.2%
 Other deposits (3) 10,210 10,126 9,944 8,938 0.8% 0.1% 14.2% 4.7%

 Deposits from the private sector 111,921 110,404 107,909 90,612 1.4% 0.6% 23.5% 13.2%

 Deposits from the public sector 44,662 44,223 43,876 33,592 1.0% 0.2% 33.0% 21.8%

 Deposits from the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5,679 5,697 5,575 4,446 -0.3% 27.7%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 78,258 76,916 76,469 64,042 1.7% 1.0% 22.2% 12.0%

 Loans to the private sector 65,889 64,553 63,676 48,247 2.1% 1.3% 36.6% 25.2%
 Advances 11,097 10,978 11,101 8,390 1.1% 0.3% 32.3% 21.2%
 Documents 14,357 14,165 14,268 11,021 1.4% 0.6% 30.3% 19.4%
 Mortgages 10,574 10,321 10,090 8,728 2.5% 1.7% 21.1% 11.0%
 Chattel mortgages 4,008 3,885 3,769 2,575 3.2% 2.4% 55.7% 42.7%
 Personal loans 14,526 14,001 13,408 8,192 3.7% 3.0% 77.3% 62.5%
 Credit cards 7,824 7,735 7,513 5,770 1.1% 0.4% 35.6% 24.3%
 Others 3,503 3,468 3,527 3,571 1.0% 0.2% -1.9% -10.1%

 Loans to the public sector 12,368 12,363 12,793 15,795 0.0% -0.7% -21.7% -28.2%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 4,004 3,906 3,779 2,556 2.5% 56.7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in public hands + current account in pesos) 97,864 97,415 97,792 78,490 0.5% -0.3% 24.7% 14.3%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 126,708 126,376 126,514 106,164 0.3% -0.5% 19.4% 9.4%
 M3 (currency in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 209,833 207,256 204,524 166,426 1.2% 0.5% 26.1% 15.5%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 227,441 224,931 221,723 180,101 1.1% 0.3% 26.3% 15.7%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in public hands + private current account in pesos) 81,382 80,571 80,202 65,434 1.0% 0.2% 24.4% 14.0%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 107,291 106,192 105,522 86,719 1.0% 0.3% 23.7% 13.4%
 M3 (currency in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 165,172 163,033 160,648 132,834 1.3% 0.5% 24.3% 14.0%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 181,093 178,910 176,012 144,327 1.2% 0.5% 25.5% 15.0%
# AVERAGE VARIATIONS

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2007 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| Monetary base | 1.457 | 1.9% | 1.539 | 2.0% | 1.539 | 2.0% | 19.873 | 25.4% |
| Financial sector | 504 | 0.6% | -4.875 | -6.2% | -4.875 | -6.2% | -6.009 | -7.7% |
| Public sector | 174 | 0.2% | 1.669 | 2.1% | 1.669 | 2.1% | -2.846 | -3.6% |
| Temporary advances + profit transfers | 647 | | 3.842 | | 3.842 | | 4.439 | |
| Utilization of national government account | -1.897 | | -4.091 | | -4.091 | | -3.920 | |
| External credit | 1.424 | | 1.918 | | 1.918 | | -3.365 | |
| Private external sector | 3.524 | 4.5% | 12.077 | 15.4% | 12.077 | 15.4% | 45.164 | 57.6% |
| BCRA Securities | -2.783 | -3.6% | -7.405 | -9.4% | -7.405 | -9.4% | -16.565 | -21.1% |
| Others | 37 | 0.0% | 73 | 0.1% | 73 | 0.1% | 128 | 0.2% |
| International reserves | 1.650 | 4.6% | 4.709 | 13.1% | 4.709 | 13.1% | 15.003 | 41.8% |
| Foreign exchange market intervention | 1.137 | 3.2% | 3.917 | 10.9% | 3.917 | 10.9% | 14.685 | 40.9% |
| Payments to international organizations | -420 | -1.2% | -554 | -1.5% | -554 | -1.5% | -1.794 | -5.0% |
| Other public sector operations | 877 | 2.4% | 1.577 | 4.4% | 1.577 | 4.4% | 1.493 | 4.2% |
| Minimum cash | -190 | -0.5% | -722 | -2.0% | -722 | -2.0% | -1.354 | -3.8% |
| Valuation repo rate | 80 | 0.2% | 88 | 0.2% | 88 | 0.2% | 468 | 1.3% |
| Others | 166 | 0.5% | 402 | 1.1% | 402 | 1.1% | 1.505 | 4.2% |

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being performed.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
13 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## PASSIVE INTEREST RATES

| | Mar-07 | Feb-07 | Jan-07 | Dec-06 | Mar-06 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 1 day)** | | | | | |
| Rate | 7.68 | 6.73 | 6.83 | 8.02 | 8.19 |
| Amount operated | 1.138 | 1.002 | 1.176 | 1.595 | 988 |
| **Fixed term** | | | | | |
| **In pesos** | | | | | |
| 30 days | 7.19 | 6.99 | 7.42 | 7.06 | 5.62 |
| 60 days or more | 7.93 | 8.00 | 7.78 | 7.86 | 6.41 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 7.46 | 7.13 | 7.75 | 7.91 | 6.37 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 8.29 | 7.95 | 9.20 | 9.80 | 8.21 |
| **In dollars** | | | | | |
| 30 days | 1.01 | 1.08 | 1.10 | 0.95 | 0.67 |
| 60 days or more | 1.99 | 2.02 | 1.83 | 1.92 | 1.31 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.85 | 0.88 | 0.82 | 0.93 | 0.56 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 2.47 | 2.54 | 3.06 | 2.99 | 1.44 |

## ACTIVE INTEREST RATES

| | Mar-07 | Feb-07 | Jan-07 | Dec-06 | Mar-06 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Prime in pesos at 30 days** | 8.52 | 9.38 | 9.59 | 9.59 | 7.41 |
| **Collateral in pesos** | | | | | |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 7.02 | 7.67 | 8.12 | 8.82 | 8.82 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 103 | 105 | 107 | 112 | 105 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** | | | | | |
| Advances in current account | 16.77 | 16.16 | 16.34 | 16.45 | 17.72 |
| Documents on signature only | 12.97 | 12.84 | 12.68 | 12.90 | 12.24 |
| Mortgages | 10.95 | 11.01 | 11.11 | 11.75 | 11.34 |
| Pledge loans | 9.72 | 9.51 | 8.12 | 10.84 | 9.53 |
| Personal | 24.91 | 24.81 | 24.90 | 24.56 | 24.54 |
| Credit cards | n.d. | 25.90 | 26.12 | 25.93 | 26.72 |

## INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES

| | Mar-07 | Feb-07 | Jan-07 | Dec-06 | Mar-06 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** | | | | | |
| 1 month | 5.32 | 5.32 | 5.32 | 5.35 | 4.76 |
| 6 months | 5.32 | 5.39 | 5.38 | 5.35 | 5.05 |
| **US Treasury Bond** | | | | | |
| 2 years | 4.58 | 4.85 | 4.87 | 4.67 | 4.73 |
| 10 years | 4.56 | 4.72 | 4.76 | 4.56 | 4.72 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 5.25 | 5.25 | 5.25 | 5.25 | 4.55 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 12.80 | 13.00 | 13.18 | 13.25 | 16.67 |

(1) The data up to January correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those of February and March are estimations made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

14 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## REFERENCE INTEREST RATES

| | Mar-07 | Feb-07 | Jan-07 | Dec-06 | Mar-06 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA repo rates** | | | | | |
| Passive 1 day | 6.65 | 6.42 | 6.23 | 5.75 | 4.50 |
| Passive 7 days | 6.90 | 6.67 | 6.49 | 6.25 | 5.00 |
| Active 7 days | 8.90 | 8.67 | 8.49 | 8.25 | 6.77 |
| **REPO total round rates** | | | | | |
| 1 day | 7.20 | 6.46 | 6.58 | 7.59 | 6.36 |
| 7 days | 7.75 | 6.77 | 6.89 | 8.18 | 5.81 |
| **Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average)** | 3.008 | 3.424 | 3.104 | 2.666 | 1.749 |
LEBAC Rates in Pesos
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 7.90 6.71
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a 6.90
 3 months 7.92 7.89 7.90 8.00 7.24
 9 months 10.22 10.34 10.35 10.09 n/a
 12 months 10.47 10.69 10.92 11.18 n/a

 NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.99
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.98 1.06 1.13 0.48 n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.65 1.76 2.01 2.10 4.92
 2 years BADLAR Total n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (Daily Average) 385 352 282 278 270

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-07 Feb-07 Jan-07 Dec-06 Mar-06

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 3.10 3.11 3.09 3.06 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.10 3.10 3.09 3.06 3.08

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.10 3.10 3.08 3.07 3.08
 ROFEX 1 month 3.10 3.10 3.08 3.07 3.08
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 274 240 225 201 229

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.48 1.48 1.44 1.42 1.43

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.11 4.06 4.01 4.04 3.70

 Capital Market Mar-07 Feb-07 Jan-07 Dec-06 Mar-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,038 2,131 2,058 2,023 1,794
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 67 93 56 82 99

 Government Bonds (at par value)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 93.55 93.59 92.89 92.37 92.04
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 114.67 113.31 110.38 104.94 99.23
 BODEN 2014 ($) 85.67 88.80 90.18 87.92 89.07
 DISCOUNT ($) 98.25 103.89 105.43 102.09 98.75

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 293 250 215 298 306
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 190 184 188 196 212

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 15 Monetary Report MARCH 2007

9. Glossary
AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VN: Nominal Value.

 16
