# Monetary Report
AUGUST 2007

## CONTENTS
1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 6
   - Repo Market 6
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 7
   - Active Interest Rates 8
6. International Reserves and
   Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 9
   - Stocks 9
   - Public Securities 10
   - Private Securities 10
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 11
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial
   Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Inquiries, comments or
electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report
may be freely cited as long as
the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• Interest rates continued to be affected by the repercussion of the turbulence originating in international financial markets. In this context, the BCRA continued its strategy of attacking two fronts simultaneously: on one hand, conducting interventions in the foreign exchange market mainly in the futures market, to prevent excessive volatility of the exchange rate from affecting expectations, and on the other hand, injecting liquidity into the market to prevent abrupt movements in interest rates from affecting credit.

• In this latter case, the BCRA continued to provide liquidity through the redemption of part of the LEBAC and NOBAC stock in circulation through direct purchases in the secondary market. It was also decided to suspend the Bank's securities auctions on dates when no maturities were recorded and to renew an amount lower than what matured in the second August auction. Finally, as of August 17, active repo auctions began. Additionally, as of September, auctions for the repurchase of LEBAC and NOBAC in bank portfolios began. In this way, it was demonstrated that these instruments constitute a liquidity reserve for their holders, capable of being used in turbulence situations.

• In the month, the interbank market interest rate fell to a level around 10%, although showing great volatility. For their part, private financial entities continued to increase interest rates for term placements, an increase that was reflected to a greater extent in the short-term wholesale segment. The BADLAR interest rate of private banks increased by 1.5 percentage points, placing it at 11.5%, which implies an increase of 2 percentage points compared to August 2006.

• In August, the means of payment (M2) decreased by $890 million (0.6%), thus allowing it to be positioned at the beginning of September below the upper limit of the range provided in the Monetary Program for the third quarter of the year.

• In August, the bimonthly minimum cash position period ended, an exceptional measure adopted by the BCRA to decompress pressures on the money market. In this way, financial entities managed to recompose their positions.

• Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, continued to show important dynamism, increasing by 3.4% in August ($3,040 million) and accumulating growth of 39% in nominal terms over the last 12 months. Although a generalized increase is observed, credit lines with real guarantees continued to exhibit an acceleration in their growth rate, compared to a certain stabilization in the variations of commercial and consumer loans.

---

## 2. MONETARY AGGREGATES¹

**Chart 2.1**
**M2 - 2007 Goals**
(thousands of millions of $)
150

In August, the means of payment (M2) decreased by $890

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

**Monetary Report AUGUST 2007**
M2 - 30-day moving average millions (0.6%) allowing, in this way, that it is placed at the beginning
145 PM Bands 2007

140 M2 daily series of September below the upper limit of the range provided in
 the Monetary Program for the third quarter of the year (see Chart
135
 2.1).
130

125 Currency in circulation held by the public showed an evolution in

120 line with its seasonal behavior, with an increase lower than

115 that of 2005 and similar to that of 2006. For its part, total sight
 deposits decreased $1,170 million (1.5%). However, when
110
 making comparisons with previous years, one must take into
105 account that in both 2005 and 2006 there were strong
 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07
 movements of funds from private sight accounts
 related to the change in regulations on Mutual Funds
 (FCI) and transfers of funds toward time deposits
 by large companies, respectively. Adjusted for
 these extraordinary fund movements, the growth of private
 sight deposits appears similar in the last 3 years (see
 Chart 2.2).

 Time deposits in pesos increased 3.5%
 Chart 2.2 fundamentally due to the behavior of the public sector. Regarding

 Currency in Circulation Held by Public Sight Accounts of Private Sector private time deposits, they registered an annual growth
thousands of (base June 2007) thousands of mill. (base June 2007)
mill. of $ of $ of 20.1%, 1.5 p.p. above what they presented a year
 63 56
 before.
 62 55

 61 54 In August, the broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, which includes
 currency in circulation held by the public and the total deposits in pesos
 60 53
 of the public and private non-financial sector recorded a monthly growth
 59 52 of $2,940 million (1.3%).

 58 51
 On the other hand, dollar deposits grew at a rate
 57 2005* 2006* 2007 50
 higher than in previous months, driven by placements

 56 49 of the private sector. Among them, those made at sight increased
 30-Jun 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug 30-Jun 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug
*Note: daily evolution according to the percentage variation of the corresponding year starting from the value of June 30, 2007 US$230 million and were nourished by the deposit of BODEN 2012 services
Source: BCRA
 (with maturity on August 3). In turn, private
 sector time deposits also increased, for a total
 of US$260 million in the month (see Chart 2.3).

 Ultimately, the aggregate M3*, which encompasses M3 and
 dollar deposits, totaled a monthly increase of $4,490
 million (1.8%).

 To understand the factors of primary money creation
 Chart 2.3 it is necessary to recall that since late July a prevailing
 thousands of Dollar Deposits Private Sector thousands of
 millions of US$ millions US$ context of greater turbulences of external origin, which have
 3.7 Payment 2.7 affected the financial markets of developed countries and of
 Services
 3.6 BODEN 12 2.6 emerging countries in general. In this framework, the Central Bank has

 3.5 Payment Payment 2.5 adopted a series of measures aimed at reducing the impact on
 Services Services local markets, attenuating its effect on interest rates
 3.4 BODEN 12 BODEN 13 2.4

 3.3 2.3 and on the volatility of the foreign exchange market, with the objective of

 3.2 2.2 avoiding altering spending, consumption and investment decisions. These
 actions included a battery of changes in financial and banking regulations
 3.1 2.1
 and direct interventions in the markets for
 3.0 2.0
 money, foreign exchange and financial assets. In this sense, it was possible
 Time Deposit
 2.9 1.9 to verify the benefits of the preventive strategy of accumulation
 Sight (right axis)
 2.8 1.8 of international reserves that the Central Bank implemented in the

 2.7 1.7
 Jan-07 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Jul-07 Aug-07

 2 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007
Chart 2.4 recent years, which in this period of greater uncertainty
allowed them to discourage speculative capital movements.
CPI Rest and Market Expectations In particular, during August the Central Bank coordinated
% (year-on-year var.)
15 15 foreign currency settlements with public banking.
14.2
14

13 Another one of the mechanisms through which volatility in the
12 local market was tempered was the purchase of LEBAC and NOBAC
11.9 in the secondary market, reinforced by the cancellation of two of the
11 weekly auctions in August (in weeks where there were no
10 maturities) and only partial renewal of the amounts
9.4
9 at maturity, which enabled an expansion of the monetary base
IPC Rest 8.5 of $1,354 million. Thus it was demonstrated that these instruments
8 constitute a liquidity reserve for their holders, susceptible
Expectations CPI GBA 2007 (Dec-Dec) to being used in situations of turbulence.
7

6 Likewise, another one of the instruments used as a means
Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 of liquidity provision were active repos, which in August were
Source: INDEC and REM. implemented through auctions. Because this type of
operations was launched in mid-August, its average effect
in this month turned out to be moderate, although at the end of the period
there was a stock of active repos for the Central Bank of $475
million.

On the other hand, the only bank that maintains balances of
Chart 3.1 rediscounts granted during the 2001 crisis continued
Minimum Cash Position to cancel its debt according to the schedule established in the
% of Excess Daily Position Average Position matching, which in this month involved a monetary contraction of
deposits
2.0 $71 million.

1.5 In August 2007 the Rest sub-index of the CPI GBA prepared
by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with
1.0
seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with high
0.5
tax component) presented an increase of 0.6% monthly,
0.0
lower than that observed in August 2006. Thus, the year-on-year
-0.5 variation of CPI Rest reached 9.4% in August, showing a reduction
of 2.5 p.p. compared to the same period of the previous year.
-1.0
Bimonthly Position
-1.5 June July August

Source: BCRA

3. Bank Liquidity¹

The liquidity ratio, defined as cash in banks, the
current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive repos
arranged with the BCRA as a percentage of total deposits
in pesos, was 17.3%, presenting a decline of 0.2 p.p
compared to the previous month.
Chart 3.2
Bank Liquidity In August the bimonthly minimum cash position period ended.
% of deposits % of deposits As mentioned in the monetary report of
18.0 Cash + CCBCRA 4.0 the previous month, this measure was applied exceptionally to
Repos - right axis
17.5 3.5 relieve the pressures in the money market, given a
context of strong turbulence in international financial markets.
17.0 3.0
In this way, during the month the financial entities
16.5 2.5 managed to recompose their positions. The average surplus of
16.0 2.0 minimum cash for the 62 days closed at 0.3% of total
deposits in pesos (around $450 million) which
15.5 1.5
represents a level similar to that of positions in the months
15.0 1.0 before (See Chart 3.1).

14.5 0.5

14.0 0.0
Source: BCRA 25-Jun 03-Jul 11-Jul 19-Jul 27-Jul 04-Aug 12-Aug 20-Aug 28-Aug

3 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Chart 4.1 The surplus in the bimonthly position determined that in the
last weeks of the month the financial entities, especially the
% Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector %
60 25 private ones, arranged passive repos with the Central Bank. Such
23 behavior manifested itself in deficit daily positions, which
40 21 were reversed on the last day of the month, when they unwound part of their
19 stock of passive repos to begin the new computation period
 20
 17 again with positive margin (see Graph 3.2).

 0 15

 13 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position
 -20 11
 remained in surplus at approximately 11% of the total
 -40 9
 year-over-year variation in nominal terms of dollar deposits.
 7
 year-over-year variation in real terms - deflated by CPI
 -60 In terms of GDP (right axis) 5
 Jun-97 Jun-98 Jun-99 Jun-00 Jun-01 Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07
 Source: BCRA
 4. Loans 1 2

 Loans to the private sector, in pesos and foreign currency,
 continued showing significant dynamism, increasing during August
 3.4% ($3,040 million) and accumulating over the last 12 months
 a growth of 39% in nominal terms. Its level with respect to GDP,
 11.5%, continues being modest compared to other countries and to
 levels registered in the past (see Graph 4.1).
Gráfico 4.2
 % Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
100 (year-over-year variation of monthly averages)

 80 Commercial
 Although a generalized increase is observed, credit lines that
 60 Consumption
 have real collateral continued showing an acceleration in their
 Real collateral growth rate, compared to a certain stabilization in the variations of
 40
 commercial and consumption loans (see Graph 4.2).
 20

 0 During August, mortgage credit recorded an increase close to
 4.2% ($490 million), resulting in the highest value since the
-20 reversal of the declining trend in mid-2005. For its part, pledge
-40 loans showed an increase of approximately 5.3% ($240 million),
 Jun-03 Dic-03 Jun-04 Dic-04 Jun-05 Dic-05 Jun-06 Dic-06 Jun-07 accompanying the strong expansion in sales shown by the automotive
 Source: BCRA industry and also recording the maximum level since the recovery
 begun at the beginning of 2004 (see Graph 4.3).

 Commercial financing presented moderate growth of 0.4%
 ($140 million), accumulating over the last 12 months an increase
 of 26.7%. Advances, which had experienced the greatest expansion
 in July (see Graph 4.4), contracted approximately 2.5% ($330
Gráfico 4.3 million). This behavior would be explained mainly by "statistical
 Thousands of Pledge Loans and Automotive Sales Thousands of drag" due to the fact that during the last week of July these
 units millions of $ financings had fallen some $830 million. For its part, documents
55 7 grew approximately 3.3% ($520 million), accumulating a year-
50 6 over-year increase of 31.6%.
45
40 5 The lines destined for consumption, personal loans and credit
 card financing, showed an increase of 5.1% ($1,310 million)
35
30 4 compared to the previous month. In year-over-year terms they
 register an increase of 58.2%, a value that while still being high,
25 3
 is 12 p.p. lower than that registered in the same month of the
20
 previous year. Personal loans rose 5.9% ($1,010 million) in the
15 2
 month, while credit card financing, influenced by winter
10 Sales of automobiles to the domestic market 1 vacations, accelerated its increase, reaching 3.5% ($300 million).

 5 Pledge loans (right axis)
 0 0 Finally, foreign currency financing presented in the month an
Abr-96 Ago-97 Dic-98 Abr-00 Ago-01 Dic-02 Abr-04 Ago-05 Dic-06 increase of 4.9% (US$210 million), driven mainly by documents
Source: Own elaboration based on own data and ADEFA data linked to foreign trade operations.

2 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by
transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 4 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Graph 4.4

 Commercial Loans
 (monthly average variation) 5. Interest Rates3
 % 2007 % 2006
10 10
May-07 8 May-06
8 Jun-07 Jun-06 Securities issued by the BCRA4
 Jul-07 Jul-06
6 Ago-07 6 Ago-06

4 4 As mentioned in the Monetary Aggregates Section,

2 2 since the end of July, in a context of greater uncertainty for

0 0 international and local financial markets, the Central Bank

-2 -2 implemented a set of actions aimed at mitigating the effect

 -4 of this external shock on local interest rates and
-4
 Advances Documents TotalAdvances Documents Totalthe foreign exchange market. One of the measures taken was the provision

 Source: BCRA of liquidity through the redemption of part of the outstanding stock of
 LEBAC and NOBAC. This type of operations was carried out until September 7 exclusively through direct purchases in the
 secondary market. From that date, repurchase auctions of these securities were also incorporated, initially aimed at
 those with a residual term of between 45 and 90 days. This latter
 auction was aimed mainly at meeting possible
 liquidity needs of banks, so it was limited to
 the LEBAC and NOBAC that were part of the portfolio of the
 financial entities. The eligible securities totaled $2,979 million
Chart 5.1 and in the auction offers were submitted for less than 8% ($229
 Premiums on Active Repos million). This would allow us to infer that the yields observed
 p.p. (PPM) (spread over BADLAR) TNA (%)
2.0 12.0 during the last month in the secondary market correspond to
 specific operations, from holders who decide to divest themselves of
1.5 11.5 these instruments, and that therefore do not respond to the yield

1.0 11.0 expected by investors in general. The Central Bank had
 announced an amount to auction of $500 million and awarded $15

0.5 10.5 million of the offers received.

0.0 10.0
 The Central Bank's commitment to the provision of liquidity

-0.5 1 day 7 days 30 days 90 days BADLAR private banks (right axis) 9.5 was also reflected in the auctions of the primary market,
 where it suspended the calls on dates when no maturities were
-1.0 9.0
 17-Aug-07 20-Aug-07 23-Aug-07 26-Aug-07 29-Aug-07recorded and renewed an amount lower than what matured in the second

 Source: BCRA August auction.

 As a consequence, in August the total stock of securities
 issued by the BCRA decreased 2% and was located at the end of this month in VN
 $60,389 million.

 Additionally, through Communication A 4698 the Central
 Bank provided that entities that decide to maintain their
 holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC until maturity can
 classify them in the "Investment Accounts" category. Thus, banks
 have the possibility of recording these securities at their technical value, without

 3 The interest rates analyzed in this section are annual nominal rates (TNA).
 4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 5 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Chart 5.2 incurring in capital losses due to falls in their quotations in
 millions of $ %%Call Market
 25 22.8 the secondary market.
2,500 50
 20 45

 15 13.8
2,000 40 Interfinancial Markets
 10 12.4 11.0
 9.2 35
 5 8.1
1,500 30 Repo Market1

 0 25
 29-6 14-7 29-7 13-8 28-8
1,000 Amount traded between private entities 20 Another of the instruments used by the Central Bank
 Amount traded by others
 Interest rate pvt. banks (right axis) 15 for the granting of liquidity in the local market was the auction

 500 10 of active repos. From August 17 this institution began

 5 to provide funds in this market through auctions, whose
0 0 adjudications are made at multiple prices. Financial entities
 Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07
 Source: BCRA that wish to obtain short-term resources through
 this mechanism must pay a margin over the BADLAR interest rate
 of private banks5. In August, operations were arranged through this
 channel at 1 day, 7 days, 30 days and 90 days maturity. In all cases,
 the premiums charged were decreasing over the course of the month,
 although the BADLAR rate recorded an increase in this period (see
 Chart 5.1). However, the BADLAR rate applicable to operations of
 Chart 5.3 more than 1 day is the average of the period from two days before the
 Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of 1-Day Call Operations arrangement until two days before maturity, so that until this last
 % date the final rate to be paid cannot be determined with certainty. By
 the end of August, the Central Bank had injected liquidity through
 30 this type of operations for $475 million.
 25 Daily Average
 20 Average ± 1 Std Deviation With respect to passive repos, they continued to be negotiated
 at the interest rates in effect at the end of July, 7.5% for operations
 with 1-day maturity and 7.75% for 7 days. The average balance did
 15 not vary significantly compared to the previous month, although
 there was a decrease in the group of private banks and an increase
 10 in public entities. With respect to operations of mutual investment
 funds, they also registered a balance similar to that of July, after the
 5
 decline they had suffered during the last days of that month had been
 30-Jun 07-Jul 14-Jul 21-Jul 28-Jul 04-Aug 11-Aug 18-Aug 25-Aug reversed.
 Source: BCRA

 Interbank Market (call)1

 The interest rate of the interbank market, after having reached a
 peak of 20.6% for all entities (and 22.8% for private banks) on the
Chart 5.4 last Friday of July, during August it decreased to a level around
 Call Market 10% (see Chart 5.2), due to the liquidity accumulated in the banks'
 millions of $ (average stock) two-month position, although showing great volatility.
 1,000
 As mentioned, at the end of July the BCRA had made
 500 modifications to the Minimum Cash regime (see Section 3. Bank
 Liquidity), and at the same time began to inject liquidity into the
 0 market through an active repurchase strategy of LEBAC and
 NOBAC in the secondary market, to which it added during August
 -500 active repo auctions and regulatory changes in the valuation of
 LEBAC and NOBAC. Starting in September, auctions for
 -1,000 Public repurchase of LEBAC and NOBAC are added to this list.
 Priv. National
 Major. Foreign
 -1,500
 Aug-06 Sep-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Jan-07 Feb-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Aug-07
 Source: BCRA

 5 See details in Communication B 9059.

 6 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

 All of this combined with the solid liquidity position
 Chart 5.5 contributed to the reduction of interbank market interest rates,
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days which, however, continued to show high volatility. The dispersion
 (5-day moving average) between the interest rates at one business day negotiated each day,
 BADLAR private banks % BADLAR public banks which had been located until July 20 around 0.1 p.p., reached a
 % maximum of 5.2 p.p. on July 27 and then decreased during August to
 12 Retail (Up to $100,000) 10 Retail (Up to $100,000) a level around 0.75 p.p. (see Chart 5.3).
 11 9
 8 The daily amounts traded continued around $1,500 million,
 10 a figure similar to that of the previous month although around
 9 7
 8 6
7 5 of a 30% higher than the one operated a year ago. By bank group,
 an increase could be appreciated in the amounts granted by public
 6 4
 Jan-07 Feb-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Aug-07Jan-07 Feb-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Aug-07banking, which went from a daily average of $540 million last month

 Source: BCRA to $650 million in August (see Chart 5.4), raising to about
 39% its participation in the total granted.

 Passive Interest Rates1

 Chart 5.6 Given the increase in volatility in international markets

 Interest Rate for Time Deposits Fixed in Pesos and in a context of greater demand for funds, private
 financial entities continued increasing interest rates
 Private Sector for fixed-term placements, especially those
 % monthly average weighted by amount operated paid to the wholesale segment in the short term. In this way, in
11 August the average BADLAR interest rate of private banks
10 increased 1.9 percentage points, positioning itself at 10.6%, although as
9 it maintained an upward trend, on the last day of the month it reached
8 11.5%. Meanwhile, the BADLAR interest rate of public banks remained
 stable throughout the month at 6.1%.
7

6 30-59 60-89

5 90-179 180-364 As for retail placements, for amounts
 less than $100,000, an increase was observed in interest rates
4
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07both in private and public banks, being in the
Note: Adjustable fixed-term operations by CER are not included. former the increase of 0.4 percentage points on average in August,
 Source: BCRA reaching a level of 7.6% (see Chart 5.5). For its part in public
 banks, although the increase was 0.75 percentage points at the end
 with respect to end of July, this occurred in the last days of the month,
 (so on average the increase was only 0.2 percentage points). So far this
 year, this rate accumulates an increase of 1.88 percentage points,
 reducing its spread with respect to what private banks pay to
 Chart 5.7 1.24 percentage points (less than half of what it was at the end of 2006).

TNA, % Commercial Loans
 22 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
 Advances When analyzing the total operations of the private sector, a
 20 Documents slight increase in average interest rates is observed for short-term
 18 placements. The weighted average interest rate for placements of 30
 16 to 59 days increased 1.1 percentage points, ending at 8.6% while for
 placements of 60 to 90 days the increase was 0.8 percentage points
 14 with an interest rate of 8.6% (see Chart 5.6).
 12

 10 Finally, within the placements of the private sector, the main
 8 increase was observed in the interest rate of deposits from
 6 financial service provider companies (AFJP, FCI, insurance
Source: BCRA Aug-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Aug-05 Dec-05 Apr-06 Aug-06 Dec-06 Apr-07 Aug-07companies, etc.), which increased in the month 2.1 percentage
 points with an average yield of 10.9%.

 7 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

 Chart 5.8 Active Interest Rates1 6

 Active Interest Rates
 (monthly average interest rate weighted by amount) Regarding active interest rates, an increase was
 TNA, % TNA, % appreciated in those of very short-term financings, more
 31 15 Credit Cards Mortgages sensitive to the current situation, and not in those of long-term
 30 Personal Pawned Loans loans.
 29 13

 28 12 The interest rate for advances increased in the month 2.6
 27 11 percentage points, reaching a monthly average level of 19.6%. In
 this case, the increase was registered mainly in the line of advances
 26 10 granted to large companies where the interest rate reached a level
 of 19.1%. Meanwhile, for documents granted on sole signature the
 25 9 variation with respect to the previous month was 1.1 percentage

 24 8 points where the interest rate
23 7 interest was 14.2% (see Graph 5.7).
Source: BCRAAug-04 Aug-05 Aug-06 Aug-07Aug-04 Aug-05 Aug-06 Aug-07

Interest rates on consumer loans remained stable. In this way, the interest rate on personal loans on average was 24.5% in August and for financing with credit cards the average for July, the last available information, was 26.9%.

Graph 6.1
International Reserves of the BCRA Finally, longer-term financing did not

thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time deposits) register significant increases. The interest rate on
millions of US$
45 mortgage loans rose slightly (0.1 p.p.) reaching an average

40 monthly rate of 10.9% while financing of pledge loans

35 continued to decline and was placed at 9.4% (see Graph
30 5.8). This decline is explained by the high participation in the

25 amounts granted by financial companies, which reaches one

20 third of the total.

15

10 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market7

5
Source: BCRAFeb-02 Aug-02 Feb-03 Aug-03 Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07

International reserves averaged US$43,731 million in August (see Graph 6.1). The slight decline in reserves was due to the preventive strategy measures carried out by this Central Bank to avoid excessive volatility in the foreign exchange market, demonstrating that the necessary tools are available so that, in moments of turbulence, shocks can be
Graph 6.2 mitigated.

Operating Volumes in the Foreign Exchange Market
In the foreign exchange market, the wholesale quotation of the peso
millions (daily averages)
of US$ % against the dollar (Reference) was 3.1524 $/US$ on average in
700 Spot market volume (SIOPEL+Brokers) 21 August, showing an increase of 0.1% compared to the previous
600 BCRA share % spot - right axis 18 month (see Graph 6.2). With respect to the Euro, the peso also
500 15 showed depreciation, in this case of 0.5% monthly, with an
400 12 average quotation of 4.298 $/Euro. Meanwhile, with respect to the
300 9 Real the quotation was 1.611 $/Real which represents an appreciation
200 6 of the peso of 2.6% in the month, reversing the trend of the last
100 3 seven months.

0 0 As for operating volumes, in the spot market, through the
Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Electronic Operations System -SIOPEL- and the
Source: BCRA
6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until June 2007, the values for July and August 2007 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Capital Federal and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated.

8 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Graph 7.1 Electronic Brokers Market -MEC-, the daily average was
US$556 million continuing with a volume of operations
Stock Market Volatility
Volatility (%) Volatility (%) similar to that of recent months, where BCRA participation was
22 sessions 22 sessions 4.4%, less than half of what it had been recording in the first
70 MERVAL (Argentina) 26
IPC (Mexico) semester of the year. In the futures market, consistent with a
BOVESPA (Brazil) 22 framework of greater volatility, the volume traded increased approximately 8%
60 Shanghai Index (China)
S&P 500 (USA) 22 (Right axis) registering a daily average of US$190
50 18 million. Of these, US$130 million was channeled through the
Rosario Term Market (ROFEX) and US$60 million was
40 14 traded on the Agreed Term Operations session in the
30 10 MAE (OCT-MAE). The BCRA's participation was 12.5%, increasing by 4 p.p. compared to the previous month, because the 20 6 BCRA concentrated its intervention in the foreign exchange market in the futures market.

10 2

Ago-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Ago-07
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

7. Capital Market

Stocks
Chart 7.2 The month was characterized by an intensification of the turbulence in the markets observed since July and a subsequent rebound, with partial improvement although maintaining volatility. The greater risk aversion generated increases in the quotations of bonds of all maturity tranches of the U.S. Treasury curve, thus decreasing interest rates (fly to quality). The crisis in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage market began to spread into the prime market and resulted in a situation of low liquidity. Additionally, in Australia and some European countries (France, Germany, United Kingdom), funds that operated mortgages also had problems. Faced with this scenario, different central banks injected liquidity into the markets and the Federal Reserve lowered the discount rate by 0.5 p.p. The implied volatility of the S&P 500 measured by the VIX reached 30.8% during August, the highest value since 2003. Nevertheless, during the month the main stock indices of the U.S. accumulated gains; the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones registered increases of 1.3% and 1.1% respectively. It should be noted that during August, companies presented financial statements in the U.S., showing profits that far exceeded market expectations. For its part the BOVESPA (Brazil) increased 0.8%; while the NIKKEI (Japan) showed a decline of 3.9%.

Chart 7.3 In Argentina, during August the MERVAL index –measured in pesos- registered a loss of 5.4%, reaching a value of 2,062 points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained a return of 24%, while so far this year that value is –1.4%. In the month the poor performance was generalized for papers of all sectors.

Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a negative variation of 6.4% in the month, while the BOVESPA fell 3.3%, the IPC (Mexico) declined 1.4% and the IGPA (Chile) fell 0.7%. The maximum decline in the region was for the IGBVL (Peru) with 11%.

In terms of volatility, Latin American stock exchanges had uniform behavior. Specifically, the volatility of the MERVAL –22 trading sessions- in annualized terms and measured in dollars was 43% in June (21 p.p. greater than in June).

9 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

The volumes traded daily on average on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange increased slightly. The average amount traded reached $94 million daily, increasing $4 million compared to the previous month.

Public Bonds
Chart 7.4

Yield Curves of Public Bonds in Dollars As mentioned previously, during August investors turned to safer assets, divesting from the bonds of emerging economies. In this sense, the spreads of emerging countries, measured by the EMBI+, increased 14 p.b.
Boden 12 Boden 13 DISC USD 12 between the end of July and August. If Latin America is considered, the spread
10 PAR USD
BONAR V 10 of its debt, also measured by the EMBI+, increased slightly, 4
9 basis points, during August. In contrast, Argentina's spread, after having
8
8 increased 124 basis points in July, remained unchanged. On the other
6 hand, the spreads of Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS)
7 4 contracts increased 63 basis points, while Brazil's 5-year CDS
31-Jul 6 decreased 27 basis points.
31-Ago 2 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Jul-07 (right axis)
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Ago-07 (right axis)
5 0
035810131518 The yield curve of public securities in pesos
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute reached higher yields in all segments. The yield curve of
securities in dollars also reached higher values in all segments, except
for the PAR bond whose yield was slightly lower than that registered
at the end of the previous month

The units linked to GDP (U.V.P) had poor performance during the
month. The U.V.P denominated in dollars (New York law) ended the
month with a value of US$11.5, reflecting a decline of 11.3% with
Graph 7.5 respect to July. Along the same lines, the U.V.P denominated in
pesos reached a value of $9.4 at the close of the month, yielding
Composition of the Variation of AFJP Investments 15% compared to the previous month.

% The volume of public securities traded (daily average)
100 Fixed-term deposits increased with respect to the level reached the previous
Financial Trusts month, the level was $1,793 million, being in this way higher by
Futures and Options $265 million compared to the value registered in the previous
80 month.
Public Securities
Decrease of $7,846
60 Common Investment million (9%)
Funds
Private Securities

20 Shares During August, the company Valle Las Leñas S.A. reported the
result of a debt placement of $6 million with a yield of 14%.
0 Airports Argentina 2000 would be analyzing a debt placement of
August 2007 up to US$400 million.
Source: BCRA

Institutional Investors

Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement Fund
Administrators (AFJP) was $84,174 million in mid-August, 9%
lower than that recorded 30 days earlier. Almost all items where the
AFJP has placements showed decreases, although common funds,
public securities and shares were the segments that accounted for
the largest part of the monthly decline (see Graph 7.5).

10 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Graph 7.6 In particular, within public securities, the securities that
thousands of explained to a greater extent the monthly decrease in the portfolio
millions $ Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
were the Discount in Pesos and the BODEN 2014. The futures
20 and options contracts item recorded a significant decline,
18 Fixed income mainly due to the performance of the U.V.P in pesos.
16 Mixed income
Variable income On the other hand, the decline in share holdings was explained by
14 Fixed-term deposits and cash the poor performance of securities from all economic sectors.
12

10

8

6

4 Common Investment Funds

2
# THE EQUITY OF MUTUAL FUNDS (FCI) IN

Ago-03 Feb-04 Ago-04 Feb-05 Ago-05 Feb-06 Ago-06 Feb-07 Ago-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

pesos decreased $1,640 million during August. The equity closed the month with a value of $16,503 million, which implied a decline of 9% compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.6). The only type of fund that had significant equity growth was money market.

## Graph 7.7

The equity of variable income funds fell $757 million (8.2%) during August. The equity decline is explained both by redemptions of fund shares and by the fall in the values of the fund shares. The yield was negative at 4.5%.

## Money Market Funds in pesos %

8,000 ⎕ 8
Monthly Average MM
7,000 ⎕ 7
MM Yield
6,000 ⎕ 6

5,000 ⎕ 5

4,000 ⎕ 4

3,000 ⎕ 3

2,000 ⎕ 2

1,000 ⎕ 1

0 ⎕ 0

Ago-05 Nov-05 Feb-06 May-06 Ago-06 Nov-06 Feb-07 May-07 Ago-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

The equity of money market funds exhibited a positive variation of $509 million (11.3%) compared to the end of July (see Graph 7.7). However, the average variation was negative at $13 million. The profitability of this type of funds stood at 4.61% annually.

Finally, the equity of fixed income funds fell sharply, $1,357 million (33.3%), a decline that was due both to redemptions and to lower values of the fund shares, reaching a value similar to that of early in the year. It had a negative yield of 5%.

## Financial Trusts8

During August, 15 financial trusts (FF) were placed in a context of volatility in the financial markets, for approximately $528 million (see Graph 7.8), which represents a figure lower both compared to the previous month (-11%), as well as in relation to the same period a year ago (-7%). In the first eight months of the year, the issuances totaled $4,635 million, a figure 10% higher than that accumulated in the same period of 2006 and around 67% greater than that registered in the identical months of 2005.

## Graph 7.8

Financial Trust Issuances

millions of $

1,800

1,600

1,400

1,200

1,000

800
August 2007: $528M
prom. 2006: $630M

600

prom. 2005: $430M

400

200

0

Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data.

8 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

Consumer financing, which are usually the most important underlying assets, covered almost the entirety of the issuances, representing 91.6% of the total placement (see Graph 7.9, left quadrant). Additionally, future cash flows were securitized (with a participation of 5.7% of the total), with the remainder corresponding to commercial loans (2.7%). Although in the month there was no new securitization of public securities, these are, after consumer financing, the most relevant underlying assets, since so far this year they concentrate 8.7% of what was issued.

## Graph 7.9

Underlying Assets and Settlors of FF
(amounts issued - August 2007)

Underlying Assets ⎕ Settlors
Personal Loans Retail Commerce
88% 39%

Credit Card Coupons Non-Regulated Fin. Inst.
3% 30%

Commercial Loans Banks
28%

Other SMEs
3%

The main settlors were on this occasion retail stores, which concentrated 39%, followed by financial institutions not regulated by the BCRA and banks, which concentrated 30% and 28% of what was issued, respectively (see Graph 7.9, right quadrant). The remaining 3% corresponded to Other SMEs.

During August, the cut-off interest rates registered significant increases (see Graph 7.10, left quadrant), due to the disruptions in the markets registered since the end of July. In effect, the interest rate of senior fixed-rate securities was positioned at
Commercial 14.4% in August, 4.6 p.p. above that recorded in July. For their
part, securities of the same quality but at variable rate, reached
a cut-off rate of 17%, which exceeded by 6.7 p.p. the rate
registered in July. During the month an important jump could be
appreciated in the spreads of the rates in question with respect to the
BADLAR rate Private Banks. In relation to this, in the majority of the
species such gap almost tripled that of July, while only the
corresponding to Class B Titles at variable rate experienced a
more moderate increase in relative terms, which reached
50%

The average duration of senior FF titles issued that
have personal loans as underlying rose to 6.3 months

Financial Trusts in August, 1.6 months higher than that of July, attempting to recover the
(Class A titles - monthly weighted averages by amount) value of June (see Chart 7.10, right quadrant). Similar increase in
% Cut-off Interest Rates months Duration experienced the duration of total senior titles and, unlike
other months where the increase in duration was the product of a
18 55 Total Class A Titles change in the nature of the underlying assets that formed them
FF Personal Loans
50 (such as mortgage loans, pledge loans, etc.), in
Fixed rate
16 Variable rate 45 this month it responds to a lengthening in that of personal
BADLAR Rate Private Banks
40
14 35 loans.

30
12 25

10 20
15

8 10

5
6 0
Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

12Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary and Financial System Variables Aug-07 Monthly Last 12 monthsJul-07Jun-07Aug-06
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 88,327 87,663 83,649 67,267 0.8% 0.2% 31.3% 20.8%
Monetary circulation 65,224 64,972 61,486 50,822 0.4% -0.2% 28.3% 18.1%
In public hands 59,751 59,472 56,289 46,354 0.5% -0.1% 28.9% 18.6%
In financial entities 5,472 5,500 5,197 4,469 -0.5% -1.1% 22.5% 12.7%
Current account at BCRA 23,103 22,691 22,163 16,445 1.8% 1.2% 40.5% 29.3%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 2,551 2,595 3,304 5,152 -1.7% -2.3% -50.5% -54.4%
Assets 47 65 0 183 -74.5% -76.5%

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 25,907 26,340 24,742 8,905 -1.6% -2.2% 190.9% 167.7%
In dollars 1,919 1,924 1,240 0.0% -0.6% -20.3%

NOBAC 34,814 35,334 35,547 26,509 -1.5% -2.0% 31.3% 20.9%

International reserves of BCRA 43,731 43,869 41,938 27,024 -0.3% 61.8%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 170,318 167,657 164,761 137,089 1.6% 1.0% 24.2% 14.3%
Current account (2) 46,928 47,718 47,091 38,601 -1.7% -2.2% 21.6% 11.9%
Savings account 32,665 33,048 30,991 26,979 -1.2% -1.7% 21.1% 11.4%
Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 74,502 71,479 71,439 56,208 4.2% 3.6% 32.5% 22.0%
Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 3,356 3,750 3,935 5,920 -10.5% -11.0% -43.3% -47.8%
CEDRO with CER 24 25 26 29 -5.6% -6.2% -18.5% -25.0%
Other deposits (3) 12,844 11,637 11,280 9,352 10.4% 9.7% 37.3% 26.4%

Deposits of private sector 122,793 121,994 119,279 98,592 0.7% 0.1% 24.5% 14.6%

Deposits of public sector 47,525 45,664 45,482 38,497 4.1% 3.5% 23.5% 13.6%

Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) 6,397 5,989 5,881 5,195 6.8% 23.2%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 86,945 84,907 82,340 69,130 2.4% 1.8% 25.8% 15.7%
Loans to the private sector 76.378 74.365 71.760 55.132 2.7% 2.1% 38.5% 27.5%
 Advances 13.181 13.511 12.643 10.274 -2.4% -3.0% 28.3% 18.1%
 Documents 15.974 15.453 14.801 12.142 3.4% 2.8% 31.6% 21.1%
 Mortgage loans 12.218 11.730 11.337 9.325 4.2% 3.6% 31.0% 20.6%
 Pledge loans 4.833 4.589 4.441 3.092 5.3% 4.7% 56.3% 43.9%
 Personal loans 17.520 16.672 16.061 10.508 5.1% 4.5% 66.7% 53.4%
 Credit cards 8.790 8.492 8.637 6.149 3.5% 2.9% 43.0% 31.6%
 Others 3.862 3.917 3.840 3.643 -1.4% -2.0% 6.0% -2.4%

 Loans to the public sector 10.566 10.543 10.580 13.999 0.2% -0.4% -24.5% -30.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.623 4.409 4.255 3.355 4.8% 37.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in circulation + current accounts in pesos) 106.679 107.190 103.380 84.955 -0.5% -1.1% 25.6% 15.6%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 139.344 140.238 134.371 111.933 -0.6% -1.2% 24.5% 14.6%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 230.070 227.129 221.050 183.443 1.3% 0.7% 25.4% 15.4%
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 250.215 245.730 239.132 199.434 1.8% 1.2% 25.5% 15.5%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in circulation + private current accounts in pesos) 92.951 91.485 87.926 70.879 1.6% 1.0% 31.1% 20.7%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 122.080 121.123 115.647 94.367 0.8% 0.2% 29.4% 19.1%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 182.545 181.465 175.568 144.946 0.6% 0.0% 25.9% 15.9%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 201.332 198.478 192.178 158.960 1.4% 0.8% 26.7% 16.6%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 664 0.8% 7.303 8.3% 11.502 13.0% 21.060 23.8%
 Financial sector -172 -0.2% 1.901 2.2% -4.742 -5.4% -2.423 -2.7%
 Public sector -115 -0.1% -1.869 -2.1% -610 -0.7% -3.855 -4.4%
 Temporary advances + profit transfers 340 15 4.621 5.447
 Utilization of the national government account 1.074 -1.498 -7.339 -9.301
 External credit -1.529 -386 2.108 0
 Private external sector -525 -0.6% 9.377 10.6% 31.799 36.0% 45.945 52.0%
 BCRA securities 1.354 1.5% -2.467 -2.8% -15.499 -17.5% -19.245 -21.8%
 Others 121 0.1% 361 0.4% 555 0.6% 638 0.7%

 International reserves -138 -0.3% 4.098 9.4% 12.564 28.7% 16.707 38.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -163 -0.4% 3.046 7.0% 10.249 23.4% 14.843 33.9%
 Payment to international organizations -284 -0.7% -435 -1.0% -1.431 -3.3% -2.218 -5.1%
 Other public sector operations -51 -0.1% 641 1.5% 2.778 6.4% 2.839 6.5%
 Minimum cash -224 -0.5% -530 -1.2% -1.422 -3.3% -1.715 -3.9%
 Repo valuation rate 74 0.2% 124 0.3% 291 0.7% 450 1.0%
 Others 509 1.2% 1.253 2.9% 2.099 4.8% 2.508 5.7%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN recorded.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 13 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

 Interest rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 10.65 10.43 7.94 8.02 6.94
 Amount traded 1.494 1.475 1.350 1.600 1.143

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 8.28 7.34 7.04 7.06 6.89
 60 days or more 7.67 7.92 7.97 7.86 7.88
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.04 7.70 7.17 7.91 7.52
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.50 8.61 7.90 9.80 9.46
In dollars
 30 days 1.32 1.19 1.11 0.95 0.92
 60 days or more 2.24 2.01 2.06 1.92 1.78
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.64 1.37 1.09 0.93 0.92
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.11 3.40 2.85 2.99 1.69

 Active Interest Rates Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 10.25 8.90 8.64 9.59 9.36

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 9.24 8.36 6.99 8.82 8.24
 Amount traded (total terms) 127 119 110 112 104

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 19.56 16.93 15.53 16.38 16.06
 Unsecured documents 14.21 13.16 12.19 12.90 12.99
 Mortgages 10.88 10.76 10.51 11.75 11.35
 Pledged loans 9.42 9.99 10.28 10.90 9.63
 Personal loans 24.48 24.45 24.98 24.56 24.77
 Credit cards n/d 26.86 25.71 25.93 28.17

 International Interest Rates Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 LIBOR
 1 month 5.50 5.32 5.32 5.35 5.35
 6 months 5.38 5.37 5.39 5.35 5.48

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.33 4.80 4.97 4.67 4.90
 10 years 4.68 4.98 5.10 4.56 4.87

 FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.50 11.79 12.08 13.25 14.73

 (1) Data through June correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for July and August are estimates made
 from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 7.50 7.36 7.15 5.75 5.25
 Liabilities 7 days 7.75 7.61 7.40 6.25 5.75
 Assets 7 days (1) 0.32 9.61 9.40 8.25 8.00

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 8.43 8.37 7.50 7.59 6.33
 7 days 7.73 8.12 7.53 8.18 5.93

 Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 2,501 3,650 3,859 2,666 2,444

 LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month 10.27 n/o n/o 7.90 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 10.55 7.93 7.82 8.00 n/o
 9 months 10.50 10.03 10.06 10.09 10.00
 12 months n/o 10.24 10.27 11.18 11.75

 Spread of NOBAC in pesos with floating coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.99 0.79 1.00 0.48 1.41
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o 1.60 1.34 2.10 3.08
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o 1.90 1.92 n/o n/o

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 349 431 483 278 231

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.16 3.11 3.08 3.06 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.15 3.11 3.08 3.06 3.08

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.19 3.13 3.08 3.07 3.09
 ROFEX 1 month 3.17 3.12 3.08 3.07 3.08
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 410 393 288 201 278

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.61 1.65 1.59 1.42 1.43

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.30 4.28 4.13 4.04 3.95

 Capital Market Aug-07 Jul-07 Jun-07 Dec-06 Aug-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,051 2,244 2,205 2,023 1,657
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 113 102 98 82 45

 Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 89.76 94.67 95.01 92.37 92.51
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Legislation) 85.93 95.46 102.37 104.94 96.44
 BODEN 2014 ($) 73.53 83.65 87.57 87.92 82.20
 DISCOUNT ($) 74.88 88.67 96.17 102.09 91.91

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 557 327 254 298 300
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 239 198 172 196 199

 (1) As of August 2007, it corresponds to the interest rate spread auctioned over the interest rate BADLAR of private banks.
 (2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 15 Monetary Report AUGUST 2007
# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment mutual funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock market index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock market index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and US dollars of the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock market index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Product-linked units.
VN: Nominal Value.

16
