Monetary
Report
 JULY 2007

 CONTENTS 1. Summary 1

 1. Summary 1 • July is a month characterized by high transactional demand for money
 2. Monetary Aggregates 2 (payment of bonuses, winter recess) which generates a decrease in banking
 liquidity and some slight upward movement in the interest rate which has
 3. Banking Liquidity 3 been mild in recent years. The year 2007 was no exception, except that on
 this occasion, from the second half of the month onwards, interest rates
 4. Loans 4 were affected additionally by the repercussion of turbulence in
 international financial markets.
 5. Interest Rates 5
 • In this context the BCRA worked on attacking two fronts consecutively:
 Titles Issued by the BCRA 5 on one hand it conducted interventions in the foreign exchange market to
 prevent excessive volatility of the exchange rate from affecting expectations
 Interfinancial Markets 5 and, on the other hand, it injected liquidity into the market to prevent
 abrupt movements in interest rates from affecting credit.
 Repurchase Market 5
 Interbank Market 6 • In this sense, direct interventions in the foreign exchange market
 coordinated with official banking were combined with the rescue of LEBACs
 Passive Interest Rates 7 and NOBACs in the secondary market (these titles constitute a reserve of
 liquidity that can be used in situations of adverse shocks), and regulatory
 Active Interest Rates 7 changes were made that included a bimonthly computation period (July-August
 6. International Reserves and 2007) for the constitution of minimum cash requirements in pesos and the
 reduction of the minimum daily requirement of said regime, from 50% to
 Foreign Exchange Market 8 40% of the previous month's requirement.

 7. Capital Markets 8 • Loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency)
 continued to show important dynamism, increasing 3.9% ($3,260 million)
 Shares 8 during July, and in the last 12 months they accumulated an increase of
 Public Securities 9 37.5% in nominal terms. As in recent months, loans with real guarantees
 continued to accelerate their year-on-year growth rate, while commercial
 Private Securities 10 financing showed an increase basically in advances to companies.

 Institutional Investors 11 • The interest rate in the interbank market (call) showed significant
 variations, in line with the greater volatility experienced by the financial
 Pension Fund Managers 11 market. Thus, for operations between private banks, from levels of 8% at
 the beginning of the month, a peak of 22.8% was reached in the last days
 Mutual Investment Funds 11 of the same month to end July below 13% after the battery of actions
 implemented by the BCRA. The BADLAR of private banks, for its part,
 Financial Trusts 12 began the month with a slight increase that intensified in the last week
 until reaching 9.9% at the end of July.
 8. Monetary and Financial
 Indicators 13 • In mid-July the BCRA again increased by 0.25 percentage points the
 interest rates on repurchase agreements for all types of operations it
 9. Glossary 16 conducts, setting from then on, the 7-day corridor at 7.75%-9.75%, while
 it placed the interest rate for 1-day passive operations at 7.50%.
 Inquiries, comments or
 electronic subscription: • In July 2007 underlying retail inflation measured by the CPI Rest
 analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar prepared by INDEC, continued to show monthly variation rates lower than
 those of the same period in 2006, presenting a year-on-year growth of 9.6%.

 The content of this report
 may be freely cited as long as
 the source is clarified:
 Monetary Report - BCRA

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and
subject to revision.
# Monetary Report JULY 2007

**Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**

**thousands of Cash in Circulation**
**mill. of $ (base June 2007)** During the course of July, the evolution of the money supply (M2) was consistent with the elevated demand for money for transactions characteristic of the month (bonus payment collection and winter recess), as demonstrated by the trajectories in recent years, both of cash in circulation (see Graph 2.1) as well as that of sight deposits of the private sector. The M2 level reached $140,280 million.

Fixed-term deposits of the private sector continued to grow and although between the end of June and July they totaled an increase of $1,170 million, their average monthly increase was $360 million, as a result of the negative carryover effect from June (related to the transfer to sight accounts of the funds necessary to pay salaries and bonuses). In July, wholesale placements of more than $1 million again acquired dynamism, which explained most of the increase between the end of the month (see Graph 2.2). This deposit segment reversed the downward trend it had presented in the previous months, when it was affected by the concentration of tax payment maturities. With respect to the public sector, a behavior similar to the private sector stands out, which is reflected in the similar participation of fixed-term deposits in the total of deposits. Additionally, in recent months the ratio between fixed-term deposits of the public sector and the total of fixed-term deposits has remained relatively stable at around 29%.

**Graph 2.2**

**Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos**

**thousands of thousands of**
**millions of $ millions of $**
More than $1 million
Less than $1 million (right axis)

Overall, the variation of the total deposits in pesos and cash in circulation, which comprise M3, amounted to $6,260 million (2.8%).

On the other hand, deposits in dollars grew $110 million during the month, mainly due to the increase shown by private sector placements in the fixed-term deposit segment. Also registered an increase, although smaller, were foreign currency deposits of the public sector, in the sight deposits segment (see Graph 2.3)

In short, M3*, composed of deposits in pesos and dollars and cash in circulation, totaled a monthly increase of $6,790 million (2.8%).

The primary creation of money was compatible with the higher seasonal demand for money. At the end of the month the BCRA provided the monetary market with the necessary liquidity to face turbulence from the international context, in order to prevent increases in local interest rates from becoming persistent. In this sense, it purchased back part of the LEBACs and NOBACs that were in circulation and that constitute a liquidity reserve that can be used in situations of adverse shocks.

**Graph 2.3**

**Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock**
**millions of US$ thousands of millions of US$**

Sight S. Private Sight S. Public
Fixed Term S. Private Fixed Term S. Public Total Stock (right axis)

Despite these redemptions, the primary placement of LEBACs and NOBACs had a net contractionary monetary effect of $813 million, while the collection of rediscounts implied a contraction of the Monetary Base of $295 million. On this occasion, advance payments were again received from the only entity that maintains debts for assistance due to illiquidity received during the 2001-2002 crisis, which increased the effect

2 Monetary Report JULY 2007
**Graph 2.4 Contractionary effect of rediscounts above the monthly quota**

IPC Rest and Market Expectations provided for in the matching scheme.

% (y-o-y var.)
15
14.2 In July 2007, the Rest subindex of the GBA IPC (which excludes
14 price measurement with seasonal behavior, subject to
13 regulation or with high tax component) presented
12 an increase of 0.6% monthly, lower than that observed in July 2006 and
11.9
11 in line with the average verified in the second quarter of the
10 current year. Thus, the year-on-year variation of IPC Rest reached
9 9.6% in July, showing a reduction of 2.4 p.p. compared to the 8.9
 IPC Rest same period of last year. The decline in the year-on-year rate
8
 Expectations IPC GBA 2007 (Dec-Dec) was mainly due to the evolution of services prices, while goods prices exhibit a growth rate similar to that of a year ago. In any case, the IPC Rest
7 maintains in year-on-year terms the trend observed since the
6 beginning of 2006, although the diffusion indices, magnitude and
 persistence of price increases that make up this subindex
 continue at elevated levels.

**Graph 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity¹**

% of deposits 30-day moving Liquidity Ratio
 average
20 The banking liquidity ratio, defined as cash in
 Cash + CCBCRA + Repos JULY
19 Cash + CCBCRA banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive
18 repos agreed with the BCRA as a percentage of total
17.4 deposits in pesos, was reduced to 17.4% in July, the minimum level for the
17 first seven months of 2007 (see Graph 3.1). Already in June, this
 Repos indicator had ended at 17.6%, after observing a gradual reduction
15 in the stock of repos with the BCRA, mainly by
14 public banks. In July again this group of banks
13 decreased its repo balance but to restore its balances in
12 current accounts at the BCRA.
May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Greater liquidity needs from both
 Source: BCRA families, due to the winter recess, and from companies, due to the payment of
 bonuses, caused banks to begin July with a tighter minimum cash position than usual. To this situation were added at the end of the month the greater fund demands derived from institutional investors who had to unwind positions and restore their liquidity margins in the face of turbulence in financial markets, pressuring upward the interest rates of the

**Graph 3.2** local market. Facing this scenario and with the objective of
% of Minimum Cash Position relieving pressures on the monetary market, the BCRA
deposits
2.0 Surplus Daily Position Average Position quickly reacted and arranged a series of measures, among which
1.5 was included a bimonthly computation period (July-August 2007)
1.0 for the constitution of minimum cash in pesos and the reduction
0.5 of the minimum daily requirement of said regime, from 50% to 40% of
 the requirement of the previous month².
0.0

-0.5 This regulatory change was accompanied by another set of
-1.0 actions also aimed at providing liquidity to the market,
 Bimonthly Position including direct interventions in the foreign exchange market, the
-1.5 redemption of part of the amounts in circulation of LEBAC and NOBAC
 May June July August and even the suspension of the auction of these securities scheduled for
Source: BCRA July 31. The effectiveness of this set of measures was
 evidenced in the transitoriness of the sharp increases that had

² Communication A 4691 of July 27, 2007.

 3 Monetary Report JULY 2007

**Graph 4.1** been experienced by short-term interest rates (see Interbank Markets).
# Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector

In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position remained without significant changes compared to the last months, closing on average for the month with a surplus close to 10% of total dollar deposits.

## 4. Loans¹

Loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency) continued to show important dynamism, increasing 3.9% ($3,260 million) during July, and in the last 12 months they accumulated an increase of 37.5% in nominal terms. However, their level with respect to GDP, 11.2%, continues to be low.

Although growth was, as in previous months, widespread across all loan lines, the largest increase in July compared to the previous months was explained by mortgage loans (see Chart 4.2) and by commercial loans, motivated by the already mentioned greater funding needs on the part of companies.

Commercial financing in pesos registered important growth in the month, of 5.1% ($1,570 million), which was the highest in the last three years. This elevated increase was driven mainly by advances, which in the month increased 6.6% ($840 million) on average.

Additionally, financing instruments through documents (single-signature documents, discounted documents and purchased documents) increased 4.4% ($650 million), although much of the increase was due, as we anticipated in the previous report, to "statistical carryover" because during the last week of June these financing operations had increased around $580 million, which explained 3.6 percentage points of the average monthly increase.

Loans with chattel mortgage guarantee continue to show a firm growth pace and registered in the month an increase of 3.4% ($150 million). The increases in the last three months are the largest since the recovery began at the beginning of 2004, and occur in a context where automotive sales to the domestic market reached new historical highs. Something similar occurs with mortgage loans, which in July registered an increase of more than 3.5% ($390 million), which is the highest since mid-2005 when they managed to reverse their downward phase (see Chart 4.4).

For its part, consumer financing (personal loans and credit card financing) increased 2.2% ($550 million). In year-over-year terms they accumulated an increase of 56.6%, an increase that while still being elevated, is 13.2 percentage points lower than that recorded in the same month of the previous year. In the month, the entire increase is explained by

---

¹ The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.

⁴ Monetary Report JULY 2007
personal loans, which increased 4.2% ($670 million),
 Chart 4.4 while credit card financing was reduced
 Loans with Real Guarantee 1.4% (-$120 million), behavior similar to that observed in the same
 millions of $ %
 400 80 month of the previous year (see Chart 4.2).

 300 60 Finally, financing in foreign currency
 increased 3.5% (US$150 million) in the month, an increase that
 200 40 was explained fundamentally by documents, linked
 to foreign trade operations.
 100 20

 0 0

 Monthly Var. Mortgages
-100 Monthly Var. Secured Loans -20
 Year-over-year Var. Mortgages (Right Axis) 5. Interest Rates4
-200 Year-over-year Var. Secured Loans (Right Axis) -40

 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07
 Source: BCRA Securities issued by the BCRA5

 The interest rates in the primary market of LEBAC and
 NOBAC remained at levels similar to those of previous months.
 In the only segment of the yield curve where an increase was
 observed was in LEBAC with residual maturity somewhat less
 than three months. Again, LEBAC placements concentrated on
 Chart 5.1 securities of up to 1 year, while NOBAC placements were directed
 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC towards instruments of up to 3 years. (see Chart 5.1)
 % NOBAC - Margins on BADLAR % LEBAC - TNA
 3.0 11

 11 In recent months, the composition of the outstanding
 2.5 10
 stock of securities issued by the BCRA has gradually changed,
 2.0 10 considering the type of interest rate it pays. In particular, instruments
 9 issued at fixed rate gained participation in the total, to the detriment
 1.5 9 of those paying variable interest rates (NOBAC with BADLAR-
 8
 1.0 8 adjustable coupons). In this way, as of the end of July, the
 participation of the latter decreased 11 p.p. compared to year-end,
 24-Jul
 0.5 26-Jun 7 26-Jun and came to comprise 57% of the total amount of securities in
 7 circulation.
 0.0 6
 0 500 1000 15000 100 200 300 400 On the other hand, it is important to note that faced with
 Source: BCRA duration (days) greater liquidity needs arising from turbulence in international
 financial markets, during the last days of July the BCRA began
 to redeem part of the outstanding stock of LEBAC and NOBAC.
 As mentioned, these operations are part of a set of measures aimed
 at relieving tension in the monetary market (see Liquidity Section)
 Chart 5.2 and preventing higher local interest rates from becoming persistent.

 Repurchase Agreements Arranged by the BCRA
 thousands of (average daily amounts, interest rates at the end of each month)
millions of $ %

5 Amount Traded FCI 11 Interbank Markets
 Amount Traded Com. A 4399 (overnight)
 Amount Traded REPO Round 10
4 Interest Rate of 7-Day Passive Repos (right axis) Repo Market1
 Interest Rate of 7-Day Active Repos (right axis) 9

3 8 The BCRA arranged a new increase of 0.25 p.p. of the interest
 7 rates of the operations it arranges in mid-July. This increase was
2 applied to all the segments in which it operates and, from then on,

 6 the 7-day interest rates were positioned at 7.75% and 9.75%,
 for passive and active repos, respectively; while the one
1 5 corresponding to 1-day passive repos reached 7.5%.
0 4
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07
Source: BCRA

 4 The interest rates analyzed in this section are nominal annual rates (TNA).
 5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 5 Monetary Report JULY 2007

 During the course of the month, financial institutions transferred
 Chart 5.3 part of their balances from the repo market with the BCRA to their
 millions of $ % Call Market Deposits current accounts at this institution, with the objective of
 % complying with reserve requirements. Consequently, the average
 2,500 25 50 amount traded by banks decreased 17% compared to the previous
 20.6
 20 45 month.
2,000 15 12.3 40 previous (see Chart 5.2). Mutual investment funds (FCI) of
 9.7
 10 7.8 35 money market, which integrate their minimum liquidity margins

 1,500 5 30 through repurchase agreements with the BCRA, also reduced their operations in

 0 25 the month. In this case, the decrease in their balances was

 29-6 3-7 7-7 11-7 15-7 19-7 23-7 27-7 31-7 concentrated in the second part of the month, when the net worth of
 1,000 Amount traded between private parties 20
 Amount traded rest 15 these funds was reduced in a context of greater volatility

 Interest rate 10 in international financial markets, which also affected
 500
 local assets (see Section 7. Capital Markets).
 5

 0 0
 Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07

 Source: BCRA Interbank Market (call)1

 The interest rate in the interbank market reached a peak of
 20.6% in the month (see Chart 5.3). If only operations between
 private banks are considered, the highest average level was
 22.8%. This high level is explained in part due to a situation
 Gráfico 5.4 of relatively tighter liquidity that banks faced in the month, to which

 Interbank Market in the month were added the greater demands for funds
 millions of $ %
 (Daily net position by group of entities and interest rate) derived from institutional investors who had to unwind
 750 22
 positions and recompose their liquidity margins in the face of
 20
 500 turbulence in financial markets, putting upward pressure on the
 18
 interest rates in the local market. The interest rate that had
 250 16
 ended June at 7.8% had been gradually increasing
 0 14 until reaching 9.7% on July 23. From there and in line

 12 with the great volatility that the financial market presented, it shot up

 -250 10
 to reach the aforementioned peak of 20.6% on the 27th, on average,

 -500 8 and even that day operations were recorded at 30%. Subsequently,

 Foreign 6 the BCRA made modifications to the Minimum Cash regime
 -750 Private National
 Public 4 (see Section 3. Banking Liquidity), while it began to inject
 Interest rate (right axis) liquidity into the market through an active strategy of repurchasing
-1,000 2
 30-Mar 25-Apr 17-May 08-Jun 02-Jul 24-JulyLEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market, the rates
Source: BCRA
 began to decline and ended the month below 13%.

 The average monthly interest rate in July stood at 10.4%,
 2.5 p.p. higher than the previous month. A significant increase in
 the dispersion between operations was also observed, depending
 on the time of day in which each operation was carried out and
 Chart 5.5 who the counterparty was. Likewise, the amounts traded increased
 slightly ($120 million) compared to the previous month, standing
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days at around $1,470 million daily on average, the highest
 (5-day moving average)
 levels so far this year.
 BADLAR private banks % BADLAR public banks %
 10.5 Retail (Up to $100,000) 9 Retail (Up to $100,000)
 By bank group it was observed that public banking

 9.5 8 continued to be the main net provider of funds, and that
 precisely this group increased the amounts provided at the end of

 8.5 7 the month in line with the decline in the interest rate (see
 Chart 5.4.). Private banks with majority foreign capital
 7.5 6 continued to be the main net demanders of funds, while

 6.5 5 banks with national capital alternated their position, between
 net borrowers and net providers, throughout the month.

 5.5 4
 Jan-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jul-07 Jan-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jul-07

 Source: BCRA

 6 Monetary Report JULY 2007

 Chart 5.6 Passive Interest Rates1

 Interest rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the private sector

 % weighted monthly average by amount traded
 10 Passive interest rates began the first weeks
More than 90 days of the month remained stable and, from the third week onwards, showed

9 60 to 89 days increases across all maturity ranges.

30 to 59 days

8 The interest rate for placements greater than $1,000,000
of shorter maturity –BADLAR- in private banks was the one

7 that showed the greatest increase, rising in the last week of
the month by 1.5 p.p. to end on July 31st at 9.9% (see Chart 5.5). The

6 increase originated from the combination of the usual liquidity
need characteristic of a month with positive seasonality of

5 transactional money demand with the movements in the
Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07
Note: Operations with fixed-term adjusted by CER are not included. financial market. On the other hand, in public banks, the
Source: BCRA BADLAR interest rate maintained behavior similar to
previous months and ended at 6.4%.

For retail placements the interest rate at shorter
maturity in private banks showed a rise of 0.2 p.p.
during the last days of the month, reaching 7.4%, while in
public banks the increase was of 0.1 p.p. with an interest

Chart 5.7 rate of 5.8% (see Chart 5.5).

TNA, % Commercial Loans
20 (Interest rate average monthly weighted by amount)

Analyzing total private sector placements,
18 it is observed that the increase in rates was greater in
placements with shorter maturities and widespread across all

16 maturities. In this way, in placements of 30 to 59 days the

14 average interest rate increased 0.3 p.p. reaching 7.5%, while for
deposits of 60 to 89 days the interest rate was 7.7%, with an

12 increase of just 0.1 p.p., and for placements over 90
days the rate was 8.9% accumulating an increase of 0.2 p.p.
10
with respect to the previous month (see Chart 5.6).
Advances
8 Documents

6 Active Interest Rates1 6
Source: BCRAJul-04 Nov-04 Mar-05 Jul-05 Nov-05 Mar-06 Jul-06 Nov-06 Mar-07 Jul-07

Regarding active interest rates, an increase was
observed in those of very short-term financings, more
sensitive to current conditions, and not in those of long-term
loans.

Chart 5.8 The interest rate on advances increased in the month by 0.6 p.p.

Active Interest Rates reaching an average monthly level of 16.8%. In this case

(interest rate average monthly weighted by amount) the increase was also recorded mainly in the last part
TNA, % TNA, %
31 15 of the month and was led by advances granted to large
Credit Cards Mortgage Loans
companies where the interest rate reached a level of 20%. Meanwhile,
30 Personal Chattel Mortgage
for documents granted on individual signature the variation with
29 13
respect to the previous month was of 0.4 p.p. where the interest rate
28 12
was 12.8% (see Chart 5.7).

27 11

26 10 In consumer loans a slight increase was recorded in
interest rates, unlike what occurred in recent months. In this way,
25 9
the interest rate for personal loans on average was 25.4% in July
24 8
and for credit card financing the average of June, the latest
23 7
Source: BCRANov-04 Jul-05 Mar-06 Nov-06 Jul-07Nov-04 Jul-05 Mar-06 Nov-06 Jul-07

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
April 2007, the values for June and July 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

7 Monetary Report JULY 2007

Chart 6.1 information available, was 25.8%.

International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of (gold, foreign exchange and fixed-term placements)
millions of US$
45 Finally, the increases were not passed on to long-term
40 longer term. The interest rate on mortgage loans remained at 10.6% while for secured loans continued to decline and stood at 10.2% (see Graph 5.8).

35

30

25

20
 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market7
15

10 International reserves increased during the month by US$1,045 million (2.4%), totaling US$44,202 million at the end of July (see Graph 6.1). Around 50% of the monthly increase (US$530 million) was explained by net foreign currency purchases carried out by the BCRA. Additionally, increases in the balance of international reserves were recorded due to returns on the same, gains from exchange rate variations and reverse repo operations within the framework of Communication A 4508. Finally, the public sector also carried out operations that involved increases in international reserves of US$200 million.

Graph 6.2
 Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale)
 $/US$
 3.20 In the foreign exchange market, the wholesale quotation of the peso with respect to the dollar (Reference) showed greater volatility than in previous months, reaching a quotation of 3.1713 $/US$ on July 25, the highest value since March 2003. This abrupt nominal depreciation of the local currency was a reflection of the adverse international context that, as mentioned, affected local financial markets in general. Thanks to the prompt action of the BCRA, which implemented, in a coordinated manner with official banking, direct interventions in the foreign exchange market to prevent excessive volatility from affecting the savings and investment decisions of families and businesses (although without granting any implicit "exchange rate insurance" that could favor the inflow of short-term speculative capital), the exchange rate $/US$ tended to normalize after a few days and ended the month at 3.1195 $/US$ (see Graph 6.2). In short, the peso depreciated on a monthly basis with respect to the reference dollar by 1.3% and the monthly average quotation was 3.1116 $/US$. In relation to the Real, the peso also depreciated, 3.8%, and quoted at a monthly average of 1.653 $/Real. With respect to the Euro, the monthly average quotation for July was 4.275 $/Euro, which implied a depreciation of 3.4% compared to June.

3.1713

3.15

3.1195

3.10

3.05

3.00
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07
Source: BCRA

Graph 7.1
 Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%) 7. Capital Market
 22 sessions 22 sessions
 70 MERVAL (Argentina) 20 3.4% with respect to June.
 IPC (Mexico)
 60 BOVESPA (Brazil)
 Shanghai Index (China) 16 Stocks
 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis)

 50
 12 During July the main stock market indices in the world again suffered losses (with the exception of the Shanghai stock exchange index, which recorded a notable recovery by increasing 17%), after having reached historical highs. The month was characterized by high volatility and risk aversion; which resulted in bonds from the middle and long-term segment of the US Treasury curve appreciating, thus decreasing interest rates (fly to quality) and an appreciation of the yen with respect to the dollar, which demonstrates the unwinding of carry trade positions.

 8
 30

 20 4
 10 0
 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

 7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 8 Monetary Report JULY 2007

Graph 7.2
 Sovereign Risk Indicators
Argentina CDS points spreads spreads
basic EMBI of Arg and the Region Said perception of investor risk would be influenced by the
in b.p. in b.p.
550 CDS 2 years 530 450 deepening of the crisis in the real estate and mortgage market in
CDS 5 years EMBI Argentina
CDS 10 years 480 EMBI Latin America (Right Axis) the U.S. In addition, an increase in crude oil prices was observed,
400
420 350 WTI increased 10.7% during the month, reaching US$78 per barrel
430 on July 31. Although in the U.S. companies presented financial
380 300 statements, yielding results positive and well above market
290 330 250 expectations, this fact was not able to counteract the correction
280 200 that world stock exchanges had during July. In effect, the S&P
160 230 150 500 exhibited a decline of 3.2%, reaching 1455 points and the VIX
180 100 (index that measures the volatility of stocks that comprise the
30 Jul-Nov- Mar- Jul- Nov- Mar- Jul- S&P 500) reached a value of 24 points (maximum since 2003).
Jul-05 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 05 05 06 06 06 07 07
Source: Bloomberg

In Argentina, during July the MERVAL index registered a loss
of 0.5%, reaching a value of 2,180 points at the end of the
month. Nevertheless, in the last twelve months MERVAL
accumulated a return of 28% while in what has elapsed of the
year it amounts to 4.3%. In the month, the sectors with the
highest performance were the electric and petroleum sectors,
while the one that suffered the greatest decline was the banking
sector.

Graph 7.3
Annual Real Return (%) Yield Curves of Public Titles in Pesos
8 Measured in dollars, the MERVAL decline was 1.5% in the
DISC $ month, while the IPC (Mexico) fell back 3.2% and the IGPA
7 Boden 14 Bogar PAR $ (Chile) fell 1%. On the other hand, the IGBVL (Peru) registered
PRO 12 an increase, the largest in the region, with 4.9%, and BOVESPA
6 (Brazil) a 2.1%.
5
4 PRE 08 Latin American stock exchanges also did not have uniform
29-Jun behavior in terms of volatility. Specifically, the volatility of
3 Boden 08 31-Jul MERVAL –22 trading sessions- in annualized terms and
measured in dollars was 22.4% in June (6 b.p. higher than in
2 June).
1
0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 The daily volumes traded on average at the Stock Exchange
Duration (years) of Buenos Aires Commerce increased. The average amount
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute traded reached $89 million daily, increasing $11 million
from the previous month.

Banco Patagonia began trading on the stock exchange after
placing $200 million of new shares. Between Argentina and
Brazil, $75 million were placed through primary offering,
while the remaining $125 million were placed in secondary
offering among institutional investors abroad. Banco Galicia
relaunched on July 23 a subscription of $100 million of new
Graph 7.4 shares. It managed to capture almost $470 million (it placed
Yield Curves of Public Titles in Dollars more than 90% of the shares it offered). The institution reported
Annual Return (%) Spread (b.p.) that $93.6 million of ordinary and registered shares were
11 10 subscribed, out of a total of $100 million in titles.
Boden 15
10 DISC USD 8
BONAR VII PAR USD
9 Boden 13
Boden 12 6
8
BONAR V Public Titles
4
7
29-Jun 2 The perception of sovereign debt risk increased during July.
6 31-Jul The Credit Default Swaps (CDS) of Argentina at 5 years
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Jun-07 (right axis) increased 158 b.p., while Brazil's CDS increased
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Jul-07 (right axis) 54 b.p. In the same way, the spreads of emerging countries rose
5 0 strongly. The spreads of external debt of

0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

9 Monetary Report JULY 2007
Latin America measured by the EMBI increased 45 b.p. during July. The spread of emerging countries in general measured by the EMBI+ increased 44 b.p. Argentina was no exception, and its spread grew 124 b.p.. As mentioned, these increases occurred in a context of international greater risk aversion and uncertainty.

Graph 7.5 The yield curve of public securities in pesos shifted upward, thereby reaching higher yields across all maturities. A similar shift was observed in the yield curve of securities in dollars. Both for securities denominated in dollars and for those denominated in pesos, which exhibited a greater decline in their quotation, those in the long-term segment were the Discount $ lost 10% during the month and the Discount U$S fell back 9.4% in the same period.

Composition of the Variation of AFJP Investments

% 

100 Financial Trusts
Fixed-term Deposits
80 Futures Contracts
and Options
Actions
60

Decrease of $5,135 million (5%) The units linked to GDP (U.V.P) had poor performance during the month, which could be due, in addition to the factors mentioned above, to revaluations of future growth prospects caused by energy problems. The U.V.P denominated in dollars (New York law) ended the month with a value of US$13, reflecting a decline of 12.8% compared to June. In the same line, the U.V.P denominated in pesos reached a value of $11.1 at month-end, declining 9.8% compared to the previous month.

40

Public Securities
20

0
July 2007

Source: BCRA

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) decreased significantly as of the measures implemented to discourage the inflow of short-term speculative capital. In this way, the amount traded was $1,527 million, resulting $600 million less than that corresponding to the previous month.

Private Securities

Graph 7.6 Edenor S.A. offers for subscription class 7 of negotiable bonds for 10 years and fixed rate for a total of US$250 million.
thousands of Property of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
millions $ This operation is part of a program already approved for up to
US$600 million.

20 Fixed income
18 Mixed income
16 Variable income
14 Fixed-term and money

12

10

8

6

4

2

0
Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

Piedra del Águila reports the end of the subscription period for class 1 ON for an amount of US$100 million with maturity in July 2017.

Sociedad Anónima Importadora y Exportadora de la Patagonia placed ON for four years for US$25 million.

ProBenefit S.A. offers for subscription ON Series I for an amount of up to US$6,000,000.

Rombo Compañía Financiera S.A. offered for subscription ON series 3 at fixed rate for a nominal value of up to $50,000,000 with maturity in 2009; later this subscription was suspended.

10 Monetary Report JULY 2007

Institutional Investors

Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators (AFJP) was $90,031 million at the end of July, 5% lower than that recorded a month earlier. Almost all items where the AFJP has placements presented decreases, although public securities and stocks were the segments that concentrated the greatest part of the monthly decline, a product fundamentally of the decline in their prices mentioned in the previous sections (see Graph 7.5).

Graph 7.7
thousands of Equity of FCI in Pesos thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
12 7 Variable Income Fixed Income - right axis Money Market - right axis
$680M
10 (7%) $1,150M 6
(22%) $390M
(8%) 5
8
4
6

3

In particular, within public securities, the securities that explained to a greater extent the monthly decrease in the portfolio were the Discount in Pesos and the Cuasipar. Furthermore, within the heading [continues...]
4 Futures and Options Contracts, which includes securities
linked to GDP, also recorded a significant reduction. Among them,
those denominated in pesos are the ones that accounted for the
largest part of the month's declines.

Source: BCRA based on CAFCI data

On the other hand, the decline in stock holdings was mainly
explained by the decrease in some of the most liquid securities in
the local market.

## Investment Mutual Funds

The assets of investment mutual funds (FCI) in pesos decreased
$570 million (3%) during July (see Chart 7.5), behavior that was
associated both with declines in the values of the securities that
make up the portfolios and with the redemption of shares, given the
financial turbulence experienced at the end of July. Thus, assets
closed the month with a value of $18,146 million, the lowest of the
last 4 months (see Chart 7.6).

Chart 7.8 - The assets of fixed income funds were the ones that
Financial Trust Deed Issuances suffered the most intense decline. From July 23rd its assets
(millions of $) were reduced by $1,150 million (22%) (see Chart 7.7), a fact that
was due fundamentally to share redemptions and to a lesser extent
to decreases in the value of the securities that make up the
portfolio. This decline more than offset the increase they had been
accumulating since the beginning of the month, so they ended July
with a decrease of $660 million (14%). The return was negative at 4%.

In the case of equity funds, during the period of greatest
turbulence in the markets, assets were reduced by $680 million (7%)
(see Chart 7.7), but in this case it was mainly due to declines in the
prices of the securities that make up the portfolios of said funds.
However, such decline did not manage to offset the increase they
had been registering since the beginning of the month, so they
ended with an asset increase of $390 million (4.4%). During the
month they yielded a return of 1%.

Finally, the assets of money market funds exhibited a negative
variation, although relatively minor, of $305 million (-6.4%)
compared to June. During the past month, the Funds had already
reduced their assets due to greater liquidity needs of companies to
meet bonus payments. The average variation was also negative at
$190 million (4%). In June the return on these funds was 5% annually.

## Financial Trust Deeds⁸

During July, financial trust deeds (FF) were placed for around
$670 million, a placement similar to that of the previous month
although almost 50% higher than that of the same month a year ago
(see Chart 7.8). In the first 7 months of the year, issuances totaled
$4,200 million, a figure 15% higher than that accumulated in the
same period of 2006 and around double that recorded in those
months of 2005.

Consumer financing, which are usually the most important
underlying assets, accounted for almost all of the issuances,
representing 98.6% of total placement (see Chart 7.9, left panel).
Commercial credits (1.4%) were also securitized.

The main fiduciaries were on this occasion retail stores, which
concentrated 55%, followed by financial institutions.

Chart 7.9
Underlying Assets and Fiduciaries of FF
(amounts issued - July 2007)

Underlying Assets                           Fiduciaries
Retail Stores 1%         55%
Personal Loans           Non-Regulated Financial
77%    Institutions 25%
Credit Card Credits      23%
Commercial Credits       Financial Entities
1%

---

11 Monetary Report JULY 2007
19% unregulated financial institutions by the BCRA and the banks that concentrated 25% and 19% of what was issued, respectively (see Graph 7.9, right quadrant). The remaining 1% corresponded to SMEs.

The cut-off interest rates registered increases during the month (see Graph 7.10, left quadrant). Indeed, the interest rate on fixed-rate senior securities was positioned at 10.4% in July, 0.6 p.p. higher than that registered in June. During July a very significant disparity of rates could be appreciated, depending on the moment of the month in which the placement occurred. The securities that were placed at the beginning of the month registered cut-off rates of between 9.3% and 10.6% while the securities placed at the end of the month reached levels above 14%, at moments when the financial markets were more turbulent, and even two placements postponed the closing date of the subscription period, awaiting normalization of financial market conditions.

The average duration of senior FF securities issued declined to 5 months in July, 2.8 months lower than that of June (see Graph 7.10, right quadrant). This was mainly because in the month they securitized almost exclusively consumer financing, which are usually those with shorter terms. However, the duration of senior securities that have personal loans as underlying also decreased, albeit more slightly (to 4.8 months).

**Graph 7.10**
**Financial Trusts (class A securities - monthly weighted averages by amount)**

*Left quadrant: Interest Rates*
- Fixed rate
- Variable rate
- BADLAR rate Private Banks

*Right quadrant: % months Duration - Total FF Personal Loan Trust*

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

8 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

---

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Jul-07 | Jun-07 | May-07 | Jul-06 | **Percentage Variations Average** | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | **Monthly** | **Last 12 months** | |
| | | | | | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| **Monetary base** | 87,663 | 83,649 | 81,024 | 65,135 | 4.8% | 4.1% | 34.6% | 23.8% |
| **Monetary circulation** | 64,972 | 61,486 | 59,448 | 50,729 | 5.7% | 5.0% | 28.1% | 17.8% |
| In public hands | 59,522 | 56,302 | 54,534 | 46,006 | 5.7% | 5.0% | 29.4% | 19.0% |
| In financial entities | 5,450 | 5,185 | 4,913 | 4,722 | 5.1% | 4.4% | 15.4% | 6.1% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 22,691 | 22,163 | 21,576 | 14,406 | 2.4% | 1.7% | 57.5% | 44.8% |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 2,350 | 2,977 | 5,674 | 4,931 | -21.1% | -21.6% | -52.3% | -56.2% |
| Assets | 65 | 0 | 3 | 198 | | -67.3% | -69.9% | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC** (does not include portfolio for repos) | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 26,340 | 24,742 | 19,984 | 9,393 | 6.5% | 5.8% | 180.4% | 157.9% |
| In dollars | 19 | 19 | 19 | 38 | 0.0% | -0.6% | -51.1% | |
| **NOBAC** | 35,334 | 35,547 | 36,438 | 23,948 | -0.6% | -1.2% | 47.5% | 35.7% |
| **BCRA International Reserves** | 43,869 | 41,938 | 39,633 | 26,041 | 4.6% | | 68.5% | |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 167,653 | 164,717 | 163,629 | 134,945 | 1.8% | 1.1% | 24.2% | 14.2% |
| Current account (2) | 47,711 | 47,091 | 48,466 | 38,804 | 1.3% | 0.7% | 23.0% | 13.1% |
| Savings account | 33,045 | 30,991 | 29,940 | 28,072 | 6.6% | 5.9% | 17.7% | 8.2% |
| Time deposits not adjustable by CER | 71,462 | 71,395 | 70,133 | 52,250 | 0.1% | -0.5% | 36.8% | 25.8% |
| Time deposits adjustable by CER | 3,751 | 3,935 | 4,085 | 6,587 | -4.7% | -5.3% | -43.1% | -47.6% |
| CEDRO with CER | 25 | 26 | 25 | 29 | -1.3% | -1.9% | -13.1% | -20.1% |
| Other deposits (3) | 11,659 | 11,280 | 10,980 | 9,204 | 3.4% | 2.7% | 26.7% | 16.5% |
| **Deposits of the private sector** | 121,990 | 119,250 | 117,462 | 97,209 | 2.3% | 1.6% | 25.5% | 15.4% |
| **Deposits of the public sector** | 45,662 | 45,467 | 46,167 | 37,736 | 0.4% | -0.2% | 21.0% | 11.3% |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 5,984 | 5,881 | 5,950 | 5,198 | 1.7% | | 15.1% | |
| **Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 83,928 | 81,390 | 80,213 | 67,993 | 3.1% | 2.5% | 23.4% | 13.5% |
Loans to the private sector 73.874 71.304 69.368 53.740 3,6% 2,9% 37,5% 26,4%
 Advances 13.480 12.645 12.268 10.118 6,6% 5,9% 33,2% 22,5%
 Documents 15.455 14.802 14.717 11.799 4,4% 3,7% 31,0% 20,4%
 Mortgage loans 11.729 11.336 11.053 9.136 3,5% 2,8% 28,4% 18,1%
 Pledge loans 4.590 4.441 4.296 2.973 3,4% 2,7% 54,4% 42,0%
 Personal loans 16.672 16.061 15.362 9.857 3,8% 3,1% 69,1% 55,5%
 Credit cards 8.484 8.637 8.252 6.203 -1,8% -2,4% 36,8% 25,8%
 Other 3.464 3.382 3.421 3.654 2,4% 1,8% -5,2% -12,8%

 Loans to the public sector 10.053 10.086 10.844 14.253 -0,3% -1,0% -29,5% -35,1%

 Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 4.404 4.256 4.208 3.231 3,5% 36,3%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in public hands + current accounts in pesos) 107.233 103.393 103.000 84.810 3,7% 3,1% 26,4% 16,3%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 140.278 134.383 132.940 112.882 4,4% 3,7% 24,3% 14,3%
 M3 (cash in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 227.175 221.019 218.164 180.952 2,8% 2,1% 25,5% 15,4%
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 245.785 239.125 236.495 196.973 2,8% 2,1% 24,8% 14,7%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in public hands + private current accounts in pesos) 91.520 87.939 85.452 70.028 4,1% 3,4% 30,7% 20,2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 121.156 115.659 112.436 94.374 4,8% 4,1% 28,4% 18,1%
 M3 (cash in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 181.513 175.552 171.997 143.215 3,4% 2,7% 26,7% 16,5%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 198.527 192.162 188.653 156.355 3,3% 2,7% 27,0% 16,8%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 4.013 4,6% 7.975 9,1% 10.838 12,4% 22.528 25,7%
 Financial sector 479 0,5% 1.628 1,9% -4.570 -5,2% -2.733 -3,1%
 Public sector 222 0,3% -2.053 -2,3% -495 -0,6% -4.087 -4,7%
 Temporary advances + profit transfers -326 -325 4.281 6.151
 Use of the national government account 275 -2.939 -8.413 -8.076
 External credit 273 1.212 3.637 -2.163
 Private external sector 3.987 4,5% 15.388 17,6% 32.323 36,9% 51.043 58,2%
 BCRA Securities -813 -0,9% -7.311 -8,3% -16.854 -19,2% -22.219 -25,3%
 Other 138 0,2% 322 0,4% 433 0,5% 524 0,6%

 International reserves 1.931 4,4% 6.222 14,2% 12.702 29,0% 17.828 40,6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.293 2,9% 4.926 11,2% 10.412 23,7% 16.492 37,6%
 Payment to international organizations -24 -0,1% -336 -0,8% -1.147 -2,6% -1.804 -4,1%
 Other public sector operations 222 0,5% 922 2,1% 2.829 6,4% 2.081 4,7%
 Minimum cash -215 -0,5% -333 -0,8% -1.199 -2,7% -1.560 -3,6%
 Valuation exchange rate 151 0,3% 18 0,0% 217 0,5% 422 1,0%
 Other 505 1,2% 1.025 2,3% 1.590 3,6% 2.196 5,0%

 1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of the use of unified funds.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 13 Monetary Report JULY 2007

 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 10,43 7,94 7,64 8,02 7,75
 Amount traded 1.475 1.350 1.308 1.600 1.168

 Fixed term
 In pesos
 30 days 7,34 7,04 7,02 7,06 6,90
 60 days or more 7,92 7,97 7,77 7,86 7,98
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7,70 7,17 7,16 7,91 7,33
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8,61 7,90 7,65 9,80 9,17
# Interest Rates

## In dollars
 30 days 1.19 1.11 1.11 0.95 0.92
 60 days or more 2.01 2.06 2.06 1.92 1.45
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.37 1.09 0.80 0.93 0.82
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.40 2.85 2.82 2.99 1.80

 Active Interest Rates Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 8.90 8.64 8.64 9.59 9.09

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.36 6.99 7.10 8.82 8.38
 Amount operated (total terms) 119 110 120 112 95

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 16.77 16.17 16.30 16.38 16.24
 Documents on signature alone 12.84 12.37 12.23 12.90 12.88
 Mortgage 10.58 10.57 10.77 11.75 12.03
 Secured loans 10.20 10.43 10.44 10.90 9.33
 Personal loans 25.35 25.23 25.30 24.56 24.60
 Credit cards n/d 25.83 25.66 25.93 28.52

 International Interest Rates Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 LIBOR
 1 month 5.32 5.32 5.32 5.35 5.37
 6 months 5.37 5.39 5.37 5.35 5.58

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.80 4.97 4.77 4.67 5.12
 10 years 4.98 5.10 4.75 4.56 5.08

 FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.79 12.08 12.50 13.25 15.06

 (1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for October and November are
 estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report JULY 2007

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 7.36 7.15 7.00 5.75 5.25
 Liabilities 7 days 7.61 7.40 7.25 6.25 5.75
 Active 7 days 9.61 9.40 9.25 8.25 8.00

 Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 8.37 7.50 7.26 7.59 6.80
 7 days 8.12 7.53 7.31 8.18 6.01

 Amount operated in REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 3,650 3,859 3,944 2,666 1,767

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 7.90 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 7.93 7.82 7.90 8.00 7.20
 9 months 10.03 10.06 10.11 10.09 10.23
 12 months 10.24 10.27 10.33 11.18 12.07

 NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.79 1.00 0.71 0.48 2.07
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.75 1.85 1.51 2.10 3.75
 2 years BADLAR Total n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 406 483 512 278 173

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 Dollar Spot
 Exchange houses 3.11 3.08 3.08 3.06 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.11 3.08 3.08 3.06 3.08

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.13 3.08 3.08 3.07 3.09
 ROFEX 1 month 3.12 3.08 3.08 3.07 3.09
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 393 288 352 201 200

 Real (Pesos per Real) 1.65 1.59 1.55 1.42 1.41

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.28 4.13 4.16 4.04 3.91

 Capital Market Jul-07 Jun-07 May-07 Dec-06 Jul-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,242 2,205 2,170 2,023 1,679
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 102 98 83 82 46

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 94.67 95.01 94.73 92.37 92.94
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 95.46 102.37 107.10 104.94 90.45
 BODEN 2014 ($) 83.65 87.57 87.81 87.92 80.22
 DISCOUNT ($) 88.67 96.17 100.20 102.09 88.24

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 327 254 244 298 337
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 198 172 167 196 214

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 15 Monetary Report JULY 2007
# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S.A..
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Broker Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Units linked to the product.
VN: Nominal Value.

16
