# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

## CONTENTS
1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Equities 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 10
   - Private Securities 11
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 12
9. Glossary 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analysis.monetary@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• M2 continued evolving in accordance with the trajectory projected in the Monetary Program, that is with strict control of equilibrium in the money market. This means growth less than or equal to that of nominal output. In January, considering end-of-month balances, it presented a decline of around $450 million.

• The BCRA in its continuous monitoring of the monetary market observes a strengthening of money demand (M3), explained by the increase in international reserves, the lengthening of maturities of financial system deposits and the recovery of loans to the private sector.

• The measures established by the Central Bank in recent months, aimed at extending the funding period of financial institutions, contributed to adding dynamism to fixed-term deposits, which increased their year-on-year growth rate to 36%. During the month these deposits increased $2,050 million, mainly due to new placements from the private sector that concentrated on longer maturities (80% in placements between 60 and 179 days and 12% in the 180 to 365 day bracket).

• Additionally, at the beginning of January, the Central Bank introduced NOBACs on the market with a 3-year maturity, which aroused great interest from investors, which was reflected in a record amount of offers received. This new instrument not only lengthens the average life of LEBACs and NOBACs in circulation, but also contributes to generating yield curves of up to 36 months, both at variable rate (BADLAR) and at fixed rate.

• Credit to the private sector registered some deceleration in its growth compared to previous months, which responded, in part, to lower funding needs of companies caused by lower activity during the summer recess. During the month, the total of loans to the private sector registered an increase of somewhat more than $1,350 million (1.8%) and reached a historical maximum in nominal terms, although as a percentage of GDP (around 10.5%) it is relatively small in relation to other countries or with respect to levels reached at the end of the nineties.

• The Central Bank established new increases of 0.5 percentage points in interest rates for 1-day passive repo operations and 0.25 percentage points for 7-day passive and active operations. The average balance of passive repos exceeded $4,000 million in January. In turn, the banks canceled all active repos in January.

• At the end of January the stock of international reserves totaled US$33,739 million, presenting an increase of US$1,700 million (4.9%) in relation to the previous month.

• In January 2007 retail inflation measured by the CPI GBA was 1.1% monthly, a figure that was lower than that expected by the REM and verified in the same month of 2006 (both values were located at 1.3%).

---

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

---

## 2. MONETARY AGGREGATES1

Graph 2.1 Evolution of M2 and Monetary Program
# MONETARY REPORT - JANUARY 2007

**thousands of
billions of $ January**

150 M2 evolved during January in accordance with the
140 M2, 30-day moving average projected trajectory (see Chart 2.1). In this way, the
 Bands PM 2007 aggregate chosen by the Central Bank to monitor compliance with the
130 Monetary Program, due to its close correlation with the price
 level in the long term, considering end-of-month balances, presented
120
 a decline of around $450 million.

110
100 Among the components of M2, both currency in circulation
 and sight deposits showed increases on average. Sight deposits
90
 (current accounts and savings accounts) denominated in pesos
 from both the private sector and the public sector maintained
 Dic-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dic-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dic-07their seasonal pattern. Thus, the average balance of total sight
Source: BCRA deposits increased 1.6% compared to the previous month, with the
 increase distributed in similar parts between the private sector
 and the public sector.

 On the other hand, fixed-term deposits continued to show
Chart 2.2 significant momentum and once again increased their year-over-year
 Deposits in Pesos growth rate, which reached 36% (see Chart 2.2). In the month they
 % (year-over-year var.) increased $2,050 million, mainly explained by new funds from the
40 private sector. In fact, the increase in fixed-term deposits from the
 private sector was $1,730 million, similar to what occurred in
35
 August of the previous year and one of the largest evidenced in
30 recent years (see Chart 2.3). However, on this occasion the
25 increase was distributed in longer terms, with 80% concentrated
20 in placements between 60 and 179 days and 12% in the 180 to
 365 day bracket.
15

10 In this way, the broader peso aggregate, M3, registered a
5 Sight Deposits Pub+Priv monthly increase of 2.4% ($4,780 million).
 Fixed-Term Deposits Pub+Priv
0
 Ene-06 Abr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Ene-07In the foreign currency segment, private sector deposits resumed

Source: BCRA the growth path after the decline they suffered in December. Growth
 was concentrated mainly in fixed-term placements that registered a
 monthly increase of US$110 million while sight deposits showed a
 decline of US$50 million. For its part, public sector placements
 remained virtually unchanged during the month.

 Chart 2.3
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector In short, M3*, which adds currency in circulation and
 deposits in pesos and dollars, grew 2.4% ($5,090 million dollars
 millions of $ % 
 2,500 6 in January.
 Monthly variation in millions $ Monthly variation in % (right axis)
 2,000
 1,500 4 On the other hand, during the month sterilization instruments
 continued to be used intensively to guarantee equilibrium in the
 1,000 2 money market. The comfortable cash position that banks maintained,
 500 0 in a period of quarterly constitution of reserve requirements,
 0 0 made it possible for them to allocate part of the new funds they
 -500 -2 received to the repo market, generating a contraction of the
 -1,000 monetary base of $2,371 million through that means. Likewise,
 -1,500 -4 at the end of December an entity early paid part of its debt
 -2,000 included in the "matching," which together with the monthly
 -2,500 -6 payment of the installment provided for in this scheme caused the
 Ene-04 May-04 Sep-04 Ene-05 May-05 Sep-05 Ene-06 May-06 Sep-06 Ene-07 monetary base of January to decrease on average $1,437 million
 Source: BCRA for this concept. Additionally, the incorporation of new instruments in the

 2 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007
Chart 2.4 LEBAC and NOBAC auctions attracted investor interest
 Evolution of the CPI and CPI Rest locals, which resulted in a monetary contraction of $1,201
 (year-on-year var.)
 % million through the adjudication of these securities in the
 15 14.2 primary market.
 12.3

 12
 10.6 In January 2007, retail inflation measured by the GBA CPI
 CPI Variation by Component 9.7 was 1.1% monthly, a figure that turned out to be lower than expected
 9 % (monthly var.)
 5 by the REM and to that verified in the same month of 2006 (both values
 4 3.8 Oct Nov Dec Jan were at 1.3%). As in the last two months, the largest part of the
 6 CPI 3 1.8 period's increase was due to the rise in the Food and
 2 1.4 1.7 CPI Rest 0.9 0.7 1.0 1.1 0.9 1.1 1.0 beverages category, which explained 0.68 percentage points (p.p.) of the
 1 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.6 monthly variation (see Chart 2.4). This growth continued to be associated,
 0
 3 -1 0.0 mainly, with the price increase due to some supply problems
 -2 in Vegetables (9.8% monthly) and price adjustments in Oils and fats
 CPI Seasonal Regulated Rest CPI (4.3% monthly). In the year-on-year (y-o-y) comparison, the variation of
 0
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 the GBA CPI was 9.7%, resulting 2.4 p.p. lower than that reached in
 Source: INDEC January 2006 (12.1% y-o-y) when the deceleration in retail
 inflation began.

 In terms of the sub-indices that make up the CPI, unlike
 Chart 3.1 Estimated Fund Flow what occurred throughout last year, the CPI
 % (monthly averages January 2007) Seasonal (1.8% monthly) explained the largest part of the
 100 7 deceleration in retail inflation with respect to what was observed
 90 12 in the same month of 2006 (6.3% monthly). The CPI Rest (approximation to
 15 underlying inflation), which showed an increase of 1.1% monthly and in
 80 Others year-on-year terms the variation of CPI Rest was at 10.6%,
 70 29 Loans showing a reduction of 3.2 p.p. with respect to the increase
 60 LEBAC and NOBAC 30 registered 12 months earlier.
 Repurchase Agreements
 Repo
 50 EM Integration
 40 Sale of US$
 30 60 Deposits

 20 48

 10 3. Bank Liquidity¹

 0
 Sources Uses
 *Estimate made based on SISCEN data. Source: BCRA

 Bank liquidity continued to be widely
 surplus in the first month of the year. The liquidity ratio, defined
 as cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at
 the BCRA and repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA as
 a percentage of total deposits in pesos, exceeded 18% of deposits
 in January, a level not reached since mid-
 2005. The greater liquidity in January came mainly from the strong
 increase recorded in deposits and was allocated, in part, to the
 purchase of BCRA securities and to the arrangement of repurchase agreements with the
 Chart 3.2 BCRA (see Chart 3.1).

 % of Minimum Cash Position
 deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position
 2.5 Additionally, banks reduced during January their
 December January February cash availabilities and current accounts at the BCRA and
 2.0 transferred part of these funds to repurchase agreements for the BCRA.

 1.5 As a consequence, although the average position continues to be
 surplus, the minimum cash surplus maintained by financial
 1.0 entities in January was lower than in December. It should be
 mentioned that from December through the month of February, the
 0.5 entities must comply with a quarterly position that is
 computed as an average of 90 days. Thus, the
 0.0 partial computation of the minimum cash position as of the quarter
 (average of 62 days) is approximately 0.6% of the total
 -0.5 deposits in pesos ($800 million, see Chart 3.2) a high level
 Quarterly Position
 -1.0 compared to that observed over the last year (around
 Dec-06 Jan-07 Feb-07 0.4%).
 Source: BCRA

 3 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007
Chart 4.1 In the foreign currency segment, the cash position
 Loans in Pesos to Non-Financial Private Sector thousands of
 % millions of $ minimum was maintained in surplus at approximately 16% of the total
6 (monthly var.) 2.5
 of dollar deposits.
 2.0
4 1.5

2 1.0

 0.5 4. Loans1 2

0 0.0

 -0.5 Loans to the private sector showed a certain
-2 -1.0
 deceleration in their growth compared to previous months.

-4 -1.5
 Amount (right axis) Variation %
 -2.0 Loans in pesos registered an increase of slightly more than

-6 -2.5 $1,020 million (1.6%) in the month (see Chart 4.1). The lower
 monthly growth was due, in part, to the lower funding needs
 of companies caused by lower activity during the summer recess,
 to which was added a less vigorous increase than in previous
 months of consumer financing. For its part, loans in foreign
 currency increased by US$80 million (2.1%), mainly linked to
 the financing of activities related to exports. Overall, the total
 loans (both in national and foreign currency) registered an

Chart 4.2 increase of almost $1,350 million (1.8%) in the month. In this way,
 millions of $ Consumer Loans in January the total loans to the private sector reached a historical
 1,000 (average monthly var.) maximum in nominal terms, although as a percentage of GDP

 Personal it is relatively small (around 10.5%) in relation to other
 800 countries or compared to the levels reached at the end of the
 Credit cards -$50 M
 600 nineties.

 = Commercial financing in pesos was reduced by $290
 400 -$220 M
 = -$70 M million (1%) in the month. This decline was explained by the
 200 behavior of advances, which were reduced by $470 million
 -$50 M (4%), which is consistent with their seasonal behavior. On the
 0 other hand, documents continued to grow, this time by $260
 million (1.9%) while "other loans" were reduced by around
-200 $80 million (2.3%) in the month.
 Dec-04 Mar-05 Jun-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06
Source: BCRA

 Consumer financing increased by $950 million, an increase
 that, while high, is $270 million less than that of December
 2006 (see Chart 4.2). The smaller increase was explained
 mainly by the behavior of credit card financing which increased
 Chart 4.3 only $270 million in January, around half the increase of the
 thousands of Chattel Loans and Automotive Sales thousands of previous month. Personal loans also registered somewhat lower
 units millions of $ growth, which in the month grew by $690 million, while in
 60 7 December they had grown by $740 million.

 50 6 In the case of mortgage loans, in January they again
 registered an important increase of $240 million (2.4%) and
 5
 40 accumulate an annual increase of 16.5%. Finally, in a
 4
 30 context where automotive sales to the domestic market hit
 3 their historical highs (see Chart 4.3), chattel loans registered
 20 an increase of $120 million (3.4%).
 2
 10 Domestic automotive sales 1 Chattel loans (right axis)

 0 0
 Apr-96 Aug-97 Dec-98 Apr-00 Aug-01 Dec-02 Apr-04 Aug-05 Dec-06
 Source: Own elaboration based on BCRA and ADEFA data

 2 Loan figures are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of
 credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.

 4 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 Chart 5.1 Offers Received to Purchase Securities 5. Interest Rates

 thousands of in the primary market auctions
 millions of $
 10 Securities issued by the BCRA3
 LEBAC Offers NOBAC Offers Offers-Maturities
# 8

In January, the Central Bank introduced NOBAC securities in the market with a 3-year term that pay adjustable coupons at the BADLAR rate of 4 private banks, in addition to those of 1 and 2 years that it already auctioned. The interest of investors in these new securities was reflected in a record amount of offers received to purchase NOBAC, which totaled almost $8,000 million in the month. To eliminate the distortions generated by renewals and to more correctly assess the magnitude of this amount, it can be expressed net of the month's maturities. In this way, it is observed that the amount offered by banks and other investors, net of January maturities, was also the highest since the Central Bank began auctioning securities in March 2002 (see Chart 5.1). This new instrument not only extends the average life of the LEBAC and NOBAC in circulation, but also contributes to generating yield curves of up to 36 months, both at variable rate (BADLAR) and at fixed rate.

Chart 5.2
Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC - as of 30-Jan-07
% NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR % LEBAC - TNA

With respect to placement interest rates, in the last auction of the month the 3-year NOBAC were awarded with a margin over BADLAR of 2.03 p.p. (see Chart 5.2). On the other hand, the implicit interest rates in the placement of LEBAC showed variations in different directions, depending on the security. While those of 3 and 12 months declined between the end of December and January –0.1 p.p. and 0.3 p.p., respectively– the 9-month rate increased 0.4 p.p. in the same period.

With the objective of creating a temporal structure of medium-term reference interest rates and increasing the average life of the LEBAC and NOBAC portfolio, starting in February the BCRA will exchange 3-year NOBAC for others of shorter terms, and LEBAC and NOBAC that pay fixed interest rates for instruments with variable interest rates.

## Interfinancial Markets

## Repo Market¹

Chart 5.3
Repos Arranged by the BCRA
thousands of (daily average amounts, monthly average balances) thousands of
millions of $ millions of $

On January 3rd, the BCRA implemented new increases in the interest rates it pays on its repo operations. The increase was 0.5 p.p. for 1-day passive operations and 0.25 p.p. for 7-day passive and active operations. Thus, starting then these operations were arranged at 6.25%, 6.5% and 8.5%, respectively.

Completed a month of high liquidity demand such as December and given the excess recorded in the minimum cash position already mentioned, entities began progressively to channel their surpluses to the repo market. In this way, the daily average amount negotiated by the BCRA registered in January a marked increase, greater than 70%, compared to that negotiated in December. The largest amount traded occurred exclusively in operations agreed in the REPO round. On the contrary, there was a slight decline both in transactions carried out with money market investment funds (FCI) and in

Chart 5.4
Call Operations
millions of $ %

---

³ In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
⁴ The BADLAR rate is the interest rate for fixed-term deposits of more than one million pesos with terms of 30 to 35 days.
Amount of operations at other terms (up to 15 calendar days) 9 overnight operations5. The decrease in FCI repo operations was of
1,400 Amount of operations at 7 calendar days
approximately 19% in January and was linked to the fall
 Amount of operations at 1 business day 8
in the equity of this type of investors (see Section
1,200 Interest rate of operations at 7 days recorded
7).
 Interest rate of operations at 1 day 7
1,000
6 The average balance of passive repo operations, including the three
800 5 modalities, exceeded 4,000 million pesos in January, a level that had
not been reached since mid-August of last year.
600 4
Additionally, the banks canceled all active repo operations
3
so that there were no active positions for the BCRA in January.
400
2

200 1

0 0
 Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07
Source: BCRA

Interbank Market (call)1

 In a context of ample liquidity, the call market saw
 its activity reduced and registered a decline in interest rates.
Graph 5.5

 % Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day During January, the amount of call operations reached 1,170 million pesos,
12 a figure that while high in relation to the 820 million pesos

 10 Monthly average operated in the same month of the previous year, implies a decline of 430
 million pesos with respect to what was operated in December 2006 (see Graph
 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
8 5.4).

 6 The interest rate of call operations at 1 business day, the term
 that concentrates more than 80% of the funds traded, registered in the
 4 month a decline of 1.2 p.p., reaching a value of 6.8% during
 January. The interest rate of operations at 7-day term
 2 registered a slightly smaller decline, of 1 p.p., to stand at
 7.9%. It is notable in recent months that, along with the gradual
 0
 increase in amounts traded, a reduction has been observed in the
 Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07
 dispersion of rates between the different operations agreed each
 Source: BCRA day (see Graph 5.5). During January, the standard deviation of call
 operations at 1 business day stood around 0.2 p.p., while it
 amounted to 0.3 p.p. in the same month of 2006, 0.6 p.p. in 2004
 and 2005, and 2.7 p.p. in 2003.

 By bank group, amounts granted by public banking and taken by
 foreign banks were reduced in the month, reducing in both cases
 their net position, as lender or borrower respectively.

 Graph 5.6
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days Passive Interest Rates1
 (5-day moving average)

 January Private Banks Public Banks Total

 % Greater than 1,000,000 % Less than 100,000 Passive interest rates showed heterogeneous behavior
 11 BADLAR 10 during the month, as a significant decline was registered in the
 wholesale segment (deposits of amounts greater than 1 million pesos)
 10 9
 while the retail segment (deposits of less than 100,000 pesos)
 9 8 ended the month with a slight increase and the rest of the
 8 7 amount strata remained stable.
 7 6

 6 5 The BADLAR interest rate of private banks fell 1.2 p.p.
 5 4 ending the month at 8.7%. In this segment, an increase was
 4 3 recorded in placements of wholesale fixed-term deposits by
 3 2 companies, which although they were agreed at rates similar to those
 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07May-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Dec-06of the previous months, are lower than the interest rates paid to
 Source: BCRA companies providing financial services. Additionally, as the

5 Framed within Communication A 4399 issued on August 25, 2005.

 6 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 Graph 5.7 liquidity situation became more ample, the

 Interest rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the private sector
 % weighted monthly average per amount operated
10 interest rates paid to financial service providing companies
 (AFJP, FCI, etc.) declined. Meanwhile, the BADLAR rate
9
 of public banks showed an evolution similar to previous months

8 and ended at 6% (see Graph 5.6).

7 In the shorter-term retail segment, the interest rate
 paid by public banks rose 0.4 p.p. and was placed at 5.1%,
6
 30 to 59 days while that of private banks remained stable at 7.3%. In this
5 60 to 89 days way, the gap between wholesale and retail deposit
 More than 90 days interest rates narrowed during the month.

4
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07
Source: BCRA By term of agreement, for total operations
 a slight decline of 0.1 p.p. is recorded both in the shortest term
 as well as in the more than 90 days bracket, which rose to 7.7% and 9%,
 respectively. The interest rate of placements for 60 to 89
 days remained equal to the previous month at 8.0% (see Graph 5.7).

 Graph 5.8 Active Interest Rates1 6

 TNA, % Commercial Loans
 30 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 Interest Rate on Advances by Account Holder The interest rates on shorter-term financings
 % %
 14 Advances to companies, greater than $1 million24
 Advances to other companies and families - right axis showed an evolution similar to interbank market rates
 25 13 23 Advances

 12 22 Interbank Documents. The interest rate on advances in current account
 11 21

 10 20 was 15.9%, declining 0.9 p.p. compared to December. Said
 20 9 19
 decline was recorded mainly in the interest rate charged on
 8 18
 Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 advances to large companies which recorded mid-month

 15 an average of 12.3% (1.2 p.p. below the previous month) and
 ended in January at 12.8%. Similarly, the interest rate on

 10 documents granted on single signature declined 0.6 p.p. during the month and
 was placed at 12.1% (see Graph 5.8).

 5
 Source: BCRAJan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 Regarding loans with real guarantees, the
 interest rate on mortgage loans remained at the same
 level as the previous month, at 11.4%. Meanwhile, the amount of new
 credits granted decreased slightly compared to recent
 months, mainly due to seasonal factors.
 Graph 5.9 On the contrary, an increase was observed in the amounts of

 millions New Loans Granted pledge loans granted during the month mainly
 of $ (amount of monthly entries) %
 500 15 intended to finance the purchase of new automobiles (see Section

 450 Amount Mortgage Amount Pledged 4). Given that among financings with pledge guarantee the interest
 Rate Mortgage Rate Pledge rates for automobile financing is low in relation to
 400 13

 350 the rest, the weighted average interest rate for this credit line
 300 11 decreased 1.1 p.p. (was placed at 9.5%) compared to the previous month,

 250 behavior similar to that observed during January of
 200 9 2006 (see Graph 5.9).

 150
 100 7 Finally, the interest rate on personal loans was

 50 25% in January, presenting an increase of 0.4 p.p. compared to
 0 5 the previous month. In credit card financings, the interest
 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 rate for December, the latest available data, remained stable at
 Source: BCRA
 26.2%.

 6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
 November 2006, the values for December 2006 and January 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with
 data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to
 revision.

 7 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market7
At the end of January, the stock of international reserves totaled US$33,739 million (see Graph 6.1), showing an increase of US$1,700 million (4.9%) compared to the previous month. This variation is explained mainly by the inflow of surplus foreign currency in the Single and Free Exchange Market, which totaled US$1,260 million, in addition to a net inflow from operations of the public sector and international organizations.

Graph 6.1 In the foreign exchange market, during the month the trend from the previous month reversed. After a minimum in the wholesale exchange rate of the peso against the reference dollar of 3.049, the evolution was upward until reaching an exchange rate of 3.107 at the end of January. The average wholesale exchange rate was 3.085 $/US$, which implies a depreciation of the peso of 0.8% compared to the previous month. The peso also depreciated against the Real by 1.4% with an average monthly exchange rate of 1.44 $/Real. In contrast, with respect to the Euro, the peso appreciated 0.7%, standing at 4.01 $/Euro.

The average daily volume traded in the spot market (through the Electronic Operations System - SIOPEL - and the Electronic Brokers Market - MEC -) was US$286 million, which represents a decrease of 23% compared to the previous month. The BCRA's participation in said market was 10%. In the futures market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario Term Market –ROFEX–) the traded volume remained similar to the previous month with a daily average of US$104 million with an increase in BCRA participation of 5 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching 8% of the traded volume.

## 7. Capital Market

Graph 7.1 Stocks

During January, the MERVAL index exhibited a negative variation of 0.95%, reaching a value of 2,070 points. The decline in the price of crude oil caused a reduction in the quotations of shares linked to the energy sector, which has strong participation in the MERVAL. In fact, WTI had ended December with a value of 61.05 dollars and reached a low of 50.48 dollars on January 18, to finally close the month at a value close to 58 dollars. The fall in the quotation of energy companies more than offset the improvement in quotations obtained by shares in the banking and telecommunications sectors. However, in the last twelve months, the MERVAL achieved a return of 15.42%.

In Latin America, positive returns were observed (measured in dollars) in the leading indices of the stock markets that operate the largest volume, with the exception of the MERVAL. While measured in dollars, the MERVAL index declined 2.10% in the period, the IGBVL index (Peru) registered an increase of 5.74%. They were followed by the IGPA indices (Chile) and IPC (Mexico) with increases of 2.76% and 2.47% respectively. Finally, the BOVESPA (Brazil) obtained an improvement of 0.90%.

The average volatility of the MERVAL increased slightly in January, behavior analogous to that observed in the stock exchanges of Brazil, Mexico, and Peru, while a decrease in the volatility levels of the Chilean stock exchange was observed (see Graph 7.1). In annualized terms and measured in dollars, the volatility of 22 trading sessions of the MERVAL index was 21.39% during January (1.10 p.p. higher than that of December).

Graph 7.2 The volumes traded daily on average in the...
Pension and Retirement Fund Managers

The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement Fund Managers (AFJP) totaled $89,943 million as of January 15. In the year-over-year comparison, the AFJP's assets exhibited an increase of 30% (18.2% in real terms).

When comparing the data from January 15 with the data from December 15, an increase in the portfolio of $2,460 million is observed, resulting fundamentally from the good performance of the bond and stock markets. Additionally, it must be taken into account that revenue from contributions increases in January due to the collection of holiday bonuses. The monthly variation in the portfolio is explained by the increase of $1,200 million in the value of holdings of national public securities, the increase in the value of the position...

[Chart 7.4 shows: Thousands of millions $ Heritage of Mutual Funds in Pesos - Fixed Income, Mixed Income, Variable Income]
12 Fixed-term deposits and money in stocks of $550 million, the increase in the item of
10 tradable futures and options contracts of $390 million. Likewise, an
8 increase was registered in the value of the position in mutual funds
 of the order of $260 million. On the downside,
6 it is worth highlighting the decrease in the stock of fixed-term deposits by $57
4 million.

2

0
 Jan-04 May-04 Sep-04 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI Mutual Funds data

 The equity of mutual funds (FCI) in
 pesos increased $131 million during January, reaching a
 value of approximately $15,600 million. The growth rate
 was 0.8%, a figure much lower than those that had been registered
 during the last quarter of 2006. It is important to note
 that the only type of fund that experienced a decline in its
 equity was the money market fund, partially offsetting the
 increase observed in the rest of the funds (see Chart 7.4).
Chart 7.5 The equity of variable income funds increased

 Variable Income Funds approximately $280 million (4.1%) during January. This figure
 millions of $ Index turns out to be lower than the increase registered the previous month. The equity
 8,200 2,200 increase is explained mainly by an increase in the
 Equity Variable Income Funds
 7,200 MERVAL (right axis) subscription of fund shares. Although many funds suffered
 2,000
 negative variations in the value of their fund shares, fundamentally
 6,200
 1,800 those that invest in shares of the local market, this trend was
 5,200
 1,600 more than offset by a revaluation in the fund shares
 4,200
 1,400 of the funds that are positioned in shares of Brazil, U.S.A and
 3,200
 Europe following the good performance of these stock markets, which
 2,200 1,200 made the profitability reach a value of 1.8%. This value
 1,200 1,000 turns out to be quite lower than that registered the previous month.

 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07
 Source: BCRA and CAFCI The equity of money market funds exhibited a
 negative variation of $520 million compared to the last figure of the
 previous month. This result responds to a seasonal pattern, since
 during January companies make bonus payments, which is why
 the stock of fund shares of this type of funds was reduced
 sharply. The profitability of this type of funds stood at 7%
 annually, 124 b.p. above that registered the previous month.
 Finally, the equity of fixed income funds obtained
 an increase close to $360 million. This variation is
 explained by an improvement in the quotations of public securities, since
 during January the quantity of fund shares of this type
 of funds was reduced. The profitability stood at 1.30%, a level higher by 55
 b.p. than the profitability of the previous month.

 10 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 Chart 7.6 Private Securities

 millions Emissions of Financial Trusts
 of $
 1,800 During January, two important corporate debt placements
 1,600 were carried out, for US$300 million combined.

 1,400 Half corresponded to Banco Macro and the other half to IRSA,
 1,200
 each of which issued a Negotiable Obligation (ON) at 10 years for
 1,000 US$150 million with a yield of 8.5% that pay interest in
 $870M
 800 semi-annual form and amortize the principal at maturity.
 prom. 2006: $630M
 600
 prom. 2005: $430M
 400 Financial Trusts8

 200
0 During January, financial trusts (FF) continued to be actively placed. In the month, 15 new issuances were made for a total of $870 million, an amount that, while significantly lower than the maximum recorded in the previous month (in which only one instrument, the Gas I trust, amounted to $588 million), widely exceeds the average of amounts issued in previous years (see Chart 7.6). The high amount of securitizations in January is partly due to the fact that new securitizations of public securities and loans guaranteed by $360 million were carried out in the month.

Chart 7.7
Underlying Assets of FF
(amounts issued - January 2007)

As is customary, the most important underlying assets of the month were again consumer financing (personal loans and credit card receivables), which accounted for half of the total placement (see Chart 7.7). Also those of public securities, which concentrated 42% of the total issued. Other securitized assets were leasing contracts, commercial loans, pledged loans, and future flows of funds. Among the settlors, financial entities concentrated 60% of the month's issuances, followed by retail trade (23%), unregulated financial entities (15%).

Personal Loans 39%
Credit Card Coupons
Pledged Loans 11% 2%
Commercial Loans Future Flows of
Other 2% Funds 8% 1%
Leasing Contracts
3%
Public Titles
42%

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

In line with the decline in the main market interest rates, in the month a fall was observed in the interest rates implicit in FF auctions. In the case of senior fixed-rate securities, they were reduced by 1 p.p., while in species adjustable to BADLAR, the decline was greater than 2 p.p. (see Chart 7.8, left quadrant). In turn, a slight lengthening was noted in the duration of species constituted with personal loans as underlying assets, which amounted to about 7 months (see Chart 7.9, right quadrant), while the total duration of senior securities again resulted in unusually high (27 months), due to the weight of public securities securitization, at longer terms.

Chart 7.9
Financial Trusts
(Class A titles - monthly averages weighted by amount)

% Months Duration
16 Interest Rate Cuts 55
50
14 45
40 Total
12 35
FF of Personal Loans
30
10 25 27
8 20
15
Fixed Rate
6 Variable Rate 10
BADLAR Rate Banks Private 7
5
4 0
Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others.

8 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary and financial system variables Jan-07 Monthly Last 12 Months Dec-06 Nov-06 Jan-06
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 78,063 76,825 71,843 59,355 1.6% 0.5% 31.5% 19.9%
Monetary Circulation 57,550 56,158 52,248 47,136 2.5% 1.3% 22.1% 11.3%
In the hands of the public 52,769 50,954 47,850 42,717 3.6% 2.4% 23.5% 12.6%
In financial entities 4,781 5,204 4,398 4,419 -8.1% -9.2% 8.2% -1.4%
Current account at BCRA 20,513 20,667 19,595 12,218 -0.7% -1.9% 67.9% 53.0%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities 4,045 1,769 3,401 3,908 128.6% 126.0% 3.5% -5.6%
Assets 8 104 82 371 -92.1% -92.2% -97.8% -98.0%

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
In pesos 13,007 12,740 11,752 18,083 2.1% 0.9% -28.1% -34.4%
In dollars 18 18 18 73 0.0% -75.0%

NOBAC 29,408 28,089 29,006 7,389 4.7% 3.5% 298.0% 262.8%

International Reserves of BCRA 32,827 31,167 29,760 19,608 5.3% 67.4%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 151.767 148.807 145.906 122.484 2,0% 0,8% 23,9% 13,0%
 Current account (2) 45.035 44.182 42.682 37.655 1,9% 0,8% 19,6% 9,0%
 Savings account 28.708 28.430 27.224 25.964 1,0% -0,2% 10,6% 0,8%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 63.417 61.042 60.895 42.513 3,9% 2,7% 49,2% 36,0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 4.500 4.829 5.203 7.386 -6,8% -7,9% -39,1% -44,5%
 CEDRO with CER 25 26 26 29 -3,5% -4,6% -15,9% -23,4%
 Other deposits (3) 10.083 10.299 9.877 8.937 -2,1% -3,2% 12,8% 2,8%

 Deposits from the private sector 107.877 105.703 102.813 88.734 2,1% 0,9% 21,6% 10,8%

 Deposits from the public sector 43.890 43.104 43.092 33.750 1,8% 0,7% 30,0% 18,6%

 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.571 5.516 5.549 4.119 1,0% 35,2%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 76.483 76.628 74.835 63.001 -0,2% -1,3% 21,4% 10,7%

 Loans to the private sector 63.690 62.975 60.964 46.821 1,1% 0,0% 36,0% 24,0%
 Advances 11.105 11.572 11.294 8.264 -4,0% -5,1% 34,4% 22,5%
 Documents 14.269 14.007 13.452 10.903 1,9% 0,7% 30,9% 19,3%
 Mortgage loans 10.092 9.852 9.821 8.665 2,4% 1,3% 16,5% 6,2%
 Pledge loans 3.769 3.648 3.503 2.394 3,3% 2,1% 57,4% 43,5%
 Personal loans 13.408 13.009 12.522 7.595 3,1% 1,9% 76,6% 60,9%
 Credit cards 7.521 7.277 6.803 5.494 3,4% 2,2% 36,9% 24,8%
 Others 3.526 3.610 3.568 3.507 -2,3% -3,4% 0,5% -8,3%

 Loans to the public sector 12.793 13.654 13.872 16.180 -6,3% -7,4% -20,9% -27,9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.777 3.702 3.668 2.360 2,0% 60,0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in circulation + current account in pesos) 97.804 95.135 90.532 80.372 2,8% 1,6% 21,7% 10,9%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 126.511 123.566 117.756 106.335 2,4% 1,2% 19,0% 8,5%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 204.536 199.761 193.756 165.201 2,4% 1,2% 23,8% 12,9%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 221.723 216.641 210.822 177.746 2,3% 1,2% 24,7% 13,7%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in circulation + private current account in pesos) 80.216 77.984 73.790 65.664 2,9% 1,7% 22,2% 11,4%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 105.519 103.035 97.304 87.016 2,4% 1,3% 21,3% 10,5%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 160.646 156.657 150.664 131.451 2,5% 1,4% 22,2% 11,4%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 177.833 173.537 167.730 143.996 2,5% 1,3% 23,5% 12,6%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 1.238 1,6% 7.888 10,1% 1.238 1,6% 18.708 24,0%
 Financial sector -3.808 -4,9% -2.832 -3,6% -3.808 -4,9% -8.278 -10,6%
 Public sector 653 0,8% -1.122 -1,4% 653 0,8% -5.392 -6,9%
 Temporary advances + transfer of profits 2.861 3.588 2.861 3.484
 Use of the national government account -2.537 -4.190 -2.537 -3.964
 External credit 329 -520 329 -4.911
 Private external sector 5.586 7,2% 14.124 18,1% 5.586 7,2% 44.404 56,9%
 BCRA securities -1.201 -1,5% -2.283 -2,9% -1.201 -1,5% -12.054 -15,4%
 Others 7 0,0% 2 0,0% 7 0,0% 27 0,0%

 International reserves 1.660 5,1% 4.438 13,5% 1.660 5,1% 13.220 40,3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.821 5,5% 4.599 14,0% 1.821 5,5% 14.459 44,0%
 Payment to international organizations -18 -0,1% -103 -0,3% -18 -0,1% -2.915 -8,9%
 Other operations of the public sector 231 0,7% -16 0,0% 231 0,7% 1.003 3,1%
 Minimum cash -377 -1,1% -489 -1,5% -377 -1,1% -987 -3,0%
 Repo valuation rate -75 -0,2% 168 0,5% -75 -0,2% 284 0,9%
 Others 78 0,2% 278 0,8% 78 0,2% 1.375 4,2%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made. 12

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 6.23 5.75 5.74 5.50 4.50
 Liabilities 7 days 6.49 6.25 6.24 6.00 5.00
 Assets 7 days 8.49 8.25 8.24 8.00 6.00

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 6.58 7.59 7.02 6.20 5.25
 7 days 6.89 8.18 7.37 6.19 5.37

 Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 3,104 2,666 3,159 2,511 2,194

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month n/o 7.90 n/o n/o 6.77
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 6.92
 3 months 7.90 8.00 n/o n/o 7.13
 9 months 10.35 10.09 10.30 10.21 n/o
 12 months 10.92 11.18 11.25 11.40 n/o

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.98
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.13 0.48 0.70 1.04 n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.62 2.10 1.98 2.35 5.33
 2 years BADLAR Total n/o n/o n/o n/o 6.25

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in secondary market (daily average) n/d 275 253 282 176

 Exchange Market Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.09 3.06 3.07 3.10 3.04
 BCRA Reference 3.09 3.06 3.08 3.10 3.05

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.08 3.07 3.08 3.11 3.06
 ROFEX 1 month 3.08 3.07 3.08 3.10 3.05
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 225 201 106 153 180

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.44 1.42 1.42 1.44 1.35

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.01 4.04 3.97 3.91 3.69

 Capital Market Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,058 2,023 1,896 1,692 1,666
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 56 82 68 52 92

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.89 92.37 93.10 92.88 90.29
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 110.38 104.94 101.93 98.78 89.04
 BODEN 2014 ($) 90.18 87.92 86.25 83.61 89.52
 DISCOUNT ($) 105.43 102.09 96.14 91.84 95.71

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 215 298 302 319 413
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 188 196 205 205 251

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the tenders of each month.

 13 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 6.83 8.02 8.02 6.67 7.17
 Amount traded 1,171 1,595 1,347 1,060 820

 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 7.42 7.06 6.85 6.97 5.32
 60 days or more 7.78 7.86 8.22 8.02 6.01
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.75 7.91 7.40 7.18 6.23
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.20 9.80 9.59 9.47 8.22

 In dollars
 30 days 1.10 0.95 1.01 0.99 0.60
 60 days or more 1.83 1.92 1.74 1.65 1.12
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.82 0.93 0.74 0.88 0.63
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.06 2.99 2.49 2.25 1.06

 Active Interest Rates Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 9.59 9.59 9.52 9.34 7.53

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.12 8.82 8.71 8.76 8.12
 Amount traded (total terms) 107 112 108 105 97

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts 15.94 16.79 16.32 16.33 17.26
 Documents on signature alone 12.08 12.63 12.86 12.75 11.50
 Mortgages 11.43 11.46 11.63 11.93 11.54
 Pledges 9.47 10.64 10.64 10.29 8.78
 Personal loans 24.98 24.59 24.79 25.37 25.51
 Credit cards n/d 26.20 26.22 26.34 28.07

 International Interest Rates Jan-07 Dec-06 Nov-06 Oct-06 Jan-06

 LIBOR
 1 month 5.32 5.35 5.32 5.32 4.48
 6 months 5.38 5.35 5.37 5.39 4.73
# US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.87 4.67 4.74 4.79 4.39
 10 years 4.76 4.56 4.59 4.72 4.40

 FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 4.26

 SELIC (at 1 year) 13.18 13.25 13.70 14.01 17.69

 (1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for October and November are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report JANUARY 2007

## 9. Glossary
AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Effective.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the US.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock market index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock market index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Securities Market of Buenos Aires.
MEXBOL: Stock market index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unique and Free Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PBI: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VN: Nominal Value.

 15
