# Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Monetary Report APRIL 2007

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 5
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 7
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Stocks 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 10
   - Private Securities 10
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 12
9. Glossary 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. Summary

• In April, the means of payment (M2) were located at $129,170 million, a level that is within the range provided for in the 2007 Program.

• The BCRA continued to guarantee equilibrium between the supply and demand for money, sterilizing all surplus, mainly through the placement of securities and the arrangement of reverse repos for the BCRA. In April, the allocation of LEBAC and NOBAC allowed absorption of $2,138 million and repo operations implied a contraction of $1,235 million. Furthermore, contraction continued due to the cancellation of rediscounts provided for within the matching scheme. Overall, the BCRA's monetary regulation operations—repos, placement of LEBAC and NOBAC and collection of rediscounts—and the monetary contraction related to public sector operations, allowed sterilization of 75% of foreign exchange purchases in April.

• Time deposits showed significant growth driven by private sector placements, which showed a monthly increase of $1,380 million (2.7%) and an accumulated variation of 29% in the last 12 months, 18 p.p. more than a year ago. The broader monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, accumulated a monthly increase of 1.5% ($3,230 million).

• The growth of deposits in April was an important source of liquidity for the financial system, which maintained a comfortable situation throughout the month.

• Private sector loans increased by around $2,200 million (2.8%) in the month and accumulated an increase of 39.8% in nominal terms and 28.5% in real terms in the last 12 months.

• During April, the BCRA maintained the repo rates and on the first business day of May, the BCRA arranged an increase of 0.25 p.p. in the reference interest rates on all segments in which it operates. The average amount of operations arranged by the BCRA increased significantly compared to March, reaching approximately $5,300 million. The increase occurred especially in the REPO round and there was a marked rise in the participation of private banks.

• In line with the existing liquidity context, driven by deposit growth, interest rates remained in decline. The interbank interest rate converged to the level of short-term reference interest rates and the BADLAR interest rate of private banks was reduced by 0.7 p.p. during the month, ending at 7.6%.

• The stock of international reserves rose to US$38,606 million during the month of April and set a historical record by surpassing the amount of US$37,380 million recorded in January 2001.

• The CPI Rest (approximation to underlying inflation) was 0.7% in April, lower than the same month of the year. The evolution of CPI Rest continued with the declining trend in year-on-year terms with year-on-year variation that reached 10.1%.

---

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report APRIL 2007
# CHART 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹
 Evolution of M2 and Monetary Program

 billions of $
 150 In April, the means of payment (M2) were located at $129,170
 M2, 30-day moving average million, a level that is found within the range foreseen in the
 140 Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1).
 PM Bands 2007

 130
 The component that explained to a greater extent the monthly
 growth of M2 were sight deposits of the private sector.
 120
 75% of the increase in this type of deposits occurred in the
 110 segment of current account deposits and, in particular, in those
 of more than $1 million. On the other hand, sight deposits of the
 100 public sector decreased slightly.

 90
 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07

 Source: BCRA With regard to time deposits, they showed important growth
 driven by deposits from the private sector, which showed a
 monthly increase of $1,380 million (2.7%) and accumulated a
 variation of 29% in the last 12 months, 18 p.p. above the growth
 rate recorded a year earlier (see Chart 2.2). As in March, during
 this month the bracket that gathered most of the increase was that
 of deposits of up to 59 days. This behavior of private time
 
 CHART 2.2 deposits is explained by the concentration of tax payments
 (expiration of income taxes and personal property taxes) during
 Time Deposits of the Private Sector May, which forces companies and families to obtain greater
 liquidity to face them.
 y-o-y var.
 thousands Var. Prom. April 2007 Thus, M3, which includes cash in the hands of the public and
 of millions $ the total of peso deposits, increased 1.5% ($3,230 million).
 1.5
 40
 35 0.8 In the foreign currency segment, deposits from the private
 +$1.4 MM
 30 0.0 28 29 sector continued to increase. The monthly increase was
 approximately US$80 million, which was distributed in both
 25 -0.8
 30-59 60-89 90-179 180-365 366 and more term (days) increases in sight deposits and fixed-term deposits (see Chart 2.3).

 20 For its part, public sector deposits recorded a slight decline of
 approximately US$20 million.
 15
 11
 10 Consequently, M3*, which results from the sum of M2 and
 5 dollar deposits, grew 1.5% ($3,360 million) in the month.

 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 The BCRA continued to guarantee monetary equilibrium,
 Source: BCRA sterilizing mainly through the placement of securities and the
 concertation of reverse repos for the BCRA. Thus, in April the
 allocation of LEBACs and NOBACs allowed absorbing $2,138
 
 CHART 2.3 million of monetary base; while the increase in the balance of
 reverse repos for the BCRA implied a monetary contraction of
 Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits Stock $1,235 million. Furthermore, the only entity that maintains balances
 millions of US$ thousands of millions for assistance due to illiquidity included in the matching scheme
 of US$ continued to cancel part of its debt according to the current
 350 6.5
 300 schedule. Together, the BCRA's monetary regulation operations
 –reverse repos, placement of LEBACs and NOBACs and
 250 Apr-07 6.0 collection of rediscounts– and the monetary contraction related
 200 US$5.700M to public sector operations, allowed sterilization in April of
 150 75% of the foreign exchange purchases.

 100 5.5

 50 In April 2007, underlying retail inflation measured by the
 CPI Rest was 0.7% monthly, thus returning to the average rate
 0 5.0
 observed in the second half of 2006, after verifying in the first
 -50
 quarter of the current year a monthly increase of 1.1%. [...]
 -100 4.5

 -150
 -200 Sight S. Private Sight S. Public
 Time Fixed S. Private Time S. Public Total (2nd axis) 4.0

 -250
 -300 -350 3.5
 Source: BCRA Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07

 2 Monetary Report APRIL 2007
**Chart 2.4 IPC Rest and Market Expectations**

In turn, the increase in IPC Rest turned out to be lower than that of April 2006 (0.9%), so that the year-on-year variation reached 10.1%, positioning itself slightly below the levels of the last months (see Chart 2.4). The decline in the year-on-year rate responded both to the evolution of service prices and goods prices, which again reduced the pace of year-on-year increases after three months of remaining relatively stable. Meanwhile, the indices of diffusion, magnitude and persistence of price increases that make up this sub-index remain at elevated levels.

In any case, the evolution of IPC Rest continues in 2007 with the declining trend in year-on-year terms observed throughout last year, which allows market expectations on retail inflation for the current year to continue within the band stipulated in the Monetary Program (7-11%).

Source: INDEC and REM

**Chart 3.1 Section 3. Bank Liquidity¹**

The month of April was characterized by a situation of abundant liquidity that was maintained throughout the entire period and that came mainly from an increase in deposits that was not accompanied in the same proportion by the granting of loans. Thus, the liquidity ratio, defined as cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase operations arranged with the BCRA as a percentage of total deposits in pesos, increased to 18.7%, almost one percentage point higher than the previous month's liquidity. If we consider the estimated holdings of BCRA securities by the entities, the ratio reaches 39.7%. As can be seen in Chart 3.1, the increase in liquidity occurred in a generalized manner.

Likewise, the existing liquidity situation was also reflected in the minimum cash position, which remained in surplus throughout the entire month, not only on a monthly average basis but also on a daily basis (see Chart 3.2). In this regard, the daily position was only in deficit on the last day of the month once the monthly average position was met. The minimum cash surplus averaged in April approximately 0.4% of total deposits in pesos ($600 million), a level slightly higher than the one in effect the previous month. The surplus was concentrated mainly in the group of private banks that maintained a position of 0.6% of their deposits, while public banks ended with the position practically closed at 0.2% of their deposits.

In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position averaged 10% of total dollar deposits. The surplus decreased by approximately 2 percentage points compared to the previous month, given that entities maintained lower funds in their current accounts in dollars opened at the BCRA during April.

**Chart 3.2 Minimum Cash Position**

Source: BCRA

---

**Chart 4.1 Section 4. Loans¹²**

Loans to the non-financial private sector increased by around $2,200 million (2.8%) during April, to exceed $80,000 million, a figure that represents approximately 10.5% of GDP, a relatively small percentage in relation to other countries or with respect to the maximum historical levels reached by the local financial system. In this context, in recent...

Source: BCRA

---

*Page 3 Monetary Report APRIL 2007*
# Translation to English

Over the last 12 months there has been an increase of 39.8% in nominal terms and 28.5% in real terms (see Chart 4.1).

Similar to recent months, loans with real estate collateral show significant dynamism, while consumer financing would be showing a slight deceleration (see Chart 4.2).

Loans with chattel mortgage collateral continue to show a firm growth rate, registering an increase of $130 million (3.2%) in the month and thus accumulating a year-over-year increase of 54.2%. For their part, mortgage loans show sustained growth with increases of more than $200 million per month so far this year. In particular, in April, they registered a monthly increase of $260 million (2.4%), accumulating a year-over-year increase of 22.1%.

Consumer financing increased by $860 million (3.8%). In year-over-year terms they accumulate an increase of 59%, an increase that, while still being elevated, is 15 percentage points lower than the maximum registered in mid-last year. In particular, personal loans increased by $610 million (4.2%), while credit card financing increased by $250 million (3%).

For its part, commercial financing in pesos grew again, this time around $650 million (2.3%). This increase was explained both by the behavior of overdrafts, which increased by $390 million (3.5%), as well as by documents, which grew by $240 million (1.7%) and "other loans," which increased by $20 million (0.7%).

Finally, financing in foreign currency increased by US$120 million (2.9%) in the month, an increase that was explained fundamentally by documents, linked to foreign trade operations.

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credits from entities' portfolios to financial trusts.

4 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

## Chart 5.2
5. Interest Rates

Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC

% NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR % LEBAC - Annual Rate
Titles issued by the BCRA3

In April the outstanding stock of LEBAC and NOBAC reached $VN 53,659 million, which implied an increase of 5% compared to the previous month, mainly through the growth of securities with residual maturity of between 9 and 12 months and those of more than 2 years, which are the segments that concentrate 85% of the increase in the first four months of 2007 (see Chart 5.1). However, April was the first month of the year in which net LEBAC placement far exceeded that of NOBAC and concentrated almost all of the adjudications.

Regarding interest rates, the yield curve again showed a slight flattening, with a decrease observed in peso-denominated securities of longer maturity. Meanwhile, the interest rates of NOBAC that pay variable coupons also implied reductions for margins over BADLAR of private banks, especially in the case of 3-year securities (see Chart 5.2).
Passive Interest Rates¹

As a consequence of the liquidity existing in the money market, during April the interest rates of short-term wholesale placements showed a decline compared to the previous month, which was reflected marginally in the rest of the interest rates.

# CHART 5.6

The BADLAR interest rate of private banks showed a downward trend throughout the month, beginning in April with

## Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days
(5-day moving average)
BADLAR private banks BADLAR public banks at a level of 8.2% and ending at 7.6%. Said decrease of 0.7 p.p.
% %
11 Retail (Up to $100,000) 9 Retail (Up to $100,000) responds largely to the ample liquidity that banks
maintained throughout the month. On the other hand, the retail interest rate
10 8
in private banks (interest rate on fixed-term deposits for
amounts less than $100,000) remained stable at
9 7
7.2%, which reduced the gap between wholesale and retail rates,
8 6 reaching the smallest difference of the last two years. In
public banks, the BADLAR interest rate, although it decreased
7 5
during the first days of the month, mainly due to renewals
6 4
of public sector deposits, later resumed the previous month's
5 3 level and remained at 6.7%. In these banks, the retail interest
Nov-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 Nov-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07
Source: BCRA rate also remained stable at 5.7% (see Chart 5.6).

Within the total operations of the private sector, the
decrease was observed mainly in the shortest bracket where the
average interest rate was 7.2%. For placements of 60 to 89
days, the interest rate remained at 7.7% and for deposits at 90
Chart 5.7 days or more, the interest rate was 8.4%. When analyzing the interest rates

Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits of the private sector for placements by type of holder, it is observed that the main
% monthly average weighted by amount traded decrease was in those made by financial services providers
(AFJP, mutual funds, insurance companies, etc.) where a
10 decrease of 0.4 p.p. was recorded in all time brackets. Meanwhile,
9 30 to 59 days for placements by families, interest rates did not
60 to 89 days change in any of the terms (see Chart 5.7).
8
More than 90 days Yield on Fixed-Term Deposits by Holder
%
7 Families
10.0 MARCH 2007 Financial Services
6 Legal Entities - other APRIL 2007
9.5

9.0
5 8.5

8.0
4 7.5

7.0

6.5
3 30 to 59 60 to 89 more than 90 30 to 59 60 to 89 more than 90
Note: Operations with fixed terms adjustable by CER are not included. Jan-06 Mar-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07

Source: BCRA

6 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

Chart 5.8 Active Interest Rates1 4

Documents granted by type of holder and amount bracket
millions Active interest rates continued similar to the previous month
of $
1,600 with slight variations in financing of loans with
Companies for more than $1 million real estate guarantee.
1,400
Companies between $100,000 and $1 million
Companies for less than $100,000 The interest rate on advances rose during the first
1,200
Families days of the month, mainly due to liquidity needs of some
1,000
companies facing a long weekend, and later, from the second
800
week onward, said increase reversed. As a result, the average
600
interest rate on advances in April was 15.5%, 0.3 p.p. lower than

400 the previous month. Meanwhile, the interest rate for documents on
personal endorsement remained stable at 13.1%. In this credit line,
200
a slight decrease in granted amounts was observed (in April

0 approximately $980 million were granted) that concentrated on
Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07
Source: BCRA documented loans of more than $1 million. (see Chart 5.8).

Regarding financing with real estate guarantee, the
interest rate on mortgage loans showed an increase
of 0.4 p.p. after the minimum reached in March, thus for
April the interest rate was 11.1%. By contrast, for
Chart 5.9 chattel mortgage loans, the interest rate decreased 0.4 p.p.
**Active Interest Rates** reaching a level of 9.7%. Of these loans, 36% is granted
TNA, % (Average interest rate monthly weighted by amount) TNA, %
by financial companies.
25 35
Mortgage
Pledge
Credit Cards - right axis. Finally, the interest rate on personal loans
Personal - right axis
20 30 increased 0.3 p.p. and was placed at 25.3% and for credit card
financing the interest rate corresponding to March, latest available
information, was 25.7% registering a similar level to the previous
15 25 month (see Graph 5.9).

10 20

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market5**

5 15
Apr-04 Aug-04 Dec-04 Apr-05 Aug-05 Dec-05 Apr-06 Aug-06 Dec-06 Apr-07
Source: BCRA The stock of international reserves amounted to US$38,606
million during the month of April and marked a historical record by
surpassing the amount of US$37,380 million registered in January
2001 (see Graph 6.1).

**Graph 6.1**
BCRA International Reserves The increase in reserves during the month was US$1,757
thousands of (gold, foreign currency and fixed-term placements) million (4.8%) with respect to the level registered at the end of the
millions of US$
39 previous month and is explained mainly by the inflow of foreign
currency derived from the purchases made by the BCRA –within the
34 framework of its international reserves accumulation policy– in the
Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) for an amount of US$1,600
29 million in the month. The remainder of the variation was due to the
increase in current account balances of financial entities, the
24 valuation of the exchange rate and the return on reserves offset in
part by payments made to international organizations for US$350
19 million.
14 In the foreign exchange market, the wholesale quotation of the peso
9 appreciated 0.4% with respect to the dollar (Reference), where the
4 average monthly exchange rate was 3.0891 $/US$ (see Graph 6.2).
Dec-01 Aug-02 Apr-03 Dec-03 Aug-04 Apr-05 Dec-05 Aug-06 Apr-07
On the contrary, the peso depreciated 2.5% with respect to the Real
Source: BCRA
and 1.7% with respect to the Euro. With these currencies the average
4 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to monthly exchange rate was 1.522 $/Real and 4.182 $/Euro.
February 2007, the values for March and April 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data of
loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision. Regarding the volume traded, in the spot market the
5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated. average daily, through the Electronic Operations System -
SIOPEL- and the Brokers Electronic Market -MEC-, was
**Graph 6.2** minimum value 2007 US$474 million, which represented an increase of 25%
Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) with respect to the previous month, with BCRA participation of 9.8%.

$/US$ In the futures market (MAE Futures Market and Rosario
3.10 Forward Market –ROFEX-) the average daily traded was US$96
million, 14% less than in March and BCRA participation was 2.7%.
3.05
3.0553 $/US$
3.00 minimum value 2007
**7. Capital Market**
3.0305 $/US$
minimum value 2006 **Stocks**
2.95

2.90
Nov-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 Apr-06 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07

Source: BCRA
During April the main stock exchanges in the world have recovered from the fall caused -among other causes- by the sharp decline of the Shanghai stock exchange (China) and have again reached historical Graph 7.1 highs. The US stock exchanges were no exception, and encouraged by high corporate profits and despite some economic indicators –such as quarterly GDP- being below market expectations, they also recorded historical highs. Furthermore, in a context of high international liquidity, financial assets of emerging countries appreciated considerably while investor risk aversion decreased.

In April the MERVAL index obtained a gain of 2.5%, reaching a value of 2,154 basis points at month-end. In this way, over the last twelve months MERVAL achieved a return of 12.9% while year-to-date said value is 3%. Furthermore, during April it reached a new historical high of 2,225 basis points, thus surpassing the value recorded the day before the Shanghai stock exchange collapse. At that moment –February 26- this index had reached a value of 2,219 basis points. The gas and electricity sectors had the best performance, however, the banking sector which in recent months had been leading the gains, retreated slightly.

The daily volumes traded on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) on average increased. The average amount traded reached 78 million daily, increasing 14 million compared to the previous month.

During April the EDENOR stock began trading on the BCBA. The subscription in the local tranche was US$ 69 million.

The main Latin American stock exchanges obtained positive returns measured in dollars. The IGBVL (Peru) registered –as has been repeating for several months- the region's highest growth with 20.9%. For its part, the IGPA (Chile) increased 9.6%; the BOVESPA (Brazil) exhibited a return of 8.1%. Following this trend, the MERVAL (Argentina) and the IPC (Mexico) grew 2.8% and 1.6% respectively.

The volatility of Latin American stock exchanges decreased substantially in a month characterized by the recovery of financial assets in the region and by greater optimism in emerging economies (See Graph 7.1). Specifically, MERVAL volatility decreased strongly. In annualized terms and measured in dollars, the volatility of 22 trading sessions of the MERVAL index was 14% in April (13 percentage points lower than in March).

In April the spreads of emerging countries and developed countries...
Latin Americans –excepting Argentina- reached historical lows again (See Graph 7.2). The spreads of Latin America's external debt measured by the EMBI were reduced by 2 b.p. during April. In the case of emerging countries in general, the spread also decreased by 2 b.p. as indicated by the EMBI+. In the opposite direction evolved Argentina's spread, which increased 68 b.p. This evolution of the spread finds explanation in the investment strategy of an important fund, which came to market to sell its holdings of PARY and DICY, causing their quotations to fall and their yields to rise. While the Credit Default Swaps (CDS) -a financial instrument that reflects sovereign risk more faithfully- at 5 and 10 years decreased by 12 b.p. and 8 b.p. respectively.

The yield curve of titles in pesos flattened slightly, with the yield of the title of shorter duration of the curve rising, the Boden 2008, and reducing the yields of the longer segment (See Graph 7.3). The titles –except for Boden 2008- registered increases in their quotation, generating decreases in the yields. The yield curve of public titles in dollars also registered a flattening; and the titles of the long segment –Discount and Par- registered an important fall in their quotation, causing yields to rise considerably (See Graph 7.4).

The units linked to GDP (U.V.P) had a very good performance during the month, partially explained by an upward revision in growth estimates for the year 2007. The U.V.P denominated in dollars (New York law) finished the month with a value of US$15.2, reflecting an increase of 10.3% compared to March. The U.V.P denominated in pesos reached a value of $12.8 upon finishing the month, a value superior by 8% to that registered the previous month.

The volume of public titles traded (on a daily average) increased compared to the level reached the previous month, the level was $2,106 million, thus exceeding by $250 million the value registered the previous month, with the interest in national public titles being reflected.

During April the BONAR X was placed, a title denominated in dollars, for a nominal value of US$750 million and an effective value of US$677 million. The cut-off rate was 8.46% and it matures in 2017.

**Institutional Investors**

**Pension Fund Administrators**

The investment portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) reached a value of $93,850 million on April 15. Compared to the previous year, the patrimony of the AFJP increased 25.9% (15.5% in real terms).

Upon comparing the data from April 15 with the data from March 15, it is observed that the patrimony increased $3,634 million (4%). This increase is explained by 2.6% by profitability and by 1.4%
6,000 6 by contributions. The monthly variation in the investment portfolio –does not
 5,000 5 include available funds– was $3,335 million. The principal
 4,000 4 variation occurred in the category of securities issued by foreign
 3,000 3 companies, which increased by $830 million. The value that AFJPs
 2,000 2 hold in stocks grew by $613 million while participation
 1,000 1 in FCIs increased by $752 million.
 0 0
 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07
 Common Investment Funds

 The equity of common investment funds (FCIs) in pesos increased by $1,293 million during April, an important growth although lower than that recorded the previous month. The equity closed the month with a value of $18,717 million, which implied a growth of 7.4% compared to the previous month (See Chart 7.5). All types of funds saw their equity increase, although fixed income and variable income funds showed the greatest dynamism.
 The equity of variable income funds increased by $349
 Chart 7.7 million (5%) during April. The equity increase is explained by
 the increase in the values of share quotas. Profitability reached
 Financial Trust Issuances a value of 3.9%.
 millions of $
1,800
 For its part, the equity of money market funds
1,600 showed a positive variation of $276 million (5%) compared to the end
1,400 of March. This figure implies a growth noticeably lower than
1,200 that recorded the previous month. The average variation was $283
1,000 million. This type of fund received contributions mainly from
 800 institutional investors. The profitability of this type of fund
 avg. 2006: $630M was 5.8% annually, 20 basis points above that recorded the previous
 600 $498M month (See Chart 7.6).
 avg. 2005: $430M
 400
 Finally, the equity of fixed income funds grew by
 200 $654 million (14%). This variation is due both to an increase in
 0 the value of share quotas and to greater subscription of
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 share quotas. Profitability was 0.8%, higher by 10 basis points than
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others the profitability achieved the previous month.

 Private Securities

 During April, the following developments occurred regarding the placement of Negotiable Obligations (ON):

 10 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

 - Petrobras Energía announced the launch of Series S ONs
 for a nominal value of up to US$300 million and maturing
 in 2017, with interest payments being semiannual.

 - Banco Santander Río placed debt in pesos with a three-year
 term at an annual rate of 11.4%, raising funds of $450 million.

 Chart 7.8 - Petroquímica Comodoro Rivadavia S.A. offered the
 Underlying Assets and Trustees of FF subscription of ONs for an amount of up to US$25 million under a
 (amounts issued - April 2007) program of issuance of up to US$50 million, with interest payments
 Underlying Assets being semiannual and the annual interest rate being fixed at 7.7%.
 Trustees

 Retail
 Stores
 34%

 Personal Other Financial Trusts6
 Loans Credits 10%
 80% Commercial
 10%
 Leasing Non-regulated Fin. Inst. During April, financial trusts (FF) were placed for
 Contracts 6% 15% Credit Card approximately $500 million, an amount that, although about
 Coupons Financial 30% lower than the previous month, is 6% higher than that of the
 4% Entities same month of 2006 (see Chart 7.7).
 41%

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others As is customary, the most important underlying assets of the
 month were again consumer financing (personal loans and credit
 cards), which accounted for 84% of total placement. Commercial
 credits and leasing contracts were also securitized.
The main fiduciaries continued to be financial entities, which concentrated 41% of what was issued, followed by retail commerce, with 34% and unregulated financial institutions, with 15% (see Chart 7.8). The remaining fiduciaries, which concentrated the remaining 10%, corresponded to companies that produce and market agricultural inputs, and manufactures of agricultural origin.

Chart 7.9

Financial Trusts (Series A - monthly averages weighted by amount) Duration The cut-off interest rates continued to decline (see Chart 7.9, left quadrant). In effect, the interest rate on senior series at fixed rate registered a decline of 0.3 p.p. to stand at 9.6% in April, reaching a new minimum since October 2005. An even greater decline (1.4 p.p.) was registered in the species of Personal Loans adjustable according to BADLAR, whose average stood at 9.5%.

% months
16 Cut-off Interest Rates 55
50 The average duration of senior FF series issued was strongly reduced to 6.9 months in April (see Chart 7.9, right quadrant), which is a result of the greater relative weight of placements of species that have consumer financing as underlying, with shorter durations. Nevertheless, the duration of senior series that have personal loans as underlying also remained unchanged at 6 and a half months.

14 45
40
12 35 Total
30 FF Personal Loans
10 25
20
8 Fixed rate 15
Variable rate 10
6 BADLAR Private Banks 5
4 0
Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others.

6 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system variables Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Apr-06 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 79,688 78,363 76,906 60,229 1.7% 0.9% 32.3% 21.5%
Monetary circulation 58,909 58,136 57,333 47,288 1.3% 0.5% 24.6% 14.4%
In the hands of the public 53,697 53,228 52,629 42,610 0.9% 0.1% 26.0% 15.7%
In financial entities 5,212 4,907 4,704 4,678 6.2% 5.4% 11.4% 2.3%
Current account at the BCRA 20,779 20,227 19,573 12,941 2.7% 1.9% 60.6% 47.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 5,298 4,090 5,507 3,317 29.5% 28.5% 59.7% 46.6%
Assets 4 32 0 384 -86.0% -86.2% -98.8% -98.9%

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 16,358 14,866 13,611 10,207 10.0% 9.2% 60.3% 47.1%
In dollars 19 18 18 38 2.2% -51.0%

NOBAC 35,886 34,832 32,737 18,217 3.0% 2.2% 97.0% 80.8%

BCRA international reserves 37,647 35,876 34,226 21,866 4.9% 72.2%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 159,358 156,596 154,630 125,259 1.8% 1.0% 27.2% 16.8%
Current account (2) 46,065 44,596 44,784 36,066 3.3% 2.5% 27.7% 17.2%
Savings account 29,405 28,872 28,963 26,573 1.8% 1.0% 10.7% 1.6%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER 69,166 68,504 66,292 46,235 1.0% 0.2% 49.6% 37.3%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 4,259 4,395 4,440 7,257 -3.1% -3.9% -41.3% -46.1%
CEDRO with CER 25 25 25 30 0.5% -0.3% -16.3% -23.2%
Other deposits (3) 10,438 10,204 10,127 9,099 2.3% 1.5% 14.7% 5.3%

Deposits of the private sector 115,709 111,936 110,409 92,425 3.4% 2.6% 25.2% 14.9%

Deposits of the public sector 43,649 44,660 44,221 32,834 -2.3% -3.0% 32.9% 22.0%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,738 5,680 5,697 4,699 1.0% 22.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 79,434 78,247 76,914 63,973 1.5% 0.7% 24.2% 14.0%
Loans to the private sector 67.582 65.888 64.551 48.994 2.6% 1.8% 37.9% 26.6%
 Advances 11.461 11.084 10.977 8.210 3.4% 2.6% 39.6% 28.2%
 Documents 14.606 14.360 14.166 11.266 1.7% 0.9% 29.6% 19.0%
 Mortgages 10.795 10.572 10.321 8.837 2.1% 1.3% 22.2% 12.1%
 Pledges 4.136 4.009 3.885 2.681 3.2% 2.4% 54.2% 41.6%
 Personal loans 14.972 14.524 14.001 8.594 3.1% 2.3% 74.2% 59.9%
 Credit cards 8.081 7.834 7.733 5.861 3.1% 2.3% 37.9% 26.6%
 Others 3.530 3.507 3.469 3.545 0.7% -0.1% -0.4% -8.6%

 Loans to the public sector 11.852 12.359 12.363 14.979 -4.1% -4.9% -20.9% -27.4%

 Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 4.122 4.006 3.907 2.764 2.9% 49.2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current accounts in pesos) 99.763 97.825 97.413 78.676 2.0% 1.2% 26.8% 16.4%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 129.168 126.696 126.377 105.249 2.0% 1.1% 22.7% 12.7%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 213.056 209.824 207.259 167.870 1.5% 0.7% 26.9% 16.5%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 230.701 227.431 224.935 182.284 1.4% 0.6% 26.6% 16.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current accounts in pesos) 83.450 81.346 80.571 66.510 2.6% 1.8% 25.5% 15.2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 109.968 107.283 106.195 87.918 2.5% 1.7% 25.1% 14.8%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 169.407 165.164 163.038 135.036 2.6% 1.8% 25.5% 15.2%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 185.454 181.086 178.916 146.872 2.4% 1.6% 26.3% 15.9%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 1.325 1.7% 1.625 2.0% 1.625 2.0% 19.459 24.4%
 Financial sector -1.323 -1.7% -2.390 -3.0% -2.390 -3.0% -6.483 -8.1%
 Public sector -111 -0.1% 905 1.1% 905 1.1% -3.183 -4.0%
 Temporary advances + profit transfers 764 1.746 1.746 5.632
 Utilization of the national government account -1.383 -2.937 -2.937 -5.642
 External credit 508 2.096 2.096 -3.173
 Private external sector 4.858 6.1% 11.349 14.2% 11.349 14.2% 47.411 59.5%
 BCRA securities -2.138 -2.7% -8.342 -10.5% -8.342 -10.5% -18.604 -23.3%
 Others 39 0.0% 104 0.1% 104 0.1% 318 0.4%

 International reserves 1.771 4.7% 4.819 12.8% 4.819 12.8% 15.781 41.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.569 4.2% 3.665 9.7% 3.665 9.7% 15.404 40.9%
 Payment to international organizations -257 -0.7% -793 -2.1% -793 -2.1% -1.633 -4.3%
 Other public sector operations 330 0.9% 1.676 4.5% 1.676 4.5% 1.501 4.0%
 Minimum cash -144 -0.4% -489 -1.3% -489 -1.3% -1.541 -4.1%
 Valuation at repo rate 110 0.3% 274 0.7% 274 0.7% 473 1.3%
 Others 162 0.4% 486 1.3% 486 1.3% 1.576 4.2%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 12 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 7.08 7.66 6.73 8.02 7.46
 Amount traded 943 1.135 1.002 1.600 930

 Fixed term
 In pesos
 30 days 7.02 7.19 6.99 7.06 6.29
 60 days or more 7.91 7.93 8.00 7.86 6.77
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.11 7.46 7.13 7.91 7.06
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.90 8.29 7.95 9.80 9.00
In dollars
 30 days 1.08 1.01 1.08 0.95 0.72
 60 days or more 2.03 1.99 2.02 1.92 1.28
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.77 0.85 0.88 0.93 0.61
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.81 2.47 2.54 2.99 0.81

 Active Interest Rates Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 8.72 8.52 9.38 9.59 7.70

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 7.20 7.02 7.67 8.82 8.62
 Amount operated (total terms) 116 103 105 112 110

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 15.51 15.85 16.05 16.38 17.34
 Documents on signature alone 13.13 13.11 12.83 12.90 12.49
 Mortgages 11.14 10.77 10.88 11.75 11.89
 Pledged loans 9.67 10.10 9.34 10.87 10.42
 Personal loans 25.30 25.03 24.81 24.56 24.02
 Credit cards n/d 25.75 25.88 25.93 26.89

 International Interest Rates Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 LIBOR
 1 month 5.32 5.32 5.32 5.35 4.92
 6 months 5.36 5.32 5.39 5.35 5.20

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 4.67 4.58 4.85 4.67 4.88
 10 years 4.69 4.56 4.72 4.56 4.98

 FED Funds Rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 4.75

 SELIC (at 1 year) 12.65 12.80 13.00 13.25 16.17

 (1) Data through February correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for March and April are estimates
 made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 13 Monetary Report APRIL 2007

 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 6.75 6.65 6.42 5.75 4.50
 Liabilities 7 days 7.00 6.90 6.67 6.25 5.00
 Assets 7 days 9.00 8.90 8.67 8.25 7.00

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 7.26 7.20 6.46 7.59 5.97
 7 days 7.17 7.75 6.77 8.18 5.92

 Amount operated in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 3,030 3,008 3,424 2,666 2,056

 LEBAC rates in pesos
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 7.90 6.61
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 6.86
 3 months 7.86 7.92 7.89 8.00 7.18
 9 months 10.12 10.22 10.34 10.09 n/o
 12 months 10.33 10.47 10.69 11.18 11.50

 NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.65
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.97 0.98 1.06 0.48 2.67
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.53 1.65 1.76 2.10 4.07
 2 years BADLAR Total n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 385 352 278 135

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.09 3.10 3.11 3.06 3.07
 BCRA Reference 3.09 3.10 3.10 3.06 3.07

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.09 3.10 3.10 3.07 3.07
 ROFEX 1 month 3.09 3.10 3.10 3.07 3.07
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 204 274 240 201 225

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.52 1.48 1.48 1.42 1.44

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.18 4.11 4.06 4.04 3.77

 Capital Market Apr-07 Mar-07 Feb-07 Dec-06 Apr-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,181 2,038 2,131 2,023 1,878
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 86 67 93 82 84

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 94.24 93.55 93.59 92.37 91.53
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 111.25 114.67 113.31 104.94 98.36
 BODEN 2014 ($) 88.30 85.67 88.80 87.92 86.77
 DISCOUNT ($) 100.84 98.25 103.89 102.09 96.16

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 253 293 250 298 321
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 167 190 184 196 208

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 14 Monetary Report APRIL 2007
# 9. Glossary

AFJP: Pension Fund Administrators (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones).

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires).

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (Banco Central de la República Argentina).

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.

BODEN: National State Bond (Bono del Estado Nacional).

BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CC: Current account.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient (Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia).

CNV: National Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional de Valores).

DISC: Discount Bond.

EE.UU.: United States of America.

EM: Minimum Cash (Efectivo Mínimo).

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Mutual Investment Funds (Fondos comunes de inversión).

FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S..

FF: Financial Trusts (Fideicomisos financieros).

i.a.: Year-over-year.

IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes (Letras del Banco Central).

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in public hands plus total peso deposits from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in public hands plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.

MAE: Electronic Open Market (Mercado Abierto Electrónico).

MEC: Electronic Brokers Market (Mercado Electrónico de Corredores).

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market (Mercado de Valores de Buenos Aires).

MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).

MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market (Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios).

NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes (Notas del Banco Central).

OCT: Forward Agreed Transactions (Operaciones Concertadas a Término).

ONs: Negotiable Obligations (Obligaciones negociables).

PAR: Par Bond.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product (Producto interno bruto).

PM: Monetary Program (Programa Monetario).

PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises (Pequeñas y medianas empresas).

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market (Mercado a término de Rosario).

SELIC: Special Settlement and Custody System (Interest rate reference of the Central Bank of Brazil) (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custodia).

SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System (Sistema de Operaciones Electrónicas).

SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System (Sistema Centralizado de Requerimientos Informativos).

TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Tipo de cambio real multilateral).

TIR: Internal Rate of Return (Tasa interna de retorno).

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate (Tasa nominal anual).

VN: Nominal Value (Valor nominal).

15
