# Monetary Report
DECEMBER 2007

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. International Reserves and
   Foreign Exchange Market 7
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Equities 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Private Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 10
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial
   Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Queries, comments or
electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report
may be freely cited as long as
the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• The BCRA completed 18 quarters of compliance with the Monetary Program and the annual growth of money supply (M2) was positioned, as it has been over the last 6 quarters, below the growth of nominal output, reflecting the BCRA's commitment to monetary discipline.

• In line with the seasonal increase in money demand for transactional purposes in December, money supply followed a trajectory similar to that of previous years. However, it should be noted that cash in circulation continued to reduce its growth rate and thus its year-on-year growth rate decreased by almost 2 p.p. compared to September.

• In 2008, the Monetary Program again emphasizes the control of money supply and, in addition to quarterly targets in terms of the average level of M2, incorporates two new instruments. In order to generate a framework of predictability, an annual target is added for M2 of the private sector and the publication of quarterly projections of monetary aggregates for the 12 months following the end of each quarter is foreseen.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector increased $1,000 million in December and accumulated growth of $6,500 million over the year. In this way, external volatility had a transitory impact on these placements, which had already recovered the levels from late July in November.

• In December, loans to the private sector in pesos increased 3.9%, with growth across all credit lines, and accumulated an increase of 40.1% in 2007. In 2007, financing with real guarantee (mortgage and pledge credits) stood out, whose growth rate almost doubled that of 2006, reaching 46.6%.

• In this context of significant liquidity, short-term interest rates decreased in December. Thus, while the BADLAR rate of private banks was reduced slightly compared to November, the rate for interbank loans at 1 day fell 0.75 p.p. in relation to the previous month. In this way, at the end of 2007 interest rates had stabilized at levels significantly lower than the maximums they had reached during the period of greatest volatility in the year, between late July and October.

• Throughout the present year, the greater growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos relieved pressure on passive interest rates; therefore, an appreciable decrease is expected in the interest rates that companies pay for overdrafts on current accounts, the main short-term credit line.

• On the other hand, the decline in rates (between 200 and 300 basis points) along the yield curve of LEBAC/NOBAC during the last 30 days, anticipates better conditions for financing of medium and long term, both for the public sector and for the private sector.

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

**Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007**

**Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**
**Growth of Money Supply and GDP**
**% (year-on-year variation)**
In December, the BCRA completed another quarter of compliance with monetary targets. In this way, the average level of M2 was positioned at $145,765 million, with a year-on-year variation of 18%, which continued to be below the estimated growth for nominal output in the last twelve months (see Chart 2.1).

The monthly increase in M2 was in line with the seasonality of the month, reflecting the greater preference for transactional money at year-end (see Chart 2.2). However, it should be noted the deceleration in the growth rate of currency in circulation of 0.4 percentage points compared to the previous month and almost 2 percentage points in relation to September.

Regarding the factors that explained M2, in December the primary expansion of money through dollar purchases was again the main source of growth in the means of payment. The genuine increase in demand for real balances for transactional reasons at year-end and the consolidation of a less volatile situation supported this result. Additionally, credit to the private sector continued growing at a good pace, with which secondary expansion also provided an important part of the increase in M2. In turn, this pattern was the one that prevailed in 2007 (see Chart 2.3), except during the period of greater turbulence (mainly between August and October), when the BCRA softened the effects of the external shock through interventions in the foreign exchange market and liquidity injections, managing to stabilize the exchange market and, at the same time, preventing credit growth from being affected.

After the specific declines shown during months of greater uncertainty, stemming from the international context, fixed-term deposits of the private sector recovered completely and, in December, despite being a month characterized by a certain decline in this type of placements, they accumulated an increase of $1,000 million (1.9%).

In this way, the impact of the international crisis in 2007 was only temporary in terms of peso deposits of the private sector, which accumulated annual growth of 23%, somewhat higher than that recorded in the two previous years, 20% in 2006 and 19% in 2005.

Ultimately, M3, which includes currency in circulation and total peso deposits, after increasing 3.2% ($7,500 million) in December, accumulated in 2007 an increase of 20.7%.

Foreign currency deposits increased u$s110 million in December, fundamentally through placements of the private sector, which totaled an increase of u$s80 million (see Chart 2.4). The greater part of the monthly increase in private deposits in dollars was associated with fixed-term placements, as in the 2007 accumulation, a year in which fixed-term deposits explained 70% of the total increase in private deposits in dollars. In turn, and despite the temporary effect of uncertainty in the international context that characterized the third quarter of the year, dollar deposits ended up showing in 2007 a deceleration in their growth, by accumulating annual growth of
Dollar Deposits 36%, which was 4 p.p. below that which had been experienced

 Monthly Var. Stock in the previous year. In this way, the average balance of dollar
millions of US$ billions
 deposits reached US$7,270 million.
of US$
550 8
 Dep. Private S. Dep. Public S.
450
 Total (right axis) Total Private S. (right axis) 7
350 Together, in December the broadest monetary aggregate,

250 the M3*, which includes the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign
150 6
 currency and cash in circulation held by the public, accumulated a
 50
 5 growth of $7,900 million (3.1%), to end 2007 with an
 -50

-150 annual increase of 21.8%.
 4
-250

-350 3 With regard to prices, in December 2007 the

-450
 sub-index Rest of the IPC GBA prepared by INDEC (which excludes the
-550 2
 measurement of prices with seasonal behavior, subject to
 regulation or with high tax component) presented an
Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07
Source: BCRA increase of 1.1% monthly, which was higher than the average
 monthly variation of 2007 (0.8%). In this way, the year-on-year
 rate (y-o-y) of the Rest IPC reached 10.7%, remaining
 stable compared to the previous month but marking an increase of 0.5 p.p.
 with respect to the year-on-year rate of the same month of 2006 (see Chart 2.5).
 The evolution of the Rest IPC in the year responded to a change in the
 dynamics of prices between goods and services. Indeed,
Chart 2.5 according to INDEC data in December the prices of
 services grew at 11% y-o-y, almost 5 p.p. less than the previous year,
 Rest IPC and Market Expectations while those of goods increased around 9.9% y-o-y, close
 % (var. y-o-y)
16 to 3 p.p. more than in December 2006, influenced in part by the
15 14.2 upward pressures recorded in food.

14

13 In 2008 the BCRA Monetary Program will continue

12 focusing on the control of the means of payment, which is reflected

11 10.6 10.7 in the establishment again of quarterly targets in terms

10 10.2 10.1 of the level of M2. Additionally, the 2008 Monetary Program

 9 incorporates two new elements, aimed at generating a framework of
 Rest IPC
 8 greater predictability. First, an annual target was established
 Market Expectations IPC GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec)
 7 (see Table 1), to be measured in terms of the average level of

 6 December, of private M2 (which includes cash in circulation held by the
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07
 Source: INDEC and REM public and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in
 pesos of the non-financial private sector). This target implies
 increasing the emphasis on the savings and investment decisions of the
 private sector, which in the long term can translate into
 price variations. Second, as of 2008, at the end
 of each quarter, projections of monetary aggregates will be published
 for the following twelve months.

Table 1.1
 2008 Monetary Program 3. Bank Liquidity1

Targets - balances, in millions Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08
 Band In December, the bank liquidity ratio –defined as
 Lower 146,283 153,856 157,064 165,142 cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA

 M2 total Base 150,717 159,230 163,220 172,448 and repurchase agreements for the BCRA as a percentage of total
 Band 155,152 164,605 169,376 179,753 deposits in pesos– was 18.5%, 1.3 p.p. higher than that recorded in
 Upper November and comparable with the levels observed in April and May
 Band 155,559 of this year, before the turbulence in international financial
 Lower markets occurred (see Chart 3.1).

 M2 private Base 161,231
 As a counterpart to the greater seasonal demand for
 Band liquidity by families and companies in December, financial
 Upper 166,902 entities increased their balances in the current accounts

Source: BCRA
 opened at the BCRA and the cash they maintain.

3 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Chart 3.1
# % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos

Regarding the latter, the percentage in relation to deposits reached 3.8% compared to the 3.2% average that the rest of the year maintained. On the other hand, the proportion of reverse repos for the BCRA in terms of deposits remained at a similar level to November (See Graph 3.2).

Like in recent years, December is the first month of a three-month measurement period for the minimum cash position. The increase in liquid assets mentioned allowed December's accumulated minimum cash position to show a significant surplus, with an average of 1.1% of deposits, which was similar to that of December 2006.

In the foreign currency segment, the measurement period for the minimum cash position continued to be monthly and accumulated a surplus of approximately 11% of deposits in dollars.

---

## 4. Loans

Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, increased during December 3.6% ($3,780 million), accumulating in the last 12 months a growth in nominal terms of 40.8%.

Regarding financing in pesos, in the month all lines showed significant increases, totaling a growth of 3.9% ($3,450 million). In year-over-year terms, the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector increased 40.2% in December (see Graph 4.1).

During December, the lines with real guarantee increased 3.2% ($630 million). The growth was explained mainly by mortgage credits, which rose approximately 2.9% ($400 million). This advance exceeds that observed in November, a period in which a slowdown was reflected in the evolution of housing financing, following the strong expansion and acceleration recorded in the July-October four-month period (see Graph 4.2). For their part, secured loans presented an increase of approximately 4% ($230 million), accompanying the good moment of the automotive industry. In this way, in 2007, loans granted with real guarantee grew at a rate of 46.6%, which almost doubled that of 2006.

Financing aimed at consumption showed an increase of 3.9% ($1,290 million) compared to the previous month, motivated mainly by personal loans that increased 4.3% ($970 million) during the period (see Graph 4.3). For their part, credit card financing grew 3% ($320 million), easing its expansion with respect to previous months. Thus, in the year, consumer credit decelerated its growth rate by 8.6 p.p., although this was compensated by the already mentioned greater growth of the lines with real guarantee (mortgages and secured loans).
**Monthly Variation Mortgage Loans**
Commercial lines showed growth of 4.3%

500 Monthly Variation Pledge Loans 80
Year-over-year Variation Mortgage Loans (right axis) ($1,530 million), accumulating an
400 Year-over-year Variation Pledge Loans (right axis) 60
increase of 25.5% in the last 12 months. Documents grew approximately

300 40 4.5% ($780 million), registering the largest expansion in the year and
accumulating year-over-year an increase of 29.3% (see
200 20 Chart 4.4). Meanwhile, advances experienced an

100 0 expansion of 4% ($550 million).

0 -20 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private

-100 -40 sector presented in the month an increase of 1.9% (US$100
Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 million) and showed with the same period of the previous year an

Source: BCRA increase of 44.3%. This increase was linked

primarily to financing of export activity.

## 5. Interest Rates³

**Chart 4.3 Securities Issued by the BCRA⁴**

millions of $ Consumer Loans
%
1,200 (avg. monthly variation) 120

Personal In December, the interest rates of the primary market of
1,000 Credit Cards 100
Avg. y-o-y Personal (right axis) LEBAC showed a very slight increase (see Chart 5.1). Placements
Avg. y-o-y Credit Cards (right axis)
800 80 concentrated on the shorter-term securities. Additionally,

a preference was observed for LEBAC –which are
600 60 placed only at fixed interest rates– versus NOBAC.

400 40
The total stock of securities issued by the BCRA decreased in
200 20 December slightly more than 5% compared to the previous month and was located at

0 0 the end of this month at a NV of $51,422 million.

-200 -20
Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07
Source: BCRA

## Interfinancial Markets

**Reverse Repo Market¹**

The BCRA continued offering resources through

active reverse repo operations, although the return of less uncertain conditions, reinforced by the actions implemented by the
**Chart 4.4** BCRA since August, meant that during recent months the banks

thousands of Commercial Loans in Pesos resorted to these funds to a lesser extent. In this sense, during
millions of $ (daily balance and monthly average) December there was a decrease in the average monthly stock of
19 active reverse repos for the BCRA (including those granted at fixed and
+$780M variable rates) of $400 million. On the other hand, the average balance of
18 (4.5%) passive reverse repos for the BCRA increased $200 million, an amount that

17 was distributed among all the modalities in which the

16 BCRA operates (REPO round, overnight operations and investment
Advances Documents $550M funds)
15
(4%) The interest rates of active reverse repos at variable rates
14 decreased slightly, as a consequence of the decrease in
13 the spreads auctioned and the simultaneous decline of the BADLAR rate (see Chart

12 5.2). In the segment of fixed-rate operations, yields

11 remained at the same levels as in November for both

10 active and passive operations. Thus, at the end of
Dec-06 Jan-07 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Jul-07 Aug-07 Sep-07 Oct-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 2007, the interest rates of passive reverse repos remained at 8% and
Source: BCRA 8.25% for 1 and 7 days, respectively. Meanwhile, the interest

³ The interest rates analyzed in this section are annual nominal rates (TNA). rate of active reverse repos for 7 days was located at 10.25%. Furthermore, it is
⁴ In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated. important to note that within the framework of the measures taken to

provide liquidity to local banks, the BCRA, in the year, increased the
**Chart 5.1** maximum term for which it offered active reverse repos at fixed rates, which

TNA, % Interest Rate of LEBAC went from 7 days a year ago to 60 days at the end of 2007.

10.9
2007 **Interbank Market (call)¹**

10.8

10.7

26-Dec

10.6 28-Nov

10.5
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Source: BCRA duration (days) The interbank market interest rate began
December with a moderate upward trend due to tighter liquidity margins
for banks. However, this trend began to slowly reverse in the second
week of the month given the existing liquidity in the financial system
already mentioned. Nevertheless, on the last business day of December,
strong demand for cash by the public due to the long weekend raised the
call rate by almost 1.5 p.p. (see Chart 5.3).

Chart 5.2 The average interest rate for 1-day operations, which
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
%
15 concentrated more than 60% of operations in December, stood at an
14 average of 9.1%, which implies a decrease of just over 0.75 p.p.
13 Retail Private Banks compared to the previous month. It should be noted that 1-day
12 Wholesale Private Banks operations had concentrated 85% of the total in the previous
11 month; the decline is due to the weight of 5-day operations
10 corresponding to the two Mondays in which there were no banking
9 operations. The amounts operated averaged $1,016 million during the
8 month.
7
6 The deviation of interest rates for call operations from their
Ene-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07
average for each day stood at around 0.28 p.p. on average in
Source: BCRA December (see Chart 5.4), a value that is almost identical to that
 recorded in the previous month due to the end-of-December peak.

 Passive Interest Rates¹

 During December, wholesale and retail passive interest rates
 showed different trends, causing a decrease in the spread of these
 segments. In the wholesale segment, within the framework of the
Chart 5.3 beginning of the minimum cash quarterly position and the
 millions of $ % Call Market consolidation of the recovery of fixed-term placements, the
 %
2,500 25 22.8 50 BADLAR interest rate for private banks showed a declining trend.
 20 45 Thus, the monthly average for December of the BADLAR rate for
 15 13.8 13.3
2,000 40 private banks stood at 13.5%, 0.2 p.p. below that recorded in
 10.2 10.8
 10 8.5 11.0 8.4 9.2 November (see Chart 5.2).
 35
 8.1 8.8 8.7
 5 7.8 7.7
1,500 30
 0 For retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000, the
 29-6 13-7 26-7 8-8 22-8 4-9 17-9 28-9 11-10 25-10 8-11 21-11 4-12 17-12 25 gradual increase that began in August continued. In effect, an
1,000 Amount operated between privates 20 increase of around 0.3 p.p. was observed in interest rates in private
 Amount operated rest 15 banks, reaching a level of 9.5%, while interest rates in public banks
 Interest rate priv. banks (right axis) remained stable at 6.8%. When analyzing interest rates for
 500 10 placements by maturity bracket, a slight increase is observed for all
 5 brackets except for 30 to 59 days (see Chart 5.5). The decline
 0 0 recorded in this bracket was explained by the behavior of interest
Source: BCRA Jun-02 Dic-02 Jun-03 Dic-03 Jun-04 Dic-04 Jun-05 Dic-05 Jun-06 Dic-06 Jun-07 Dic-07 rates on deposits from financial services provider companies (AFJP,
 Source: BCRA Page 6 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007 FCI, insurance companies, etc.) and companies, since the interest
 rate for placements of individuals registered a slight increase.

Chart 5.4
 Interest Rate and Deviation of 1-Day Call Operations Active Interest Rates¹
 %
30
 Active interest rates showed slight increases in most loan lines.
25 However, these increases were, on average, of smaller magnitude
 Daily average than those recorded in previous months.
20
 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation
15

10

5
30-Jun 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug 13-Sep 28-Sep 13-Oct 28-Oct 12-Nov 27-Nov 12-Dec 27-Dec
 Source: BCRA
 The interest rate on advances increased in the month by 0.5 p.p.
 reaching a monthly average level of 18.6% (see Graph 5.6).
 In this case, the increase was recorded mainly in the line of
 advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding one million
 pesos where the interest rate reached an average level of 18.9%
Graph 5.5 with an increase compared to November of 0.7 p.p.. Meanwhile, the

 Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos interest rate for documents granted on sole signature, after
 Private Sector - monthly average weighted by amount the strong increases in August and September, remained relatively
 %
14 stable between November and December, and was located at 17.1%.

13

12 With respect to interest rates on loans

11
 for consumption, in December the average interest rate on
10
 9 personal loans was 29.8%, recording a monthly increase of

 8 0.5 p.p.. Meanwhile, the interest rate for financing with

 7 30-59 days credit cards from November, the last available information, was

 6 60-89 days 26.3% with a monthly decrease of 0.2 p.p..
 90-179 days
 5 180-365 days

 4 Finally, longer-term financings also
 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07
 Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included. recorded increases, although lower than those presented in
 Source: BCRA November. In the case of the mortgage loan rate, after
 having decreased in the first half of the year, by December
 it recovered the levels from the end of last year. In this way, it reached a
 monthly average of 12%. On the other hand, the interest rate
 corresponding to financings with chattel mortgage guarantee was located
 at 16.1% (see Graph 5.7). In the month, they recorded an increase of 0.6
Graph 5.6 p.p., which was explained by the high participation of financial

 TNA, % Commercial Loans companies (which typically lend at interest rates higher
 22 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
 than the average) in the amounts granted, which reached close to one

 20 third of the total.
 Advances
 18 Documents

 16

 14 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market6

 12

 10 The stock of international reserves ended December at
 u$s46,176 million, accumulating in the month an increase of u$s1,300
 8 million approximately, 2.9% compared to the previous month (see

 6 Graph 6.1). In this way, the accumulated reserves stock
 Oct-04 Feb-05 Jun-05 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07
 Source: BCRA increased during the year by u$s14,100 million.

5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through
October 2007, the values of November and December 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data
on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to
revision.
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 7Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Graph 5.7 The variation in December was explained mainly by net
 Active Interest Rates purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Unified and Free
 (monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
 Exchange Market (MULC) which totaled u$s1,250 million. Additionally, the
 TNA, % stock increased due to operations with international organizations
 31 TNA, % by u$s195 million and by exchange rate valuation, yield
 Mortgage 17 of reserves and other by approximately u$s220. In turn, due
 30 Credit Cards 16
 Personal Pawned to other operations of the public sector and through current
 29 15
 accounts in foreign currency of the entities at the BCRA the
14 stock decreased by u$s350 million in the month.
28
 13
27 12

26 11
25 10 In the foreign exchange market, the average wholesale exchange rate

 9 of the peso against the dollar (Reference) was 3.1396 $/u$s
24 8
 showing a slight appreciation (0.1 p.p.) compared to the previous month.
23 7
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07This exchange rate, although it remained during the month around
Source: BCRA
 3.14 $/u$s, in the last days of the year rose slightly
 reaching a level at the end of December of 3.1510 $/u$s. In contrast,
 with respect to the Euro and the Real, the peso appreciated 0.7 p.p. and the
 average quotations for December were 4.5755 $/Euro and
 1.7597 $/Real.

Chart 6.1

 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign exchange and time deposits) 7. Capital Market
 47

 42
 Stocks

 37

 32 In stock markets in general during December a reduction

 27 in the level of volatility was observed (Chart 7.1),
 although with lower liquidity and greater risk aversion. The S&P
 22 500 showed a loss of 0.9%; the MEXBOL (Mexico) of 0.8% and the

 17 BOVESPA (Brazil), on the other hand, registered an increase of 1.4%;

 12 all measured in original currency. On the other hand, the VIX –index
 that measures the volatility of the S&P- was located on average in December
 7
 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07at 21.7% (3.9 p.p. less compared to the average recorded the previous
 Source: BCRA month).

 For its part, at the beginning of the month the Federal Reserve lowered the
 fed funds rate by 25 b.p. Although markets expected a
 rate cut following the statements of the Vice President of the
 FED, Donald Kohn, in the days prior to December 6, it was
 speculated a cut of 50 b.p., especially due to weak indicators
Chart 7.1 in durable goods sales, in family income
 and in second-hand home sales.
 Volatility of Stock Markets
 Volatility (%) Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days
 In Argentina, during December the MERVAL index -measured
 MERVAL (Argentina)
 65 IPC (Mexico) 26 in pesos- registered a loss of 2.5%, reaching a value of 2,092
 BOVESPA (Brasil)
 Shanghai Index (China) points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL
 55 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 22
 obtained a return of 2.9%. In the month, good

 45 18 performance stood out for companies related to industry, oil, and
 on the contrary, a fall in the value of shares linked to the
 35 14
 financial system.

 25 10
 Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a negative variation
 15 6
 of 2.7% in December, while the IGBVL (Peru) lost 3.6%, the

 5 2 IGPA (Chile) 1.5% and the IPC (Mexico) 0.7%. The only index in the

 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07region that obtained a positive return measured in dollars was the
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data BOVESPA with a growth of 2.3%.

 8 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Chart 7.2 In terms of volatility, in the Latin American stock exchanges
 Sovereign Risk Indicators a decrease in this indicator was recorded. Specifically, the volatility
 CDS points CDS of Argentina spreads EMBI of Arg and Region of the MERVAL –22 sessions- in annualized terms and measured in
 basic spreads
 in b.p. in b.p.
630 CDS 2 years 530 450 dollars was 18.03 in December (2.61 p.p. less than that of

 CDS 5 years EMBI Argentina November).
 CDS 10 years 480 400
 EMBI Latin America (right 230
 480 430 axis) 350
 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires

 380 300 Stock Exchange decreased. The average amount traded
330
 330 250 reached $131 million daily, $14 million less
 respecto del mes anterior. compared to the previous month.
180 280 200

 230 150
30 180 100 Public Securities
 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07
Source: Bloomberg
 During December there was a greater willingness of investors to
 invest in fixed-income securities of emerging countries, the
 counterpart of this phenomenon being lower demand for 10-year U.S.
 T-bonds, which decreased their
Graph 7.3 quotation. In this sense, Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps
 (CDS) decreased by 19 basis points, while Brazil's CDS at the same
 Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos maturity decreased by 4 basis points.

 Real annual yield (%)
 12.0 PRO 12

 11.5
 11.0 Boden 14 In the same direction, the spreads of most emerging countries
 measured by the EMBI also decreased. That of external debt of Latin
 10.5 Bogar 18 America decreased by 3 basis points during December. While that
 of emerging countries in general measured by the EMBI+ decreased
 10.0 30-Nov by 6 basis points. For its part, Argentina's spread increased by 9
 basis points (Graph 7.2).
 9.5 PRE 08 28-Dec
 9.0 DISC $ 
 The yield curve of public securities in pesos decreased in the short
 8.5 PAR $ and medium-term segments, with the longer-term segment rising
 slightly (Graph 7.3). In contrast, the yield curve of securities in
 8.0
 dollars reached lower values in the longer-term segments, remaining
 7.5 almost unchanged in the short and medium-term segments (Graph 7.4).
 7.0
 6.5 Boden 08 The volume of public securities traded (on a daily average)
 6.0 decreased compared to the level reached in the previous month,
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 having been $1,359 million in December, $116 million less than during
 duration (years) November.
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

Gráfico 7.4
 Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars

 Annual yield (%) Spread (percentage points)

 12 Boden 15 16
 Boden 13
 11 DISC USD 14 Private Securities
 BONAR VII PAR USD 12
 10 Boden 12 BONAR V
 10 In December, corporate financing via Negotiable Obligations
 9 (ONs) was carried out through two issuances totaling $129.5
 8 8 million. In 2007, placements exceeded only by 4% the value reached
 in 2006, totaling u$s 3,278 million, an amount that was placed
 6 7 through 34 issuances. The composition of the issuances according
 30-Nov 4 to the currency of denomination was also stable in comparison with
 28-Dec 6 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Nov-07 (right axis) the previous year, since 92% of ONs were issued in foreign currency
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Dec-07 (right axis) and only 8% in domestic currency.
 2
 5 0
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18
 duration (years)
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

 9 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Graph 7.5 Institutional Investors
 Composition of the PFP and legal investment limits

 %
 25 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
 Participation in the PFP as of 31/10/2007
 Participation in the PFP as of 15/11/2007
 20.0 Participation in the PFP as of 30/11/2007
 20 Participation in the PFP as of 14/12/2007 The total of the Pension and Retirement Fund (PFP) amounted to
 Investment Limit as of 31/12/2007 mid-December to $93,750 million, registering in the last month
 15 a decrease of 0.5% ($1,850 million).
 12.9 12.3 11.6
 12.1
 11.2
 9.9 10.1 10.0
 10 8.9 8.4 8.9 8.5 8.6
 8.0
 With the purpose of complying with recent regulatory
 5 modifications, which affected the investments of the AFJPs in
 Mutual Funds (FCI) with assets composed of issuers from MERCOSUR
 (Joint Resolution of the SAFJP 10 of 2007, of the BCRA 209 and of
 0 the CNV 517, and Instruction of the SAFJP 18 of 2007), the
 Source: SAFJP FCI FCI of MERCOSUR Foreign Securities administrators continued to unwind their positions in the aforementioned instruments.
Of the total portfolio, approximately 9.9% ($9,250 million) were found in FCI in mid-December. 91% of these placements were invested in MERCOSUR funds, representing approximately 8.9% of the FJP ($8,400 million). These latter assets reduced their participation compared to mid-November by 2.7 p.p. (see Graph 7.5), approaching the 8% limit established by regulations for December 31, 2007.

**Graph 7.6**
**Patrimony of FCI in pesos**
**millions of $**

Part of the resources from the redemption of common funds were maintained by the administrators in available funds. This increase in liquidity together with the transfers of funds from individual capitalization accounts with balances under $20,000, negatively impacted the investment portfolio, reducing it by 2% to reach $91,780 million.

In the coming months, it is expected that the administrators will continue to unwind their positions in MERCOSUR FCI, increasing their placements in other assets and particularly in investments related to the real economy.

## Common Investment Funds

In December, the patrimony of common investment funds (FCI) experienced again a negative variation, continuing with what happened in November, after reaching a maximum in October. In effect, the patrimony of FCI denominated in pesos reached $16,700 million (see Graph 7.6), which represents a decline of $1,600 million compared to the previous month (9%). For its part, the patrimony of FCI denominated in foreign currency (dollars and euros) totaled $4,500 million, which implied a decrease of 7.8% in relation to November. However, when making the annual comparison, FCI in pesos increased $1,200 million (7.9%) and those denominated in foreign currency $1,400 million (44.2%).

A good part of the setback in the patrimonial evolution is related to the withdrawal of shares by the AFJP, as a result of the change in regulations on their investments explained in the previous section, since in general positive returns were observed. In effect, in the first half of the month, withdrawals of $1,300 million by the AFJP were recorded, of which $1,100 million corresponded to Mercosur FCI.

As for the composition of the FCI, those of variable income continued leading the instrument in question with almost 47% of the total. However, their patrimony experienced a decline of $1,600 million (17.3%) in the month. For its part, money market funds were the only ones that did not experience a decline in their patrimony, which showed a positive variation of $180 million (2.8%) compared to November. Finally, the patrimony of fixed income funds showed a decline of 7% ($158 million), as did mixed income funds which evidenced a patrimonial contraction of $35 million (11%).

**Graph 7.7**
**Financial Trusts Issuances**
**millions of $**
(quantity of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)

**Graph 7.8**
**Underlying Assets and Settlors of FF**
(amounts issued - December 2007)

**Underlying Assets | Settlors**
- Personal Loans: 59% | Retail Trade: 25%
- Other: 8% | 
- Leasing Contracts: 5%

**Financial Trusts**
# UNREGULATED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

In December, 42 financial trusts were placed for a total of $1,299 million, which places the month at a record for the year both in terms of quantity of securitizations and amounts (see Graph 7.7). During the month, the average amounts per placement recovered, reaching almost $31 million (compared to $26 million in November). In the year-to-date accumulation, the 246 issuances totaled $8,729 million, a value that was 15.8% higher than that of 2006.

During the month, personal loans and credit card coupons continued to stand out as underlying assets of the FF, as they concentrated 81% of the month's issuances (59.1% and 21.8% respectively, see Graph 7.8). However, it is worth noting the increase compared to the previous month of securitizations of other assets, such as commercial credits (almost doubled the amount compared to November), pledge loans (tripling the amount of the previous month) and the reappearance of real estate, which had not backed issuances since March of the current year. Finally, in December leasing contracts were again recorded as fiduciary assets, as had been observed during September and October.

During the last month of the year, the main fiduciaries were financial entities, which concentrated 38.9%, followed by financial institutions not regulated by the BCRA and retail commerce, which concentrated 28.2% and 24.7% of what was issued respectively (see Graph 7.8).

Regarding the cut-off interest rates, they registered a slight increase compared to the previous month. In effect, the interest rates on senior securities were placed at 17.5% for fixed-rate securities and 18.9% for those placed at variable rate (weighted average per amount issued), which implies an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to that recorded in November for the first case and 0.2 p.p. for the second. For its part, the average duration of senior securities was 17 months. This value is explained by the presence of a securitization related to the real estate sector with elevated duration. However, if the exercise is performed of excluding such FF, the duration of December decreases to 8.3 months.

According to the latest balance information, corresponding to September 2007, the stock of underlying assets of the FF amounted to approximately $13,875 million, maintaining some stability compared to the previous quarter (see Graph 7.9). Regarding the comparison with the same quarter of the previous year, an increase of 21.8% is observed.

Of said stock, 60% corresponds to securities whose fiduciaries are financial entities, while non-regulated financial institutions and retail commerce are fiduciaries of 13% and 12% of the outstanding stock, respectively. Regarding the classification by type of underlying asset, the stock as of September 2007 is composed mainly of cash flows derived from consumer financing (35.3%), public securities (37.5%) and mortgage loans (7.1%). The remainder corresponds to commercial credits and private securities, among others.

---

**Graph 7.9**
**Stock of Underlying Assets of FF**
*millions of $ (detail by type of fiduciary)*

- Financial Entities
- Non-Regulated Financial Institutions
- Retail Commerce
- Others

*Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data*

---

7 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Financial entities continued to be the main holders of fiduciary debt securities, as they concentrated 40% of the stock in circulation as of September 2007, followed by AFJPs and FCIs, whose holdings reached 30% and 8% of the total stock, respectively. The remaining 22% corresponds to insurance companies and other investors.

12 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

**Monthly Averages and Average Percentage Variations**

**Principal monetary variables and financial system**

| | Dec-07 | Nov-07 | Oct-07 | Dec-06 | Monthly | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| **Monetary Base** | 96.358 | 89.509 | 88.171 | 76.825 | 7.7% | 6.7% | 25.4% | 15.6% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 70.577 | 65.728 | 65.410 | 56.158 | 7.4% | 6.4% | 25.7% | 15.9% |
| In public hands | 63.791 | 60.079 | 59.890 | 50.955 | 6.2% | 5.2% | 25.2% | 15.4% |
| In financial entities | 6.786 | 5.649 | 5.520 | 5.203 | 20.1% | 19.0% | 30.4% | 20.2% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 25.781 | 23.781 | 22.761 | 20.667 | 8.4% | 7.4% | 24.7% | 15.0% |

**Stock of Repos**

| Liabilities | 2.492 | 2.270 | 2.622 | 1.769 | 9.8% | 8.7% | 40.8% | 29.8% |
| Assets | 252 | 681 | 381 | 104 | 142.8% | 123.8% |  |  |

**Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)**

**LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)**

| In pesos | 21.215 | 22.935 | 24.201 | 12.740 | -7.5% | -8.4% | 66.5% | 53.5% |
| In dollars | 0 | 0 | 0 | 18 | -100.0% |  |  |  |

| **NOBAC** | 31.587 | 32.988 | 33.798 | 28.089 | -4.2% | -5.1% | 12.5% | 3.7% |

**BCRA International Reserves (5)** | 45.710 | 43.792 | 42.724 | 31.167 | 4.4% | 46.7% |

**Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 177.293 | 173.492 | 171.901 | 148.818 | 2.2% | 1.3% | 19.1% | 9.8% |
| Current account (2) | 46.450 | 46.063 | 45.378 | 44.181 | 0.8% | -0.1% | 5.1% | -3.1% |
| Savings account | 35.524 | 33.617 | 33.090 | 28.440 | 5.7% | 4.7% | 24.9% | 15.2% |
| Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 78.244 | 78.992 | 78.891 | 61.043 | -0.9% | -1.9% | 28.2% | 18.2% |
| Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 2.322 | 2.715 | 3.035 | 4.829 | -14.5% | -15.3% | -51.9% | -55.7% |
| CEDRO with CER | 6 | 10 | 10 | 26 | -44.9% | -45.4% | -78.1% | -79.9% |
| Other deposits (3) | 14.747 | 12.096 | 11.498 | 10.298 | 21.9% | 20.8% | 43.2% | 32.0% |

**Deposits of private sector** | 129.760 | 124.363 | 123.507 | 105.715 | 4.3% | 3.4% | 22.7% | 13.2% |

**Deposits of public sector** | 47.533 | 49.129 | 48.395 | 43.102 | -3.2% | -4.1% | 10.3% | 1.7% |

**Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 7.271 | 7.149 | 6.952 | 5.515 | 1.7% | 31.8% |

**Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 98.889 | 95.748 | 92.757 | 76.630 | 3.3% | 2.3% | 29.0% | 19.0% |

**Loans to private sector** | 88.269 | 85.179 | 82.206 | 62.977 | 3.6% | 2.7% | 40.2% | 29.2% |
| Advances | 14.227 | 13.682 | 13.095 | 11.570 | 4.0% | 3.0% | 23.0% | 13.4% |
| Documents | 18.113 | 17.328 | 16.980 | 14.010 | 4.5% | 3.6% | 29.3% | 19.2% |
| Mortgage loans | 13.980 | 13.581 | 13.205 | 9.852 | 2.9% | 2.0% | 41.9% | 30.8% |
| Pledge loans | 5.813 | 5.612 | 5.360 | 3.648 | 3.6% | 2.6% | 59.4% | 46.9% |
| Personal loans | 21.049 | 20.370 | 19.527 | 13.009 | 3.3% | 2.4% | 61.8% | 49.2% |
| Credit cards | 10.786 | 10.500 | 9.914 | 7.279 | 2.7% | 1.8% | 48.2% | 36.6% |
| Others | 4.301 | 4.106 | 4.126 | 3.608 | 4.8% | 3.8% | 19.2% | 9.9% |

**Loans to public sector** | 10.620 | 10.570 | 10.550 | 13.653 | 0.5% | -0.4% | -22.2% | -28.3% |

**Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 5.186 | 5.085 | 4.991 | 3.702 | 2.0% | 40.1% |

**Total Monetary Aggregates (1)**

| M1 (cash in public hands + current account in pesos) | 110.241 | 106.142 | 105.268 | 95.136 | 3.9% | 2.9% | 15.9% | 6.8% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 145.765 | 139.758 | 138.357 | 123.576 | 4.3% | 3.3% | 18.0% | 8.7% |
| M3 (cash in public hands + total deposits in pesos) | 241.083 | 233.571 | 231.791 | 199.772 | 3.2% | 2.3% | 20.7% | 11.3% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) | 263.919 | 255.986 | 253.764 | 216.649 | 3.1% | 2.2% | 21.8% | 12.3% |

**Private Monetary Aggregates**

| M1 (cash in public hands + private current account in pesos) | 99.663 | 94.102 | 93.749 | 77.983 | 5.9% | 4.9% | 27.8% | 17.8% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 132.494 | 124.461 | 123.704 | 103.048 | 6.5% | 5.5% | 28.6% | 18.5% |
| M3 (cash in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) | 193.550 | 184.442 | 183.396 | 156.670 | 4.9% | 4.0% | 23.5% | 13.9% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) | 214.577 | 205.148 | 203.697 | 171.720 | 4.6% | 3.6% | 25.0% | 15.2% |
# AVERAGE VARIATIONS
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 6.849 7.1% 8.527 8.8% 19.533 20.3% 19.533 20.3%
 Financial sector -693 -0.7% 450 0.5% -4.619 -4.8% -4.619 -4.8%
 Public sector -407 -0.4% -2.876 -3.0% -4.340 -4.5% -4.340 -4.5%
 Temporary advances + utilities transfers -243 -606 3.893 3.893
 Use of the national government account -696 -2.988 -9.280 -9.280
 External credit 532 718 1.046 1.046
 Private external sector 4.022 4.2% 3.008 3.1% 33.747 35.0% 33.747 35.0%
 BCRA securities 3.505 3.6% 7.496 7.8% -6.268 -6.5% -6.268 -6.5%
 Others 422 0.4% 449 0.5% 1.014 1.1% 1.014 1.1%

International reserves 1.917 4.2% 2.778 6.1% 14.543 31.8% 14.543 31.8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.282 2.8% 968 2.1% 10.883 23.8% 10.883 23.8%
 Payment to international organisms 416 0.9% 419 0.9% -1.340 -2.9% -1.340 -2.9%
 Other operations of the public sector 125 0.3% 470 1.0% 3.132 6.9% 3.132 6.9%
 Minimum cash -180 -0.4% -411 -0.9% -1.988 -4.4% -1.988 -4.4%
 Repo rate valuation -20 0.0% 443 1.0% 946 2.1% 946 2.1%
 Others 295 0.6% 890 1.9% 2.911 6.4% 2.911 6.4%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month in relation to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 13 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.20 9.99 8.88 8.02 8.02
 Amount operated 1.016 1.102 1.073 1.600 1.600

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 10.19 9.37 9.75 7.06 7.06
 60 days or more 11.20 10.98 9.74 7.86 7.86
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.11 10.26 10.80 7.91 7.91
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.54 13.73 12.57 9.80 9.80

 In dollars
 30 days 1.23 1.25 1.30 0.95 0.95
 60 days or more 2.28 2.32 2.19 1.92 1.92
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.08 1.48 1.53 0.93 0.93
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.32 3.29 3.39 2.99 2.99

 Active Interest Rates Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

Prime in pesos at 30 days 15.99 15.73 14.76 9.59 9.59

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.13 11.87 10.13 8.82 8.82
 Amount operated (total terms) 156 139 128 112 112

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 18.65 18.13 17.85 16.38 16.38
 Documents on sole signature 17.08 17.14 16.35 12.90 12.90
 Mortgages 12.05 11.75 11.67 11.75 11.75
 Pledged loans 16.10 15.50 13.06 10.90 10.90
 Personal loans 29.82 29.32 27.62 24.56 24.56
 Credit cards n/d 26.29 26.50 25.93 25.93

 International Interest Rates Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

LIBOR
 1 month 5.04 4.77 4.98 5.35 5.35
 6 months 4.84 4.83 5.05 5.35 5.35

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.11 3.30 3.96 4.67 4.67
 10 years 4.09 4.13 4.51 4.56 4.56

FED Funds Rate 4.33 4.50 4.74 5.25 5.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.25 11.25 11.25 13.25 13.25

(1) Data through September correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while those for October and November are estimates based on the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

 14 Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.00 8.00 8.00 5.75 5.75
 Liabilities 7 days 8.25 8.25 8.25 6.25 6.25
 Assets 7 days (1) 10.25 10.25 10.25 8.25 8.25

Total REPO trading session rates
 1 day 9.21 9.71 8.49 7.59 7.59
 7 days 10.07 9.99 9.63 8.18 8.18
Amount operated in REPO round passes (daily average) 2.334 2.539 2.345 2.666 2.666

LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month 10.61 10.61 10.50 7.90 7.90
 2 months 10.65 10.65 10.64 n/o n/o
 3 months 10.76 10.76 10.70 8.00 8.00
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 10.09 10.09
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 11.18 11.18

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.20 2.20 2.25 0.48 0.48
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o 2.10 2.10
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 488 395 278 278

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 3.14 3.14 3.17 3.06 3.06
 BCRA Reference 3.14 3.14 3.16 3.06 3.06

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.14 3.15 3.17 3.07 3.07
 ROFEX 1 month 3.14 3.14 3.16 3.07 3.07
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 172 191 331 201 201

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.76 1.77 1.76 1.42 1.42

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.58 4.61 4.50 4.04 4.04

 Capital Market Dec-07 Nov-07 Oct-07 Dec-06 Dec-06

MERVAL
 Index 2.185 2.259 2.273 2.023 2.023
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 148 175 131 82 82

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 88.53 88.93 91.10 92.37 92.37
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 98.76 97.32 93.68 104.94 104.94
 BODEN 2014 ($) 69.79 69.51 74.28 87.92 87.92
 DISCOUNT ($) 73.98 73.21 78.40 102.09 102.09

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 669 650 497 298 298
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 257 255 209 196 196

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
 (2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 15Monetary Report DECEMBER 2007

9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** National State Bond.

**BONAR V:** Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CC:** Current account.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DISC:** Discount Bond.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Funds.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the USA.

**FF:** Financial Trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-on-year.

**IGBVL:** Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

**IGPA:** Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public plus demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MAE:** Electronic Open Market.

**MEC:** Electronic Broker Market.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MEXBOL:** Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable Forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Agreed Forward Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.

**PAR:** Par Bond.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SELIC:** Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIOPEL:** Electronic Operations System.

**SISCEN:** Centralized Information Requirements System.

**TCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**U.V.P.:** Units Linked to the Product.

**VN:** Nominal Value.
