# MONETARY REPORT
NOVEMBER 2007

## 1. Summary1
CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 5
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. International Reserves and 
   Foreign Exchange Market 7
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Stocks 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Private Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Mutual Investment Funds 10
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial 
   Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16
   
   Inquiries, comments or 
   electronic subscription:
   analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report 
may be freely cited as long as 
the source is stated:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

• In November, the means of payment (M2) continued reducing its year-over-year growth rate, which reached 18.8%, almost 2 percentage points lower than the variation shown in October. The means of payment of the private sector explained a large part of this result, with a deceleration recorded both in cash in circulation and in private sight deposits.

• The fixed-term deposits of the private sector increased between the end of October and November by $1,820 million, reversing the downward trend that had been presented during the days of greater uncertainty generated from the more volatile international context. In this way, they recovered the levels of the end of July, demonstrating the effectiveness of the prudential measures implemented by the BCRA in response to external turbulences.

• The growth of loans to the private sector was the main factor of expansion of M2 in November. In this sense, credit to the private sector continued showing widespread growth across all lines, with a year-over-year growth of 40%.

• The BCRA had arranged a joint minimum cash position for October and November, with the particularity that the surpluses verified in October could not be carried over to November. At the end of this period, banks closed the bi-monthly minimum cash position with a surplus of approximately 0.2 percentage points of deposits.

• Thanks to this measure, which made it possible to improve liquidity management of financial institutions, and to the actions implemented by the BCRA to provide liquidity to the money market –granting of active repos, repurchases of securities in the secondary market and partial renewal of LEBAC and NOBAC maturities– local short-term interest rates stopped rising, especially from the second half of the month onwards. In particular, the interest rate on interbank loans began to decline rapidly (ended the month at 8.5%), while the BADLAR rate for private banks stabilized at a level close to 13.8%.

• International reserves reached a new historical maximum, standing at US$44,860 million at the end of November.

---

## 2. Monetary Aggregates1

**Graph 2.1 - Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**

thousands of
millions of $ | Index Base 31-Oct-07
55 | Balance 55
  | 2007
54 | 54
  | 2006
53 | 53

In November, the means of payment (M2) were located at $139,870 million and, in this way, continued reducing its year-over-year growth rate, which reached 18.8%, approximately 2 percentage points lower than that observed in October. This result was, to a large extent, a reflection of the decrease in the rate of increase of the means of payment of the private sector, where a deceleration was verified both for cash in circulation and for sight deposits.

---

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision. Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007
52 52
2005 Banknotes in circulation held by the public have been showing a
51 51
30-Jun 19-Aug 8-Oct 27-Nov 31-Oct 7-Nov 14-Nov 21-Nov 28-Nov deceleration in their year-on-year growth rate since the July peak.
In this regard, banknotes went from an average monthly growth rate
Source: BCRA for the first 7 months of the year of 2.2% to 0.3% for the last 4 months. To this behavior must be
added the deceleration in the variation of private demand deposits
with a monthly growth of 0.8%, lower than the 2% average for the
first 10 months of the year.

On the other hand, once the electoral period was overcome and
Chart 2.2 the effectiveness of prudential mechanisms was confirmed against the
adverse international context, time deposits of the private sector
thousands of Factors Explaining M2 resumed growing firmly. Thus, at the end of November they
millions of $ (average flows) 4 returned to reach the level in force at the end of July. In this way,
between the end of October and November they totaled an increase of
3 $1,820 million, significantly higher than that recorded during the

Oct-07 Nov-07
2 same month in 2006 and 2005 (see Chart 2.1). In this month, both
time deposits from families and businesses grew, accompanied by
1
the improvement in their returns (see Section 5).

0

-1 On the other hand, total deposits in pesos from the public
sector showed practically no monthly variation, such that M2 and
-2 M3 totaled an average increase with respect to October of $2,960
Loans to S. LEBAC Other Sector External Sector Public M2 M3 million (0.8%).
Private excluding Private
Banks
Source: BCRA

In the dollar segment, deposits increased 3% (u$s 200 million).
Most of the increase corresponded to the rise in balances deposited
in fixed-term accounts by the private sector, which was slightly
below that of last year: 3% in 2007 vs. 3.5% in 2006.

In this way, the M3* aggregate, which includes banknotes in
circulation held by the public and the total deposits in pesos and
dollars, registered a monthly increase of $2,390 million (0.9%).

Chart 2.3
IPC Rest and Market Expectations

% (year-on-year var.)
16 Faced with a less uncertain local context, in November the

15 Central Bank stopped selling foreign currency, and these operations
14.2 had a practically neutral effect, in terms of the variation
14
13 of average M2 (see Chart 2.2). Likewise, loans to the private
12 sector continued to be the main factor in the expansion of
11 11.9 payment means, with growth somewhat greater than what they had
10.7
10 presented in October (see Section 4).

9 9.4
IPC Rest With respect to the primary creation of money, the expansion
8 8.3
IPC GBA Expectations 2007 (Dec-Dec) originated by the set of operations associated with LEBAC and
7
6 NOBAC –repurchases in the secondary market, partial renewal of
Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 maturities and coupon payments– reached $2,419 million in the month.

Source: INDEC and REM

2 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

Chart 3.1 Additionally, the Central Bank continued providing liquidity
Banking liquidity in pesos to banks through active repos to which was added the
thousands of % of % of thousands of decrease in passive repo positions for the Central Bank.
deposits Eff + CC BCRA deposits millions of $ millions of $ In this way, as a consequence of repo operations, the monetary
18 Passive Repos (right axis) 57 24 base expanded $652 million in November.
Effective
17 4 6 CC BCRA (right axis) 23
Given that only one entity maintains outstanding balances
16 3 5 22 from rediscounts, the monetary contraction associated with the
quotas provided in the matching scheme was reduced in recent
15 2 4 21
months and in November was $42 million.

14 1 3 20
Loans with Real Guarantee

Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, increased during November 3.3% ($3,300 million), accumulating in the last 12 months a growth of 40.1% in nominal terms (see Chart 4.1). Its level with respect to GDP is 11.8%, 1.6 p.p. greater than the value observed in the same month of the previous year.

Loans in pesos to the private sector presented a generalized increase in all lines, registering in the month a variation of 3.7% ($3,100 million) and showing compared with the same period of the previous year an increase of 40.4%.

---

*Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007*
Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07
 Source: BCRA

 During November, lines with real guarantee increased 3.4% ($630 million). Mortgage credits increased approximately 2.8% ($380 million), moderating their growth compared to what was observed in the previous months (see Graph 4.2). Following the strong expansion and acceleration that these financings registered in the previous four-month period, the amounts granted seem to tend toward the levels observed during the first half of the year. For their part, pledge loans presented an increase of approximately 4.7% ($250 million), accompanying the strong expansion in motor industry sales.

Graph 4.3

 millions of $ Commercial Loans
 %
 900 (monthly and year-on-year average var.) 90
 
 700 70
 
 500 50
 
 300 30
 
 100 10
 
 -100 -10
 Monthly Var. Advances
 -300 Monthly Var. Documents -30
 Monthly Var. Other Loans
 Y-o-Y Var. Advances (right axis)
 -500 Y-o-Y Var. Documents (right axis) -50
 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07

 Financings destined for consumption showed an increase of 5.1% ($1,530 million) compared to the previous month. The growth was explained mainly by personal loans which during the period grew 4.6% ($930 million), while credit card financings increased 6% ($600 million).

Source: BCRA

 Commercial lines presented a growth of 2.7% ($940 million), accumulating over the last 12 months an increase of 24.1%. Advances experienced an expansion of 4.5% ($600 million), continuing with the dynamism exhibited since the reversal of the declining trend, which had occurred with the beginning of international turbulences (see Graph 4.3). For their part, documents grew approximately 2.1% ($360 million), accumulating in year-on-year terms an increase of 28.9%.

Graph 4.4

 Documents in Foreign Currency and Exports thousands of
 thousands of
 millions of U$S millions of U$S
 5.8 4.5
 Exports (s.e.)
 5.3 4.0 Documents in Foreign Currency (right axis)
 4.8 3.5
 
 4.3 3.0
 
 3.8 2.5
 
 3.3 2.0
 
 2.8 1.5
 
 2.3 1.0
 
 1.8 0.5
 
 1.3 0.0
 Aug-02 Feb-03 Aug-03 Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector presented in the month an increase of 2.1% (US$100 million). This increase was linked mainly to financings of export activity (see Graph 4.4).

Source: BCRA and INDEC

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 4 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates3

 LEBAC Interest Rate
 APA, %

 11.0 Securities issued by the BCRA4

 10.8 In November the interest rates in the primary market of LEBAC showed slight increases compared to those in effect in the previous month (see Graph 5.1). The placements concentrated in the shorter-term securities, both in the case of NOBAC and in that of LEBAC, continuing the market's preference for LEBAC, as in recent months.

 10.5
 28-Nov
 10.3 30-Oct
 The BCRA continued repurchasing LEBAC and NOBAC through operations in the secondary market and during November it redeemed a total of $785 million at market value. In turn, although repurchase auctions were held, during November no securities were redeemed through this mechanism. As a consequence of operations in the secondary market and partial renewals in the primary market (which turned out to be expansive by $2,175 million), the total stock of securities issued by the BCRA decreased in November slightly more than 5% compared to the previous month and was positioned at the end of this month at VN $54,377 million.

 10.0
 20 40 60 80 100 120 140

Source: BCRA duration (days)

Graph 5.2

 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 15

 14 Interbank Markets
13 Retail Private Banks

12 Wholesale Private Banks Repo Market¹

11
The BCRA continued using active repo operations as an
10 instrument to provide liquidity to the financial system and

9 reduce the volatility of short-term interest rates. In this regard,
during the first weeks of November an increase of more than
8 $1,000 million was observed in this type of repos, whose stock
reached $1,400 million on the 15th. However, during the
7 second half of the month, once the entities were acquiring a
more comfortable liquidity situation (see Section 3), the stock of
6 active repos for the BCRA began to decrease and ended the month
Jan-07 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Jul-07 Aug-07 Sep-07 Oct-07 Nov-07
at $227 million. For its part, the stock of passive repos for the
Source: BCRA BCRA increased by $530 million during November, ending the
month at $4,700 million, if the operations arranged through all
Chart 5.3 agents participating in the market as counterparty to the BCRA
are considered.

millions of $ %% Call Market
2,500 12.2 50
The interest rates on active repos at variable rate increased
12.0 12.1 12.0
11.5 11.6 45 slightly, despite the reduction in spreads, due to the increase in
11.0 11.2 10.9 11.0 11.0
the BADLAR rate (see Chart 5.2). In the segment of fixed-rate
2,000 10.5 10.7 40
10.2 operations, returns remained at the same levels as in October
10.0 9.9
9.6 35 and passive repo interest rates remained at 8% and 8.25% for 1
9.5
1,500 9.0 9.1 9.3 9.1 9.0 30 and 7 days, respectively.
8.8 8.5 8.4 8.7
8.5 8.4 8.3
8.0 25
31-10 5-11 9-11 14-11 19-11 22-11 27-11 30-11
1,000 Amount traded between privates 20 Interbank Market (call)¹
Amount traded rest
Interest rate pvt. banks (right axis) 15 The interbank market interest rate ended November at 8.5%,
500 10 positioning itself at a similar level to the end of October. However,
its evolution was not homogeneous throughout the month. In
5
0 0 effect, although the call rate began November with a strong
Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 upward trend due to the tight liquidity situation of the banks,
Source: BCRA as cash needs of the financial system decreased in the second half
of the month, it showed a rapid decline. (see Chart 5.3).
3 The interest rates analyzed in this section are annual nominal rates (TNA).
4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

5 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

Chart 5.4 The average monthly interest rate for 1-day operations,
Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations for 1 business day which concentrated more than 85% of operations in November,
%
30 was at 9.9%, which implies an increase of 1.1 p.p. compared to
October. Despite the increase in the interest rate, the amounts
25 traded were reduced, averaging $988 million for the month,
the lowest value recorded since April 2007.

Promedio diario 20
Promedio ± 1 Desvío Std The deviation of interest rates for call operations from their
daily average value was located at around 0.29 p.p. on average
15 (see Chart 5.4), almost double that recorded the previous month,
as it was influenced by specific operations.

10

5 By bank group, there continued to be lower demand for
30-Jun 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug 13-Sep 28-Sep 13-Oct 28-Oct 12-Nov 27-Nov funds by foreign banks, the main borrower in the call market,
Source: BCRA which went from receiving $1,000 million during the critical
days of July, August and September, to $780 million in
Chart 5.5 November. In turn, public banking increased its amounts
millions of $ Interbank Market loaned in November by $62 million, to $480 million (see
% Chart 5.5).
1,000 22
750 20
18
500
16
250
# 14 PASSIVE INTEREST RATES1

12

-250 10 Like the rest of the short-term local interest rates in the money market, during the first half of November the

-500 8 passive interest rates continued with the upward trend recorded in October, given the lower demand for term placements and the sustained growth of credit lines. However, from the second half of the month onwards, with the banking liquidity situation somewhat more comfortable and the consolidation of the recovery of fixed-term placements, passive interest rates stabilized. In effect, the BADLAR interest rate for private banks increased 0.4 p.p. in the first half of November while during the second half of the month it remained stable around 13.8%. Thus, the monthly average for November of the BADLAR for private banks stood at 13.7%, 1.1 p.p. above that recorded in October (see Graph 5.2).

For its part, for retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000, an increase of around 0.4 p.p. was observed in interest rates in private banks reaching a level of 9.1%, while interest rates in public banks remained stable at 6.8%. When analyzing the total operations of the private sector, taking into account the term of the placements, a parallel upward displacement of the yield curve is observed compared to October (see Graph 5.6).

---

## GRAPH 5.6

TNA % Yield Curve of Fixed-Term Deposits (Private Sector)

[Graph showing data from Feb-00 through Dec-00/Jan-01 to Feb-01/Mar-01, with periods of 00 days, 30-59, 60-89, 90-179, 180-365, and 365 or more days]

Source: BCRA

---

## GRAPH 5.7 ACTIVE INTEREST RATES1

TNA, % Commercial Loans (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)

Active interest rates showed slight increases in all lending lines. However, these increases were, on average, of lesser magnitude than the monthly increase in the BADLAR interest rate for private banks.

The interest rate for advances increased in the month by 0.9 p.p. reaching a monthly average level of 18.7% (see Graph 5.7).

In this case, the increase was recorded mainly in the line of advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding one million pesos where the interest rate reached an average level of 18% with an increase compared to October of 1.3 p.p.. Meanwhile, for documents granted on single signature, the increase in the interest rate compared to the previous month was around 1.2 p.p., positioning itself at 17.8%.

The interest rates for consumption loans presented slight increases. In this way, the average interest rate for personal loans in November was 28%, registering a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p., while the interest rate for credit card financing from September, the last available information, was 26.5% with a monthly increase of 0.2 p.p..

Finally, longer-term financing also recorded increases. In the case of the mortgage loan rate, after having decreased in the first half of the year, by November it recovered the levels of the end of last year. In this way, it reached a

---

## GRAPH 5.8

Active Interest Rates (monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)

TNA, % | TNA, %
Credit Cards | Mortgages
Personals | Pledge-backed

[Graph showing data from Oct-04 through Oct-07, with scale indicators for 31-26 and 15-10]

Source: BCRA
25 9 monthly average of 12%. On the other hand, the interest rate
 corresponding to the financing of pawn loan loans
24 8
 continued on an upward trend and was positioned at 14.3% (see Chart 5.8). This increase
23 7 is explained by the high participation of financial companies
 Nov-04 Nov-05 Nov-06 Nov-07Nov-04 Nov-05 Nov-06 Nov-07
Source: BCRA (which typically lend at rates higher than the average) in the
 amounts granted, which reached close to one-third of the total.

Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market6

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of US$ (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)
 45 International reserves ended November at
 u$s44,860 million (see Chart 6.1), increasing with respect to
 40
 the previous month by approximately u$s1,860 million (4.3%). In this
 35 way, the level reached constitutes a new historical maximum,
 30 surpassing the one that had been observed in July of this year.

 25
 The monthly variation is explained mainly by net
 20
 purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Único y Libre de

 15 Cambios Market (MULC) that totaled u$s1,054 million. In addition,

 10 the stock increased due to exchange rate valuation by u$s124 million,

 5 due to the yield of reserves, which totaled u$s150 million and
 May-03 Nov-03 May-04 Nov-04 May-05 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 due to the net inflow of foreign currency associated with operations of the public
 Source: BCRA
 sector and with international organizations, for u$s415 million.

5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to
September 2007, the values of October and November 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with
data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to
revision.
6 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 7Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

Chart 6.2 In the foreign exchange market, the quotation of the peso with respect to the

 Foreign Exchange Market dollar wholesale (Reference) ended at a level similar to the previous
 millions
 of US$ (monthly average) $/US$month, positioning itself at 3.1442 $/u$s. Meanwhile, in relation to the Euro,
600 3.20 the local currency presented a depreciation of 2.4% and the monthly
 Spot market volume (SIOPEL+Brokers)
 Future market volume (OCT-MAE+ROFEX) average quotation was 4.6069 $/Euro. With respect to the Real,
500
 Spot exchange rate (Reference TC), right axis 3.16 the depreciation was 0.9% trading at 1.7725 $/Real.

400

 3.12
 Regarding the volumes traded, in the spot market the
300
 daily average negotiated through the Electronic Operations
 3.08
200 System -SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokers Market -
 MEC-, had an increase of 14% with respect to the previous month and was
 3.04
100 positioned at u$s494 million. In this market, BCRA participation
 remained similar to that of recent months at 4.7%. Meanwhile,
 0 3.00
 Mar-06 Jul-06 Nov-06 Mar-07 Jul-07 Nov-07 in the futures market (Futures Market of the MAE and
Source: BCRA
 Rosario Forward Market –ROFEX-) the volume traded
 presented a decline of 34% with respect to the previous month, with a
 daily average of u$s156 million (see Chart 6.2). In this
 market, BCRA participation was 7.4%. It is worth mentioning
 that the decline occurring this month in the futures market
 reverses the increase observed in the previous months, where
 greater volatility was observed in the markets.

Chart 7.1

 Volatility (%) Stock Market Volatility Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days
 MERVAL (Argentina) 7. Capital Market

 65 IPC (Mexico) 26
 BOVESPA (Brazil)
 55 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 22 Stocks

 45 18
 During November an increase was observed in the level of
35 14 volatility and greater risk aversion, compared to the levels recorded since September. Likewise, the main stock market
 25 10 indices had strongly negative performance,
 15 6 with declines in almost all cases greater than those in August. The S&P 500 obtained a negative return of 4.4%; the BOVESPA (Brazil)
 5 2 registered a reduction of 3.1% and the MEXBOL (Mexico) fell 6.3%;
 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 all measured in original currency. On the other hand, the VIX –index
 that measures the expected volatility of the S&P- was located at a daily maximum on November 12 of 31.1%. On average in November this
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data index was located at 25.6%, also above the values of August and 6.5 p.p. more with respect to the average recorded in October.

 Several factors explain this evolution of the financial markets. The most relevant was the disclosure of the balance sheets of financial entities in the U.S. that registered considerable losses
 Chart 7.2 due to the mortgage sector crisis, and led the actions of this sector downward, also dragging down the rest of the

 EMBI Spreads of Arg. and of the Region Spreads variable income securities. Other reasons that also explain the decline
 in p.b. in p.b. are the lower future growth projections disseminated by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the growing inflation risks
530 450 in that country due to the reduction in the dollar exchange rate and the
480 EMBI Argentina 400 increase in oil to values close to u$s 100. Towards the end of the month this strong downward trend had begun to
 EMBI Latin America (right axis) reverse as high officials of the Federal Reserve came out to point out
430 350 that the Federal Funds rate would probably be lowered again in December.

380 300

 In Argentina, during November the MERVAL index -measured in pesos- registered a decline of 6.1%, reaching a value of 2,207
330 250
 points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL
280 200
 obtained a return of 12% while in what has gone so far this year
 that value is 5.6%. The volatility of Latin American stock exchanges had a marked increase (see Chart 7.1).
230 150

180 100 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires Stock
 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Exchange increased, in part, due to operations of the AFJPs. The average amount traded reached
 Source: Bloomberg $150 million daily, $35 million greater with respect to the previous month.

 8 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

 **Public Securities**

 Chart 7.3 During November investors, as in August, unwound positions in fixed income securities of emerging countries.
 Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos The external debt spread of Latin America measured by the EMBI increased by 68 p.b. during November. While
 Annual real yield (%) the spread of emerging countries in general measured by the EMBI+ increased 59 p.b. For its part, Argentina's spread did likewise
12.0 PRO 12 by 89 p.b. (see Chart 7.2).
11.5
 The yield curve of public securities in pesos rose across all maturity segments, especially in the shortest ones,
11.0 Boden 14 highlighting its inversion. The yield curve of securities in dollars also inverted, and increased its values in almost all segments,
10.5 Bogar 18 shifting upward (see Charts 7.3 and 7.4).
10.0 PRE 08
 The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) decreased with respect to the level reached the previous month, and was
9.5 31-Oct located in November at $1,475 million, $181 million less than during October.
9.0 DISC $ 30-Nov
8.5 **Private Securities**
 PAR $
8.0 Boden 08
7.5
7.0
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23
 Duration (years)
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

 Chart 7.4
 Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars
Pension Fund Administrators

The investment portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) amounted to mid-November to $93,630 million, registering in the last month a slight increase of 0.1% ($80 million). Faced with a scenario of persistent volatility in the markets, the items in the portfolios of the administrators that presented the greatest increases were shares and national public securities, while the main reductions were observed in foreign securities and negotiable futures and options contracts.

Last October, the investment regulations of the AFJP were modified, establishing that the placements of the administrators in Investment Funds (FCI) with equity made up of assets from MERCOSUR issuers or securities representative of these, shall not exceed, as of December 31, 2008, 2% of the Pension Fund. Likewise, it determined a convergence schedule from current levels, which establishes a limit of 8% towards the end of this year and, from then on, a reduction of 2 p.p. every 120 consecutive days.

The AFJP Superintendency, in Instruction 18 of November 15, 2007, established the classification criteria for FCI in order to identify those included in the new regulations. In this way, it was determined that the funds that were composed in a percentage greater than or equal to 75% directly or indirectly with assets corresponding to issuers belonging to MERCOSUR would be subject to the aforementioned limits.

Of the total fund administered by the AFJP, around 12.3% ($11,560 million) were placed in FCI in mid-November. A 94.8% of these placements ($10,960 million) were invested in MERCOSUR funds, representing approximately 11.6% of the FJP (see Graph 7.5). These instruments reduced their participation with respect to the end of October by 0.5 p.p., behavior that was replicated for the total of FCI and Foreign Securities.
18 Fixed Income

16 Mixed Income As for the rest of the year, unless there is a substitution between

14 Variable Income these assets and external securities, the administrators should

 Fixed term and money
12 partially unwind their positions in said instruments in order

10 to comply with the new regulations. Taking into account

 8 the levels from mid-November, said reduction should

 6 represent 3.6 p.p. of the fund ($3,400 million), and could be

 4 lower if the AFJPs use the 1.5 p.p. investment margin that

 2 they have in Foreign Securities.

 0
 Sep-03 Mar-04 Sep-04 Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

 Mutual Investment Funds

 The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos reached
 $18,369 million (see Chart 7.6), which represents a decrease of
 $1,136 million compared to the previous month (5.8%). For their
 part, FCIs denominated in foreign currency (dollars and euros)
 totaled $4,921 million, which implied a decrease of 9.8% in relation
 to October.

 10 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

 As for the different types of funds, variable income funds
 continued to lead the instrument in question with more than 51% of
 the total. However, their equity experienced a drop of $1,986 million
 (17%) in the month. Such decline is explained both by the redemption
 of shares and by the decrease in their values. In this regard, the
Chart 7.7 return was negative at 6.8%.

millions of $ Financial Trust Securitization Issues
 (number of issues above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
1,800 The equity of money market funds exhibited a positive variation
 40
1,600 of $853 million (15.5%) compared to October. The return on this

1,400 November 2007: type of funds was positive and stood at 0.5% compared to the
 19 $731 M
1,200 11 28 previous month.

1,000

 average 2006: 15 Finally, the equity of fixed income funds increased by 0.7%
 800 average 2005: $630M 22 21 19 29
 10 $430M 19 ($15 million), reversing the negative trend evident in recent
 600 16 27 13 1518 20 1515
 11 131316 16 17 10 months. In November, the increase in equity was due to positive
 400 10 1213 9 returns of 0.4%, as simultaneously redemptions of shares took
 10 12
 200 4 9 6 place.

 0
 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

 Financial Trusts7

 In November, 29 financial trusts were placed, which puts the month
 at a record for the year in terms of quantity of securitizations, and
 evidences the boom of this financing mechanism. The total of FF
 was $731 million (see Chart 7.7), which represents a value 47%
 higher than that corresponding to the same month of the previous
 year. However, with respect to the amount of securitizations in
 October, those in November registered a drop of 34%. The notable
 reduction in average amounts per placement was related to the fact
 that in this month the participation of placements from unregulated
 financial institutions as trustees increased, which are characterized
 by securitizing relatively smaller amounts to retail businesses and
 banks.

 In total, personal loans and credit card coupons concentrated
 almost all of the month's issues (90.9%) (see Chart 7.8), a
Chart 7.8 participation higher than that accumulated in the first eleven months

 Underlying Assets and Trustees of FF of the year (81%). This is directly related to the increase in
 (amounts issued - November 2007) consumer loans, which allows, on the one hand, for trustees to have

 Underlying Assets Trustees assets to
Loans to securitize and at the same time incentivizes them to fund themselves for the granting
 Personal | Commerce | Others
 69.6% Retailers 7.7% of new credits. Additionally, Future Cash Flows
 Secured Loans 4.6%
 of Funds, Commercial Credits and Secured Loans were securitized.
 1.4%
 The main settlors on this occasion were

 Non-Regulated Fin. retail shops, which concentrated 43%, followed by financial
 Institutions
 Future Cash Flows 28.7% institutions not regulated by the BCRA and banks, which
 of Funds
 1.4% Credit Card Coupons concentrated 29% and 21% of the issued amount respectively (see
 Commercial Credits 21.3% Financial Entities Graph 7.8). Again, a relationship is observed between higher
 6.3% 21%
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others consumption and the importance of retail shops as
 settlors and the fact that securitizations of banks and
 unregulated financial institutions correspond entirely to
 assets linked to consumption (credit card coupons and
 personal loans). The remaining 8% corresponded during
 November to the SME segment and companies engaged in activities
 related to agriculture.

7 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

 11Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

 During November, the interest rates on cut registered
 decreases compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.9, left quadrant),
 repeating the downward behavior observed in October, following
 the peak recorded in September. In effect, the interest rates
Graph 7.9 of senior titles were located at 17.4%, for fixed-rate securities,

 Financial Trusts and 18.8% for those placed at variable rate (weighted average per
 (titles A - average monthly weighted by amount) amount issued), which implies a decrease of 0.4 p.p. compared to
 
 % Interest Rates on Cut Duration
 the month recorded in October for the first case and 0.2 p.p. for the second.
20 55 Total Titles A
 FF of Personal Loans When comparing these rates with the BADLAR Private Banks, in the month
18 50
 Fixed rate a decrease in their spreads could again be appreciated, compared to the
 45
 Variable rate
16 BADLAR Rate Private Banks 40 previous month. The decrease in such spread was 1.5 p.p. for the case of
 
 35 senior titles placed at fixed rate, and 1.3 p.p. for those with variable
14 30 rate. Despite this, the spread has not returned to the levels
12 25
 20 prior to July of this year.
10 15
 
 8 10 The average duration of senior titles of FF issued that
 5 have personal loans as underlying reached 5.6 months
 6 0
 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 in November, 0.7 months lower than that of October (see Graph
 
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others 7.9, right quadrant). However, the duration of total
 senior titles decreased almost 1 month compared to the value reached in
 October, reaching 7.1 months. Such value is explained by the high
 weighting of securitizations of fund flows related
 to consumption in the calculation of total duration, which tend to
 present a lower duration.

 12Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Nov-06 Monthly Last 12 months
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 89,509 88,171 87,831 71,843 1.5% 0.7% 24.6% 14.8%
 Monetary circulation 65,728 65,410 64,841 52,248 0.5% -0.4% 25.8% 15.9%
 In public hands 60,138 59,891 59,334 47,850 0.4% -0.4% 25.7% 15.8%
 In financial entities 5,590 5,519 5,507 4,398 1.3% 0.4% 27.1% 17.1%
 Current account in the BCRA 23,781 22,761 22,990 19,595 4.5% 3.6% 21.4% 11.8%
# Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 2.270 2.622 3.535 3.401 -13,4% -14,2% -33,2% -38,5%
 Assets 681 381 758 82 725,7% 660,8%

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 22.935 24.201 24.990 11.752 -5,2% -6,0% 95,2% 79,8%
 In dollars 0 0 16 18 -100,0%

 NOBAC 32.988 33.798 34.233 29.006 -2,4% -3,2% 13,7% 4,8%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 43.792 42.724 42.931 29.760 2,5% 47,2%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 173.613 171.901 172.131 145.906 1,0% 0,1% 19,0% 9,6%
 Current account (2) 46.079 45.377 44.568 42.680 1,5% 0,7% 8,0% -0,5%
 Savings account 33.650 33.090 32.903 27.224 1,7% 0,8% 23,6% 13,9%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 78.993 78.891 78.859 60.896 0,1% -0,7% 29,7% 19,5%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 2.715 3.035 3.210 5.203 -10,6% -11,3% -47,8% -51,9%
 CEDRO with CER 10 10 14 26 0,8% -0,1% -61,3% -64,3%
 Other deposits (3) 12.166 11.498 12.577 9.877 5,8% 4,9% 23,2% 13,5%

 Deposits of the private sector 124.374 123.506 122.811 102.812 0,7% -0,2% 21,0% 11,5%

 Deposits of the public sector 49.239 48.395 49.321 43.094 1,7% 0,9% 14,3% 5,3%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 7.146 6.952 6.742 5.549 2,8% 28,8%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 95.748 92.755 90.240 74.835 3,2% 2,4% 27,9% 17,9%

 Loans to the private sector 85.195 82.205 79.640 60.963 3,6% 2,8% 39,7% 28,8%
 Advances 13.690 13.095 12.845 11.295 4,5% 3,7% 21,2% 11,7%
 Documents 17.344 16.980 16.694 13.452 2,1% 1,3% 28,9% 18,8%
 Mortgages 13.578 13.202 12.707 9.821 2,8% 2,0% 38,3% 27,4%
 Pledged loans 5.612 5.360 5.093 3.503 4,7% 3,8% 60,2% 47,6%
 Personal loans 20.369 19.524 18.691 12.522 4,3% 3,4% 62,7% 49,9%
 Credit cards 10.494 9.914 9.607 6.802 5,8% 5,0% 54,3% 42,1%
 Others 4.108 4.129 4.001 3.568 -0,5% -1,3% 15,1% 6,1%

 Loans to the public sector 10.552 10.550 10.600 13.872 0,0% -0,8% -23,9% -29,9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.093 4.991 4.851 3.668 2,0% 38,8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 106.216 105.268 103.902 90.531 0,9% 0,0% 17,3% 8,1%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 139.867 138.358 136.805 117.755 1,1% 0,2% 18,8% 9,4%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 233.751 231.792 231.465 193.756 0,8% 0,0% 20,6% 11,2%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 256.155 253.765 252.687 210.823 0,9% 0,1% 21,5% 12,0%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 94.154 93.750 92.337 73.787 0,4% -0,4% 27,6% 17,6%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 124.509 123.705 121.755 97.302 0,6% -0,2% 28,0% 17,9%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 184.512 183.397 182.145 150.663 0,6% -0,2% 22,5% 12,8%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 205.222 203.697 201.855 165.885 0,7% -0,1% 23,7% 14,0%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2007 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 1.338 1,5% 1.182 1,3% 12.684 14,2% 17.665 19,7%
 Financial sector 630 0,7% 816 0,9% -3.926 -4,4% -2.780 -3,1%
 Public sector -1.601 -1,8% -3.323 -3,7% -3.933 -4,4% -5.119 -5,7%
 Temporary advances + transfer of profits -48 -485 4.136 5.141
 Use of the national government account -2.586 -1.244 -8.583 -10.194
 External credit 1.033 -1.594 514 -66
 Private external sector -115 -0,1% -2.074 -2,3% 29.725 33,2% 34.343 38,4%
 BCRA securities 2.419 2,7% 5.726 6,4% -9.774 -10,9% -9.396 -10,5%
 Others 6 0,0% 37 0,0% 592 0,7% 617 0,7%
International reserves 1,069 2.4% 62 0.1% 12,625 28.8% 14,032 32.0%
 Foreign exchange market intervention -31 -0.1% -648 -1.5% 9,601 21.9% 11,108 25.4%
 Payment to international organizations 120 0.3% -325 -0.7% -1,756 -4.0% -1,777 -4.1%
 Other public sector operations 373 0.9% 229 0.5% 3,007 6.9% 3,000 6.9%
 Minimum cash -73 -0.2% -386 -0.9% -1,808 -4.1% -2,082 -4.8%
 Repo valuation rate 269 0.6% 675 1.5% 966 2.2% 1,065 2.4%
 Others 409 0.9% 516 1.2% 2,615 6.0% 2,717 6.2%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified fund utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for. 13
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06

 Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 10.00 8.88 11.03 8.02 8.02
 Amount traded 1,112 1,084 1,206 1,600 1,347

 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.37 9.75 9.56 7.06 6.85
 60 days or more 10.98 9.74 9.65 7.86 8.22
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.26 10.80 10.78 7.91 7.40
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.73 12.57 12.86 9.80 9.59

 In dollars
 30 days 1.25 1.30 1.28 0.95 1.01
 60 days or more 2.32 2.19 2.26 1.92 1.74
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.48 1.53 1.50 0.93 0.74
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.29 3.39 3.40 2.99 2.49

 Active Interest Rates Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 15.73 14.76 13.44 9.59 9.52

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.87 10.13 9.21 8.82 8.71
 Amount traded (total terms) 139 128 114 112 108

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 18.75 17.85 19.00 16.38 16.38
 Documents on sole signature 17.76 16.56 15.92 12.90 12.89
 Mortgages 11.97 11.67 11.37 11.75 11.61
 Pledged loans 14.26 13.06 11.73 10.90 10.62
 Personal loans 28.02 27.62 27.38 24.56 24.79
 Credit cards n/d 26.46 26.22 25.93 26.22

 International Interest Rates Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06

 LIBOR
 1 month 4.77 4.98 5.49 5.35 5.32
 6 months 4.83 5.05 5.35 5.35 5.37

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.30 3.96 4.01 4.67 4.74
 10 years 4.13 4.51 4.52 4.56 4.59

 FED Funds Rate 4.50 4.74 5.03 5.25 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.25 11.25 11.29 13.25 13.70

 (1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those of October and November are
 estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.00 8.00 7.63 5.75 5.74
 Liabilities 7 days 8.25 8.25 7.88 6.25 6.24
 Assets 7 days (1) 10.25 10.25 10.75 8.25 8.24

 Total REPO session repo rates
 1 day 9.71 8.49 10.24 7.59 7.02
 7 days 9.99 9.63 8.75 8.18 7.37

 Amount traded in REPO session repos (daily average) 2,539 2,345 2,557 2,666 3,159
 LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month 10.61 10.50 10.65 7.90 n/o
 2 months 10.65 10.64 10.80 n/o n/o
 3 months 10.76 10.70 10.66 8.00 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 10.09 10.30
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 11.18 11.25
 NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.20 2.25 2.85 0.48 0.70
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o 2.10 1.98
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 390 335 278 253

 Foreign Exchange Market Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06
## Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.14 3.17 3.15 3.06 3.07
 BCRA Reference 3.14 3.16 3.15 3.06 3.08

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.15 3.17 3.17 3.07 3.08
 ROFEX 1 month 3.14 3.16 3.16 3.07 3.08
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 191 331 435 201 245

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.77 1.76 1.65 1.42 1.42

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.61 4.50 4.38 4.04 3.97

 Capital Markets Nov-07 Oct-07 Sep-07 Dec-06 Nov-06

 MERVAL
 Index 2,259 2,273 2,088 2,023 1,896
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 175 131 107 82 68

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 88.93 91.10 89.66 92.37 93.10
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 97.32 93.68 89.26 104.94 101.93
 BODEN 2014 ($) 69.51 74.28 72.81 87.92 86.25
 DISCOUNT ($) 73.21 78.40 75.63 102.09 96.14

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 650 497 560 298 302
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 255 209 232 196 205

 (1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
 (2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 15 Monetary Report NOVEMBER 2007

## 9. Glossary

AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits with amounts greater than one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in U.S. dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: U.S. Federal Reserve.
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in public hands plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in public hands plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in public hands plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Broker Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Tradeable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
TCRM: Multilateral real exchange rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Units linked to product.
VN: Nominal Value.

 16
