2. MONETARY AGGREGATES¹

**Graph 2.1**
**Means of Payment and GDP**
**(year-over-year var.)**

In October, the means of payment (M2) reduced its year-over-year growth rate by more than 2 p.p. compared to that observed on average over the last 6 months. The decrease in year-over-year variation (in p.p.) was also verified in the M2 of the private sector. Likewise, total means of payment maintained a growth rate lower than that of nominal output by almost 1 p.p. (see Graph 2.1).

Regarding the components of means of payment, both cash in circulation and demand deposits behaved following a trajectory similar to that evidenced in the same month of last year (see Graph 2.2).

Private sector placements showed a slight [text continues but is cut off in the input]
IT-07 IIT-07 IIIT-07 Oct-07 deceleration of its growth rate that can be associated with an
Source: BCRA adverse international context and the uncertainty characteristic of
electoral periods that usually cause portfolio changes by agents.
Nevertheless, the year-on-year variation of private deposits exceeds
by 3 p.p. the record from the previous year.

Graph 2.2 The broad aggregate M3 in pesos, which aggregates total
deposits in pesos and currency in circulation, increased in October
Currency in Circulation Demand Accounts of the Private Sector by 0.2% ($370 million).
thousands of (base September 2007) thousands of (base September 2007)
millions of $ millions of $
62 66 It should be noted that dollar deposits of the private sector
registered a monthly increase of 2.5% (u$s 160 million), significantly
61 65 lower than the growth they had presented in the two previous months
and similar to that of the same month last year (see Graph 2.3).
60 64
59 63 Faced with the continuity of a less favorable international context
2005* 2006* 2007 than in the first months of the year, the Central Bank operated on 2
58 62 fronts; on one hand it continued intervening in spot and futures
30-Sep 7-Oct 14-Oct 21-Oct 28-Oct 30-Sep 7-Oct 14-Oct 21-Oct 28-Oct foreign exchange markets within the framework of a managed floating
*Note: daily evolution according to the percentage variation of the corresponding year starting from the value of June 30, 2007 policy that prevents excessive volatility of the exchange rate from being
Source: BCRA observed in such a way that spending, savings and investment
decisions are not affected. On the other hand, the BCRA continued
supplying peso demand through its monetary regulation instruments,
in order to reduce volatility in interest rates. In this way, it expanded
the availability of fixed-rate active repos which, together with variable
interest rate auctions and non-renewal of passive repos, generated a
monetary expansion of $536 million. Likewise, the BCRA conducted a
Graph 2.3 set of operations associated with LEBAC and NOBAC –repurchases
Monthly Var. Dollar Deposits of the Private Sector Stock in the secondary market and through auctions, partial renewal of
thousands of millions maturities and coupon payments– that reached $1,572 million in
millions of US$ of US$ the month.
600 7.0
In this context, in October the main explanatory factor for M2
500 6.5 growth was the secondary creation of money, through the granting
Fixed Term - avg. monthly var. of loans to the private sector by financial entities (see Graph 2.4).
Sight - avg. monthly var. +5% +2.5%
400 +9% 6.0
Stock Total (right axis)
300 5.5 In October 2007 the Rest of the IPC GBA sub-index developed by
+2.9% 5.0 INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with seasonal
200 4.5 behavior, subject to regulation or with high tax component)
presented an increase of 0.8% monthly, higher than that observed in
100 4.0 the same month of 2006. On the other hand, the year-on-year variation
3.5 of IPC Rest reached 10.1%, showing a reduction of 1.3 p.p. compared
0 to the record from the same period last year (see Graph 2.5). The
3.0 decline in the year-on-year rate continues to be linked to the
-100 2.5 evolution of service prices, while goods prices remained at similar
-200 levels to those of a year ago. In any case, the IPC Rest registers
Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 variations in year-on-year terms below those of 2006, although the
Source: BCRA indices of diffusion, magnitude and persistence of price increases
that make up this sub-index remain at elevated values.
Graph 2.4
Explanatory Factors of M2
thousands of
millions of $ average flows, October 2007

3

2
Demand Deposits
1
Banknotes and
coins
0

-1

2 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007
-2
 Loans to LEBAC Other Sector Sector M2
 Private S. excluding External Public Sector 1
 Private Banks 3. Bank Liquidity

Source: BCRA
 The bank liquidity ratio, defined as cash in banks, the current
 accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements
 arranged with the BCRA, as a percentage of total deposits in pesos,
 fell to 16.9% in October (see Chart 3.1).
 The lower liquidity in October was observed both in cash in
 Chart 2.5 banks and in the current accounts of entities at the BCRA,
 CPI Rest and Market Expectations while the level of reverse repurchase agreements of financial entities with the

 % (var. y-o-y) BCRA increased slightly.
 15
 14.2
 14
 Due to the fact that in October and November the Central Bank
 13
 established a joint minimum cash position, financial entities have,
 12 11.9 for these two months, an extended time horizon that allows them

 11 better management of their liquidity. However, unlike what occurred

 10 10.1 with the joint integration established for July-August 2007, for this
 
 IPC Rest 8.6 two-month period, entities that eventually presented surplus during
 8
 October cannot apply it in November - which aims to discourage
 Expectations IPC GBA 2007 (dec-dec) overly precautionary attitudes - such as integrating excess liquidity,

 7 which could generate volatility in interest rates. As a result, the
 6
 minimum cash position for the month of October ended with a surplus
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 lower than previous months, of around 0.2% of total deposits in pesos
 
 Source: INDEC and REM. (see Chart 3.2).

 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position
 remained in surplus at approximately 10% of total dollar deposits.

 Chart 3.1
 Liquidity Ratio
 % of average deposits 30-day moving average
 20

 Cash + CCBCRA + Reverse Repo OCTOBER
 19 1 2
 Cash + CCBCRA 4. Loans

 18

 17 Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency,
 Reverse Repo increased in October by 3.5% ($3,380 million).
 16
 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a generalized
 15 increase across all lines (see Chart 4.1). In the month they recorded
 a variation of 3.6% ($2,870 million) and showed a year-on-year
 14 increase of 39.8%. The lines that have real guarantees continued
 13 with an acceleration in their annual growth rate, while commercial
 financing and consumer financing lines would have stabilized their
 12
 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 year-on-year variations at levels close to 24% and 59%, respectively
 Source: BCRA (see Chart 4.2).

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by
 transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 3 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 Chart 3.2 During October, mortgage loans showed an increase of 3.9%
 Minimum Cash Position ($490 million), resulting in one of the highest values since the
 % of Surplus Daily Position Average Position reversal of the downward trend in mid-2005. The dynamism that this
 deposits line presents, mainly intended to finance the acquisition and
 2.0 construction of real estate, contributed to recover its participation
 1.5 with respect to investment in construction, although current levels
 1.0 are still far from historical records (see Chart 4.3). Meanwhile,
 0.5 pledge loans showed an increase of approximately 5.2% ($270 million),
 0.0 accompanying the expansion in automotive industry sales and
 -0.5 recording the maximum value since the recovery began at the
 beginning of 2004.
 -1.0 Bimonthly Position
 Bimonthly Position (with non-transferable surplus)
 -1.5 July August Nov September October
 Source: BCRA
The lines intended for consumption showed an increase of 4.9% ($1,410 million) compared to the previous month. The growth was explained mainly by personal loans which during the period rose 5.5% ($1,050 million), while credit card financing increased 3.7% ($360 million).

**Graph 4.1 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
millions of $ (variation of monthly averages)**

The commercial lines presented growth of 2.1% ($700 million), accumulating in the last 12 months an increase of 23.8%. The advances experienced an expansion of 2.1% ($270 million), reversing the declining trend observed since the beginning of international turbulence (see Graph 4.4). For its part, documents grew approximately 1.7% ($280 million), moderating their expansion compared to previous months, behavior consistent with what was observed in the same period of the previous year.

Source: BCRA

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector presented in the month an increase of 2.9% (u$s140 million), linked mainly to financing of export activities.

## 5. Interest Rates³

**Graph 4.2 Securities Issued by the BCRA⁴

% Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
(year-on-year variation of monthly averages)**

In October the interest rates in the primary market of BCRA securities remained practically stable (see Graph 5.1). Placements concentrated in the shortest-term securities, in the case of NOBAC and at a slightly longer term in the LEBAC segment, highlighting, as in recent months, the market's preference for LEBAC.

The BCRA continued redeeming LEBAC and NOBAC through repurchase auctions and secondary market operations. As a consequence of these operations, and despite placements in the primary market, the total stock of securities issued by the BCRA decreased in October slightly more than 2% compared to the previous month and was located at the end of this month at a FV of $57,417 million.

**Graph 4.3 % % Mortgage Loans and Investment in Construction**

**Interbank Markets**

**Repo Market¹**

The BCRA continued using active repo operations as an instrument to provide liquidity to the Financial System and reduce the volatility of short-term interest rates. In particular, it continued auctioning repos at variable interest rate and, furthermore, as of October 17 doubled the maximum term offered in active repos at fixed interest rate, going from 30 days to 60 days term, while it reduced the interest rate of active repos at 30 days from 10.75% to 10.625% annually. In turn, in the case of fixed interest rate operations, the BCRA increased the available stock from $2,000 to $3,000 million, to be distributed among the entities according to their participation in total deposits. Interest rates in the variable rate segment increased slightly, despite the reduction in the spread, product of the increase in the BADLAR rate (see Graph 5.4). The interest rates of repos

---

³ The interest rates analyzed in this section are annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁴ In this section the figures correspond to month-end data, except where otherwise specified.

4 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

**Graph 4.4**
millions of $ Commercial Loans % liabilities, were maintained at 8% and 8.25% for 1 and 7 days,
900 (var. monthly and year-on-year avg.) 90 respectively.

700 70

500 50
Interbank Market (call)1

300 30

100 10 After having fallen sharply during the third week of
September, in response to the battery of measures implemented
-100 -10
Monthly Var. Advances by the BCRA that managed to dispel uncertainty regarding
Monthly Var. Documents
-300 Monthly Var. Other Loans -30 liquidity conditions, the interbank market interest rate
Year-on-Year Var. Advances (right axis)
-500 Year-on-Year Var. Documents (right axis) -50 remained relatively stable during October, around 9% (see
Chart 5.2).

Ene-06 Abr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Ene-07 Abr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07
Source: BCRA

The average interest rate for 1 business day operations,
which concentrate 80% of financing, was located on average in the
month at 8.8%, which implies a drop of 2.2 p.p. with respect to the
previous month and reaching a level similar to before the international
financial crisis resulting from the U.S. mortgage market crisis. The
amounts traded also decreased, averaging the month at $1,070 million,
Chart 5.1 the lowest value registered since April 2007.

The deviation of interest rates for call operations with
Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC respect to their average for each day was located around 0.17 p.p.
on average in October (see Chart 5.3), a value that is around one
%
LEBAC - TNA sixth of that registered the previous month and similar to the
prevailing before the international crisis.

12

11 By group of banks, a drop could be appreciated in the amounts
demanded by foreign banks, which went from a daily average of
10 $900 million last month to $820 million in October, while public
banks reduced their offered amounts by $70 million, to $410 million.
9

8
30-Oct
7 25-Sep
6
20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Source: BCRA duration (days)

Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007 5

Chart 5.2 Passive Interest Rates1

% As a consequence of the behavior of fixed-term deposits,
millions of $ %2522.8 Call Market during October an increase in passive interest rates was observed
2,500 50 throughout the month (see Chart 5.4). The BADLAR rate of private
20
45 banks resumed the upward trend it presented until mid-September
15 13.8 13.3
2,000 10.2 40 (when it reached its maximum of 14.7%) and ended the month at an
average of 12.5%, a level 0.4 p.p. lower than that of the previous
10 8.5 11.0 8.4
8.8 35 month. On the other hand, in retail placements, for amounts less
5 7.8 8.1 7.7
1,500 30 than $100,000, of private banks an increase of around 0.4 p.p. was
observed. In public banks, on the other hand, a certain stability was
0 observed both in the interest rates for wholesale and retail deposits.
29-6 13-7 26-7 8-8 22-8 4-9 17-9 28-9 11-10 25-1025
1,000 20 When analyzing the total operations of the private sector, taking
Amount traded between private parties 15 into account the term of the investment, a flattening of the yield
curve is observed explained by a drop in long-term interest rates,
Amount traded rest
500 Tasa de interés bcos. priv. (right axis) 10 while short-term interest rates remained stable in relation to September
(see Chart 5.5).
5

0 0
Jun-02 Dic-02 Jun-03 Dic-03 Jun-04 Dic-04 Jun-05 Dic-05 Jun-06 Dic-06 Jun-07
Source: BCRA

Active Interest Rates1

Chart 5.3 %
14
Interest Rate and Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations Monthly average

10 ± 1 Standard Deviation
12

10 Regarding active interest rates, decreases were appreciated in
commercial loan lines, which had shown increases the previous
8 month. On the other hand, for the rest of the active rates, slight
increases were observed.
6
4
 The interest rate on advances decreased by 1.2 p.p. in the month²
 reaching an average monthly level of 17.9% (see Chart 5.6).

 In this case, the decrease was registered mainly in the line of
 advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding one million
 Ene-03 Jul-03 Ene-04 Jul-04 Ene-05 Jul-05 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 pesos where the interest rate reached an average level of 16.7%.
 Source: BCRA Meanwhile, for documents granted on signature alone the decrease
 with respect to the previous month was around 1.4 p.p. where the
 interest rate was 14.4%.

 The interest rate on personal loans was 28.2%
 Chart 5.4 on average in October, with an increase of 0.8 p.p., while the
 rates for amounts exceeding $10,000 remained stable. When
 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 days observing the interest rate curves by amount bracket it can
 15 be noted that for amounts less than $5 thousand the interest rates are
 14 considerably higher and the amounts are more significant than
 13 Retail Private Banks in the rest of the brackets, while for amounts exceeding
 12 Wholesale Private Banks $10 thousand the interest rates are significantly lower (see
 Chart 5.7). This differentiated behavior would respond to the
 11 intrinsic heterogeneity of these lines in which entities with very
 10 different characteristics appear offering in different sections of the
 9 curve to differentiated market niches. For financing with credit
 8 cards the average for September, latest available information, was
 7 26.2% with an average decline of 0.2 p.p. (see Chart 5.8).
 6
 Ene-07 Feb-07 Mar-07 Abr-07 May-07 Jun-07 Jul-07 Ago-07 Sep-07 Oct-07
 Source: BCRA

 5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to
 August 2007, the values for September and October 2007 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on
 loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

 6 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 Chart 5.5 Finally, the interest rates on long-term financing
 TNA % Yield Curve of FT registered increases with respect to the month of September. In this
 16 (Private Sector) sense, the interest rate on mortgage loans increased
 14 slightly (0.4 p.p.) with respect to the previous month reaching an
 12 average monthly level of 12%. However, when analyzing the segment of
 10 mortgage credits granted to families⁶ it is observed that the interest
 8 Ago-07 rate is substantially lower, in fact, the average for the month of
 Sep-07 October reached 10.2%. This difference with the total interest rate
 6 Oct-07 is explained by the behavior of interest rates in loans with
 4 mortgage guarantee granted to companies. For their part, the
 interest rates on pledge loans increased by 1.3 p.p. and stood
 2 at 12.8%.

 0
 Feb-00 Mar-00 Abr-00 May-00 Jun-00 Jul-00 Ago-00 Sep-00 Oct-00 Nov-30-5960-89 365 or more90-179180-365Dec-00 Ene-01 Feb-01 Mar-01
 Source: BCRA 00 days
 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market⁷

 International reserves ended October at u$s43,000
 million (see Chart 6.1). During the month the variation of reserves
 was explained by an increase in investment returns of u$s170 million
 and by exchange rate valuation of u$s160 million, together with
 Chart 5.6 public sector operations which yielded a positive result of u$s455
 TNA, % Commercial Loans million. On the other hand, during the month there was a decline
 22 (Interest rate avg. monthly weighted by amount) of u$s740 million due to net foreign exchange purchases made by
 20 the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange Market, and a decrease of
 Advances u$s145 million in the current accounts of entities at the BCRA.
 18
 Documents
 16
14
In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
12
with respect to the wholesale dollar (Reference) from the beginning of the month

10 reaching a variation of 0.8% with respect to the end of the previous month.

8 However, in the last three days of October, after the
uncertainty inherent to any electoral process had dissipated, it returned

6 to the level at which it had begun the month. The exchange rate closed in
Oct-04 Feb-05 Jun-05 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07
Source: BCRA October at 3.1477 $/u$s (see Chart 6.2). In relation to the Euro, the
peso had a depreciation of 2.7% where the average
monthly quotation was 4.497 $/Euro and with the Real the depreciation of the local
currency was 6.2%, trading at 1.7563 $/Real.

Regarding the volumes traded, in the spot market the
daily average, through the Electronic Operations System -
Chart 5.7 SIOPEL- and the Electronic Brokers Market -MEC-,

% Interest Rate Curve for Personal Loans declined slightly with respect to the previous month with u$s435 million,
(Granted in Capital and GBA)
40 where the participation of the BCRA remained similar to the last

35 months at 4.4%. In the same way, in the futures market

30 (Futures Market of the MAE and Forward Market of Rosario –
ROFEX-) the volume traded declined slightly with a
25
daily average of u$s236 million. In this market the

20 participation of the BCRA was 16.2%, slightly higher than the last

15 month.
Sep-07

10 Oct-07

5

0
0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 Up to $ 5,000 From $ 5,000 to 9,999 From $ 10,000 to $ 20,000 From $ 20,000 and more
Source: BCRA

6 This segment was calculated by grouping credits granted for 10 or more years term and for amounts less than $250,000.

7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

7 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

Chart 5.8 7. Capital Market
Active Interest Rates
(average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

TNA, % TNA, % Stocks
31 15
Credit Cards

30 Personal 14 During October the trend that began last month continued
Mortgages

29 13 showing a reduction in the level of volatility (see Chart 7.1),
Pledged Loans

28 12 together with greater liquidity and lower risk aversion,

11 recovering from the deterioration observed in July and August. Likewise
27
during the month some of the indices of the main stock
26 10
market exchanges continued the recovery that began last month and
25 9 reached historical highs, surpassing the peaks achieved

24 8 prior to the real estate sector crisis. The S&P 500

23 7 obtained a gain of 1.5%; the BOVESPA (Brazil) registered an
Source: BCRA Oct-04 Oct-05 Oct-06 Oct-07 Oct-04 Oct-05 Oct-06 Oct-07 increase of 8% and the MEXBOL (Mexico) increased 3.8%; all
measured in original currency. On the other hand, the VIX –index that
measures the volatility of the S&P and is considered a proxy for risk aversion- was located on average in October at 19.1% (3.1 p.p. lower than
the average recorded in the previous month).

For its part, the Federal Reserve lowered by 25 b.p. the fed
Chart 6.1 funds rate, as had been expected since the third week of the month. At
International Reserves of the BCRA the beginning of October the chances of another rate cut by

thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time deposits)
millions of US$ the Fed had been reduced after encouraging indicators regarding
45 the economic situation in the U.S. had been published at the
beginning of the month, mainly the employment creation indicator
40 for August –the data was corrected going from job destruction to
job creation- and September when it showed positive
35 data. However, from mid-month the view of the

30 markets regarding what the Federal Reserve would do began to

25 change after a series of negative indicators about the
real estate sector became known, and the impact that the crisis in this sector had on
20 the balance sheets of the banks.

15

10
5 In Argentina, during October the MERVAL index -measured in
 Apr-03 Oct-03 Apr-04 Oct-04 Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07
Source: BCRA pesos- registered a gain of 7.5%, reaching a value of 2,351
 points at the end of the month, which represents a new historical
 maximum. In the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained a
 return of 32% while in what has elapsed so far this year said value is
 of 12.5%. Highlighted during the month is the good performance of
 companies related to the oil and gas industry.

 Chart 6.2 Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a positive variation
 of 7.8% in the month, while BOVESPA grew 14%, the IPC
 Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) (Mexico) obtained a return of 6.6%, the IGPA (Chile) increased
$/US$
3.20 8.5%, and the IGBVL (Peru) increased 2.2%.

 In terms of historical volatility, the Latin American
3.15
 stock exchanges had a marked decline. Specifically, the
 volatility of the MERVAL measured in dollars –22 sessions- in terms

3.10 annualized was 15.05% in October (1.81 p.p. lower than that of
 September).

3.05 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires
 Stock Exchange increased. The average amount traded

3.00 reached a historical maximum of $115 million daily, after
 Jun-06 Aug-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 having increased $45 million compared to the previous month.
Source: BCRA

 8 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

Chart 7.1 Public Securities

 Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days During October investors were slightly more
 70 MERVAL (Argentina) 26
 IPC (Mexico) cautious regarding fixed income securities of emerging countries,
 BOVESPA (Brazil) 22
 Shanghai Index (China) although a decoupling effect was observed, to some extent,
 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) with respect to the North American market due to the good

 50 18 fundamentals of much of the emerging markets. This greater caution was
 40 14 verified by a smaller decrease in the spread of these securities than in
 September. The spreads of the Credit Default Swaps (CDS) of
 30 10 Argentina at 5 years decreased 26 b.p., while the CDS of Brazil
 at 5 years decreased 4 b.p.. In the same sense, the spreads of
 20 6 Latin America's external debt measured by the EMBI was reduced by 19

 10 2 b.p. during October. While the spread of emerging countries
 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 in general measured by the EMBI+ decreased 15 b.p.. For its part the
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. spread of Argentina fell 86 b.p.. The relatively better
 performance of the sovereign risk indices compared to other
 emerging markets could respond, in part, to the fact that at the end of October the
 uncertainty inherent to any electoral process dissipated (see
 Chart 7.2).
 Chart 7.2 The yield curve of Argentine public securities in
 pesos plus CER rose in the shorter segments, remaining
 Sovereign Risk Indicators practically unchanged for the medium and long term (see Chart

 basis points 7.3). In contrast, the yield curve of securities in dollars
 points CDS of Argentina spreads EMBI of Arg & the Region spreads reached lower values in almost all segments, shifting
 b.p. b.p.
 630 CDS 2 years 530 EMBI Argentina 450 downward (see Chart 7.4).
 CDS 5 years
 CDS 10 years 480 EMBI Latin America (right
 380 300 axis)
 380 300
 330 250 The units linked to GDP (U.V.P) had good
 performance during the month. The U.V.P denominated in dollars (New
 330 250 York law) ended the month with a value of u$s13.7, reflecting an
 180 280 200 increase of 5.4% compared to September. In the same line, the U.V.P

 230 150 denominated in pesos reached a value of $11.15 at the close of the month,
 growing 15.5% compared to the previous month.
30 180 100
 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 The volume of public securities traded (in daily average)
 Source: Bloomberg
 decreased $55 million with respect to the level reached the previous month,
 having been in October $1,656 million.

 Private Securities

 Chart 7.3 Corporate financing via the issuance of Negotiable Bonds
 (ONs) was carried out through four placements,

 Yield Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos of which three have been denominated in dollars (for a total of
 annual real (%)
 10 u$s490 million) and only one in pesos ($50 million). It is worth noting

 9 PRE 08 that during October such issuances corresponded to new
 Boden 14 financing, not to refinancing.

 8 DISC $
 Bogar 18 PAR $
 7 PRO 12
 In the cumulative January-October period, issuances exceed by more

 6 than 50% the value reached in the same period of 2006, totaling
 28-Sep
 5 31-Oct u$s3,103 million, an amount that was placed through 30
 Boden 08
 4 issuances.

 3
 In what has been completed of the year, the economic sectors that
 2
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 financed themselves the most through this mechanism were those related to
 Duration (years) energy activities and banks. Additionally, this
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute financing tool represented in such period more than
 50% of new financing channeled through the capital market,

 9 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 thus resulting in a relevant instrument for companies at the time of obtaining new long-term funds.

 Institutional Investors

 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators

 Chart 7.4 The investment portfolio of the Pension and Retirement Fund
 Administrators (AFJP) amounted in mid-October to

 Yield Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars $93,550 million, registering in the last month an increase of
 annual (%) Spread (p.p.)
 7.8% ($6,770 million), which partially offset the
 12 16
 negative variations registered in previous periods. The
 11 Boden 15 14
 reduction of uncertainty and volatility in the markets,
 BONAR VII DISC USD 12 local and international, facilitated the increase in some items of the
 10 Boden 13 PAR USD
 administrators' portfolios, highlighting Investment Funds
 10
 9 Boden 12 8 (FCI), public securities, equities and foreign securities.
 BONAR V
 6
 7 4

 28-Sep In order to contribute to the development of the national
 6 31-Oct 2
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Sep-07 (right axis)
 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Oct-07 (right axis) capital market, facilitate the financing of local companies and
 5 0
 0358101315 18 promote investments in the Argentine economy, the

 Duration (years) Superintendency of Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute (SAFJP), the BCRA and the National Securities Commission
 (CNV) issued a Joint Resolution that modified the
 regulations regarding the investments of the Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators (AFJP).

 In this sense, it was established that the placements of the
 administrators in FCI –defined in subsection j) of article 74 of Law
 24,241–, whose assets are composed of securities from MERCOSUR
 issuers or securities representative of these, shall not exceed, as of
 December 31, 2008, two percent (2%) of the Pension and
 Retirement Fund. Likewise, the regulation determined a convergence schedule from current levels, which establishes by the end of
 this year a limit of 8% and, from then on,
 Chart 7.5 a reduction of 2 p.p. every 120 calendar days.
Of the total investment portfolio of the AFJPs, thousands of Patrimony of Common Investment Funds in Pesos were millions $ in the middle of the month, placed in FCI close to 12.2% ($11.550

20 million). 71.6% of these placements were

18 concentrated in six funds, in which the administrators Fixed income
16 Mixed income registered a participation in the patrimony greater than 90%.

14 Variable income

 Fixed term and money
12 For the coming months, it is expected that, if there is no

10 substitution between these assets and external securities, the

8 administrators should dismantle their positions in said

6 instruments in order to comply with the new regulations.

4

2

0 Common Investment Funds

 Sep-03 Mar-04 Sep-04 Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data
 The patrimony of the FCIs in pesos reached in October $19.505
 million (see Chart 7.5). In the month they registered an
 increase of $2.020 million (12%) compared to the previous month. For
 their part, the FCIs denominated in foreign currency (dollars and
 euros) totaled $5.454 million, which implied an increase of
 14% in relation to September.

 10 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 Classified by type of fund, those of variable income, which
 concentrate more than 55% of the total, increased $1.338 million
 (13.2%) in the month. The patrimonial growth is explained both by the
 subscriptions of share units as well as by the increase in their values. In that
 sense, the yield was 11%.

 The patrimony of the money market funds exhibited a
 positive variation of $722 million (15.1%) with respect to September.
 The profitability of this type of funds stood at 0.6%.

 Chart 7.6 Finally, the patrimony of the fixed income funds continued
 showing negative variations. Compared to what was observed in

 million $ Financial Trusts Issuances September, it fell $54 million (2.4%) although on this occasion it
 1.800 was due to share unit redemptions. These funds had a

 1.600 positive yield of 0.8%.

 1.400

 1.200 As a result of the change in regulations regarding the composition
 October 2007: $1.112M
 of the investments of the AFJPs, mentioned in the previous section, and
 1.000
 given the importance of the FCIs as part of the investment
 800 portfolios of the administrators, it is expected that in the coming
 avg. 2006: $630M
 600 months some change in the patrimony of the FCIs will be observed. Such
 avg. 2005: $430M
 400 change would basically have to do with redemptions of share units by

 200 the AFJPs in funds that have investments in Mercosur countries in order
 to comply with the regulation.
 0
 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct-05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others
 Financial Trusts8

 In October 28 financial trusts were placed for an
 amount of $1.112 million (see Chart 7.6), which represents a
 figure higher both with respect to that of the previous month (+50%), as well as
 in relation to that of the same period a year ago (+108%). The significant
 increase, which places October as a record issuance month in the
 year, responds to the large quantity of FF placed, since the
 average amount per placement remained stable with respect to the last
 months. In the first ten months of 2007, the issuances
 accumulated $6.628 million, a value that was 23% higher than that of
 Chart 7.7 the same period of 2006. Throughout this year, the issuances of FF
 constituted an important financing tool

 Underlying Assets and Trustees of FF of corporate financing, representing just under 40% of the new
 (amounts issued - October 2007) financing obtained through the capital market.

 Underlying Assets Trustees
## Retail Commerce

Together, personal loans and credit card vouchers concentrated almost all of the month's issuances (84.7%) (see Graph 7.7), a figure higher than that accumulated in the first ten months of the year (80.2%). Additionally, leasing contracts (10% of the total), commercial credits and chattel mortgage credits were securitized. Although there was no new securitization of public securities in the month, these are, after consumer financing, the most relevant underlying assets, since so far this year they concentrate 6% of what was issued.

**Credit Card Vouchers 38% | Other Credit 4% | Personal Loans 34% | 50% | Regulated Financial Institutions | Commercial Credits 25% | 4% | Leasing Contracts | Chattel Mortgage Credits 10% | 2% | Financial Entities 34%**

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

The main settlors on this occasion were retail commerce, which concentrated 38% of the issuances, followed by banks and financial institutions not regulated by the BCRA, which concentrated 34% and 25% of what was issued respectively (see Graph 7.7). The remaining 3.6% corresponded to the SME segment and companies engaged in activities related to agriculture.

---

## Graph 7.8

**Financial Trusts** (Class A titles - monthly averages weighted by amount)

During October, the cut-off interest rates registered decreases with respect to the peak they had experienced in September (see Graph 7.8, left quadrant). In effect, the interest rates of senior titles were positioned at 17.8%, for fixed-rate securities, and at 19% for those placed at variable rate (weighted average by amount issued), which implies a decrease of 2.2 p.p. with respect to that registered in September for the first case and 0.7 p.p. for the second. When comparing said rates with the BADLAR Private Banks, in the month it was possible to appreciate for the first time since the beginning of financial turbulence in international markets a slight decrease in their spreads, in comparison with the previous month. However, such a gap has not returned to the previous levels of July of the current year.

**% | Interest Rates of Cut-off | Duration months | 55 | Total Class A Titles | FF of Personal Loans | 50 | Fixed Rate | BADLAR Private Banks Rate | Variable Rate | 45 | 40 | 35 | 30 | 25 | 20 | 15 | 10 | 5 | 0**

Jan-06 | May-06 | Sep-06 | Jan-07 | May-07 | Sep-07 | Jan-06 | May-06 | Sep-06 | Jan-07 | May-07 | Sep-07

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

The average duration of senior FF titles issued that have personal loans as underlying reached 6.5 months in October, 1.6 months higher than that of September (see Graph 7.8, right quadrant). However, the duration of total senior titles declined almost 1 month with respect to the value reached in September, reaching 7.8 months.

---

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

**Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations Average**

| Main monetary and financial system variables | Oct-07 | Sep-07 | Aug-07 | Oct-06 | Monthly Nominal | Monthly Real | Last 12 Months Nominal | Last 12 Months Real |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 88,171 | 87,831 | 88,327 | 70,174 | 0.4% | -0.3% | 25.6% | 15.9% |
| Monetary circulation | 65,410 | 64,841 | 65,224 | 51,621 | 0.9% | 0.2% | 26.7% | 16.9% |
| In public hands | 59,964 | 59,334 | 59,745 | 47,337 | 1.1% | 0.4% | 26.7% | 16.9% |
| In financial entities | 5,446 | 5,507 | 5,478 | 4,283 | -1.1% | -1.8% | 27.2% | 17.3% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 22,761 | 22,990 | 23,103 | 18,554 | -1.0% | -1.7% | 22.7% | 13.2% |
| Stock of Repos | | | | | | | | |
Liabilities 2.622 3.535 2.551 3.308 -25.8% -26.3% -20.7% -26.9%
Assets 381 758 47 56 584.4% 531.5%

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)
LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 24.201 24.990 25.907 11.019 -3.2% -3.8% 119.6% 102.7%
In dollars 0 16 19 18 -100.0% -100.0% -100.0%
NOBAC 33.798 34.233 34.814 27.893 -1.3% -1.9% 21.2% 11.8%
BCRA international reserves (5) 42.724 42.931 43.731 28.390 -0.5% 50.5%
Deposits of private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 171.894 172.135 170.331 142.018 -0.1% -0.8% 21.0% 11.7%

Checking account (2) 45.376 44.569 46.927 40.247 1.8% 1.1% 12.7% 4.0%
Savings account 33.085 32.902 32.675 27.148 0.6% -0.1% 21.9% 12.5%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 78.874 78.860 74.503 59.705 0.0% -0.7% 32.1% 21.9%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 3.035 3.210 3.356 5.380 -5.5% -6.1% -43.6% -47.9%
CEDRO with CER 10 14 24 28 -29.1% -29.6% -64.2% -66.9%
Other deposits (3) 11.513 12.581 12.846 9.510 -8.5% -9.1% 21.1% 11.7%

Private sector deposits 123.473 122.814 122.796 101.167 0.5% -0.1% 22.0% 12.6%
Public sector deposits 48.420 49.321 47.535 40.850 -1.8% -2.5% 18.5% 9.4%
Deposits of private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.946 6.743 6.398 5.457 3.0% 27.3%
Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 92.765 90.244 87.603 72.913 2.8% 2.1% 27.2% 17.4%

Loans to private sector 82.212 79.643 77.041 58.986 3.2% 2.5% 39.4% 28.6%
Advances 13.115 12.846 13.175 10.852 2.1% 1.4% 20.8% 11.5%
Documents 16.979 16.693 16.082 13.096 1.7% 1.0% 29.7% 19.6%
Mortgage loans 13.202 12.707 12.230 9.606 3.9% 3.2% 37.4% 26.8%
Pledge loans 5.360 5.093 4.847 3.360 5.2% 4.5% 59.5% 47.2%
Personal loans 19.514 18.693 17.746 11.781 4.4% 3.7% 65.6% 52.8%
Credit cards 9.901 9.619 9.099 6.594 2.9% 2.2% 50.1% 38.5%
Others 4.142 3.992 3.863 3.696 3.7% 3.0% 12.1% 3.4%

Loans to public sector 10.554 10.600 10.561 13.927 -0.4% -1.1% -24.2% -30.1%
Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.992 4.851 4.623 3.576 2.9% 39.6%
Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in circulation + checking account in pesos) 105.340 103.903 106.673 87.585 1.4% 0.7% 20.3% 11.0%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 138.425 136.805 139.347 114.733 1.2% 0.5% 20.6% 11.3%
M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 231.857 231.470 230.076 189.355 0.2% -0.5% 22.4% 13.0%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 253.814 252.695 250.248 206.264 0.4% -0.2% 23.1% 13.5%
Private monetary aggregates
M1 (currency in circulation + private checking account in pesos) 93.815 92.338 92.942 72.600 1.6% 0.9% 29.2% 19.2%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 123.766 121.756 122.081 96.121 1.7% 1.0% 28.8% 18.8%
M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 183.437 182.149 182.542 148.505 0.7% 0.0% 23.5% 14.0%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 203.739 201.862 201.336 163.600 0.9% 0.2% 24.5% 14.9%

Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date 2007 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 340 0.4% 508 0.6% 11.346 12.9% 17.996 20.4%
Financial sector 513 0.6% 15 0.0% -4.556 -5.2% -3.580 -4.1%
Public sector -868 -1.0% -1.837 -2.1% -2.332 -2.6% -4.108 -4.7%
Temporary advances + profit transfers -314 -96 4.185 4.912
Utilization of national government account 294 2.415 -5.998 -7.651
External credit -848 -4.156 -519 -1.369
Private external sector -899 -1.0% -2.484 -2.8% 29.840 33.8% 38.377 43.5%
BCRA Securities 1.572 1.8% 4.661 5.3% -12.193 -13.8% -13.275 -15.1%
Others 22 0.0% 153 0.2% 587 0.7% 582 0.7%
International reserves -208 -0.5% -1,146 -2.7% 11,556 27.0% 14,334 33.6%
Foreign exchange market intervention -284 -0.7% -780 -1.8% 9,632 22.5% 12,410 29.0%
Payment to international organizations -118 -0.3% -730 -1.7% -1,877 -4.4% -1,962 -4.6%
Other public sector operations -29 -0.1% -195 -0.5% 2,634 6.2% 2,388 5.6%
Minimum cash -158 -0.4% -537 -1.3% -1,736 -4.1% -1,847 -4.3%
Valuation repo rate 194 0.5% 480 1.1% 697 1.6% 940 2.2%
Other 186 0.4% 616 1.4% 2,206 5.2% 2,405 5.6%

 1 Does not include financial sector or non-residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change
 13
 Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Reporting System. Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.88 11.03 10.65 8.02 6.67
 Amount traded 1,074 1,206 1,517 1,600 1,060
 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.75 9.56 8.28 7.06 6.97
 60 days or more 9.74 9.65 7.67 7.86 8.02
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.80 10.78 9.04 7.91 7.18
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.57 12.86 10.50 9.80 9.47
 In dollars
 30 days 1.30 1.28 1.32 0.95 0.99
 60 days or more 2.19 2.26 2.24 1.92 1.65
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.53 1.50 1.64 0.93 0.88
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.39 3.40 3.11 2.99 2.25

 Active Interest Rates Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06
 Prime in pesos at 30 days 14.76 13.44 10.25 9.59 9.34
 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.13 9.21 9.24 8.82 8.76
 Amount traded (total terms) 128 114 127 112 105

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 17.90 19.08 17.76 16.38 16.33
 Documents on signature alone 14.38 15.78 13.97 12.90 12.75
 Mortgages 12.03 11.65 10.82 11.75 11.93
 Pledges 13.80 12.52 9.86 10.90 10.29
 Personal loans 28.18 27.38 25.07 24.56 25.37
 Credit cards n/a 26.23 26.40 25.93 26.34
 International Interest Rates Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06
 LIBOR
 1 month 4.98 5.49 5.50 5.35 5.32
 6 months 5.05 5.35 5.38 5.35 5.39
 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 3.96 4.01 4.33 4.67 4.79
 10 years 4.51 4.52 4.68 4.56 4.72
 FED Funds Rate 4.74 5.03 5.25 5.25 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.25 11.29 11.50 13.25 14.01

 (1) Data through August correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for September and October are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
 Reference Interest Rates Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06
 BCRA repo rates
 Passive 1 day 8.00 7.63 7.50 5.75 5.50
 Passive 7 days 8.25 7.88 7.75 6.25 6.00
 Active 7 days (1) 10.25 10.75 0.32 8.25 8.00

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 8.49 10.24 9.13 7.59 6.20
 7 days 9.63 8.75 8.54 8.18 6.19
 Amount traded of REPO round repos (daily average) 2,345 2,557 2,602 2,666 2,511
 LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month 10.50 10.65 10.27 7.90 n/o
 2 months 10.64 10.80 n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 10.70 10.66 10.55 8.00 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o 10.50 10.09 10.21
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 11.18 11.40
 NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (2)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR 2.25 2.85 1.99 0.48 1.04
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o 2.10 2.35
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 390 335 349 278 282
## Foreign Exchange Market Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06
 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.17 3.15 3.16 3.06 3.10
 BCRA Reference 3.16 3.15 3.15 3.06 3.10

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.17 3.17 3.19 3.07 3.11
 ROFEX 1 month 3.16 3.16 3.17 3.07 3.10
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 331 435 410 201 210
 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.76 1.65 1.61 1.42 1.44
 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.50 4.38 4.30 4.04 3.91
 Capital Market Oct-07 Sep-07 Aug-07 Dec-06 Oct-06
 MERVAL
 Index 2,273 2,088 2,051 2,023 1,692
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 131 107 113 82 52
 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 91.10 89.66 89.76 92.37 92.88
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 93.68 89.26 85.93 104.94 98.78
 BODEN 2014 ($) 74.28 72.81 73.53 87.92 83.61
 DISCOUNT ($) 78.40 75.63 74.88 102.09 91.84
 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 497 560 557 298 319
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 209 232 239 196 205

 (1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
 (2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 15 Monetary Report OCTOBER 2007

## 9. Glossary
AFJP: Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
USA: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial trusts.
y.o.y.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer price index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Term Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
GDP: Gross domestic product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral real exchange rate.
IRR: Internal rate of return.
TNA: Annual nominal rate.
UVP: Units linked to the product.
VN: Nominal value.

 16
