# Monetary Report
## MARCH 2008

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Banking Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA 5
   - Interfinancial Markets 5
   - Repo Market 5
   - Interbank Market 6
   - Passive Interest Rates 6
   - Active Interest Rates 7
6. International Reserves and
   Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 8
   - Stocks 8
   - Public Securities 9
   - Private Securities 9
   - Institutional Investors 10
   - Pension Fund Administrators 10
   - Investment Funds 10
   - Financial Trusts 11
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators 14
9. Glossary 17

Inquiries, comments or
electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report
may be freely cited as long as
the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) was located at $149,800 million with an interannual growth of 18.2%, which implies a deceleration of around 1 percentage point compared to one year ago and of 6 percentage points in relation to August 2007. Among its components, both the cash in circulation held by the public as well as demand deposits of the private sector decelerated their growth rate compared to February.

• The public sector continued to contribute in a notable manner to the absorption of the monetary base and M2 through the purchase of part of the surplus from the foreign exchange market and through the increase of its fixed-term placements. Thus, in what has elapsed of the year the Treasury purchased u$s 1,509 million, one of the historically highest quarterly amounts. Furthermore, in the framework of the process of streamlining its surplus resources, different public agencies continued allocating a proportion of their income to fixed-term deposits, instead of sight placements.

• The private sector also continued increasing its fixed-term deposits, with a monthly increase that totaled $1,540 million, driven by both placements of less than $1 million as well as those of more than $1 million. In what has elapsed of 2008 families was the segment of depositors that concentrated the largest amount of new fixed-term deposits in pesos and in total, private fixed-term placements accumulated $6,000 million in increases, recovering the participation in private M3 that they presented before the international crisis broke out.

• A situation of ample banking liquidity is maintained. The banks completed the minimum monthly cash position with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits in pesos, a level similar to that of previous periods.

• In this context, passive interest rates remained relatively stable, in particular the average BADLAR of 14 private banks was located at 8.5%, while the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements (amounts below $100,000) were located at an average level of 8.4%. For its part, the majority of active interest rates showed only slight movements compared to the rates observed in February, reflecting the stability of passive interest rates.

• The behavior of interest rates in the interbank market was not unrelated to the liquidity conditions existing in the monetary market and they also remained stable throughout March. The stability in the cost of interbank funding was accompanied by a reduction in the amounts operated.

---

## 2. MONETARY AGGREGATES¹

**Chart 2.1**
**Growth of Means of Payment and GDP**
**% (year-on-year var.)**

The average balance of total means of payment (M2) was located at $149,800 million with an interannual growth of 18.2%, which implies a deceleration of around 1 percentage point compared to [one year ago]...

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.
20 one year ago and 6 p.p. in relation to August 2007. In this way,

15 the year-on-year variation of M2 was again below the

10 projected for nominal gross domestic product in the last 12

5 months (see Chart 2.1).

0

-5 Based on the commitment assumed by this Central Bank,

-10 to disclose a 12-month forecast of the monetary aggregate

-15 M2, in order to extend the horizon of certainty for
Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08
Source: BCRA investors regarding local monetary and financial conditions, it is reported that the projections made by this Institution show for March 2009 an average balance for that aggregate of $180,100 million.

Regarding the behavior of the different components of M2, in March the sustained deceleration of currency in the hands of the public stands out, which reduced its year-on-year growth rate in the last 12 months by 3.6 p.p. (7 p.p. with respect to the high level of mid-last year). For its part, sight deposits of the public sector have also shown significant deceleration. In particular, the fall in this type of placements observed in March was related, in part to foreign currency purchases and, in part, to the increase in fixed-term placements of different public sector agencies. With respect to foreign currency purchases, both in March and in the first two months of 2008 the government actively contributed to the sterilization of a portion of the excess foreign currency inflow, absorbing u$s1,509 million in the first quarter of the year, one of the historically highest quarterly figures and one of the factors that explained to a greater extent the monthly fall of M2, followed by the increase in fixed-term deposits of the private sector (see Chart 2.2). As for sight deposits of the private sector, they also show in March a deceleration in their year-on-year growth rate.

Regarding fixed-term deposits of the private sector, they grew $1,540 million (2.6%). This increase was the highest recorded in recent years during March and made it possible to complete the first quarter of 2008 with an accumulated increase in private fixed-term deposits of $6,000 million, also above the increases of recent years. Thus, so far this year these placements accounted for 63% of the increase in total monetary resources in pesos of the private sector, well above the participation they had last year (see Chart 2.3). In this way they recovered the participation in the quantity of broad money of the private sector that they presented in mid-2007, prior to the beginning of the international crisis (around 30%).

Considering the breakdown of fixed-term deposits by amount, again both those of less than $1 million and those above that amount experienced increases. Thus, so far this year both strata accumulated strong increases, although of greater magnitude in the case of deposits of less than $1 million. This result would be driven by the strong growth that deposits of individuals have been showing since the end of 2007.

In effect, when analyzing the fixed-term balances of families in Capital and Greater Buenos Aires during recent months, two

---

**Chart 2.2**
Factors Explaining M2
thousands of millions of $
(March 2008, on average)

[Legend: External Sector | Public Sector | LEBAC excl. Loans to Private Banks | Deposits at Fixed Term | Others | M2]

Source: BCRA

**Chart 2.3**
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
millions of pesos (average flows)

[Legend: Monthly Var. | First Quarter Var. | Quarterly Var. Private Plazo / Quarterly Var. M3 Private (%)]

Source: BCRA

**Chart 2.4**
Stock of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos in Capital and Greater Buenos Aires

2 Monetary Report MARCH 2008
thousands of non-financial private sector in clearly different stages. The first, which spanned from the

millions of $
 18 20-Jul-07 12-Nov-07 emergence of the international financial crisis until mid-

 17 November, when families would have prioritized maintaining liquid

 16 Companies Families funds due to greater uncertainty, and the second, which began at

 15 the end of the year and continues to the present. In this last period,

 14 there was a return to an upward trajectory of funds

 13 placed at term, once the existence of effective policy

 12 instruments to address adverse shocks was demonstrated (see Chart 2.4).

 11

 10 Overall, the sum of the increase in currency in

 9 public hands and the total of deposits in pesos, which make up the

 8
 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08M3, totaled a monthly increase of $2,250 million (0.9%).

 Source: BCRA
 Dollar deposits registered a minimal increase of

 u$s80 million, of which u$s70 million corresponded to

 the increase in placements by the private sector. Among these, the

 increase was distributed across all types of deposits.

 In summary, the M3*, which includes currency in public

 hands and total deposits in pesos and dollars, accumulated a

 monthly increase of $2,480 million (0.9%).
Chart 2.5
 CPI Rest and Market Expectations With respect to primary money, demand was

 % (var. y.o.y.) supplied mainly through currency purchases. Additionally,

16 Dec-05 banks, after completing the quarterly computation period for the

14,2 14 minimum cash position, reduced part of their balances of

13 reverse repos with the BCRA, which also implied expansion of the

12 monetary base, by $2,065 million. On the other hand, the factors of

 Dec-07 11,4monetary contraction were the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC

11 10,6 10,7 ($1,756 million) and operations by the public sector ($1,573

10 Dec-06 million) which, as mentioned, purchased part of the excess

 10,2 9,5 currency income.

 9
 CPI Rest With respect to prices, in March 2008 the

 8
 7 Market Expectations CPI GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec) Rest sub-index of the CPI GBA prepared by INDEC (which excludes the

 6
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 measurement of prices with seasonal behavior, subject to

Source: INDEC and REM regulation or with high tax component) showed an

 increase of 1.7% monthly, which was higher than the average increase

 of the first two months of the year and the change in March 2007

 (1.4%). Thus, the year-over-year (y.o.y.) rate of the CPI Rest rose

 to 11.4% (see Chart 2.5), above the increase observed one

Chart 3.1 year earlier (10.3% y.o.y.).

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos

 deposits

22 Daily Series

21 Monthly Average
 3. Bank Liquidity1

20 20.3 The bank liquidity ratio—defined as cash in

19 banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse

 repos with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—

18 was located at 20.3% in March, thus presenting a slight decline (0.2

17 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Chart 3.1). However, if

 we observe liquidity in a broader sense, that is, including

16
 Dec-06 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC this ratio remained

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos with the BCRAaround 40% of deposits.

Source: BCRA
 3Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Chart 3.2 For its part, the average minimum cash position of

 % of Minimum Cash Position the month ended with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits in

 deposits pesos (see Chart 3.2), similar to that observed during 2007.

 2.5 Surplus Daily Position
 Accumulated Position When analyzed by bank group, it is observed that in private

2.0 banks the surplus was 0.5% of total deposits while

 1.5 in public banks the position closed neutral.

 1.0
0.5 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position
0.3 accumulated a surplus exceeding 11% of dollar deposits.
0.0 During this month, financial entities slightly increased their
-0.5 liquidity compared to previous months due to the decrease in the
-1.0 stock of foreign currency loans (see Quarterly Position Dec-Feb
-1.5 Loans Section), with which the surplus not applied to loans was
-2.0 Quarterly Position Dec-Feb recorded as an increase in required reserves. In this way, the
-2.5 increase in unused liquidity was transferred to a liquidity
Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08 integration, thus increasing foreign currency current accounts of
Source: BCRA banks at the BCRA.

**Chart 4.1 4. Loans¹**

Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector

Reaching a stock of $114,200 million, loans to the private
60 25 sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, registered in March an
40 21 increase of 1.5% ($1,680 million), accumulating in the last 12
20 19 months a growth of 40.2% (See Chart 4.1).
0 17
-20 15 Regarding GDP its level amounts to 12.1%, showing an increase of
13 1.5 percentage points compared to the value observed in March 2007.
-40 11
9 With widespread progress in all lines, especially in financings
var. i.a. in nominal terms 7 arranged through documents and in personal loans, credits in pesos
-60 5 presented a monthly variation of 2% ($1,950 million), reflecting
Jun-97 Dec-98 Jun-00 Dec-01 Jun-03 Dec-04 Jun-06 Dec-07 with equal period of the previous year an increase of 40.6% (see
Source: BCRA Chart 4.2).

Following the decline recorded during February, as a result of
lower activity due to the summer recess, commercial financings
advanced in March 1.1% ($410 million).

**Chart 4.2** Current account advances, which had experienced strong
expansions in December and January followed by a contraction in
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector February, showed a slight advance of 0.2% ($30 million),
2,100 millions of $ (var. of monthly averages) 42 varying in year-on-year terms 33% (see Chart 4.3).
40.6
1,800 Mar-07 37 For its part, documents presented in the period a significant
1,500 Mar-08 32 expansion of 2.5% ($450 million), accumulating in the last 12
var i.a. (%) - right axis months a variation of 27.4%. Documents with sole signature
1,200 27 increased 1.5% ($170 million), while the remaining financings
900 22 (discounted and purchased documents) advanced 4% ($280 million).
600 17
300 12 The lines destined for consumption increased 3% ($1,100 million)
0 7 compared to the previous month. The growth was mainly explained
by personal loans which rose 4% ($1,000 million), while credit
Source: BCRA card financings advanced 0.9% ($100 million) showing some
stagnation since February.

¹ The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the loan portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

4 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

**Chart 4.3** During March, loans with real guarantee increased 2%
millions of $ Commercial Loans ($420 million), with both lines showing levels similar to
900 (var. monthly average and year-on-year) 90 those of February and analogous to those observed during the first
700 70 half of 2007 (see Chart 4.4). Mortgage credits increased during
500 50 the period 2% ($300 million), showing a year-on-year variation of
300 30 40.1%. For their part, pledge loans grew 2% ($120 million),
growing compared to the same month of the previous year by 54.8%.
100 10
 For the first time in the last two and a half years, loans in
 -100 -10
 Monthly Var. Advances foreign currency to the private sector registered a
 -300 Monthly Var. Documents -30 monthly contraction, which reached 1.5% (US$80 million),
 Monthly Var. Other Loans
 Year-on-year Var. Advances (right axis) influenced by the decrease in financing for export
 -500 Year-on-year Var. Documents (right axis) -50 activity.

 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08

 Source: BCRA

 5. Interest Rates

 Titles issued by the BCRA2

Chart 4.4
 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 % In March, the interest rates in the primary market of
 600 100
 Monthly Var. Mortgage LEBAC maintained levels almost identical to those in effect the previous

 500 Monthly Var. Pledge 80 month, continuing the lengthening of the duration of the titles that
 Year-on-year Var. Mortgage (Right Axis)
 400 Year-on-year Var. Pledge (Right Axis) 60 had begun in February. In the case of NOBAC, the lengthening in
 placement terms also continued, even, issuing titles with

 300 40 maturity at 30 months for face value of $35 million (see
 Chart 5.1). Nevertheless, beyond the incipient resurgence of demand
 200 20 for two and a half year NOBAC, the market's preference continued
 for fixed-rate placements over variable-rate ones.
 100 0

 0 -20 The BCRA continued operating in the secondary market of
 Feb-05 Jun-05 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 LEBAC and NOBAC, although with a reduced amount of repurchase in
 Source: BCRA pesos ($83 million) given the liquidity conditions, without
 disruptions, which the financial system maintained. In turn, it was
 arranged that some of the purchases in the secondary market be
 settled in dollars. In short, as a consequence of net placements
 in the primary and secondary market, the total stock of titles issued
 by the BCRA increased 2% in March compared to the previous month and
 was located at the end of this month at face value $57,142 million.

Chart 5.1
 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC

 NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR LEBAC - TNA
 % %
3.0 12
 Interfinancial Markets

2.5
 Repo Market1
2.0 11

1.5 In March, the average stock of passive repos for the BCRA
 fell $2,000 million due to the decrease that occurred at the
1.0 10 beginning of the month, in line with the beginning of the new
 26-Feb 26-Feb
 25-Mar 25-Mar measurement period for the minimum cash position. Nevertheless
0.5
 it remained at elevated levels and March ended at $8,300 million,

0.0 9 an amount that was distributed among all modalities in which
 200 400 600 800 1000100 150 200 250 300 350 the BCRA operates (REPO auction, overnight operations and
 Source: BCRA duration (days) investment mutual funds). For its part, given the situation of

 2 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise specified.

 5 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Chart 5.2 broad liquidity existing in the market, no active repo operations
 Call Market were registered, ending the stock at zero.
 millions of $ %
2,500 50
 %
 25 45 The interest rates of fixed-rate repos remained at the
 23 22.8
2,000 21 40 same levels as in February for both active and passive
 19
 17
 15 13.8 11.7 13.1 35 operations. In this way, the interest rates of passive repos
 13 10.9
1,500 11 11.0 9.6 30 remained at 8% and 8.25% for 1 and 7 days respectively,
 9 8.6 8.3 7.6 8.0
 7 9.1 8.0 9.6 8.5 25 while the interest rate for active repos of 2-7 days was at
 5 7.9
1,000 2-7 1-8 31-8 1-10 31-10 30-11 4-1 4-2 4-3 207 10.25%. On the other hand, in the active repos segment at
 variable rate there was no demand for funds.
 Amount traded between private 15

 500 Amount traded rest 10
 Interest rate pvt. banks (right axis)
 5

 0 0 Interbank Market (call)1
Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07
Source: BCRASource: BCRA

The behavior of interest rates in the interbank market was not unrelated to the liquidity conditions existing in the monetary market and remained stable throughout March. The stability in the cost of interbank funding was accompanied by a reduction in the amounts traded. (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.3 The average interest rate for operations at 1 business day was
Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 business day
% positioned on average in the month at 7.8%, which implies an increase of 0.5
29 p.p. compared to the previous month. This increase is explained because at the
24 beginning of February –as was noted in the previous report– there
was an unusual decline in the call rate. If those data were excluded, the
19 Daily average interest rate of the interbank market at 1 business day would have
Average ± 1 Std Deviation registered almost no changes between February and March. As was
14 mentioned, along with the stability in the interbank interest rate,
a decrease in the amounts traded was also observed, which averaged
9 around $620 million for the month, $150 million less than the previous
month.
4
30-Jun 30-Jul 29-Ago 28-Sep 28-Oct 27-Nov 27-Dic 26-Ene 25-Feb 26-MarThe deviation of interest rates for call operations
Source: BCRA with respect to its daily average was positioned at 0.32 p.p. on
average in March, 0.18 p.p. less than the previous month (see
Graph 5.3). In part, this lower deviation is due to the fact that in March
there was no atypical operation that in February had reduced the call rate.
Nevertheless, the deviation in March was similar to that recorded in
December.

Graph 5.4 During March, foreign banks played a net borrower role
Call Market in the market by an amount similar to the average for 2007.
millions of $ On the other hand, it should be noted that private banking was a source of
800 (Average monthly net position by group of entities) net funding in the interbank market (see Graph 5.4).
700 Foreign
600 Priv. Nat.
500 Public
400

300 Passive Interest Rates¹
200

100
0 During March, passive interest rates remained stable
-100 in both the wholesale and retail segments,
-200 reflecting the permanence of financial system liquidity indicators at
-300 adequate levels. Indeed, the monthly average for March of the BADLAR
-400 rate for private banks was positioned at 8.5%, with a slight increase of
-500 0.2 p.p. with respect to the level recorded in February (see Graph 5.5).
-600 Likewise, the spread of interest rates between the wholesale and
Ene-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Ene-08 Mar-08 retail segment showed, unlike February, slight positive values.
Source: BCRA However, it is still at relatively low values compared to the level prior to
3 Interest rate for fixed-term deposits of 30-35 days of more than 1 million pesos. the crisis (see Graph 5.6).

6 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Graph 5.5 For its part, the interest rates paid by private banks
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days for retail placements (amounts less than $100,000) also
15 Daily Data remained stable and reached an average level of 8.4%, with a decrease
14 of 0.3 p.p. compared to the month of February. On the other hand, the
13 interest rates paid by public banks in that amount bracket remained stable
12 at 6.8%.
11

10 When analyzing the interest rates of total placements by
9 term bracket, a slight decline is observed that resulted in similar
Retail Private Banks magnitude for all segments. For the main bracket of
8
Wholesale Private Banks
7

6
May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Ene-08 Mar-08
Source: BCRA placements –30-59 days– observing the behavior by type of depositor, the rate paid to financial services companies exceeded, unlike the month of February, the rate perceived by natural persons (see Graph 5.7).

Graph 5.6

% Interest Rates for Deposits to Natural Persons of the private sector
16 Private Banks - By amount brackets Active Interest Rates1 4

15

14 For the most part, active interest rates showed only
 Up to $100,000
 13 From $100,000 to $499,999 slight movements with respect to the rates observed in February,

12 From $500,000 to $999,999 reflecting the stability of passive interest rates. However,
 1 million and more
 11 a moderate increase was observed in the personal loan line

 10 as a consequence of a rate adjustment made by public banks,

 9 which, however, continue to be the group of entities with the
 lowest interest rates for this loan segment.
 8

 7

6
02-Jan-07 26-Feb-07 22-Apr-07 16-Jun-07 10-Aug-07 04-Oct-07 28-Nov-07 22-Jan-08 The advance interest rate remained practically at
Source: BCRA the February level, standing at 19.5% (see Graph 5.8). The interest rate for advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding one million pesos reached an average level of 17%, with an increase with respect to February of 0.1 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of documents on sole signature

Graph 5.7 fell 0.1 p.p., placing its average level at 14.9%. This slight decline was explained by the fall in the interest rate of the most
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-59 days relevant bracket of documented loans, which is the one corresponding
 Private Sector in pesos
 % monthly average weighted by amount operated to companies, for more than one million pesos, and up to 30 days of term,
16
 which fell 0.2 p.p.. In this way, active rates were observed in

14 the wholesale and short-term brackets with behavior similar to passive rates.

12

10 With respect to the interest rates on consumption loans, in March the average interest rate for personal loans was 28.9%, with an increase of 1.2 p.p.

8
 Natural Persons with respect to the interest rate observed in February (see Graph 5.9).

 6 Fin. Services This increase was explained by an adjustment of interest rates made
 Other Companies by public banks, which went from 15.3% to 17.7%. However,

 4 the rates applied by these entities continue to be the
 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 lowest in the personal loan market.
Source: BCRA

4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to January 2008, the values for February and March 2008 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

7 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Graph 5.8 Finally, the interest rates for longer-term financing registered uneven movements. In the case of the mortgage loan interest rate, Commercial Loans
 TNA, % (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount) reached a monthly average
 22
 of 11.9% with a decline of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the level observed in

 20 February. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financings with chattel mortgage guarantee stood at 17.1% (see Graph

 18 5.9), with an increase of 0.3 p.p. which was explained by the increase in interest rates charged by finance companies that

 16 represent almost half of the new loans granted.

 14

 12

 10
 Advances
Stocks

In general, in stock markets, an important increase in volatility was observed in the first twenty days of March, which later stabilized at elevated levels (Chart 7.1). While BOVESPA (Brazil) registered a decline of 4.0%, the S&P 500 showed a loss of 0.6%. In contrast, MEXBOL (Mexico) had a positive return of 6.9%, all measured in original currency. On the other hand, the VIX –index that measures S&P volatility– averaged March at 27.1% (1.6 p.p. more compared to the previous month), which turned out to be the maximum of the series that begins in 2004.

This last data is useful to illustrate how particular March was for asset markets. First, throughout the month, U.S. government authorities stated that in the first half of the year the economy would be in recession. Also, new news was recorded that reinforces the recession diagnosis already mentioned; it was confirmed that the American economy destroyed employment for the second consecutive month. To this were added the liquidity problems of one of the main investment banks, Bear Stearns, which was acquired by its competitor J.P. Morgan with assistance from the New York FED to avoid its bankruptcy and the threat of the crisis spreading to other investment banks. Faced with this situation, the FED provided abundant liquidity to the market, while lowering the federal funds rate by 75 basis points in mid-March. Following the determination of the U.S. monetary authority, the situation in markets has improved slightly.

In Argentina, the MERVAL index –measured in pesos– registered

---

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

8 Monetary Report MARCH 2008
2.8 1.0 a loss of 2.7%, reaching a value of 2,104 points at the end of
 Dec-05 Mar-06 Jun-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08
 Source: BCRA the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained
 almost zero profitability, 0.04%, and so far this year it has a
 negative result of 2.2%.

 Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a negative variation
 of 2.9% in March, while the BOVESPA (Brazil) registered a
 loss of 7.7%. Meanwhile, the IGBVL (Peru) gained 2.9%, the IGPA
Chart 7.1 (Chile) 5.8%, the IPC (Mexico) 7.6%.

 Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days In terms of volatility, in Latin American stock exchanges a
 MERVAL (Argentina) 30 decrease was recorded. Specifically, the volatility of the MERVAL –
 65 IPC (Mexico)
 BOVESPA (Brazil) 26 22 trading sessions- in annualized terms and measured in dollars was
 Shanghai Index (China)
 55 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 26.2% in March (7.9 p.p. higher than in February).
 22

 45
 18 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires

 35 14 Stock Exchange fell compared to February. The
 average amount traded reached $90 million daily, $19
 25 10 million less than the previous month.

 15 6

 5 2
 Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 Public Securities

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

 During March, given the climate of extreme volatility, a
 greater risk aversion was recorded among investors in investing
 in fixed income securities of emerging countries. The EMBI+ which measures the
 spreads of emerging countries, increased 17 b.p.. For its part, the
 spread of Latin America's external debt increased by 23
 b.p. and Argentina's spread by 78 b.p., both measured by the same
 index (Chart 7.2).

Chart 7.2 The yield curve of public securities in pesos

 Sovereign Risk Indicators indexed rose in almost all tranches, except for the
 points CDS of Argentina spreads EMBI of Arg and the Region shorter-term securities (Chart 7.3). In the same way, the yield curve
 basic basis points in b.p. spreads in b.p. of securities in dollars rose, but unlike the peso
 630 CDS 2 years 630 450 curve, it did so in all tranches (Chart 7.4).
 CDS 5 years EMBI Argentina
 CDS 10 years 580 EMBI Latin America (right axis) 400

 480 530
 480 350 The volume of public securities traded (on average daily)
 430 300 increased compared to the level reached the previous month, having been in
 330 March $1,715 million, $164 million more than during February.
 380 250

 330
 180 200
 280
 230 150
 Private Securities
 30 180 100
 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08
 Source: Bloomberg In March, an issuance of ON-PyME was recorded, which
 corresponded to Worldfabrics S.A., for a nominal value of US$350

 9 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Chart 7.3 thousand, and a Short-Term Debt Value of $4 million by
 Atlantis Sociedad Inversora S.A.. Additionally and as has been
 Annual Real Yield Curves (%) mentioned in previous reports, the issuances of some ONs continue
 12 temporarily suspended due to instability in the international financial market.

 PRO 12 Boden 14
 10 Bogar 18 DISC $ Institutional Investors

 PAR $
 8
 6 Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds

 PRE 08 29-Feb
 4 31-Mar The total Retirement and Pension Fund (FJP) reached
 Boden 08
 mid-March at $96,760 million, increasing in the
 2

 0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 last month 1.2% ($1,180 million).
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute Duration (years)

Driven by growth in formal employment, salary increases, and the increase in the personal contribution rate from 7% to 11%, the income from contributions to the Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators (AFJP) for the month of February ($886 million) exceeded those from the month of December to compensate for the loss of resources generated by the transfer of affiliates towards 2007 ($718 million). In this way, they achieved more than the public pay-as-you-go system.

**Graph 7.4**
**Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars**
Annual Yield (%) Spread (p.p.)

12 BONAR VII 16 The investment portfolio, with $95,820 million, increased over the 11 BONAR V 14 last thirty days 1.5% ($1,400 million). The items that 10 Boden 12 PAR USD 10 showed greater growth in their participation within the 9 Boden 8 portfolio were National Public Securities and Foreign Securities 8 (See graph 7.5).
7
6 The declines concentrated mainly in Investment Common Funds 29-Feb 4 (FCI), with differentiated behavior according to the type of 6 31-Mar
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Feb-08 (right axis) 2 investment. While national funds decreased approximately 5 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Mar-08 (right axis) $650 million, instruments with MERCOSUR assets grew in the 0 period by $125 million. Notwithstanding the latter, and in order 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 to reach by the end of April the limit established by the 
regulations, the administrators will have to reduce their Duration (years) participation in FCI of MERCOSUR from the current 7.4% to 6% of the FJP.

Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

As a result of the pension reform of last year, the AFJP must invest between 5% and 20% of the funds in assets whose purpose is to finance productive or infrastructure projects in the medium and long term in the Argentine Republic. Although a five-year period was set to reach the minimum, there is a target of 1% for October 2008. In this sense, in the coming months it is expected that the administrators will increase their investments in investments related to the real economy, which currently represent only 0.02% of the FJP.

**Graph 7.5**
**Composition by Items of the Pension and Retirement Fund**
%
100

17.6 17.1 17.0
Rest
80 7.9 7.2 7.7
1.5 2.9 2.1 Foreign Securities
7.3 7.4 7.4 Other FCI
60 15.1 14.1 14.0 MERCOSUR FCI
Actions
40 National Public Securities
Investment Common Funds
50.6 51.4 51.8
20

0 The net worth of investment common funds (FCI) declined again
15-Jan-08 15-Feb-08 14-Mar-08 after experiencing a recovery in February from successive declines
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP information it had been experiencing since November 2007. In effect, it
reached $16,966 million (see Graph 7.6 – left quadrant),
**Graph 7.6** $954 million below the previous month's figure (5.3%). However,
the net worth was positioned at a level higher than the minimum Equity of Investment Common Funds in Pesos recorded from the mentioned declines at the end of the previous
thousands of millions $ (variation March 08 vs. February 08) year. Money market funds were the only ones that experienced a
20 Fixed income millions of $ positive monthly variation ($193 million - see Graph 7.6, right
18 Mixed income 200 quadrant), while fixed income and variable income funds were
16 Variable income 193 those that determined the equity decline of the total FCI in
14 Money Market 1 pesos ($538 million and $607 million).
12 0
-200 For their part, FCI denominated in foreign currency
10 -400 -607
8 (dollars and euros) totaled $5,188 million, $359 million above
what was recorded in February (6.5%). It is worth highlighting the boom
in euro funds, which so far in 2008 have experienced a patrimonial
growth of 41% encouraged by expectations that euro appreciation will
continue. However, these funds still have a small participation in the
total of funds established in foreign currency.

As was recently mentioned, the money market FCIs experienced a slight
increase in their assets of 2.6% due to revaluations in the quotas,
reaching the figure of $7,617 million. This type of funds has been
experiencing increases since October 2007, having a growing participation
in the total of funds in pesos (45% in March). The rest of the funds
registered declines in their assets. In the case of variable income
funds, the decline was 9.5% accompanying the trend of the stock
exchanges and also registering quota withdrawals. In this way, their
assets reached $5,802 million at the end of March. For their part, fixed
income funds experienced improvements in performance, which were not
enough to offset quota redemptions. Consequently, their assets were
reduced by 14.2%, reaching $3,250 million. Finally, the assets of mixed
income FCIs decreased 1.1%.

**Financial Trusts**

In March, the issuances of financial trusts totaled $757 million (see
Chart 7.7). This represented an increase of 7% compared to the previous
month and of 2% year-on-year in nominal terms. However, there was a
notable increase in the number of placements compared to February,
reaching 21 FF issued in March, 8 more issuances than the previous
month. Consequently, the average amount per placement was markedly
reduced, being $36 million in March, aligning with the 2007 average
(March 08 vs. March 07) ($35 million). In this way, in the first quarter
of the year, the FF issuances totaled $2,246 million, which implies an
increase of 16% compared to what was securitized in the same period of
the previous year.

In March there was little diversity regarding the underlying assets
securitized, since only personal loans (66.5% of the total), credit card
coupons (21%) and commercial credits (12.4%) were recorded as underlying
assets. However, greater variety could be noted compared to what occurred
in February (where only the types of assets linked to consumption were
securitized), although less variety than in March 2007 (see Chart 7.8).
In this sense, an important increase is observed in the securitizations
of personal loans to the detriment of mortgages and real estate (which
were not present in the month under analysis).

6 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report MARCH 2008
**Chart 7.9** The structure by type of trustor in March recorded a profound change compared to the previous month, since financial trustor entities increased 16 p.p. their participation in the total (42% (March 2007, February 2008 and March 2008) compared to 25% in February; see Chart 7.9), and retail businesses securitized 17% of the issuances compared to 50% in

42% 51% 17% February. The participation of Mutuals, Cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers did not experience major variations (29% of the total). Such changes also occurred compared to the composition recorded in March 2007 where the highest percentage corresponded to retail businesses and the lowest to banks. Finally, the rest of March's issuances were related to agricultural activity, most of them carried out in dollars.

20% 12%
20% 24% 42% 29%
18%
25%

Financial Entities
Retail Businesses
Others
Mutuals, Cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others.

In March, FF placements were awarded with interest rates that experienced a slight increase of 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month and, when calculating the weighted average by amount, they reached 10.5% and 11.3% depending on whether they are fixed rate or variable rate issuances respectively (senior titles). Once again, the evolution of FF rates was linked to what occurred in the money market. For this reason the spread with the BADLAR rate Privates Banks remained constant with respect to such spread in February. It should be noted that, with the exception of what occurred in December (when cut rates remained relatively constant), March is the first month in which such rates cease to fall compared to the previous month.

The weighted average duration by amount of senior FF titles issued in March fell again and reached 6.9 months (1.4 months less than February), being the lowest of the last eight months.

According to the latest balance information corresponding to December 2007, the stock of underlying assets of FF amounted to $15,453 million (see Chart 7.10), $1,625 million

millions of $ (breakdown by type of trustor)
16.000
Financial Entities
Mutuals, Cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
12.000
Retail Businesses
10.000
Others
8.000

6.000

4.000

2.000

0
2004-IV 2005-II 2005-IV 2006-II 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV
Source: own elaboration based on CNV

(11.7%) higher than the value in September 2007. Such figure represented a jump in the level compared to what was observed in the four previous quarters. For its part, the value of the stock meant an increase of 16.5% in the comparison with respect to the same quarter of the previous year.

In the composition by type of trustor, greater participation of retail businesses and Mutuals, Cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers was evident (13.6% and 16% respectively), in line with what was observed in previous quarters. However, the majority of assets continue to correspond to FF with banks as trustors (57% of the total), although with declining participation over the last two years (2006 and 2007). These changes in the importance of trustors are related to the strong issuance in recent months of FF related to consumption.

Regarding the classification by type of underlying asset, the stock as of December 2007 is composed mainly of cash flows derived from consumer financing (41%), public securities (34%) and mortgage loans (6%). The rest corresponds to commercial credits and private securities, among others.

12 Monetary Report MARCH 2008
Regarding the holders of fiduciary debt securities, it can be observed that financial entities and AFJPs have approximately the same share of holdings (33% and 30% respectively), while Mutual Investment Funds have only 7%. The remaining 30% corresponds to insurance companies and other investors.

13 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-08 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-08Jan-08Mar-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 97,880 95,281 97,577 78,363 2.7% 1.6% 24.9% 14.8%
Monetary circulation 72,141 70,976 71,897 58,136 1.6% 0.5% 24.1% 14.0%
In public hands 65,168 64,753 65,367 53,226 0.6% -0.5% 22.4% 12.5%
In financial entities 6,973 6,223 6,529 4,910 12.1% 10.8% 42.0% 30.5%
Current account in the BCRA 25,739 24,305 25,680 20,227 5.9% 4.7% 27.3% 16.9%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 8,348 10,424 7,324 4,090 -19.9% -20.8% 104.1% 87.6%
Assets 0 10 62 32

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 30,263 25,680 21,704 14,866 17.8% 16.5% 103.6% 87.1%
In dollars 0 0 0 18

NOBAC 26,733 28,944 30,567 34,832 -7.6% -8.7% -23.3% -29.5%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) 50,039 48,407 46,909 35,876 3.4% 39.5%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 189,855 188,016 183,804 156,706 1.0% -0.1% 21.2% 11.3%
Current account (2) 48,152 49,744 52,513 44,593 -3.2% -4.3% 8.0% -0.8%
Savings account 36,476 37,455 36,528 28,875 -2.6% -3.7% 26.3% 16.1%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER 91,391 87,368 80,976 68,508 4.6% 3.4% 33.4% 22.6%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 1,524 1,644 1,952 4,395 -7.3% -8.4% -65.3% -68.1%
CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 25 -100.0% -100.0%
Other deposits (3) 12,312 11,805 11,835 10,309 4.3% 3.1% 19.4% 9.8%

Deposits of the private sector 137,852 135,919 132,841 112,043 1.4% 0.3% 23.0% 13.1%

Deposits of the public sector 52,003 52,096 50,963 44,663 -0.2% -1.3% 16.4% 7.0%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 7,637 7,557 7,501 5,679 1.1% 34.5%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 104,194 102,637 101,646 79,430 1.5% 0.4% 31.2% 20.6%

Loans to the private sector 93,667 92,019 91,025 66,597 1.8% 0.7% 40.6% 29.3%
Advances 14,738 14,709 14,923 11,078 0.2% -0.9% 33.0% 22.3%
Documents 18,411 17,966 18,179 14,450 2.5% 1.3% 27.4% 17.1%
Mortgages 14,863 14,563 14,257 10,572 2.1% 0.9% 40.6% 29.2%
Pledges 6,202 6,077 5,930 4,022 2.0% 0.9% 54.2% 41.7%
Personal 23,315 22,604 21,773 14,668 3.1% 2.0% 59.0% 46.1%
Credit cards 11,849 11,749 11,475 8,058 0.9% -0.3% 47.1% 35.1%
Others 4,288 4,350 4,489 3,749 -1.4% -2.5% 14.4% 5.1%

Loans to the public sector 10,526 10,617 10,621 12,833 -0.9% -2.0% -18.0% -24.6%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 5,419 5,499 5,372 4,006 -1.5% 35.3%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in public hands + current account in pesos) 113,320 114,497 117,881 97,819 -1.0% -2.1% 15.8% 6.5%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 149,796 151,952 154,409 126,694 -1.4% -2.5% 18.2% 8.7%
M3 (currency in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 255,023 252,769 249,172 209,932 0.9% -0.2% 21.5% 11.6%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 279,116 276,633 272,754 227,539 0.9% -0.2% 22.7% 12.7%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (currency in public hands + private current account in pesos) 102,538 101,199 101,372 81,337 1.3% 0.2% 26.1% 15.9%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 136,183 135,553 134,593 107,278 0.5% -0.7% 26.9% 16.7%
M3 (currency in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 203,020 200,673 198,209 165,269 1.2% 0.0% 22.8% 12.9%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 224,832 222,288 219,540 181,185 1.1% 0.0% 24.1% 14.0%
# AVERAGE VARIATIONS

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2008 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary base** | 2.599 | 2.7% | 1.523 | 1.6% | 1.523 | 1.6% | 19.517 | 19.9% |
| **Financial sector** | 2.084 | 2.1% | -6.077 | -6.2% | -6.077 | -6.2% | -5.821 | -5.9% |
| **Public sector** | 167 | 0.2% | -429 | -0.4% | -429 | -0.4% | -6.439 | -6.6% |
| Temporary advances + profit transfers | 720 |  | 3.716 |  | 3.716 |  | 3.767 |  |
| Use of national government account | -1.192 |  | -3.194 |  | -3.194 |  | -8.383 |  |
| External credit | 639 |  | -951 |  | -951 |  | -1.823 |  |
| **Private external sector** | 2.093 | 2.1% | 9.686 | 9.9% | 9.686 | 9.9% | 31.356 | 32.0% |
| BCRA Securities | -1.756 | -1.8% | -2.289 | -2.3% | -2.289 | -2.3% | -1.152 | -1.2% |
| Others | 11 | 0.0% | 632 | 0.6% | 632 | 0.6% | 1.573 | 1.6% |
| **International reserves** | 1.632 | 3.3% | 4.330 | 8.7% | 4.330 | 8.7% | 14.163 | 28.3% |
| Foreign exchange market intervention | 664 | 1.3% | 3.081 | 6.2% | 3.081 | 6.2% | 10.048 | 20.1% |
| Payment to international organizations | -308 | -0.6% | -881 | -1.8% | -881 | -1.8% | -1.667 | -3.3% |
| Other public sector operations | 589 | 1.2% | 710 | 1.4% | 710 | 1.4% | 2.265 | 4.5% |
| Minimum cash | 150 | 0.3% | -20 | 0.0% | -20 | 0.0% | -1.287 | -2.6% |
| Repo rate valuation | 411 | 0.8% | 898 | 1.8% | 898 | 1.8% | 1.755 | 3.5% |
| Others | 126 | 0.3% | 575 | 1.1% | 575 | 1.1% | 3.084 | 6.2% |

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. 14 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## PASSIVE INTEREST RATES

| Call in pesos (1 day) | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Rate | 7.85 | 7.30 | 8.13 | 9.21 | 7.66 |
| Amount traded | 638 | 789 | 754 | 1.023 | 1.135 |

| Fixed Term | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **In pesos** |  |  |  |  |  |
| 30 days | 8.10 | 8.16 | 8.93 | 10.19 | 7.19 |
| 60 days or more | 9.03 | 8.62 | 9.55 | 11.20 | 7.93 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 8.02 | 7.94 | 9.02 | 11.11 | 7.46 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 8.50 | 8.32 | 10.24 | 13.54 | 8.29 |
| **In dollars** |  |  |  |  |  |
| 30 days | 1.25 | 1.22 | 1.24 | 1.23 | 1.01 |
| 60 days or more | 2.13 | 2.12 | 2.23 | 2.28 | 1.99 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.33 | 1.27 | 1.11 | 1.08 | 0.85 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 2.80 | 3.03 | 3.30 | 3.32 | 2.47 |

## ACTIVE INTEREST RATES

| Prime in pesos at 30 days | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | 11.55 | 12.13 | 15.27 | 15.99 | 8.52 |

| Cauciones in pesos | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 7.50 | 7.30 | 10.05 | 13.13 | 7.02 |
| Amount traded (total terms) | 124 | 117 | 138 | 156 | 103 |

| Loans to private sector in pesos (1) | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Advances in current account | 19.48 | 19.34 | 18.06 | 18.93 | 15.38 |
| Documents on signature alone | 14.88 | 14.97 | 16.54 | 16.96 | 12.70 |
| Mortgages | 11.93 | 12.22 | 11.72 | 12.44 | 10.77 |
| Pledges | 17.06 | 16.81 | 14.11 | 15.47 | 10.68 |
| Personal loans | 28.90 | 27.66 | 28.02 | 27.71 | 25.07 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 25.93 | 26.02 | 27.47 | 25.78 |

## INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES

| LIBOR | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 month | 2.82 | 3.14 | 3.91 | 5.04 | 5.32 |
| 6 months | 2.69 | 3.00 | 3.78 | 4.84 | 5.32 |

| US Treasury Bond | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2 years | 1.59 | 1.96 | 2.45 | 3.11 | 4.58 |
| 10 years | 3.50 | 3.73 | 3.71 | 4.09 | 4.56 |

| FED Funds Rate | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | 2.71 | 3.00 | 3.93 | 4.33 | 5.25 |

| SELIC (at 1 year) | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | 11.25 | 11.25 | 11.25 | 11.25 | 12.80 |

(1) Data up to January corresponds to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while those for February and March are estimates made from the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

15 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## REFERENCE INTEREST RATES

| BCRA repo rates | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Passive 1 day | 8.00 | 8.00 | 8.00 | 8.00 | 6.65 |
| Passive 7 days | 8.25 | 8.25 | 8.25 | 8.25 | 6.90 |
| Active 7 days (1) | 10.25 | 10.25 | 10.25 | 10.25 | 8.90 |

| Total REPO round repo rates | Mar-08 | Feb-08 | Ene-08 | Dic-07 | Mar-07 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 day | 7.88 | 7.63 | 7.91 | 8.60 | 7.20 |
| 7 days | 8.25 | 8.25 | 8.38 | 9.43 | 7.75 |
# TRANSLATED TEXT

Traded amount of REPO wheel passes (daily average) 4,360 5,381 4,679 2,177 3,008

LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
1 month n/a n/a 10.69 10.65 n/a
2 months n/a n/a 10.73 10.67 n/a
3 months n/a 10.84 10.81 10.75 7.92
9 months 11.20 11.10 11.00 n/a 10.22
12 months 11.40 n/a n/a n/a 10.47

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (2)
9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 year Private Banks BADLAR 1.34 1.49 1.63 2.13 0.98
2 years Private Banks BADLAR 2.21 2.30 n/a n/a 1.48
3 years Private Banks BADLAR 2.51 n/a n/a n/a 1.82

Traded amount of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 432 387 346 385

Foreign Exchange Market Mar-08 Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Mar-07

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.16 3.17 2.86 3.14 3.10
BCRA Reference 3.16 3.16 3.14 3.14 3.10

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.16 3.17 3.15 3.14 3.10
ROFEX 1 month 3.16 3.16 3.15 3.14 3.10
Traded amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 283 218 238 172 274

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.85 1.83 1.77 1.76 1.48

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.91 4.66 4.63 4.58 4.11

Capital Market Mar-08 Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Mar-07

MERVAL
Index 2,110 2,074 2,042 2,185 2,038
Traded amount (millions of pesos) 100 122 105 148 67

Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 87.72 89.40 88.41 88.53 93.55
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 88.90 91.69 92.68 98.76 114.67
BODEN 2014 ($) 72.67 75.87 73.89 69.79 85.67
DISCOUNT ($) 67.96 72.65 73.87 73.98 98.25

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 819 698 675 669 293
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 317 297 285 257 190

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

16 Monetary Report MARCH 2008

9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ACRONYMS

AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in U.S. dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S.A.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System of Liquidation and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Units Linked to the Product.
VN: Nominal Value.

17
