# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2008
Monthly Monetary Report
June 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 6 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 7 | 4. Loans

Page 8 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 8 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Stocks
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Institutional Investors
Page 13 | Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
Page 14 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 21. Summary

• In June, the gradual normalization of the monetary market that had begun at the end of the previous month deepened, as a result of the series of actions promoted by the Central Bank to confront financial volatility. In particular, private deposits resumed an upward trajectory, with an increase between the end of May and June of around $2,100 million. A significant portion of that increase, approximately $1,200 million, was made up of the increase in time deposits, among which the growth of wholesale deposits persisted. For its part, retail time placements resumed their growth from mid-June onwards.

• The average of the means of payment (M2) stood at around $156,120 million in June, determining that once again, and for twenty consecutive quarters, the BCRA's Monetary Program was met. On this occasion, and as a consequence of atypical evolution of deposits during the quarter, the M2 stood at somewhat more than $2,200 million above the lower limit of the band established for the month.

• Within the framework of the risk management approach where a base scenario is established and probabilities of deviation are assigned, in recent months a misalignment of money demand was observed. In order to restore equilibrium, the Central Bank acted, firstly, to stabilize the foreign exchange market. Subsequently, liquidity was injected, both in pesos and in foreign currency, using already existing mechanisms and generating new instruments. Indeed, in June it continued renewing the maturities of LEBACs and NOBACs on a partial basis, while at the same time carrying out repurchase operations in the secondary market. It also continued offering funds, pesos as well as dollars, through active repurchase agreements, although there was no significant demand for resources through this channel. Finally, in the month under analysis the Central Bank enabled a liquidity window that allows financial entities to obtain funds with the guarantee of Guaranteed Loans or Bogar 2020. However, to date the banks have not used this new mechanism.
• The most restricted liquidity indicator —defined as cash in banks, bank current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos for the BCRA, with respect to total deposits— remained at a very high level, around 19%, which implies an increase of 0.2 p.p. compared to the level registered in the previous month. In June there was a transfer from liquidity held in repos at the BCRA toward current accounts in this Institution, within the framework of the bimonthly period (June-July) to comply with reserve requirements. On the other hand, once it was verified that the bimonthly position for June-July appropriately arranged did not generate excessively precautionary behavior on the part of banks, which could affect stability in interest rates, it was allowed that the excess positions of June could be transferred to July. Said excess positions accumulated in June represent the equivalent of 1% of total deposits, leaving banks in a very comfortable position to face the seasonal increase in liquidity demand that occurs in July (derived from year-end bonuses and winter vacations).

• Short-term interest rates that react more quickly to current conditions began to decline as of the first week of June. In particular, the BADLAR of private banks, after reaching 18.4% on June 3, declined gradually for the rest of the month, to reach 16.2% at month-end. Similarly, after a brief period of increase at the beginning of the month, the rate operated in the interbank lending market between private entities ended the month at the "floor" of the interest rate corridor for repos established by the Central Bank (8.75-11% for 1-day reverse repos and active repos at 7 days, respectively).

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In June the average balance of total means of payment (M2) was around $156,120 million, maintaining the year-over-year growth rate (around 16%) that it had shown in the previous month. In this way, M2 registered a monthly increase of $1,200 million (0.8%), mainly explained by the growth of sight deposits in pesos that increased $900 million (1%), while cash in circulation held by the public increased $300 million (0.5%).

During the month under analysis, deposits in pesos from the private sector, which during May had shown a decline, began to recover. Consequently, there was a notable difference between the variations obtained by considering average balances, affected by the statistical carryover from May, and those obtained by considering end-of-month balances. Indeed, although total deposits from the private sector registered an increase of $2,100 million between the end of May and June, the June average turned out to be lower than the average for the previous month. Similarly, although total deposits in pesos increased significantly, by around $3,500 million, between May 31 and June 30, the June average turned out to be $700 million lower than the May average. Due to this statistical effect, M3 (cash in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos) showed a small decline ($400 million), if measured in monthly averages, but grew about $4,600 million from the end of May to the end of June.

**[CHART 2.1: Private Sector Deposits in Pesos - thousands of millions of pesos - showing data from December 31, 2007 to June 28, 2008, with lines for Total - 30-day moving average, Total - Daily series, Term - 30-day moving average (right axis), and Term - Daily series (right axis). Source: BCRA]**
## Graph 2.2 The Return to a Growth Path for Deposits

thousands of | Explanation Factors of M3 | private deposits was largely related to the behavior
millions of $ | (June 2008, on average) | of time-based placements. In fact, during June wholesale
 2 | placements (over $1 million) maintained firm growth –
 1 | largely explained by the increase that Pension and
 0 | Retirement Fund Administrators have been presenting,
-1 | as explained in Section 7–, while those of less than $1
-2 | million stabilized. In this way, while on average the
-3 | growth of private time deposits was $320 million, be-
-4 | tween the end of May and June it reached $1,200
 | | million (see Graph 2.1).
 | Purchases of S. Public LEBAC exc. Passes ANSES Loans to S. Others M3
 | Foreign Currency* Banks and FCI Private
 | *Includes the intervention of the Central Bank and purchases by the Treasury
 | Source: BCRA

When analyzing the factors that determined the average variation of M3, it can be seen that the main factors that contributed to its growth were the redemption of LEBAC and NOBAC held by the non-financial private sector. It should be recalled that, within the framework of the risk management approach where a baseline scenario is established and probabilities of deviation are assigned, in recent months a misalignment of money demand has been observed. In order to restore equilibrium, the Central Bank acted, first and foremost, to stabilize the foreign exchange market. Subsequently, liquidity was injected, both in pesos and in foreign currency, using existing mechanisms and generating new instruments. In fact, in June it continued renewing the maturities of LEBAC and NOBAC partially, while simultaneously carrying out repurchase operations in the secondary market. Meanwhile, another important factor of expansion was loans to the private sector, which continued increasing (see Graph 2.2), although at a lower rate, as explained in Section 4.

## Graph 2.3

thousands of | Explanation Factors of the BM
millions of $ | (June 2008, on average)
 4 |
 3 |
 2 |
 1 |
 0 |
-1 |
-2 |
-3 |
-4 |
-5 |
 | Purchases of Foreign | Sector Public LEBAC and | Passes | Others BM
 | Currency* | NOBAC |  |
 | *Includes the intervention of the Central Bank and purchases by the Treasury
 | Source: BCRA

Moving on to consider the primary money creation factors, it is notable that banks, in addition to reducing their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC like the non-financial private sector, also reduced part of their balances of passive passes for the BCRA (see Graph 2.3). These funds, as will be seen in Section 3, allowed the system to end June with an accumulated minimum cash position with a broad surplus. For this reason, despite the fact that the Central Bank continued making active passes available to the entities, there was no significant demand for funds through this channel.

## Graph 2.4
IPC Rest and Market Expectations

% (year-over-year variation)
16 |
15 | Dec-05
14 | 14.2
13 |
12 | 12.0
   | Dec-07
11 | 10.6 10.7
10 | Dec-06
   | 10.2 9.5
 9 |
 8 | IPC Rest
 7 | Market Expectations IPC GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec)
 6 |
 5 |
 | Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08

Source: INDEC and REM

On the other hand, it should be mentioned that deposits in foreign currency presented a slight monthly increase of US$40 million. This growth can be decomposed into the increase of US$70 million experienced by sight deposits of the public sector, partially offset by the decrease of US$30 million in private placements, fundamentally due to the decline in fixed-term deposits.
In accordance with the commitment undertaken by this Central Bank to disclose a 12-month ahead estimate of the M2 monetary aggregate, in order to extend the horizon of certainty regarding local monetary and financial conditions, it is reported that this Institution estimates that the year-on-year variation of said monetary aggregate will be located in June 2009 around 18.7%, with respect to the value observed in June 2008 ($156,120 million).

Regarding the evolution of prices, in June 2008 the Rest of CPI sub-index for GBA prepared by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with high tax component) presented a monthly increase of 0.8%, which was higher than the rise in June 2007 (0.5%). In this way, the year-on-year rate (y.o.y.) of Rest CPI rose to 12.0% (see Graph 2.4), placing itself 2.3 percentage points (p.p.) above what was observed a year earlier (9.7% y.o.y.).

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

The most restrictive banking liquidity ratio -defined as cash in banks, current accounts of entities at the BCRA and reverse repos for the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos- presented in June an average level of 19%, 0.2 p.p. higher with respect to the average level of the previous month (see Graph 3.1). Analyzing its components, a shift was observed from reverse repos towards current accounts at the BCRA, together with an increase of 0.3 p.p. in the level of cash (monthly average of 3.6% of deposits), behavior associated with the integration of its bimonthly minimum cash position².

On the other hand, the broader liquidity indicator, which includes LEBAC and NOBAC in the portfolio of entities, continued at a very high level, remaining at 38% of total deposits in pesos.

Regarding the minimum cash position, June is part of a bimonthly position that also spans the month of July. Upon announcement of the regulation, and in order to prevent excessively precautionary attitudes on the part of entities from affecting interest rates, it was established that surpluses from the first month could not be transferred to the second. Nevertheless, and taking into account that in mid-month deposits had already begun to recover (see Section 2), short-term interest rates had embarked on a declining path and entities presented a surplus in their position equivalent to 0.4% of their deposits, through Communication "A" 4813 it was provided that the bimonthly June-July position would adopt traditional characteristics. Ultimately, at the end of the month, the minimum cash position of the system accumulated a surplus of 1% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2).

In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position was maintained at a level similar to that of the previous month, with a surplus of 15% of deposits in dollars.
# MONETARY REPORT / JUNE 2008 | BCRA | 6

## 4. LOANS

**Graph 4.2**
**Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**
Total loans to the private sector, in pesos and in
millions of $ (var. of monthly averages) %

The total loans to the private sector, in pesos and in
foreign currency, showed growth close to $1,000 million,
whether measured in monthly averages or with the com-
parison of stocks on the last day of each month. On aver-
age monthly the stock reached $118,500 million, repre-
senting approximately 12.1% of GDP (see Graph 4.1). To-
tal financing smoothed its annual expansion rate to 39%,
compared to 42% that it presented the previous month. Ad-
ditionally, although foreign currency credits presented an
expansion in the period, the appreciation of the peso
against the US dollar produced a reduction when expressed
in local currency.

Driven mainly by personal and mortgage loans, credits in
pesos advanced in the month by 1.1% ($1,110 million), re-
flecting compared with the same period of the previous
year an increase of 39.5% (see Graph 4.2).

**Graph 4.3**
**Loans with Real Guarantees**
millions of $ %

After the strong expansion recorded in May, financing
with destination mainly commercial presented a decline
of 1.5% ($580 million) in June. Current account advances
showed a reduction of 1.7% ($280 million), while docu-
ments contracted 2.4% ($460 million). For its part, the
remaining commercial financing expanded in the period
3.5% ($160 million).

The lines destined mainly for consumption increased with
respect to the previous month 2.7% ($1,090 million),
with an year-over-year variation close to 53.5%. The
monthly growth was explained mainly by personal loans
which rose 2.9% ($810 million). For its part, credit card
financing advanced 2.1% ($280 million).

Recording the highest expansion of the present year, loans
with real guarantee increased 2.7% ($600 million), show-
ing in relation to the same month of the previous year a
growth of 43.2%. Chattel mortgage credits grew 3.5%
($230 million), while mortgages rose during the period
2.4% ($370 million), exhibiting the highest increase of
the year (see Graph 4.3). In recent months, most of the
increase presented by mortgage credits was explained by
the behavior of public banks.

Finally, destined mainly to finance export activity, loans
in foreign currency to the private sector increased during
June 2.5% (US$140 million).

---

## 5. INTEREST RATES

**Graph 5.1**
**Interest Rate of LEBACs**
TNA, %

**Graph 5.2**
**Interest Rate of Call**
%

**Securities Issued by the BCRA**

During June the interest rates of the primary market
(18/6) of LEBACs remained unchanged compared to May
for almost all terms (see Graph 5.1). For NOBACs only
species of less than one year term were placed and in
small amount, maintaining the market's preference for
fixed rate instruments.

---

**3** Monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
Call at 1 business day (Total Banks)
above those at variable rate.
7
1-5 11-5 21-5 31-5 10-6 20-6 30-6
Source: BCRA
The BCRA continued to operate actively in the secondary market of LEBAC and NOBAC in order to inject liquidity into the market to compensate, through this and other instruments, the contractionary effect of foreign currency sales. In June, this Institution carried out early redemptions of these securities, in operations settled in pesos, for an amount slightly exceeding $700 million. On the other hand, placements were also made in the primary market for an amount less than the maturities.
Consequently, the total stock of securities issued by the BCRA was reduced by 6.4% compared to the previous month and was located at the end of the month at VN $50,363 million.

Graph 5.3 Interfinancial Markets

% Interest Rate and Deviation of One Business Day Call Operations
14 Repo Market 1

12
Monthly average In June, the average stock of passive repos for the
10 Average ± 1 Std Deviation BCRA fell $1,600 million. The funds released by
this operation were allocated in large measure by
8
financial entities to increase their balances in
6 current account at this Institution (see Section 3). Nevertheless, entities continued to maintain elevated
4 liquidity levels in this type of assets, so that at the
2 end of the month their stock was located at $5,000 million, an amount that was distributed among all the mo-
0 dalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO round, nightly ope-
Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 rations and Investment Funds).
Source: BCRA For its part, some operations of active repos at fixed rate were registered during the first week of the month, although their stock was null at the end of June.

4 In this section the figures correspond to end of month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 8 The interest rates of repos at fixed rate remained at the same levels as in May for both active and passive operations. Thus, the interest rates of passive repos remained
Graph 5.4 at 8.75% and 9% for 1 and 7 days respectively, while the interest rate of active repos for 7 days was located at 11%.

Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-59 days
% Private Sector in pesos
20 monthly average weighted by amount traded

18 Finally, it should be mentioned that, reinforcing the sources of fund injection that the market demands, as of
16 Individual Persons June 23 the BCRA enabled a liquidity window for
Financial Services operations with guarantee of Guaranteed Loans and/or Hogar
14 Other Companies 2020. However, to date no operations have been carried out in this framework.

12

10 Interbank Market (call) 1

8

6 In general terms, the interest rate of the interbank market showed a downward trajectory during
4 June. Although its average level, 9.6% for operations
Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 among private banks up to 15 days maturity, did not show differences with respect to May, at the end of June
Source: BCRA it was located at levels close to the floor of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA through the repo market (see Graph 5.2).

In particular, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day –segment that concentrates the majority of operations– also remained with respect to the previous month, being located at 9.8%. The amounts traded averaged the month at $930 million, $270 million below the average traded in May.

Graph 5.5 The dispersion5 of interest rates per call operations was located at 2.71 p.p., on average in June, 0.2 p.p.
Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
% more than in May (see Graph 5.3).
20 Capital and GBA - Daily data

18
# 16 Retail Private Banks Passive Interest Rates1

Wholesale Private Banks

14 The average levels of interest rates paid by financial
12 entities in June showed increases compared to those in
May, for different types of account holders and amount
10
brackets.
8
When considering the main bracket of time deposits
6
(30-59 days) and behavior by type of depositor, it was
Dic-07 Ene-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Abr-08 May-08 Jun-08(30) observed that the average level of interest rates paid by
Source: BCRA all entities to companies providing financial services
registered the largest monthly increase (3.9 p.p.), reaching
a value of 17.6% and significantly exceeding the average
5 It is defined as the standard deviation of the agreed interest rates. of interest rates perceived by individuals and other
companies (see Chart 5.4).
Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 9
When analyzing exclusively the interest rates paid
Chart 5.6 by the group of private banks in the 30-35 day bracket,
TNA, % Commercial Loans the different evolution observed throughout the month
26 (Interest rate avg. monthly weighted by amount) stands out, depending on whether these are wholesale or
24 retail deposits. While the rates paid for placements of
22 more than one million pesos decreased after reaching
20 their maximum value in the first week of the month, the
18 retail rates paid for placements of up to one hundred
16 thousand pesos maintained an upward trend throughout
14 June, contributing to the recovery of retail deposits (see
12 Section 2). In fact, in the shortest-term segment, the
10 BADLAR rate6 for private banks, after reaching 18.4%
8 on June 3rd decreased 2.2 p.p. and was located at the
Advances Documents end of the month at 16.2% (see Chart 5.5). For its part,
6 the interest rates paid for retail placements was located
Jun-05 Dic-05 Jun-06 Dic-06 Jun-07 Dic-07 Jun-08 at 12.2% at the end of June, registering an increase of
Source: BCRA 1.7 p.p. with respect to the last data from May.

Active Interest Rates1 7

In June, an increase in the interest rates applied on
financing in pesos was also observed, although the
shortest-term ones were those that reacted most to the
average increase in the rates paid for time deposits.

Chart 5.7

Active Interest Rates In particular, the average interest rate for advances was
(interest rate avg. monthly weighted by amount) located at 25.2% (see Chart 5.6), while the average
TNA, % TNA, % interest rate for loans granted in the form of single-
33 18 signature documents reached 23.4%. Loans associated
32 17 mainly with commercial activity were the lines that
31 Credit Cards 16 registered the largest increases, given that these are lines
Loans 
30 15 of shorter duration, which typically react more quickly
29 14 to the rise in passive interest rates.

28 13

27 12 With respect to the interest rates for loans related to
26 11 Mortgage consumption, the one corresponding to personal loans
25 10 presented an increase of 0.7 p.p., almost a percentage
Chattel
24 9 point lower than the variation registered in May, reaching
23 8 a value of 30.4% (see Chart 5.7). For its part, the
Jun-07 Sep-07 Dic-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dic-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 interest rates on credit card financing corresponding to
Source: BCRA the month of May increased 0.8 p.p. reaching an average
value of 26.9%.
6 Interest rate for fixed-term deposits of 30-35 days of more than 1 million pesos.
7 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to April 2008, the values for May and June 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 10 Graph 6.1 Finally, interest rates for longer-term financings also recorded increases. In the case of thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA (gold, foreign currency and time placements) the interest rate on mortgage loans reached an average monthly rate of 12.3%, with a slight increase of 0.2 millions of US$ percentage points compared to the level observed in May. It is worth mentioning that this interest rate refers to operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable interest rates and does not include those agreed at variable rates. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financings with chattel mortgage guarantee was placed at 17.8% (see Graph 5.7), with a monthly increase of 2 percentage points.

Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market8

Graph 6.2 International reserves totaled US$47,516 million at the end of June (see Graph 6.1) after decreasing US$1,072 million (2.2%) in the month. The main explanatory factor for this variation was net sales of foreign currency in the Single Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) for a total of US$679 million. However, it should be noted that daily foreign currency sales during June were equivalent to less than half of those carried out in May, and that in the latter part of the month they were practically nil.

Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) With respect to the foreign exchange market, the quotation of the peso against the wholesale dollar (Reference) appreciated 2.4% in the month, where the quotation of the last day of June was 3.0242 $/US$ (see Graph 6.2). Similarly, the peso appreciated against the euro 3.3% in the month with an average quotation of 4.744 $/Euro, while with the Real, the peso appreciated 0.9% with the average monthly quotation of 1.882 $/Real.

Graph 7.1

Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%) 22 days 22 days 7. Capital Market
MERVAL (Argentina) IPC (Mexico) BOVESPA (Brazil) Shanghai Index (China) S&P 500 (USA) (right axis)

Shares

In general, in June an increase in the volatility of stock markets was observed (Graph 7.1). Along with greater volatility there were sharp declines in stock market indices measured in their currency of origin. The largest decline -of a series of selected indices- was observed in the Shanghai index (China), of 20.3%, followed by that of BOVESPA (Brazil), of 10.4%, that of the S&P North American, 8.6%, that of MEXBOL (Mexico), of 8.1% and that of IGBVL of Peru, of 4.9%. Only a positive result was observed in the IGPA of Chile, of 2.9%. In this context, the VIX –index that measures the volatility of the S&P- averaged June at 22.1% (3.7 percentage points more than the previous month).

Graph 7.2
Sovereign Risk Indicators

CDS of Argentina in basis points / EMBI of Arg. and of the Region in basis points

8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 11
**2-year CDS** EMBI Argentina This negative scenario for variable income
instruments in the world's main markets was
**5-year CDS** 580
influenced by growing stagflation fears in the
**EMBI Latin America (right axis)** 350
630 **10-year CDS**
U.S. and, to a lesser extent, in Europe, related
480 300
to the price of oil, which reached record levels,
480
and fears that the main central banks will
250
increase their reference interest rates. The com-
380
330 bination of these elements mainly impacted the
200
quotation of financial entities due to fears of
180 280
worse corporate results. The poor results in
150
June contrast with the recovery that had oc-
30 180 100
curred in the stock markets in April and May.
Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-05 Jun-06 Mar-07 Dec-07

Source: Bloomberg

In Argentina, the MERVAL index—measured in
pesos—registered a loss of 4.4%, reaching a
value of 2,109 points at the end of the month.
**Chart 7.3**
Over the last twelve months, MERVAL showed a
negative return of 3.8%, and year-to-date it de-
**Annual Real Yield (%) Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos**
creased 2%.

PRO 12 30-May
13.0 Boden 14
Measured in dollars, all regional stock ex-
Bogar 18 30-Jun
changes had monthly losses. In particular, the
MERVAL exhibited a negative variation of 2.2%
11.0 DISC $
(influenced by peso appreciation). For its part,
PAR $
BOVESPA (Brazil) fell 9.2%, IGBVL (Peru)
8.6%, and IPC (Mexico) 7.9%. On the other
PRE 08
9.0 hand, the decline of IGPA (Chile), of 5.8%, can
be attributed entirely to the depreciation of the
Boden 08
Chilean peso.
7.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20
Duration (years) The local market did not escape the increase in
Source: Prepared based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute
generalized volatility. In particular, MERVAL
volatility—18 trading sessions—in annualized
terms and measured in dollars, was 18.7% in
June, 2.6 percentage points higher than the
previous month.

The volumes traded daily on average at the
**Chart 7.4**
Buenos Aires Stock Exchange decreased compared
to April. Thus, the amount traded reached $71
**Annual Yield (%) Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars**
million daily, $19 million below that recorded
Yield Spread (pp)
30-May
in May.
20 30-Jun 12
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve May-08 (right axis)
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Jun-08 (right axis)
18 10

16 **Public Securities**
8
14 Boden 15

6 The climate of elevated volatility also extended
12 Boden 13
to fixed income markets in June, observing a
BONAR VII DISC USD
PAR USD 4
greater risk aversion, which negatively affected
10 BONAR V
Boden 12 emerging country securities. The EMBI+ which
8 2
measures emerging country spreads increased
6 0
53 basis points. For its part, the spread of
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18
Latin America's external debt increased 44 basis
Duration (years)
Source: Prepared based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute
points and that of Argentina by 79 basis points,
both measured by EMBI+ (Chart 7.2). In the
Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 12
case of spreads reflected by Credit Default
Swaps (CDS) contracts, Argentina's 5-year CDS
increased by 82 basis points, while Brazil's
5-year CDS increased 34 basis points in the
month.

**Chart 7.5**

The yield curve of public securities indexed in
**% Composition by Items of the Pensions and Retirement Fund**
pesos rose in all segments with the exception of
100
14.7 14.5 14.4 Other Boden 08, whose yield remained virtually unchanged
2.3 3.5 5.1 Fixed Rate
(Chart 7.3). In the same manner, the yield curve
80 7.9 8.9 8.4
1.8 1.7 0.9 of securities in dollars also shifted upward in
7.3 6.6 5.9 Foreign Securities
nearly all segments (Chart 7.4).
60 13.9 13.4 13.4
Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds⁹

The total Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP) reached $97,720 million in mid-June, registering an advance of 1.4% ($1,350 million) in the last month and thus reversing the decline observed in the previous month.

Graph 7.6
thousands of Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
millions of $ (variation June 08 vs. May 08)
20
18 Fixed income
millions of $ Income from contributions to the Administrators of Pension
16 Mixed income 250 and Retirement Funds (AFJP) for May totaled approximately
14 Variable income 280 $950 million, a period in which approximately $385 million
12 Money Market 50 were transferred to the public system as a consequence of
1
10 -150 the transfers of individual capitalization accounts established
8 -575 in the pension reform.
6 -350
4 -550 The investment portfolio, with $96,570 million, presented
2 -131 growth of 1.8% in the last thirty days ($1,710 million). This
-750 -1
0 increase was explained partially by the reduction in
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 available resources maintained by the administrators
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data ($360 million). The instruments that registered the main
advances were Public Securities ($1,015 million) and Fixed-
Term Deposits ($1,620 million), the latter increasing their

⁹ With information provided by the AFJP Superintendency (SAFJP) as of June 15.

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 13 participation within the FJP by 1.6 p.p. (see Graph 7.5).

For its part, the largest declines were concentrated in
Foreign Securities ($360 million) and Mutual Investment
Funds (FCI, $1,270 million). Within the FCI, reductions

Graph 7.7 were observed both in those belonging to MERCOSUR
Financial Securitization Issues ($540 million) as well as in the remaining instruments
millions of $ ($730 million).
1.800 (quantity of issues above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
40
1.600
1.400 19 41 June 2008: The pension reform of last year established that the
1.200 11 28 $679 M AFJP must invest between 5% and 20% of the funds in assets
1.000 avg. 2007: 24 $727M intended to finance productive projects or medium and long-
avg. 2006: 15 32 28 $628M 22 21 19 13 21 term infrastructure in the Argentine Republic. With a partial
10
avg. 2005: 19 18 14 $430M 16 27 15 15 goal of 1% for October 2008, in the coming months it is
600 13 15 18 20 expected that the administrators will increase their placements
11 13 16 16 17 10
400 13 9 in investments related to the real economy, which currently
10 10 12 13 12
6 continue to represent only 0.02% of the FJP.
200 4 9
0
Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

## Mutual Investment Funds

The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos experienced a decline of $427 million (3.1%) in June (see Graph 7.6) compared to May. In this way, equity totaled $13,425 million, while that denominated in foreign currency reached $4,841 million, 8.7% lower than the previous month.
When considering the different types of funds, it is appreciated that money market funds were the only ones that registered an increase in their assets, failing to compensate for the decline in fixed income and variable funds. In this sense,

**Chart 7.8**
*millions of $* Underlying Assets

4,500
4,000 | 25.4% | +88%
3,500 | Rest (*)
| Future Cash Flows
3,000 | Leasing Contracts | Variation Jan-
2,500 | Commercial Credits | June 2008 vs.
| Credit Card Coupons | Jan-Jun 2007
2,000 | Personal Loans | 66.5%
1,500 | | 60.2% | +40%
1,000 |
500 |
0 |
Jan-Jun 2007 | Jan-Jun 2008

(*) Public Securities, Mortgage Loans, Real Estate, Pledged Credits
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and other Financial Trusts

given an increase in the value and quantity of fund units, the assets of money market funds reached $6,090 million (4.8% above the previous month), recovering part of the participation lost in May and representing 45.4% of the total FCIs. On the other hand, the assets of variable income funds declined by 10%, totaling $5,111 million, both due to decreases in value and withdrawals of fund units. Finally, the assets of fixed income funds declined by 6.3%, as a result of fund unit withdrawals and reached $1,959 million.

Financial trust emissions totaled $679 million in June (see Chart 7.7), an amount similar to those made both in last May and in June of 2007. In this way, in the first half of the year, FF emissions totaled $4,573 million, 26% more than what was securitized in the same period of the previous year. Regarding the number of FFs, as in the previous month, a decline was evident both compared to the previous month and to the same month of the previous year, registering 14 emissions. Consequently, the average amount per placement recorded a significant increase ($48 million in June 2008 vs. $38 million in May and $34 million in June 2007).

**Chart 7.9**
*%* Cutting Rates of FF
(Class A Securities in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount)

22 |
20 | Fixed rate
18 | Variable rate
| BADLAR Rate Private Banks
16 |
14 |
12 |
10 |
8 |
6 |
Jan-06 | Apr-06 | Jul-06 | Oct-06 | Jan-07 | Apr-07 | Jul-07 | Oct-07 | Jan-08 | Apr-08

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others

The underlying assets linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons) constituted almost the entirety of the securitized assets, representing 98% of the total. The remainder corresponded to securitizations of commercial credits.

In the first half of the year, as mentioned above, FFs were issued for $4,573 million; however, the variety of underlying assets was lower compared to the same period of the previous year. In fact, assets linked to consumption had an importance of 77% in January-June 2007 (see Chart 7.8), while in 2008 this participation rose to 92%, with an increase in the issued amount of 50%. It should be noted that in the current year no cash flows with real guarantees or public securities have been securitized (4.5% and 11% of the total in the January-June 2007 period respectively).

Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 14
The structure by type of trustor showed no major variations compared to the previous month. Financial entities contributed 37% of what was issued, followed by retail trade (32%) and by mutual funds, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers (29%). With respect to amounts by type of trustor, mutual funds, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers were the only ones that increased the total placed compared to May (26%), while financial entities and retail trade reduced the amounts by 5% and 19% respectively.

During June, the interest rates at cut-off continued with the upward trend, again reflecting the behavior of the money market. In this sense, when calculating the weighted average by amount, the issues placed at fixed rate reached 19.6% while those at variable rate 20.5% (see Chart 7.9), which represented an increase compared to May of 4.4 p.p. and 3.1 p.p., respectively. The weighted average duration by amount of the senior FF titles issued in June reached 5.2 months, similar to that of May. However, it still remains at a low level compared to the values reached before the decline recorded last month. In particular, the duration of the FF that have personal loans as underlying assets reached a slightly higher level, equivalent to 5.9 months.

According to the latest balance information corresponding to March 2008, the stock of assets of the FF amounted to $15,847 million (see Chart 7.10), 1.8% ($277 million) higher than the value in December 2007. However, in the year-on-year comparison the increase in stock was 14% following the jump in the level observed in the previous quarter.

In the composition by type of trustor, financial entities continue to be the most relevant with 56.5% of the total. Nevertheless, such participation has been declining in recent quarters. Conversely, the importance of mutual funds, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers (16.6%) increased in March 2008, as had been observed in the previous quarters. For its part, the stock of retail trade as trustors with respect to total stock remained practically stable (13%), contrary to what happened throughout 2006 and 2007, years in which such percentage increased throughout the quarters.

With respect to the classification by type of underlying asset, the stock in March 2008 is composed mainly of cash flows derived from consumer financing (46.4%), public securities (34%), mortgage loans and commercial credits (6%). The remainder corresponds to private securities and leasing contracts among others.

As for the holders of fiduciary debt securities, it can be observed that financial entities and AFJP have the same participation in holdings (34%, see Chart 7.11), while Investment Funds have 10%, 3 p.p. above holdings in December 2007. The remaining 22% corresponds to insurance companies and other investors.

**Monetary and Financial Indicators**

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.
## Monthly averages and percentage variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system variables Jun-08 Monthly Last 12 months May-08 Apr-08 Jun-07
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 100,512 98,787 98,040 83,649 1.7% 1.1% 20.2% 10.0%
 Monetary circulation 73,532 72,722 72,003 61,486 1.1% 0.5% 19.6% 9.4%
 In public hands 66,445 66,156 65,647 56,288 0.4% -0.2% 18.0% 8.0%
 In financial entities 7,087 6,566 6,356 5,198 7.9% 7.3% 36.3% 24.8%
 Current account at the BCRA 26,980 26,065 26,036 22,163 3.5% 2.9% 21.7% 11.4%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 4,682 6,242 7,703 3,304 -25.0% -25.5% 41.7% 29.7%
 Assets 16 119 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 29,929 32,773 32,581 24,761 -8.7% -9.3% 20.9% 10.6%
 In dollars 0 0 0 19

 NOBAC 21,876 22,331 24,547 35,547 -2.0% -2.7% -38.5% -43.7%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 47,918 49,422 50,327 41,938 -3.0% 14.3%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 191,539 192,240 191,866 164,912 -0.4% -1.0% 16.1% 6.3%
 Current account (2) 54,170 52,602 50,134 47,091 3.0% 2.3% 15.0% 5.3%
 Savings account 35,505 36,173 36,671 30,991 -1.8% -2.5% 14.6% 4.8%
 Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 90,144 89,954 91,411 71,588 0.2% -0.4% 25.9% 15.2%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 895 1,137 1,390 3,935 -21.3% -21.8% -77.3% -79.2%
 CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 26
 Other deposits (3) 10,825 12,374 12,261 11,281 -12.5% -13.1% -4.0% -12.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 136,276 137,926 139,714 119,428 -1.2% -1.8% 14.1% 4.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 55,262 54,315 52,152 45,484 1.7% 1.1% 21.5% 11.2%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,110 8,064 7,920 5,881 0.6% 37.9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 111,783 111,150 107,784 82,866 0.6% -0.1% 34.9% 23.5%

 Loans to the private sector 100,835 100,028 96,598 72,288 0.8% 0.2% 39.5% 27.7%
 Advances 15,922 16,197 15,428 12,643 -1.7% -2.3% 25.9% 15.2%
 Documents 19,052 19,515 18,989 14,898 -2.4% -3.0% 27.9% 17.0%
 Mortgages 15,751 15,387 15,102 11,337 2.4% 1.7% 38.9% 27.2%
 Pledges 6,859 6,626 6,389 4,447 3.5% 2.9% 54.2% 41.2%
 Personal loans 25,652 25,140 24,079 16,235 2.0% 1.4% 58.0% 44.6%
 Credit cards 12,883 12,607 12,217 8,889 2.2% 1.5% 44.9% 32.6%
 Others 4,716 4,557 4,395 3,840 3.5% 2.8% 22.8% 12.4%

 Loans to the public sector 10,948 11,121 11,186 10,577 -1.6% -2.2% 3.5% -5.3%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,811 5,669 5,500 4,255 2.5% 36.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in public hands + current account in pesos) 120,615 118,758 115,781 103,379 1.6% 0.9% 16.7% 6.8%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 156,120 154,931 152,452 134,370 0.8% 0.1% 16.2% 6.3%
 M3 (currency in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 257,983 258,396 257,514 221,200 -0.2% -0.8% 16.6% 6.7%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 282,672 283,815 282,592 239,307 -0.4% -1.0% 18.1% 8.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in public hands + private current account in pesos) 103,485 104,961 104,161 87,925 -1.4% -2.0% 17.7% 7.7%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 135,983 137,661 137,674 115,645 -1.2% -1.8% 17.6% 7.6%
 M3 (currency in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 202,721 204,082 205,361 175,716 -0.7% -1.3% 15.4% 5.6%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 224,340 226,559 227,429 192,326 -1.0% -1.6% 16.6% 6.7%

 Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date 2008 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary base 1.725 1.7% 2.631 2.6% 4.154 4.1% 16.862 16.8%
 Financial sector 1.482 1.5% 3.695 3.7% -2.382 -2.4% -1.952 -1.9%
 Public sector -34 0.0% -754 -0.7% -1.183 -1.2% -4.807 -4.8%
 Private external sector -3.824 -3.8% -7.400 -7.4% 2.286 2.3% 7.697 7.7%
 BCRA Securities 3.658 3.6% 6.362 6.3% 4.073 4.1% 13.845 13.8%
 Others 442 0.4% 729 0.7% 1.361 1.4% 2.079 2.1%

International reserves -1.504 -3.1% -2.121 -4.4% 2.209 4.6% 5.981 12.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.222 -2.5% -2.345 -4.9% 736 1.5% 2.500 5.2%
 Payment to international organizations -77 -0.2% -363 -0.8% -1.245 -2.6% -1.462 -3.1%
 Other public sector operations 614 1.3% 1.422 3.0% 2.133 4.5% 2.658 5.5%
 Minimum cash -212 -0.4% -249 -0.5% -269 -0.6% -1.273 -2.7%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -634 -1.3% -586 -1.2% 887 1.9% 3.592 7.5%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the principal variable corresponding to the month relative to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

 Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 18 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 10.26 10.06 7.98 9.21 7.94
 Amount operated 1.111 1.249 841 1.040 1.305

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 13.10 10.06 8.12 10.19 7.04
 60 days or more 13.92 11.38 9.07 11.20 7.97
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.93 10.82 8.10 11.11 7.17
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 17.41 13.22 8.71 13.54 7.90

 In dollars
 30 days 1.38 1.37 1.22 1.23 1.11
 60 days or more 2.33 2.03 2.04 2.28 2.06
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.33 1.55 1.68 1.08 1.09
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.77 2.87 2.89 3.32 2.85

 Active Interest Rates Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 23.81 15.88 11.59 15.99 8.64

 Repo operations in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.37 10.98 8.04 13.13 6.99
 Amount operated (total terms) 141 143 135 156 110

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 25.22 21.29 18.05 18.93 15.50
 Documents on signature alone 23.41 18.11 14.56 16.97 12.19
 Mortgages 12.28 12.11 11.65 12.44 10.48
 Pledges 17.82 15.80 15.23 15.47 10.29
 Personal loans 30.40 29.73 28.14 27.71 24.98
 Credit cards n/a 26.88 26.10 27.47 25.52

 International Interest Rates Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

 LIBOR
 1 month 2.47 2.50 2.79 5.04 5.32
 6 months 3.10 2.85 2.85 4.84 5.39

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.74 2.43 2.04 3.11 4.97
 10 years 4.07 3.88 3.65 4.09 5.10

 FED Funds Rate 2.00 2.00 2.24 4.33 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 12.18 11.75 11.49 11.25 12.08

 (1) Data through April corresponds to the monthly SISCEN 08 reporting requirement, while those for May and June are estimates made based on the daily SISCEN 18 reporting requirement.

 Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 19 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.75 8.54 8.00 8.00 7.15
 Liabilities 7 days 9.00 8.79 8.25 8.25 7.40
 Assets 7 days (1) 11.00 11.00 10.25 10.25 9.40

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 8.87 9.00 7.89 8.60 7.50
 7 days 9.29 9.74 8.31 9.43 7.53

Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average) 4.219 4.729 4.376 2.177 3.859
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (2)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 10.65 n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 10.67 n/a
 3 months n/a n/a n/a 10.75 7.82
 9 months 11.49 11.19 11.19 n/a 10.06
 12 months 11.82 11.60 11.47 n/a 10.27

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.99 1.25 0.98 2.13 1.00
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a 2.44 n/a 1.34
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.92

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (daily average) n/d 400 511 284 483

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

Dollar Spot
 Exchange Houses 3.05 3.16 3.17 3.14 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.04 3.15 3.17 3.14 3.08

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.07 3.18 3.18 3.14 3.08
 ROFEX 1 month 3.04 3.15 3.17 3.14 3.08
 Amount Traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 114 136 274 172 288

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.88 1.90 1.88 1.76 1.59

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.74 4.91 4.99 4.58 4.13

 Capital Market Jun-08 May-08 Apr-08 Dec-07 Jun-07

MERVAL
 Index 2,105 2,165 2,138 2,185 2,205
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 89 104 152 148 98

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 85.49 88.42 86.72 88.53 95.01
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 86.78 84.15 84.78 98.76 102.37
 BODEN 2014 ($) 63.63 63.55 69.25 69.79 87.57
 DISCOUNT ($) 61.24 56.89 63.57 73.98 96.17

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond n/d 786 897 631 259
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 258 267 291 257 172

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the margin of interest rate auctioned over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 209. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of up to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** National State Bond.

**BONAR V:** Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CC:** Current account.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DISC:** Discount Bond.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Common investment funds.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the U.S.A.

**FF:** Financial trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-over-year.

**IGBVL:** Stock market index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

**IGPA:** Stock market index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MAE:** Electronic Open Market.

**MEC:** Electronic Brokers Market.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MEXBOL:** Stock market index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Term Negotiated Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable obligations.

**PAR:** Par Bond.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and medium-sized enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SELIC:** Special Liquidation and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIOPEL:** Electronic Operations System.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**TCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 21**

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**U.V.P.:** Units linked to the product.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**Monetary Report / June 2008 | BCRA | 22**
