# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 10 | Equities
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Institutional Investors
Page 13 | Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
Page 14 | Common Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monthly Monetary Report - BCRA

## 1. Summary

• During the month, monetary aggregates continued to show prudent behavior, in line with the Monetary Program. Total means of payment (M2) registered an average balance of $152,500 million in April, which implies year-on-year growth of 18%, similar to the year-on-year variation that had been shown in the previous month. For its part, in the first four months of the year, 73% of the variation in M3 was explained by the growth of time deposits, which compares favorably with what occurred in the first four months of 2007, when only 56% of M3 growth originated from the increase in fixed-term deposits.

• Private sector time deposits in pesos grew $600 million (1%) in April, to accumulate in 2008 so far an increase of $6,600 million (12%), a growth rate similar to that of the first four months of 2007. However, this year the composition of the increase in the volume of time deposits in the first four months was oriented towards longer terms: deposits placed from 90 to 365 days accounted for 39% of the increase in 2008, compared to 20% last year; while those agreed with a term of up to 89 days went from comprising more than 70% of the total increase in 2007 to constituting only 45% this year.

• Bank liquidity indicators reflected the continuity of high liquidity conditions in the local market. Thus, the direct bank liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and repo liabilities to the BCRA, with respect to total deposits—continued to be at very high levels: 19.6% for all entities. This liquidity ratio for private banks reached around 21% in April, which implies the highest level in the last 3 years. Additionally, banks completed the monthly minimum cash position in pesos with an over-compliance (over-integration) of 0.3% of total deposits, a proportion slightly higher than typical for the closure of measurement periods of reserve requirements.

• The broader liquidity indicator, which includes the portfolio of entities' monetary regulation instruments (Lebac and Nobac), issued by the Central Bank, also showed a very high level (similar to the average recorded during the last year, historically elevated). These securities can be used by entities to access short-term liquidity (through repo operations) or directly to long-term liquidity (since the Central Bank cancels them by renewing amounts lower than maturities or directly repurchasing them, when it considers this appropriate). In short, taking into account these monetary regulation instruments, the Financial System has available the equivalent of 39% of total deposits as a liquidity reserve.
• Loans to the private sector continued to show very good performance. In particular, financing in pesos increased 3.2% ($3,070 million) in April and accumulated growth of 41% in the last 12 months. During the month, commercial credits had a prominent participation, which explained $1,350 million of the monthly increase and, especially, overdrafts in current accounts, which began to have greater demand towards the end of the month in the face of a new period of heavy tax payment deadlines.

• In this context, the average interest rates in April did not show significant variations compared to those in March, although in the case of passive rates and those operated in the interbank lending market, a slight increase was observed in the last days of the month, which, in part, is associated with greater demand for short-term financing from companies. The BADLAR of private banks stood at 8.7% (+0.2 p.p.) and the one-day interbank loan rate reached 7.9% (+0.1 p.p.). On the other hand, among active interest rates, that of advances to companies for amounts exceeding $1 million also had a slight variation and stood at 14.4% (+0.3 p.p.).

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Chart 2.1

thousands of Private Fixed-Term Deposits Total means of payment (M2) registered an average
millions of $ Base Index: average 02 to 31-Dec-07
62 (30-day Moving Average) balance of $152,500 million in April, showing year-
on-year growth of 18% similar to that observed in
2008 2007 2006 March.
60

58 In April, among the factors that explain the average variation of M2, secondary money expansion stood out,
56 through the increase in loans to the private sector and,
especially, the dynamism of commercial financing (see
54 Section 4). On average, there was a decrease in hold-
ings of LEBAC and NOBAC from individual investors
52 (non-banks), which also explained part of the M2 in-
crease. In contrast, the public sector continued to be a
31-Dec 15-Jan 30-Jan 14-Feb 29-Feb 15-Mar 30-Mar 14-Apr 29-Apr factor of contraction in means of payment, as did fixed-
Source: BCRA
term deposits from the private sector, which again regis-
tered a monthly increase.

With regard to fixed-term placements in pesos,
those of the private sector grew $600 million (1%) during
Chart 2.2 the month, to accumulate in what has passed of 2008 a
growth of $6,600 million (12%). In April, more than 80%
Private Sector Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the increase was explained by higher balances of depos-
average flows its of more than $1 million, although in the year-to-date
First Four Months 2007 First Four Months 2008 accumulated figure, the increase was distributed equally
$5,700 million (12%) $6,600 million (12%) between deposits of less and more than $1 million. In this
Inv. with Inv. with way, in the first four months of 2008, private fixed-term
366 d. and Option of 366 d. and Option of
More Early Cancel. Early Cancel. deposits accumulated percentage growth similar to that
4% 3% 11% of the same period of 2007 (see Chart 2.1) although with
180-365 d. 5%
14% 30-59 d.
180-365 d. 39% 10%
90-179 d. a different composition in terms of agreed 
 6%
 maturities. Thus, while in the first months of
 60-89 d.
 18% 30-59 d.55% 2007 55% of the increase was composed of depo-
 90-179 d. 60-89 d.
 Source: BCRA 29% 6% sits of up to 59 days, in the current year the participation
 of this segment of placements was reduced to 39%.
 Also, deposits between 60 and 89 days decreased
 their participation in the increase and went from 18% in
 2007 to 6% in 2008. In contrast, deposits
 placed from 90 to 365 days covered 39% in
 2008, compared to 20% the previous year (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.3
 Composition of M3 Increase
 thousands of
 millions of $ The public sector, for its part, reduced its placements at
 18 Other Deposits
 term by $700 million in the month, although so far in
 16 Term Deposits
 2008 it also accumulates an increase in this type of pla-
 14
 cements of $5,500 million.
 12
 10
 8 In summary, the broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, which
 6 groups the currency in circulation held by the public and the total of
 4 deposits in pesos increased $2,300 million in April
 2 (1%) with a year-on-year variation of 21%. The growth
 0 of term placements led to 73% of the M3 increase
 First Quarter 2007 First Quarter 2008 being explained by the growth of that type of
 Source: BCRA placements during the first four months of the year, unlike 2007 when only 56%

Chart 2.4 of the M3 growth originated from an increase in
 Dollar Deposits Stock term deposits (see Chart 2.3).

 Monthly var. thousands of millions
 millions of US$ of US$ In the dollar deposits segment, those belonging
 600 8.5 to the private sector showed growth again
 500 8.0 (US$60 million), while those of the public
 400 7.5 sector increased US$230 million. In particular,
 7.0 during the month, public term placements increased,
 300 mainly due to a provincial deposit made at
 6.5 the beginning of April. In this way, the average balance of
 200 dollar deposits was located at US$7,900 million,
 6.0
 100 of which US$7,000 million corresponded to placements
 5.5 of the private sector (see chart 2.4).
 0
 5.0 Thus, M3*, composed of the total deposits in
 -100 Sight Priv. Sect. Sight Pub. Sect. 4.5 pesos and dollars and the currency in circulation held by the public accu-
 Term Fix Priv. Sect. Term Pub. Sect. mulated monthly growth of $3,600 million (1.3%).
 -200 4.0
 Stock Total (right axis)
 -300 3.5
 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08 Apr-08 Regarding primary money issuance, in
 Source: BCRA April the monetary base registered only an increase of $157
 million, since the expansion generated by the decrease
Chart 2.5 in the balance of reverse repos for the BCRA and the
 IPC Rest and Market Expectations net placement of LEBAC and NOBAC was completely
 % (year-on-year var.) offset by public sector operations, mainly
16
 the placement of securities in pesos that took place
15 Dec-05 in the market in April. On the other hand, the net purchase of
 14.2
14 foreign currency by the Central Bank and the Treasury had
 a practically null monetary effect during this
13 month.
12 11.7
 10.6 10.7 Regarding the evolution of prices, in April
11 Dec-07
 2008 the Rest sub-index of the IPC GBA prepared by
10 Dec-06
 10.2 9.5 INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with
 9
 seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with high tax
 8 IPC Rest
 component) presented a monthly increase of
 7 Market Expectations IPC GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec)
 1.0%, which was higher than the April 2007 increase
 6
 Jan-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 (0.7%). In this way, the year-on-year (y-o-y) rate of
 Source: INDEC and REM the IPC Rest rose to 11.7% (see Chart 2.5), being
 positioned above what was observed a year before
Chart 3.1 (10.1%).

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos
 deposits

 22
21
 Daily Series 3. Banking Liquidity1
 Monthly Average
 20 19.6
 During April, banking liquidity remained at the ele-
 19
 vated levels it had been showing. Thus, the banking
 18 liquidity ratio -defined as cash in banks, current
 17.8
 17 accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase
 agreements for the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits
 16 in pesos- was located at 19.6%. (see Graph 3.1). In the
 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 case of the liquidity ratio of private banks it was located
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements for the BCRA.
Source: BCRA at 21%, the highest level of the last 3 years while that of
 Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 5 3 public banks hovered around 18%, a level it has main-
Graph 3.2 tained since 2005.

 % of Minimum Cash Position
 of Excess Daily Position Cumulative Position
 deposits
 2.5 The broader liquidity indicator, which includes the port-
 2.0 folio of LEBAC and NOBAC entities also showed a
 1.5 high level and was located at 39% of total deposits. It
 1.0 should be noted that these securities issued by the BCRA
 0.5 can be used by entities to access both short-term liquid-
 0.0 ity (through repurchase agreement operations) and
 -0.5 long-term (since the Central Bank cancels them by par-
 -1.0 tially renewing maturities or repurchasing them, when it
 -1.5 considers it necessary).
 -2.0 Quarterly Position Dec-Feb
 -2.5 For its part, the average minimum cash position of the
 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08 system ended with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits
Source: BCRA in pesos. Private banks presented a surplus average posi-
 tion throughout the month ending with a surplus of 0.5%
 of deposits, while public banks closed the month with a
Graph 4.1 neutral position as they have been doing in recent pe-
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector riods (see Graph 3.2).
 millions of $ %
 3,500 (variation of monthly averages) 42 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash
 41.4 position accumulated a surplus of approximately 15%
 3,000 Apr-07 37 of deposits in dollars, slightly above the previous
 2,500 Apr-08 32 month. Said increase came mainly from greater growth
 var y.o.y. (%) - right axis of deposits than loans in foreign currency. Since the
 2,000 27 surplus not applied to loans is counted as an increase in
 requirements, the increase in unused liquidity was
 1,500 22 transferred to liquidity integration, thus increasing the
 1,000 17 current accounts in foreign currency of banks at the
 500 12 BCRA.

 0 7
 Source: BCRA 4. Loans 1 2

Graph 4.2 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 100 (y.o.y. var. of monthly averages)
 Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign
 80 currency, registered in April an increase of 3%
 60 54.9 ($3,370 million), surpassing that of the two previous
 months and reaching a stock of $117,400 million. Thus,
 40 43.8 they showed year-on-year growth of 40.7%.
 20 29.6 With advances in all lines, credits in pesos presented a
 0 monthly variation of 3.2% ($3,080 million), reflecting
 -20 Commercial with the same period of the previous year an increase
 Consumption of 41.4% (see Graph 4.1). While the lines destined for
 Real guarantee consumption continued softening their expansion rate, the
 -40
 Apr-04 Oct-04 Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 financings with real guarantee
Source: BCRA

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial
trusts.
Securities issued by the BCRA³

In April the interest rates of the primary market of LEBAC and NOBAC remained at levels similar to those in effect the previous month although with a slight increase in the last auction of the month for some tranches (see Graph 5.1). In February a process of lengthening the duration of the securities had begun which continued in April although with less momentum. Additionally, the preference of the market was maintained for fixed rate instruments over variable rate ones.

**Graph 5.2**
**Interest Rates of Call Operations and Repo**
**% 20.7**
20
18 Passive Repo BCRA at 1 day / Call at 1 day
16
14
12
10
8.2
8
6

The BCRA continued operating in the secondary market of LEBAC and NOBAC, although with differentiated behavior throughout the month. During the first fifteen days the Bank continued arranging transactions with a reduced amount of repurchase (daily average of $ 3 million), while in the second half of the month, the Central Bank was more active in the repurchase of securities (daily average of $ 36 million).

On the other hand, as a consequence of net placements in the primary market and repurchases in the secondary market, the total stock of securities issued by the BCRA was reduced in April 0.4% with respect to the previous month.

³ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.
4 and was positioned at the end of the month at a NV of $56.917 million.

Jul-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 May-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08
Source: BCRA

## Interfinancial Markets

## Repurchase Agreement Market¹

In April, the average stock of passive repurchase agreements for the BCRA fell $475 million. Nevertheless, it remained at elevated levels and ended April at $7,200 million, an amount that was distributed among all the modalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO auction, overnight operations and Investment Common Funds). On the other hand, given the comfortable liquidity situation existing in the market, no active repurchase agreement operations were recorded, with the stock remaining at zero.

Chart 5.3 The interest rates on repurchase agreements at fixed rates remained

millions of $ Interbank Market at the same levels set in September, both
(stock borrowed and lent by bank group)
2,500 for active and passive operations. In

2,000 this way, the interest rates on passive repurchase

1,500 agreements remained at 8% and 8.25%, for 1 and 7 days

1,000 respectively, while the interest rate on active 7-day

500 repurchase agreements was positioned at 10.25%. On the other

0 hand, in the segment of active repurchase agreements at variable

-500 rates there was no demand for funds.

-1,000

-1,500 Interbank Market (call)¹

-2,000 Borrowed Priv. Fin. Entities Borrowed Public Banks

-2,500 Lent Priv. Fin. Entities Lent Public Banks

The interest rates on the interbank market (call) remained

Jul-07 Aug-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 Feb-08 Mar-08 relatively stable until the last week
Source: BCRA
of April when slight increases occurred (see Chart 5.2). While stability was maintained in the call rate, something similar was observed in the amounts operated, which increased with the increase in the duration rate during the last days (see Chart 5.3).

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.4 The average interest rate of 1 business day

Interest Rate on 1 Business Day Call Operations operations was positioned at 7.9%, which implied an increase

% of 0.1 p.p. with respect to the previous month. This increase is

21 Daily Maximum explained basically by operations concluded toward the end

Daily Minimum of the month. The amounts operated averaged in the month

17 Monthly Average Maximum 2.8 p.p.
Monthly Average Minimum 3.0 p.p. $814 million, $172 million more than the previous month;
1.4 p.p. 2.0 p.p.

13 2.2 p.p. an increase also explained by the increase in operations

11 from the last week of the month.

9

The deviation of interest rates for call operations

7 from their daily average was positioned at 0.30 p.p.

5 4.3 p.p. 3.7 p.p. 1.9 p.p. on average in April, 0.10 p.p. less than in March (see

2.1 p.p.

3 Chart 5.4). In part, the lower volatility in April is

Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 due to the lower dispersion with respect to March that was

Source: BCRA registered in the rates agreed between the different entities

in the first twenty days of the month.

Chart 5.5 Passive Interest Rates¹
Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days

% Daily Data
15 During April the passive interest rates remained

14 stable both in the wholesale and retail segments. However,

13 in the last week an increase was also observed, as in the

12 interbank loan market. In effect, the monthly average for

11 April of the BADLAR⁴ rate for private banks was positioned

at 8.7%, with a slight increase of 0.2 p.p. with respect to
10
 the level recorded in March (see Chart 5.5). It should be

9 noted that, as was mentioned in section 4, from mid-April

8 and during May there is an increase in demand for

7 Retail Private Banks

Wholesale Private Banks
6 Advances on Current Account by Companies
 Jul-07 Aug-07 Sep-07 Oct-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08
Source: BCRA before the tax payment deadlines that begin to occur at that time of year, which generates certain short-term funding needs on the part of banks.

Graph 5.6
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-59 days For its part, the interest rates paid by banks
 Private Sector in pesos
 % monthly average weighted by amount operated private to retail placements (amounts less
16
 than $100,000) were positioned at the same average level

14 of March (8.4%). In this way, the spread between the
 interest rates of the wholesale and retail segments conti-
12
 nued at positive values.

10
 When considering the main segment of fixed-term place-
 8 ments (30-59 days) and the behavior by type of deposi-

 Natural Persons tor, it was observed that the interest rate paid to finan-
 6 Financial Services cial services companies registered the largest increase vol-
 Other Companies ving again to exceed the interest rate perceived by natu-
4 ral persons (see Graph 5.6).
 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08
Source: BCRA

4 Interest rate for fixed-term deposits of 30-35 days of more than 1 million pesos.

 Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 9 Active Interest Rates1 5

 The active interest rates showed in general slight increases with respect to the rates registered in March.

Graph 5.7
 TNA, % Commercial Loans The interest rate for advances increased slightly (0.3
 (average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) p.p.) with respect to the March level placing itself at 17.9%
22
 (see Graph 5.7). The interest rate for advances granted
20 to companies for amounts exceeding one million pe-

18 sos reached an average level of 14.4%, with an increase

16 with respect to March of 0.3 p.p. For its part, the inte-

 rest rate for loans granted under the form of promis-
14
 sory notes payable to bearer fell 0.2 p.p. placing itself on
12
 average at 14.6%. This decline was explained by the fall
10
 in the interest rate of the most relevant segment of docu-
 Advances mented loans, which is the one corresponding to compa-
 8 Documents nies, for more than one million pesos, and up to 30 days
 6
 Oct-04 Jun-05 Feb-06 Oct-06 Jun-07 Feb-08maturity, which fell 0.3 p.p..

 Source: BCRA
 With respect to the interest rates for consumption loans,
 in March the average interest rate for personal loans was
 27.5%, with an increase of 0.4 p.p. with respect to that
 observed in March (see Graph 5.8). For its part, the inte-
 rest rates for credit card financing corresponding to the
 month of March remained stable at around 25.9%.

 Finally, the interest rates for longer-term financing regis-
 tered slight increases. In the case of the interest rate for
 mortgage loans, it reached a monthly average of 12.1%
 with an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the level ob-
Graph 5.8 served in March. On the other hand, the interest rate cor-
 Active Interest Rates responding to financing with pledge guarantee was
 (average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) placed at 15.2% (see Graph 5.8), with an increase of 0.1
 TNA, % TNA, % p.p..
31 18
 Credit Cards 17 Mortgages
30 Personal
 16 Pledged Securities
29
 15
28 14

27 13

26 12 6. International Reserves and
 11
25
 10 Foreign Exchange Market6

24 9

23 8
 Apr-05 Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08Apr-05 Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08
 International reserves totaled u$s 50,247 mil-
Source: BCRA
 lion at the end of April showing a decrease with respect
 to the previous month of u$s 217 million (see Graph
 6.1). The factors that caused the decrease in the reserve
 balance were the payments to international organizations,
 the valuation adjustments of the exchange rate and the
 net sales of foreign currency in the Single and Free
 Market
5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to February 2008, the values for March and April 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

6 In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 10 Foreign Exchange Market (MULC). On the other hand, sources of increase in the reserve balance were the rest of the operations of the public sector, the increase in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities and the income obtained in the month.

**Graph 6.1**

**International Reserves of the BCRA**
**thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time deposits) in**
**millions of US$**
55

50

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08

Source: BCRA

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated 0.4% with respect to the wholesale dollar (Reference) and the average quotation in the month was 3.1669 $/u$s. In relation to the euro, the peso also presented a depreciation of 1.8%, with an average monthly quotation of 4.9922 $/Euro. Finally, in relation to the real the depreciation of the peso was 1.5% with an average monthly quotation of 1.8792 $/Real.

## 7. Capital Market

**Stocks**

During April, a generalized reduction in volatility was observed in the stock markets, except for the Chinese market (measured by the Shanghai Index). It should also be noted in all cases, with the exception of the S&P 500, an increase in volatility in the last trading sessions of the month (see Graph 7.1). In the equity market, in April the BOVESPA (Brazil) recorded an increase of 11.3% driven, in part, by the fact that the risk rating agency Standard & Poor's rated the sovereign debt of this country as investment grade. In the same way, the Shanghai index increased 6.4%, the S&P 500 4.8%, the IGPA of Chile 4.2%, and the IGBVL of Lima 0.2%. For its part, the MEXBOL (Mexico) had a negative return of 2%, all measured in home currency. In turn, the VIX –index that measures the volatility of the S&P- was located on average in March at 21.6% (5.5 p.p. less compared to the average registered the previous month).

**Graph 7.1**

**Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%)**
**22 days 22 days**

MERVAL (Argentina) 34
IPC (Mexico) 65
BOVESPA (Brazil) 30
Shanghai Index (China)
S&P 500 (USA) (right axis) 55 26

45 22

18
35
14
25 10

15 6

5 2

Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data

April was a more tranquil month with respect to the crisis originated in the North American sub-prime market, later extended to liquidity problems in some banking entities of the USA. This, together with the greater concern of the FED regarding inflation, led the North American monetary authority to reduce the pace at which it had been lowering the Federal Funds rate. On April 30, the Monetary Policy Committee decided to reduce said rate by 25 b.p.

In Argentina, during April the MERVAL index –measured in pesos– registered a loss of 0.4%, reaching a value of 2,096 points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained a negative return of 2.7%, and so far this year it has a negative result of 2.6%.

Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a negative variation of 2.8% in April. In contrast, the gains of the BOVESPA (Brazil) of 17.9% (favored by the strengthening of the real), the IGPA (Chile) of 8.6%, the IGBVL (Peru) 8.3%; and the IPC (Mexico) stood out;

**Graph 7.2**

**Sovereign Risk Indicators**
CDS points Argentina spreads EMBI of Argentina and of the Region spreads 7.3%.
basic in b.p. in b.p.
CDS 2 years 450
630 CDS 5 years 580 EMBI Argentina
CDS 10 years 400 In terms of volatility, in Latin American stock exchanges
530 EMBI Latin America (right axis)
a decrease of this indicator was registered. Specifi-
480 480 350
cally, the volatility of the MERVAL –18 sessions- in
430 300
annualized terms and measured in dollars was 17.1 in
330 380 April (9 p.p. less than that of March).
250
330
280 200
180 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos
230 150
Aires Stock Exchange increased compared to March.
30 180 100
Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08Sep-05 May-06 Dec-06 Aug-07 Mar-08The average amount traded reached $127 million daily,
Source: Bloomberg $37 million more compared to the previous month.

Public Securities

During April, a climate of lower volatility was regis-
tered in the markets, observing a lower risk aversion of
investors to invest in fixed income securities of emerging
countries, and to a lesser degree in Argentina.
The EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging
countries, decreased 44 b.p.. For its part, the spread of
Latin America's external debt was reduced by 47 b.p.
and Argentina's spread by 18 b.p., both measured by
the EMBI (see Chart 7.2). The spreads of the Credit
Default Swaps (CDS) contracts of Argentina at 5 years
Chart 7.3 increased 8 b.p., while the CDS of Brazil at 5 years

Yield Annual Real Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos (%)
decreased 68 b.p. (influenced by the investment grade
14.0 Boden 14 Bogar 18
that Brazilian debt obtained).
PRO 12 31-Mar
12.0 30-Apr
DISC $ The yield curve of indexed public securities in pesos
rose in all segments, especially in the medium seg-
10.0 PAR $
ments, standing out the higher yield of PRO 12, BODEN
14 and Bogar 18 (see Chart 7.3). In the same sense, the
8.0 PRE 08 yield curve of securities in dollars also rose in all seg-
ments (see Chart 7.4).
6.0 Boden 08

4.0 Private Securities
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20
Source: Preparation based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets InstituteDuration (years)
In April, an issuance of a Short-Term Debt Security for
$38 million was registered by Bazar Avenida S.A., with
no placements of negotiable bonds (ON) being regis-
tered. Additionally and as has been mentioned in previ-
ous reports, emissions of certain ONs remain momen-
tarily suspended due to uncertainty in financial markets.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 12 Institutional Investors

Pension and Retirement Fund Managers7

Chart 7.4 The total of the Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP)
Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars
Annual Yield (%) Spread (p.p.)

14 Boden 13 BONAR VII 16 reached mid-April $97,720 million, increasing in the
13 BONAR V 14 last month by 1% ($960 million).

12 Boden 15 12
Boden 12
DISC US$ The income in concept of contributions to the Pension
11 PAR US$ 10
and Retirement Fund Managers (AFJP) in the month of
10 8
March amounted to $857 million, period in which ap-
9 6 proximately $82 million were transferred to the public
8 31-Mar 4
30-Apr system as a consequence of the transfers of individual
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Mar-08 (right axis)
7 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Apr-08 (right axis)2 capitalization accounts established in the pension reform.
6 0
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 The investment portfolio, with $96,560 million, increa-
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute Duration (years)
 sed in the last thirty days by 0.8% ($740 million). The
 items that showed the greatest advance were Fixed-Term
 Deposits and National Public Bonds. The latter driven
 partially by the subscription by the administrators of the
 Bonar in Pesos 2013, an instrument that with a five-year
 term will accrue an annual nominal interest rate of 350
 basis points above the BADLAR rate.

 The declines were concentrated mainly in Negotiable
 Futures and Options Contracts and in Common Invest-
 ment Funds (FCI). Within the latter, those belonging to
 MERCOSUR, although they retreated $95 million, pre-
 sented a participation
Chart 7.5 within the FJP of 7.3% (see Chart 7.5). In order to

 Composition of the FJP and legal investment limits reach the limit established by the regulations at the end
 of April of 6% of the FJP, the administrators must
 %
 25 Participation in the FJP on 28/12/2007
 reduce their participation in said MERCOSUR
 20.0 Participation in the FJP on 31/01/2008
 Participation in the FJP on 29/02/2008 assets by 1.3 percentage points.
 20 Participation in the FJP on 31/03/2008
 Participation in the FJP on 15/04/2008
 Investment Limit on 29/04/2008 As a consequence of the pension reform from last
 15
 year, the AFJPs must invest between 5% and 20% of
 9,7 10,1 10,0 the funds in assets that are aimed at financing produc-
 10 8,7 9,0 9,0
 8,0 8.4 7,2 7,6 7,8 7,6 7,2 7,7 7,3 7,9 tive or infrastructure projects in the medium and long
 6,0 term in the Argentine Republic. In order to comply with

 5 the 1% target established for October 2008, in the coming
 months the administrators are expected to increase their

 0 placements in investments related to the real economy,
 which currently represent only 0.02% of the FJP.
 FCI FCI of MERCOSUR Foreign Securities
 Source: SAFJP
 Common Investment Funds

 The net worth of Common Investment Funds (FCI)
 in pesos experienced in April a behavior similar to that

7 With information provided by the Superintendency of AFJP (SAFJP) as of April 15.

 Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 13 of the previous month. That is, it fell close to 5%, with
 money market funds (fixed-term deposits and cash)
 being the only ones that showed an increase, continuing
 in this way with the increase in their participation in
Chart 7.6 the total which stood at 49.5%. In this sense, the total

 thousands of Patrimony of Common Investment Funds in Pesos net worth of the FCI in pesos reached $16,126 million
 of millions of $ (see Chart 7.6 – left quadrant), while those denomina-
20 (variation April 08 vs. March 08)
 millions of $ ted in foreign currency (dollars and euros) totaled
18 200 Fixed Income
 $4,942 million, $246 million below what was recorded
 Mixed Income 365
16 Variable Income
 0 in the previous month.
14 Money Market 1
12 -200 -438 With respect to the structure by type of funds, as was

10 -400 mentioned, money market funds were the only ones that

 8 showed a positive variation in their net worth, funda-
 6 -600 mentally due to the increase in the number of share units,
 -800 -760 and reached $7,982 million. Thus, part of the increase
 4 in fixed-term placements would have been related to
 -1.000
 2

 0 -1.200
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08
 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data nothing with the increase of this type of funds. However,
 they were not able to compensate for the declines in other classes
 of funds. In this sense, the equity of variable income
 funds reached $5,364 million, declining 7.6% compared to March, due to withdrawals of
 fund shares, since the value of the weighted fund share by
 the market share of each fund was positive due to the
 profitability of funds with investments in Brazil, United
 States, Asia and Europe. For its part, fixed income equity declined significantly (23%),
 reducing to $2,491 million due to withdrawals of
 fund shares.

 Financial Trusts8

Chart 7.7 In April, the issuances of financial trusts (FF)

 Financial Trust Issuances totaled $958 million (see Chart 7.7), which
 millions of $
 1,800 (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts) represented a notable increase compared to the amounts
 40
 1,600 placed since the beginning of 2008. In the comparison
 April 2008:
 1,400 $958 M with the previous month the total securitized increased
 41
 19 27 by 27% and compared to the same month in 2007, 136%. Regarding
 1,200 11 28 the number of issuances, a total of 24 was recorded,
 1,000 avg. 2007: 24 which meant 3 more issuances than the previous month,
 $727M
 prom. 2006: 15 32 28 but more than double compared to the same month of the previous
 800 $628M 22 21 19 1321 year. Additionally, the average amount per
 10 prom. 2005: 19 placement was located at $40 million, a figure higher than the
 600 $430M 16 27 20 1515
 13 1518 2007 average ($35 million). In this way, in
 11 13 1616 17 10 the first four months of the year, the issuances of FF
 400 13 9
 10 10 1213 12 totaled $3,204 million, which implies an increase

 200 4 9 6 of 37% compared to what was securitized in the same period of
 the previous year.
 0
 Ene-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Abr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dic-07

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data In the month there was again little diversity regarding
 the securitized assets, since most of the
 issuances corresponded to cash flows linked to
 consumption (95% of the total). This behavior

8 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 14 was repeated throughout the recent months, when
Chart 7.8 securitizations related to consumption grew
 Amounts Issued by Underlying Asset more rapidly than the total issued, in contrast
 millions of $ (12-month moving average)
 with the rest of the securitizations, which declined
 900 throughout the months (see Chart 7.8). However, within
 800 Total FF linked to consumption, a change could be observed
 Consumption (personal loans + credit card coupons)
 700 Other in April in the participation between
 personal loans and credit card coupons,
 600 since the former went from representing 76% of the
 500 trusts related to consumption in March, to 60%
 400 in this month. Additionally, in April leasing contracts
 300 for $45 million were securitized (5% of the total).

 200

 100 The participation by type of trustor in April registered
 0 a profound change compared to the previous month, since financial
 Ene-05 Jul-05 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 institutions lost approximately 30 percentage points of their
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data participation in the total (13% vs. 42% in March – see
 Chart 7.9), while retail businesses and
 cooperatives, mutual associations and non-bank credit card issuers
 increased notably their amount
Chart 7.9 and participation in the total.
 Trustors In April, the placements of FF were awarded with interest rates
 (April 2008 and accumulated January-April 2008)
 higher than the previous month. When calculating the

 Retail Businesses
 42%
Financial Entities Retail Stores weighted average by amount, placements
25% 36%
reached interest rates of cut of senior titles
11.7% and 12.1% depending on whether they are fixed rate or
variable rate emissions respectively, which represented
approximately 1 p.p. above the rates in March. For

Mutuals, Cooperatives Others its part the spread with the BADLAR rate private banks
and Card Issuers 7%
Non-banking Credit Financial Entities Mutuals, Cooperatives credit entities did not reach 3 p.p., 1 p.p. above the gap in
13% and Card Issuers 32%
non-banking credit
45%
March. On the other hand, the weighted average duration
by amount of senior FF titles issued in April

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others reached 8.3 months (1.4 months higher than that of
March).

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system variables Apr-08 Monthly Last 12 months Mar-08 Feb-08 Apr-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 98,040 97,880 95,281 79,688 0.2% -0.7% 23.0% 13.0%
Monetary circulation 72,003 72,141 70,976 58,909 -0.2% -1.0% 22.2% 12.2%
In the hands of the public 65,697 65,169 64,753 53,687 0.8% 0.0% 22.4% 12.4%
In financial entities 6,306 6,972 6,223 5,222 -9.6% -10.3% 20.8% 10.9%
Current account at the BCRA 26,036 25,739 24,305 20,779 1.2% 0.3% 25.3% 15.1%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 7,703 8,348 10,424 5,298 -7.7% -8.5% 45.4% 33.5%
Assets 0 0 10 4

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 32,621 30,263 25,680 16,358 7.8% 6.9% 99.4% 83.1%
In dollars 0 0 0 19

NOBAC 24,556 26,733 28,944 35,886 -8.1% -8.9% -31.6% -37.2%

BCRA International Reserves (5) 50,327 50,039 48,407 37,647 0.6% 33.7%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 191,895 189,813 187,861 159,481 1.1% 0.3% 20.3% 10.5%
Current account (2) 50,130 48,181 49,683 46,067 4.0% 3.2% 8.8% -0.1%
Savings account 36,658 36,488 37,465 29,410 0.5% -0.4% 24.6% 14.5%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 91,409 91,384 87,367 69,171 0.0% -0.8% 32.1% 21.3%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 1,390 1,524 1,644 4,258 -8.8% -9.5% -67.4% -70.0%
CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 25
Other deposits (3) 12,307 12,237 11,701 10,548 0.6% -0.2% 16.7% 7.1%

Private sector deposits 139,662 137,966 136,009 115,823 1.2% 0.4% 20.6% 10.7%

Public sector deposits 52,233 51,847 51,852 43,658 0.7% -0.1% 19.6% 9.9%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 7,922 7,638 7,558 5,740 3.7% 38.0%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 107,007 104,270 102,632 80,627 2.6% 1.8% 32.7% 21.9%

Loans to the private sector 96,575 93,740 92,015 68,300 3.0% 2.2% 41.4% 29.8%
Advances 15,415 14,737 14,718 11,455 4.6% 3.7% 34.6% 23.6%
Documents 18,987 18,414 17,966 14,698 3.1% 2.3% 29.2% 18.6%
Mortgage loans 15,101 14,864 14,563 10,796 1.6% 0.8% 39.9% 28.4%
Pledge loans 6,389 6,253 6,107 4,144 2.2% 1.3% 54.2% 41.6%
Personal loans 24,084 23,313 22,604 15,120 3.3% 2.5% 59.3% 46.3%
Credit cards 12,202 11,864 11,749 8,314 2.9% 2.0% 46.8% 34.8%
Others 4,397 4,297 4,308 3,773 2.3% 1.5% 16.5% 7.0%

Loans to the public sector 10,433 10,530 10,617 12,327 -0.9% -1.7% -15.4% -22.3%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5,498 5,421 5,500 4,121 1.4% 33.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (circulating in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 115,828 113,350 114,436 99,754 2.2% 1.3% 16.1% 6.6%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 152,485 149,838 151,901 129,165 1.8% 0.9% 18.1% 8.4%
M3 (circulating in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 257,592 254,982 252,614 213,168 1.0% 0.2% 20.8% 11.0%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 282,676 279,077 276,482 230,912 1.3% 0.5% 22.4% 12.4%
# Private Monetary Aggregates

M1 (cash in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 104.185 102.652 101.312 83.432 1.5% 0.7% 24.9% 14.7%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 137.684 136.304 135.670 109.957 1.0% 0.2% 25.2% 15.0%
M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 205.359 203.135 200.762 169.510 1.1% 0.3% 21.1% 11.2%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 227.430 224.948 222.379 185.615 1.1% 0.3% 22.5% 12.5%

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 159 0.2% 463 0.5% 1.682 1.7% 18.352 18.7%
Financial sector 641 0.7% -410 -0.4% -5.436 -5.5% -3.857 -3.9%
Public sector -360 -0.4% -510 -0.5% -789 -0.8% -6.687 -6.8%
Temporary advances + transfer of profits 1.087 1.045 4.803 4.090
Use of the national government account -2.125 -4.124 -5.320 -9.126
External credit 679 2.569 -272 -1.652
Private external sector -446 -0.5% 4.297 4.4% 9.240 9.4% 26.052 26.6%
BCRA Securities 279 0.3% -3.070 -3.1% -2.009 -2.0% 1.265 1.3%
Other 45 0.0% 155 0.2% 676 0.7% 1.579 1.6%

International reserves 288 0.6% 3.418 6.8% 4.617 9.2% 12.681 25.2%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -139 -0.3% 1.367 2.7% 2.943 5.8% 8.340 16.6%
Payment to international organizations -166 -0.3% -934 -1.9% -1.048 -2.1% -1.577 -3.1%
Other public sector operations 450 0.9% 1.929 3.8% 1.160 2.3% 2.386 4.7%
Minimum cash 132 0.3% 157 0.3% 112 0.2% -1.010 -2.0%
Repo type valuation -132 -0.3% 427 0.8% 765 1.5% 1.512 3.0%
Other 146 0.3% 474 0.9% 721 1.4% 3.067 6.1%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable for the month in which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 7.99 7.85 7.30 9.21 7.09
Amount traded 815 642 789 1.023 949

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 8.12 8.10 8.16 10.19 7.03
60 days or more 9.07 9.03 8.62 11.20 7.88
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.10 8.02 7.94 11.11 7.12
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.71 8.50 8.32 13.54 7.89

In dollars
30 days 1.22 1.25 1.22 1.23 1.06
60 days or more 2.04 2.13 2.12 2.28 2.03
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.68 1.33 1.27 1.08 0.75
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.89 2.80 3.03 3.32 2.81

Active Interest Rates Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

Prime in pesos at 30 days 11.59 11.55 12.13 15.99 8.71

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 8.04 7.50 7.30 13.13 7.21
Amount traded (total terms) 135 124 117 156 117

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Overdrafts on checking accounts 17.91 17.64 19.34 18.93 14.91
Documents on signature only 14.56 14.73 14.97 16.96 12.79
Mortgage 12.09 11.75 12.22 12.44 11.27
Pledge 15.21 15.15 16.81 15.47 10.65
Personal 27.50 27.09 27.66 27.71 25.48
Credit cards n/d 25.93 25.93 27.47 25.78

International Interest Rates Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

LIBOR
1 month 2.79 2.82 3.14 5.04 5.32
6 months 2.85 2.69 3.00 4.84 5.36

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.04 1.59 1.96 3.11 4.67
10 years 3.65 3.50 3.73 4.09 4.69

FED Funds Rate 2.24 2.71 3.00 4.33 5.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.49 11.25 11.25 11.25 12.64
(1) Data through February corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from March and April are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 6.75
 Liabilities 7 days 8.25 8.25 8.25 8.25 7.00
 Assets 7 days (1) 10.25 10.25 10.25 10.25 9.00

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 7.89 7.88 7.63 8.60 6.88
 7 days 8.31 8.25 8.25 9.43 7.14

Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average) 4,376 4,360 5,381 2,177 3,520
LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.65 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.67 n/o
 3 months n/o n/o 10.84 10.75 7.86
 9 months 11.19 11.20 11.10 n/o 10.12
 12 months 11.47 11.40 n/o n/o 10.33
NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.98 1.34 1.49 2.13 0.98
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.44 2.21 2.30 n/o 1.42
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o 2.51 n/o n/o 1.73

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/a 537 516 284 403

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.17 3.16 3.17 3.14 3.09
 BCRA Reference 3.17 3.16 3.16 3.14 3.09

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.18 3.16 3.17 3.14 3.09
 ROFEX 1 month 3.17 3.16 3.16 3.14 3.09
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 274 283 218 172 211

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.88 1.85 1.83 1.76 1.52

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.99 4.91 4.66 4.58 4.18

 Capital Market Apr-08 Mar-08 Feb-08 Dec-07 Apr-07

MERVAL
 Index 2,138 2,110 2,074 2,185 2,180
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 152 100 122 148 86

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 86.72 87.72 89.40 88.53 94.24
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 84.78 88.90 91.69 98.76 111.25
 BODEN 2014 ($) 69.25 72.67 75.87 69.79 88.30
 DISCOUNT ($) 63.57 67.96 72.65 73.98 100.84

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread n/a 819 698 669 253
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 291 317 297 257 167

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** National State Bond.

**BONAR V:** Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CC:** Current account.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DISC:** Discount Bond.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Mutual investment funds.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the U.S.

**FF:** Financial trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-over-year.

**IGBVL:** Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

**IGPA:** Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Letters.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MAE:** Electronic Open Market.

**MEC:** Electronic Brokers Market.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MEXBOL:** Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Term Arranged Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable obligations.

**PAR:** Par Bond.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and medium-sized enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Futures Market.

**SELIC:** Special System of Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIOPEL:** Electronic Operations System.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**TCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 20

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**U.V.P.:** Units linked to the product.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

Monetary Report / April 2008 | BCRA | 21
