# Monetary Report
FEBRUARY 2008

## CONTENTS

1. Summary 1

1. Summary 1
2. Monetary Aggregates 2
3. Bank Liquidity 3
4. Loans 4
5. Interest Rates 5

Titles Issued by the BCRA 5
Interfinancial Markets 6
Repurchase Agreement Market 6
Interbank Market 6
Passive Interest Rates 7
Active Interest Rates 7

6. International Reserves and 
   Foreign Exchange Market 8
7. Capital Markets 8

Equities 8
Public Securities 9
Private Securities 9
Institutional Investors 10
Pension Fund Administrators 10
Mutual Investment Funds 11
Financial Trusts 11

8. Monetary and Financial 
   Indicators 13
9. Glossary 16

Inquiries, comments or 
electronic subscription:
analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report 
may be cited freely as long as 
the source is clarified:
Monetary Report - BCRA

---

## 1. SUMMARY

• In February, the money supply (M2) fell $2,400 million and its trajectory is in line with the medium range of the Monetary Program targets for March. Both currency in circulation and demand deposits decelerated their growth rate. In particular, currency in circulation accumulated a decline in its year-on-year growth rate of 6 percentage points compared to mid-2007, when its downward trend began.

• The private sector continued increasing its fixed-term placements in pesos. In the month, the increase recorded reached $1,500 million and was distributed across practically all maturity brackets, with the segment of deposits between 90 and 179 days standing out. Considering amount brackets, the main deposit segment that drove monthly growth was that of deposits of less than $1 million which, after having reflected the greatest impact of the external crisis in mid-2007, significantly exceeded previous levels.

• Since late January, the National Treasury conducted dollar purchases in the market contributing to the sterilization of foreign currency inflows. In February, such purchases totaled u$s 1,040 million constituting a historical monthly record. On the other hand, the public sector increased its fixed-term placements where it directed its excess funds making more efficient use of them. Both operations were reflected in a lower balance of demand accounts in pesos of the public sector.

• In February, a context of comfortable liquidity for banks continued to prevail although the composition of their liquid assets changed in favor of greater repurchase agreement holdings and to the detriment of their balances in current accounts at the Central Bank. In net terms, during the month they increased their liquidity ratio in pesos—which includes cash, current accounts at the BCRA and repurchase agreements in this institution—as a percentage of total deposits by 0.7 percentage points, placing it at 20.7%.

• This behavior was also associated with the evolution of the quarterly position (December-February) of minimum cash. Given that banks had already accumulated significant surplus in the first two months, they were able to finish the quarter with an excess of 0.3% of deposits while still reducing their compliance, transferring funds from current accounts at the BCRA to the repurchase agreement market during February.

• In this context, the Central Bank contracted the monetary base. The placement of LEBAC and NOBAC ($1,592 million) and the capture of funds through repurchase agreement operations ($3,152 million) were the main instruments used to absorb excess liquidity.

• The majority of active interest rates fell and especially those in effect on short-term loan lines, more sensitive to the current situation, in line with passive interest rates. In particular, the interest rate on current account advances was reduced by 2 percentage points, while that corresponding to loans granted in the form of single-signature documents fell by 1.2 percentage points.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision. Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 In February, total means of payment (M2) decreased by $2,400 million and recorded a monthly average balance of $152,100 million. In this way, the M2 trajectory was in line with the projections of the Monetary Program. Both currency in circulation and sight deposits in pesos decreased during the month, reducing their year-on-year growth rate.

Graph 2.1 Currency in circulation decreased by $600 million
 Deposits in Pesos of the Public Sector
 thousands of (monthly average balances)
millions of $ (0.9%) during the month. In this way, it continues to show a sustained

35 deceleration in its growth, a behavior that began in mid-2007 and that implied a decrease in

30 its year-on-year growth rate of 6 p.p. since then.
25 Current Account and Savings Account
 Term Deposits
20 For its part, sight deposits showed a deceleration of 2.5 p.p. with respect to January,

15 although with disparate behavior. With regard to placements by the private sector, during

10 the first part of the month they were increased by a specific operation linked to the

5 inflow of funds intended for the purchase of shares of an important company. Although

0 when the operation was settled those funds were transferred to another type of deposits,

 Feb-00 Feb-01 Feb-02 Feb-03 Feb-04 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 they affected the average balance of private sector sight deposits. In contrast, sight deposits

Source: BCRA
 of the public sector evidenced a decrease that was related, in part, to the increase in

 fixed-term deposits and term investments with early redemption option. In this sense, the

 public sector has been improving the management of its surplus resources, allocating a

 larger portion of the income it receives to term placements. This behavior was reflected in

 the decrease in balances of deposits in current accounts and savings accounts, fundamentally

 from the beginning of last year, when the level of these deposits had reached historical

 highs given the good performance shown by public accounts (see Graph 2.1). Additionally,

Graph 2.2 another part of the decrease in sight deposits of the public sector was associated with

 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector the purchase of dollars carried out from late January (US$1,040 million in February),

var. prom. men. contributing to the sterilization of the inflow of foreign exchange.
 millions of $ Monthly Average Balances
1,000 36 Less than $1 M 24 For its part, fixed-term deposits of the private sector continued to increase and in February

 850 34 More than $1 M (right axis) 22 accumulated an increase of $1,500 million (2.7%). Balances increased in all term brackets,

 700 32 20 with the exception of those comprised of placements of more than 1 year. In particular,

 deposits between 90 and 179 days were those that explained the largest portion of the

 550 30 18 monthly growth, followed by those of 30 to 59 days and investments with early

 400 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 redemption option.
 28 16

 250 26

 100

 -50

 -200
-350 early redemption (see Graph 2.2). This segment of deposits,
 30-59 d 60-89 d 90-179 d 180-365 d 366 d and Inv. with
 more Early Redeem. through which holders of the private sector can make
Source: BCRA Option investments for 180 days with early redemption option from
 30 days, substantially increased its share among
 new placements in February, when they grew $290 million,
 well above the $40 million monthly that had
 increased on average in the previous 12 months. However, this
 type of investments continue to be concentrated in a reduced number of
 entities.

 2 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY   2008

Graph 2.3 In turn, among fixed-term deposits, the main driver
 Dollar Deposits of the monthly increase was the segment of deposits of less than $1
 Monthly Var. Stock
 millions of US$ thousands of millionsmillion, which had been the most affected in the months of greater
 of US$
 600 Sight S. Private Sight S. Public 8.0
 Fixed Term S. Private Fixed Term S. Public turbulence in 2007, and whose stock had already comfortably exceeded its
 500 Total Stock (right axis) 7.5 pre-crisis levels (July). In contrast, the monthly increase of

 400 7.0 placements of more than $1 million was only $200 million and could

 6.5 be related to a different allocation of resources by
 300
 6.0 financial services companies, in particular the
 200 pension and retirement fund administrators, that faced the
 5.5
 100 stability of interest rates on wholesale fixed-term deposits
 5.0
 0 at levels similar to those of the first half of 2007,
 4.5
 would have directed a greater portion of their resources towards public
 -100 4.0
 securities, among them those issued by the Central Bank.
 -200 3.5
 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08
 Source: BCRA In summary, the broader monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, which
 includes currency in the hands of the public and total deposits in
 pesos registered a monthly increase of $3,600 million (1.4%).

 For its part, dollar deposits rose US$60
 million, due to the increase in private sector balances (see
 Graph 2.3). In this month, fixed-term deposits of the private sector
Graph 2.4 were the only ones that showed a somewhat significant increase
 CPI Rest and Market Expectations (US$40 million), although well below the values that
 % (year-on-year var.)
 16 the previous months had been presenting.

 15 Dec-05
 14.2 In conclusion, M3*, which includes currency in the hands of the
 14
 public and total deposits in pesos and dollars, registered a
 13
 monthly increase of $3,900 million (1.4%).
 12
 Dec-07
 11 10.6 10.7 11.0
 In line with the lower seasonal demand for money
 10 Dec-06
 10.2 9.5 characteristic of the month, and fundamentally with the closing of the
 9 minimum cash position for the quarter, in February the average
 8 CPI Rest
 balance of the monetary base decreased by $2,295 million. The
 Market Expectations CPI GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec)
 7 net placement of LEBAC and NOBAC, which implied a monetary
 6 contraction of $1,592 million and the raising of funds through
 Ene-05 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08
Source: INDEC and REM repurchase agreements, for a total of $3,152 million were the two mechanisms
 that allowed the absorption of excess liquidity in the
 money market.

 In February 2008 the Rest sub-index of the CPI GBA
 prepared by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with
 seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with high
 tax component) presented an increase of 1.1% monthly,
Graph 3.1 which was similar to the average increase of the last three months and
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos higher than the annualized variation of all 2007 (0.7%). In this
 % of deposits (30-day moving average)
 21 way, the year-on-year rate (y.o.y.) of the CPI Rest rose to 11.0% (see

 Private Banks Public Banks Graph 2.4), placing itself above the increase of the same month of 2007
 (10.6% y.o.y).
 20
 Cash + CC BCRA
19 Repurchase Agreements Cash + CC BCRA + Repurchase Agreements

18 3. Bank Liquidity¹

Repurchase Agreements
17
During February, the scenario of high liquidity in the local
16 Cash + CC BCRA financial system continued. The liquidity ratio -defined as cash in

15 Cash + CC BCRA + Repurchase Agreements banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and passive

repurchase agreements with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits-
14
was 20.7% of total deposits in pesos, which represents an increase
Oct-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Oct-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08
Source: BCRA of 0.7 percentage points compared to the previous month and was

reflected in both public and private banks (See Chart 3.1).

3 Monetary Report                                                          FEBRUARY 2008

Chart 3.2 The surplus in the minimum cash position that

% of Minimum cash position financial entities accumulated during December and January for
of deposits
2.5 Surplus Daily position Accumulated position the fulfillment of the quarterly position, allowed banks to redirect

2.0 a larger portion of their most liquid assets -cash in banks and

1.5 balances in current accounts at the Central Bank- towards assets of

1.0 similar liquidity, such as passive repurchase agreements with the

0.5 BCRA, obtaining higher returns. In this way, the participation of

0.0 passive repurchase agreements on the total liquidity was 23%, while

-0.5 in the same month of the previous year this participation had been

-1.0 16%.

-1.5

-2.0 Quarterly Position In February, the quarterly position of minimum cash was

-2.5 completed, where the average position showed a surplus of 0.3%

Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 of total deposits in pesos, a surplus similar to the closings of

Source: BCRA previous months' positions. On the other hand, the daily position of

the banks was mostly deficient during this last month due to the

surplus of the two previous months although, as observed in chart

3.2, from the last week the daily position reversed, again showing a

slight surplus with which they begin in March.

Chart 4.1 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash position

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector accumulated a surplus of 11% of deposits in dollars, being this a
millions $ (variation of monthly averages) %
1,500 43 monthly position since the quarterly computation was applied only

41
1,200 Feb-07 40 to deposits in local currency.

Feb-08
900 var y.o.y. (%) - right axis 37

600 34 4. Loans¹¹

300 31
Following their seasonal pattern, loans to the private

0 28 sector, in pesos and foreign currency, softened their growth during

-300 25 February. With a stock of $112,700 million, they registered in the

month an increase of 1.5% ($1,670 million), accumulating in the last
Source: BCRA
12 months a growth of 41.8%.

Driven mainly by consumer financing and, to a lesser extent,

by those with real guarantees, loans in pesos presented a monthly

variation of 1.3% ($1,200 million), showing compared to the same

period of the previous year an increase close to 41% (See chart 4.1).

Chart 4.2 The commercial lines, influenced by lower activity during the

Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector summer recess, declined 1.5% ($560 million). Overdrafts on current
thousands of (daily balance and monthly average) thousands of
million $ million $ accounts, which in January had not recorded a decline as in other

12 10 years, dropped back 1.4% ($200 million). Regarding documents,

Documents at single signature 9 they presented in the period a contraction of 1.2% ($220 million).

11 Other Documents (right axis)

10 8
Loans instrumented through documents have a participation
7
in the stock of commercial financing close to 50%, with different
9
6 categories of instruments being able to be distinguished: to

8
5

7 4
6 single signature, discounted and purchased. Single signature documents
3
remained stable during the month (See chart 4.2), with an advance

5 2 of 0.2% ($20 million). For their part, the remaining financing via
Ene-06 Jun-06 Nov-06 Abr-07 Sep-07 Feb-08
Source: BCRA documents recorded, after the strong expansion in December and
the decline in January, a reduction of 3% ($240 million).

1 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by
transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

4Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY   2008

Chart 4.3 Financing intended for consumption increased

millions of $ Consumer Loans 3.6% ($1,310 million) compared to the previous month (See chart 4.3). The
%
1,200 (avg. monthly var.) 120
 Personal growth was explained mainly by personal loans
1,000 Credit Cards 100
 Y.o.Y. Var. Personal (right axis) that rose 4.1% ($990 million), while credit card
 Y.o.Y. Var. Credit Cards (right axis)
 800 80 financing increased 2.7% ($320 million).

600 60

400 40 During February, loans with real collateral increased

200 20 by 2.2% ($450 million), both lines exceeding the increases of
January and assimilating to those observed during the first half of
0 0
2007 (See chart 4.4). Mortgage credits increased

-200 -20 during the period 2.1% ($300 million), while pledge
Feb-05 Jun-05 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 loans grew 2.5% ($150 million).
Source: BCRA

Loans in foreign currency to the private sector
increased in the month by 2.4% (US$130 million) and showed
compared to the same period of the previous year an increase of 41.2%. This increase
was mainly linked to financing of export activity.

With the aim of facilitating the obtaining of funding that
Chart 4.4 would contribute to granting long-term credit to the private
millions of $ Loans with Real Collateral sector, the BCRA modified the regulations regarding the regulatory capital
%
600 100 of financial entities. The modification enables entities to
 Monthly Var. Mortgages compute within regulatory capital the subordinated negotiable
500 Monthly Var. Pledges 80
 Y.o.Y. Var. Mortgages (right axis) obligations placed privately. This measure is
400 Y.o.Y. Var. Pledges (right axis) 60
framed within other previously adopted measures such as interest rate
300 40
"swap".
200 20

100 0 5. Interest Rates

0 -20
-100 -40
Feb-05 Jun-05 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Securities issued by the BCRA 2

Source: BCRA

In February, the interest rates of the primary market for
LEBAC remained at levels similar to those in effect the previous
month, with a significant lengthening of the duration of the securities
(see Chart 5.1). In the case of NOBAC, for the first time since mid-July 2007
Chart 5.1 an amount greater than $50 million was placed at a term of 700 days.
In February, the liquidity of the financial system (see Financial Liquidity
section) allowed greater resource capture and the lengthening of duration,
TNA, % Interest Rate of LEBAC both through LEBAC and NOBAC. Likewise, beyond the resurgence of
11.4 demand for two-year NOBAC, the market's preference for fixed-rate
11.3 placements over variable-rate ones continued.
11.2
11.1 29-Jan-08 Given the existing liquidity in the market, the BCRA did not conduct
11.0 repurchase auctions, however, it continued operating in the secondary
10.9 26-Feb-08 market for LEBAC and NOBAC, although with reduced

10.8

10.7
10.6 repurchase amount. On the other hand, as a consequence of net placements in the primary market, the total stock of securities
10.5
20 70 120 170 220 270 320 370 issued by the BCRA increased in February 5% with respect to the previous month

Source: BCRA duration (days) and was located at the end of this month at a face value of $56,192 million.

2 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

5 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

Graph 5.2 Interbank Markets

millions of $ % Call Market
2,500 % 50
13 Repurchase Market1
12 12.2
11.6 45

11
9.9 9.7
2,000 10 9.2 40

9 8.5 In February, the context of ample banking liquidity generated
8 9.1 8.8 7.6 7.7
7.6 35 an increase in the stock of passive repurchases for the BCRA and, at the same time,
7
1,500 6 30 a decrease in active repurchases. In effect, the balance of passive
5 5.7 repurchases showed a sharp increase reaching record levels

1-10 12-10 26-10 9-11 22-11 5-12 18-12 4-1 17-1 30-1 12-2 25-2 ($11,284 million on February 6). In this way, the average balance
Amount traded between private entities 25 of passive repurchases for the BCRA increased $2,724 million, an amount that
1,000 Amount traded remainder 20
was distributed among all the modalities in which the BCRA operates
Interest rate priv. banks (right axis) 15 (REPO round, overnight operations and investment funds).
500 10 For its part, the average stock of active repurchases registered
a decline of $38 million, ending the month without operations of this
5 type.
0 0
Jun-02 Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07
Source: BCRA
The interest rates of repurchases at fixed rate remained at
the same levels as in January for both active and passive operations.
In this way, the interest rates of passive repurchases remained at 8%
and 8.25% for 1 and 7 days respectively, while the interest rate of
active repurchases for 7 days was located at 10.25%.

Graph 5.3

% Interest Rate of Call Operations for 1 business day
Interbank Market (call)1
21 Daily maximum

19 Daily minimum
Maximum monthly average The interest rate of the interbank market remained
5.3 p.p.
17 Minimum monthly average stable throughout February (with an exceptional decline on some
15 1.4 p.p. days in the first week of the month). The stability in the call rate was
3.0 p.p.
13 2.2 p.p. 2.8 p.p. accompanied with stability in the amounts traded. (see Graph
11
5.2).

9

7 The average interest rate of operations at 1 business day,

5 4.3 p.p. which concentrated in November more than 86% of what was traded, was
3.7 p.p. 1.9 p.p. located on average in the month at 7.0%, which implies a decrease of
3
Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 slightly more than 0.87 p.p. with respect to the previous month. Likewise,
Source: BCRA there was observed certain stability in the amounts traded that averaged
the month at $773 million, $34 million more than the previous month.

The deviation of interest rates for call operations with respect to their average for each day was located at 0.50 p.p. on average in February, double the previous month. The greater volatility is also observed in the increase in the differential between the monthly average of the maximum call rate of each day and the monthly average of the minimum rate of each day. (see Graph 5.3).

Graph 5.4
Call Market Regarding call operations by group of entities, banks
millions of $ of foreign and majority foreign capital had in the month a much less
(average stock) borrowing position. (see Graph 5.4).

1,000 

500 Passive Interest Rates1

0 During February the passive interest rates showed again
a significant decline, especially in the wholesale segment of short-
-500 term placements which is the most sensitive to

Public
-1,000 Priv. National
-1,500 Cap. May. Foreign conditions of market liquidity. In effect, the reduction of
 Aug-06 Oct-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08
 Source: BCRA passive interest rates occurred within a framework of comfortable cash
 minimum position of entities, and increase in placements for

 6 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY   2008

Graph 5.5 term. The monthly average for February of the BADLAR3 rate of private

 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days banks
15 Daily Data was located at 8.3%, with a decline of 2.5 p.p. compared to the level
 recorded in January (see Graph 5.5). Likewise, a
14 strong reduction was observed in the spread of interest rates by amount

13 segment, returning to levels similar to those recorded prior to the
 Retail Private Banks mid-2007 crisis. However, it is important to note that the
12
 Wholesale Private Banks current level of spread between the wholesale and retail segment
11 would not be stable since it is found at negative values. (see Graph 5.6).
10

 9 For its part, a strong decline was also observed in the

 8 interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements

 7 (amounts less than $100,000) which reached an average

 6 level of 8.7%, with a decrease of 0.6 p.p. compared to the
 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08 month of January. On the other hand, the interest rates paid by
 Source: BCRA public banks in that amount segment remained stable at 6.8%.
 When analyzing the interest rates of total placements by
 6 term segment, a decline of similar magnitude is observed for all
 segments (see Graph 5.7).

Graph 5.6 Active Interest Rates1 4

 % Interest Rates for FT Deposits of the private sector
 16 Private Banks - By amount segment
 15 The active interest rates showed declines in most of the
 lines, and especially in those of short term, more
14 Up to $100,000 sensitive to the situation, which responded to the sharp decline of
 13 From $100,000 to $499,999 passive interest rates. On the other hand, a change in trend was
 12 From $500,000 to $999,999 observed in active rates of medium and long term which, insofar as
 From 1 million and more the market continues with ample liquidity, it is

 11 likely to be sustained over time.

 10

 9 The interest rate for advances fell in the month by 2 p.p.,

 8 locating itself at a monthly average level of 17.1% (see Graph

 7 5.8). In this case, the decline was recorded mainly in the line of

 6 advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding one million

02-Jan-07 26-Feb-07 22-Apr-07 16-Jun-07 10-Aug-07 04-Oct-07 28-Nov-07 22-Jan-08 pesos where the interest rate reached an average level of 14.0%,
Source: BCRA with a decline compared to January of 2.8 p.p.. For its part, the
 interest rate for loans granted in the form of documents on
 signature alone fell 1.2 p.p., locating its average level at 15.9%.
 This decline was explained by the fall in the interest rate of the
Graph 5.7 most relevant segment of documented loans which is the one
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos corresponding to companies, for more than one million pesos, and up to
 Private Sector 30 days of term. In this way, in the active rates of the
 % monthly average weighted by amount operated wholesale and short-term segments a rapid reaction was
14 observed before the decline in passive rates (see Graph 5.9).

13

12
 With regard to the interest rates of loans for
11
10 consumption, in February the average interest rate of personal
9
8 loans was 29.5%, with no variations compared to the interest rate
7 observed in January.
 30-59 days
 6 60-89 days
 90-179 days
 5 180-365 days Finally, the interest rates for financing of more
4 long-term registered mixed movements. In the case of the mortgage loan rate, it reached a monthly average of 12.3%
 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included. with a decline of 0.3 p.p. compared to the level observed in January. On

3 Interest rate for fixed-term deposits of 30-35 days of more than 1 million pesos.
4 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until
December 2007, the values of January and February 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on
loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

7 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY   2008

Chart 5.8 the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financing with

 TNA, % Commercial Loans pledge guarantee was located at 16.4% (see Chart 5.10), with an
 22 (Interest rate monthly average weighted by amount)
 increase of 0.6 p.p. which was explained by the increase in interest rates

 20 charged by financial companies that represent almost half
 of the new loans granted.
 18

 16

 14

 12 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market5

 10 Advances
 Documents International reserves amounted in the month of February

 8 to u$s49,261 million, with an increase of u$s1,600 million

 6 (3.4%) compared to the previous month (see Chart 6.1).
 Oct-04 Jun-05 Feb-06 Oct-06 Jun-07 Feb-08
 Source: BCRA
 
The increase in the stock came, in part, from the net purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Único and Libre de Cambios Market (MULC) that totaled u$s482 million, and in part from the purchases made by the government in excess of its needs, and that were left deposited in its account in this Central Bank. Furthermore, the foreign currency balances of the banks in the Central Bank increased u$s128 million and reserves yielded a positive return of u$s137 million. Finally, due to valuation adjustments of the exchange rate there was an increase of u$s231 million.

Chart 5.9 Regarding the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated

 Short-term Interest Rates slightly in relation to the wholesale dollar (Reference) trading at

 % 3.1583 $/u$s, which represents an increase of 0.4% compared to
 21
 Signature Documents the average of the previous month. In relation to the Euro, the peso

 19 BADLAR depreciated 0.8% and traded with a monthly average of 4.663 $/Euro.
 Advances
 15 Meanwhile, with respect to the Real the depreciation was 2.9% where the

 13 monthly average quotation was 1.826 $/Real.

 11

 9

 7

 5
 Feb-07 May-07 Aug-07 Nov-07 Feb-08
Source: BCRA
 
7. Capital Market

 Stocks

 In the stock markets during February, an increase in volatility was observed in the first days of the month that was more than offset by a significant reduction of the same in the last weeks (Chart 7.1). In the variable income market, a certain decoupling was observed, the S&P 500 showed a loss of 3.5%; instead the MEXBOL (Mexico) increased 2.5% and the BOVESPA (Brazil) increased 6.7%, all measured in original currency. On the other hand, the VIX –index that measures the volatility of the S&P- was located on average in February at 25.5% (0.3 p.p. less compared to the average recorded the previous month).

Chart 5.10 Throughout February, new news became known that

 Active Interest Rates accentuate the possibility of a recession in the U.S.. At the beginning
 (Monthly average interest rate weighted by amount)
 of the month it was disclosed that for the first time in the last four years

 TNA, % TNA, % the American economy had destroyed jobs (a little less than
31 17
 Credit Cards 16 Mortgages 20,000 jobs). Then, in the second week of February
30
 Personal 15 Pledge
29 14
28 13

27 12
26 11

 10
25 9
24 8
23 7
Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 the services activity index was published which stood at 41.9 (the
Source: BCRA
market expected according to Bloomberg's survey 53), every value

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

8 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

Chart 6.1 below 50 is interpreted as a symptom of deceleration. The
BCRA International Reserves markets taking into account these and other indicators foresee a
thousands of (gold, foreign currency and term placements)
millions of US$
50 reduction in the FED reference rate of between 50 and 75 b.p. for

45 mid-March.

40
In Argentina, during February the MERVAL index –measured in
35
pesos– registered a gain of 7.7%, reaching a value of 2,162
30 points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL

25 obtained positive profitability of 4.6%, and so far this year it has

20 an almost neutral result, +0.5%.

15

10 Measured in dollars, the MERVAL showed a positive variation
of 3.9% in February, while the IGBVL (Peru) gained 20.2%, the
5
Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 IGPA (Chile) 4.2%, the IPC (Mexico) 1.5%, and the BOVESPA (Brazil)
Source: BCRA
11%.

In terms of volatility, a decrease in this indicator was
registered in Latin American stock exchanges. Specifically, the
volatility of the MERVAL –22 trading sessions– in annualized terms and
measured in dollars was 18.3 in February (18.8 p.p. less than that of
January).

Chart 7.1 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires
Volatility (%) Stock Exchange Volatility (%) Volatility of the Equity Markets increased with respect to January,
22 days 22 days
MERVAL (Argentina)
IPC (Mexico) in which month the volumes are low for seasonal reasons. The
65 BOVESPA (Brazil) 26
Shanghai Index (China) average amount traded reached $109 million daily, $15

55 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 22 million more compared to the previous month.

45 18

35 14 Public Securities

25 10
During February there was greater risk aversion among

15 6 investors to invest in fixed income securities of emerging
countries, the counterpart of this phenomenon being greater
5 2
Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 demand for US 10-year t-bonds. The EMBI+ which measures

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data the spreads of emerging countries, increased 18 b.p.. In contrast, the
spread of Latin America's external debt and Argentina's spread
both measured by the EMBI remained almost unchanged.
(Chart 7.2).

The yield curve of public securities in pesos
indexed rose in all segments, given the poor performance in
February of these securities (Chart 7.3). In contrast, the yield curve
Chart 7.2 of securities in dollars reached lower values in
spreads Sovereign Risk Indicators spreads the shorter segments, increasing slightly in the long ones (Chart

in b.p. EMBI Arg. and Region in b.p.
530 450 7.4).

480 EMBI Argentina 400
EMBI Latin America (right axis) The volume of public securities traded (on a daily average

430 350 basis) increased with respect to the previous month's level, reaching in
February $1,554 million, $155 million more than during January.
380 300

330 250

280 200 Private Securities

230 150 In February there was no corporate financing via ONs, however
it is important to mention the issuance of Short-Term Debt
180 100
Representative Securities (VRCP) by the Nuevo Banco Industrial
Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 de Azul for $73.4 million. For its part,

Source: Bloomberg
the issuances of certain [securities] remain temporarily suspended

9 Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

Chart 7.3 [TEXT CONTINUES BEYOND PROVIDED EXCERPT]
## Yield

Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos

ONs as a result of instability in the international financial market.
Annual real (%)
12.0
31-Jan

29-Feb
10.0 Boden 14 DISC $
PRO 12 Bogar 18 PAR $ Institutional Investors

8.0
Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
6.0
PRE 08
4.0 Boden 08 The total of the Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP) reached
$95,570 million in mid-February, increasing in the
2.0 last month 0.4% ($400 million).

0.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 23 The investment portfolio, with $94,420 million, increased in
Duration (years) the last thirty days 0.6% ($520 million). The items that
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute showed greater growth in their participation within the
portfolio were the Common Investment Funds (FCI) and National
Public Securities (See chart 7.5). The greatest
declines were observed in foreign securities, fixed-term deposits and
stocks.

Unlike what happened in previous months, the FCI
Chart 7.4 increased their relative weight by 1.5 percentage points in the FJP. This
Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars behavior was explained by greater placements in domestic
Annual (%) Spread (p.p.) common funds and the halt in the decline of instruments
12 16 with MERCOSUR assets. Despite this, the
Boden 15 administrators will need to continue unwinding their positions in
12 10 MERCOSUR FCI throughout the year until reaching on December 31,
Boden 13 DISC USD
BONAR VII PAR USD 10 2008 the stipulated guideline of 2%. With respect to National
9 Public Securities, they increased their participation by 0.8 percentage
Boden 12 BONAR V 8 points
8 6 driven by the recovery these assets experienced between
7 4 late January and early February.
31-Jan
6 29-Feb
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Jan-08 (right axis) 2 The pension reform approved last year established that
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Feb-08 (right axis)
5 0 the AFJPs must invest between 5% and 20% of the funds in
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 debt securities, participation certificates in trusts,
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute Duration (years) assets or other securities representative of debt whose
purpose is to finance productive or infrastructure projects in
the medium and long term in the Argentine Republic. Additionally, a
five-year period was established to reach the minimum, with a
target of 1% for October 2008. In this sense, in the coming
months the administrators are expected to increase their
placements in investments related to the real economy, which
currently represent only 0.02% of the FJP.

Chart 7.5

Composition by Items of the Pension and Retirement Fund
%
100

16.4 17.6 17.1 Common Investment Funds

Other
80 8.4 7.9 7.2
0.9 1.5 2.9 Foreign Securities
8.9 7.3 7.4 Other FCI

The net worth of common investment funds (FCI) was
60 MERCOSUR FCI recomposed in February in relation to the declines that had been
15.3 15.1 14.1
Stocks occurring since November 2007. In effect, net worth
40 National Public reached $17,960 million (see Chart 7.6 – left panel),
Securities
a figure $1,418 million higher than the previous month (8.6%). Unlike
50.1 50.6 51.4
20 what happened in recent months, all types of
FCI experienced an increase in their net worth, although those
0 of fixed income stood out for being the ones that increased the most (30%
14-Dec-07 15-Jan-08 15-Feb-08 compared to January) and those that contributed most to the increase of the overall
Source: BCRA based on information from SAFJP FCI in pesos (see Chart 7.6 – right panel).

10 Monetary Report FEBRUARY 2008

Chart 7.6 For its part, the FCI denominated in foreign currency
thousands of Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos (dollars and euros) totaled $5,546 million, $461 million for
 millions $
 20 (variation February 08 vs. January 08) above what was registered in January (9%).

 18 Fixed income millions of $
 Mixed income 1,600
 16 Variable income The fixed income FCI experienced an increase in its
 1,400
 14 Money Market 270 equity of $871 million reaching $3,759 million, due to
 1,200 12 both subscriptions of shares as well as an increase in their
 12
 1,000 265 value. The rest of the funds recorded more
 10

 8 800 moderate increases in their equity (around 4%) compared to January,

 6 600 all due to share subscriptions as well as revaluations, with

 4 400 871 the exception of variable income funds that experienced

 2 share redemptions. In this sense, the equity of mixed income
 200
 0 FCI reached $299 million, those of variable income $6,409
 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-080
 1 million and those of money market $7,493 million, participating with
 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data 41.7% in the total FCI in pesos. Once again the
 predominance of more conservative investments was observed, so the variable
 income FCI are losing participation. Additionally, the
 AFJP resumed making investments through FCI (after having
 withdrawn shares at the end of 2007 due to the change in
 regulation regarding the destination of investments in MERCOSUR).
 In effect, in the first half of February the holdings of the AFJP
 of FCI increased by $1,555 million.

Graph 7.7 Financial Trusts 6

millions of $ Financial Trusts Issuances
1,800 (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)

 40 February In February the issuances of financial trusts (FF)
1,600
 2008: $708
 M totaled $708 million (see Graph 7.7). This represented a
1,400
 19 41 decline of only 9% compared to the previous month, notwithstanding the

1,200 11 28
 number of issuances was reduced to less than half (13). In
1,000 average 2007: consequence, the average amount per placement doubled with
 $727M respect to January, being in February $54 million.
 average 2006: 15 32 28
 800 $628M 22 21 19 13 Additionally, in the comparison with respect to the same month of the
 10 average 2005: 19
 600 $430M 16 27 20 1515 previous year an important increase in the total amount was registered, since
 13 1518
 11 13 1616 17 10 it more than doubled the amount of February 2007.

 400 13 9
 10 10 1213 12

 200 4 96

 0 The FF issuances in February, just as in the same month
 Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others of the previous year, were backed only by assets
 linked to consumption, that is personal loans and
 credit card coupons (74.2% and 25.8% respectively).

 The participation by type of trustor in February was similar to
 that registered in the same month of the previous year, since the
 order of importance of each of the trustors in the total was maintained. In
 effect, the main trustors were retail merchants,
Graph 7.8 that concentrated half of the securitizations, while financial

 Trustors institutions not regulated by the BCRA and financial entities
 Accumulated January - February 2008 Accumulated January-February 2007 acted as trustors in equal parts of the remainder of
 the FF of February. For their part, companies related to

 Financial Entities agricultural activities were not present in the
 Unregulated Fin. Inst. Financial Entities 51.1%
 24.8% 24% financing via FF. This latter fact explained why there were no
 placements in dollars, since generally issuances in
 foreign currency are those that correspond to this type of
 trustors. One can observe in what has transpired in 2008 a lower
Other Non-Regulated Fin. Inst. Retail Businesses participation of banks as trustees – which presented a
8.5% Retail Businesses 13.8% Others 29.5%
42.7% comfortable liquidity situation during the first two months – since
5.6%
they concentrated 24% of securitized assets (see Chart 7.8), vs. 51% in
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others
the same period of 2007. For their part, retail businesses,

6 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

11 Monetary Report                                                              FEBRUARY 2008

in line with the expansion of consumption, had a participation
of 43% of securitized assets in the accumulated 2008, while in
the same period of the previous year, it was 29.5%. Finally, non-regulated
financial institutions almost doubled their participation
in total issuance (24.8% vs. 13.8%).

In February, the weighted average cut-off interest rate
Chart 7.9 registered a decline again with respect to the previous month (see Chart
Cut-off Rates of FF 7.9), accompanying the widespread decrease in rates in the
% (Senior Titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount)

20 monetary market. Nevertheless, during the month some

Fixed rate stability was observed in rates both for cut-off of FF and for liabilities.
18 Variable rate Indeed, the interest rates of senior titles were located at
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks 10.4%, for fixed rate securities and 11.1% for those placed at variable rate,
16
which implied a reduction of around 3 percentage points for
14
both cases. Additionally, the spread with the BADLAR rate Private
Banks continued declining, reaching values similar to those

12 recorded prior to the beginning of financial turbulence in
international markets in mid-2007. In this sense, such

10
Spread Fixed Rate: gap was located in February at 2.1 percentage points for senior titles
2.1 p.p.
8 issued at fixed rate and 2.8 percentage points for those issued at variable rate.
Spread Variable Rate:
2.8 p.p.
6

Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others

The weighted average duration by amount of senior
FF titles issued in February reached 8.2 months, 0.8 months lower
than in January, but in line with what was observed in the
last months of 2007. However, if the exercise is performed to
observe the duration of FF that have personal loans
as underlying assets, -which as mentioned
previously concentrated 74% of issuances - reaches 7.2
months. The latter reflects an increase of 1.3 months with respect to the
duration of this group of issuances in January.

12 Monetary Report                                                              FEBRUARY 2008

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables Feb-08 Monthly Last 12 months Jan-08 Dec-07 Feb-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 95,281 97,577 96,358 76,906 -2.4% -2.8% 23.9% 14.3%
Monetary circulation 70,976 71,897 70,577 57,333 -1.3% -1.7% 23.8% 14.2%
In public hands 64,908 65,496 63,657 52,628 -0.9% -1.4% 23.3% 13.8%
In financial entities 6,068 6,401 6,919 4,705 -5.2% -5.6% 29.0% 18.9%
Current account at BCRA 24,305 25,680 25,781 19,573 -5.4% -5.8% 24.2% 14.5%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 10,424 7,324 2,492 5,507 42.3% 41.7% 89.3% 74.6%
Assets 10 62 252 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 25,773 21,704 21,215 13,611 18.7% 18.2% 89.4% 74.6%
In dollars 0 0 0 18

NOBAC 28,944 30,567 31,587 32,737 -5.3% -5.8% -11.6% -18.5%

BCRA International Reserves (5) 48,407 46,909 45,710 34,226 3.2% 41.4%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 188.019 183.808 177.320 154.749 2,3% 1,8% 21,5% 12,1%
 Current account (2) 49.735 52.511 46.504 44.784 -5,3% -5,7% 11,1% 2,4%
 Savings account 37.456 36.527 35.521 28.963 2,5% 2,1% 29,3% 19,3%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 87.378 80.976 78.320 66.292 7,9% 7,4% 31,8% 21,6%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 1.644 1.952 2.322 4.440 -15,8% -16,2% -63,0% -65,8%
 CEDRO with CER 0 0 1 25 -100,0% -100,0%
 Other deposits (3) 11.806 11.842 14.652 10.244 -0,3% -0,8% 15,2% 6,3%

 Deposits from the private sector 135.926 132.834 129.749 110.527 2,3% 1,8% 23,0% 13,4%

 Deposits from the public sector 52.093 50.974 47.571 44.222 2,2% 1,7% 17,8% 8,6%

 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 7.556 7.501 7.271 5.697 0,7% 32,6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 102.568 101.571 98.962 77.778 1,0% 0,5% 31,9% 21,6%

 Loans to the private sector 91.951 90.950 88.348 65.014 1,1% 0,6% 41,4% 30,4%
 Advances 14.717 14.922 14.222 10.977 -1,4% -1,8% 34,1% 23,7%
 Documents 17.965 18.180 18.133 14.255 -1,2% -1,6% 26,0% 16,2%
 Mortgage loans 14.563 14.258 13.984 10.321 2,1% 1,7% 41,1% 30,1%
 Pawn loans 6.067 5.921 5.813 3.889 2,5% 2,0% 56,0% 43,9%
 Personal loans 22.605 21.773 21.046 14.139 3,8% 3,3% 59,9% 47,5%
 Credit cards 11.745 11.466 10.838 7.952 2,4% 2,0% 47,7% 36,2%
 Others 4.290 4.430 4.312 3.481 -3,2% -3,6% 23,2% 13,7%

 Loans to the public sector 10.617 10.621 10.614 12.764 0,0% -0,5% -16,8% -23,3%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.497 5.371 5.194 3.906 2,3% 40,7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 114.644 118.008 110.162 97.412 -2,9% -3,3% 17,7% 8,5%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 152.099 154.534 145.683 126.376 -1,6% -2,0% 20,4% 11,0%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 252.927 249.304 240.977 207.377 1,5% 1,0% 22,0% 12,5%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 276.788 272.888 263.812 225.053 1,4% 1,0% 23,0% 13,4%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 101.350 101.494 99.558 80.570 -0,1% -0,6% 25,8% 16,0%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 135.705 134.713 132.383 106.194 0,7% 0,3% 27,8% 17,9%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 200.835 198.330 193.406 163.155 1,3% 0,8% 23,1% 13,5%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 222.448 219.662 214.431 179.034 1,3% 0,8% 24,2% 14,6%

 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base -2.295 -2,4% 5.772 6,1% -1.076 -1,1% 18.375 19,3%
 Financial sector -3.135 -3,3% -8.855 -9,3% -8.162 -8,6% -7.401 -7,8%
 Public sector -317 -0,3% -1.004 -1,1% -597 -0,6% -6.431 -6,7%
 Temporary advances + profit transfers -762 2.753 2.996 3.694
 Use of the national government account -806 -2.699 -2.002 -9.088
 External credit 1.251 -1.058 -1.590 -1.037
 Private external sector 2.650 2,8% 11.615 12,2% 7.593 8,0% 32.787 34,4%
 BCRA securities -1.592 -1,7% 2.973 3,1% -532 -0,6% -2.178 -2,3%
 Others 99 0,1% 1.042 1,1% 621 0,7% 1.599 1,7%

 International reserves 1.498 3,1% 4.615 9,5% 2.698 5,6% 14.182 29,3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 842 1,7% 3.699 7,6% 2.418 5,0% 10.521 21,7%
 Payment to international organizations -460 -1,0% -158 -0,3% -574 -1,2% -1.779 -3,7%
 Other public sector operations 890 1,8% 247 0,5% 122 0,3% 2.554 5,3%
 Minimum cash -125 -0,3% -351 -0,7% -170 -0,4% -1.626 -3,4%
 Valuation at repo rate 148 0,3% 466 1,0% 486 1,0% 1.423 2,9%
 Others 203 0,4% 745 1,5% 449 0,9% 3.124 6,5%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being calculated.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System. 13Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 7.30 8.13 9.21 9.99 6.73
 Amount traded 773 738 1,022 1,121 1,005

 Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 8.16 8.93 10.19 9.37 6.99
 60 days or more 8.62 9.55 11.20 10.98 8.00
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 7.94 9.02 11.11 10.26 7.13
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 8.32 10.24 13.54 13.73 7.95

 In dollars
 30 days 1.22 1.24 1.23 1.25 1.08
 60 days or more 2.12 2.23 2.28 2.32 2.02
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.27 1.11 1.08 1.48 0.88
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 3.03 3.30 3.32 3.29 2.54

 Active Interest Rates Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 12.13 15.27 15.99 15.73 9.38

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 7.30 10.05 13.13 11.87 7.67
 Amount traded (total terms) 117 138 156 139 105

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 17.12 19.15 18.93 19.30 16.06
 Documents on signature alone 15.89 17.05 16.96 17.12 12.58
 Mortgage loans 12.30 12.61 12.44 11.87 10.91
 Secured loans 16.39 15.74 15.47 15.09 9.23
 Personal loans 29.51 29.52 27.71 27.00 24.81
 Credit cards n/d 26.10 27.50 26.00 25.78

 International Interest Rates Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07

 LIBOR
 1 month 3.14 3.91 5.04 4.77 5.32
 6 months 3.00 3.78 4.84 4.83 5.39

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.96 2.45 3.11 3.30 4.85
 10 years 3.73 3.71 4.09 4.13 4.72

 FED Funds Rate 3.00 3.93 4.33 4.50 5.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.25 11.25 11.25 11.25 13.00

 (1) Data through December correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for January and February are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 14Monetary Report                                                             FEBRUARY 2008

 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 6.42
 Passive 7 days 8.25 8.25 8.25 8.25 6.67
 Active 7 days (1) 10.25 10.25 10.25 10.25 8.67

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 7.63 7.91 8.60 9.71 6.46
 7 days 8.25 8.38 9.43 9.99 6.77

 Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 5,381 4,679 2,177 2,539 3,424

 LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month n/q 10.69 10.65 10.61 n/q
 2 months n/q 10.73 10.67 10.65 n/q
 3 months 10.84 10.81 10.75 10.76 7.89
 9 months 11.10 11.00 n/q n/q 10.34
 12 months n/q n/q n/q n/q 10.69

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/q n/q n/q n/q n/q
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.49 1.63 2.13 2.20 1.06
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/q n/q n/q n/q 1.60
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/q n/q n/q n/q 1.93

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) n/d 313 284 488 352

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.17 2.86 3.14 3.14 3.11
 BCRA Reference 3.16 3.14 3.14 3.14 3.10

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.17 3.15 3.14 3.15 3.10
 ROFEX 1 month 3.16 3.15 3.14 3.14 3.10
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 218 238 172 191 240

 Real (Pesos x Real) 1.83 1.77 1.76 1.77 1.48

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.66 4.63 4.58 4.61 4.06

 Capital Market Feb-08 Jan-08 Dec-07 Nov-07 Feb-07
# MERVAL
 Index 2,074 2,042 2,185 2,259 2,131
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 122 105 148 175 93

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 89.40 88.41 88.53 88.93 93.59
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 91.69 92.68 98.76 97.32 113.31
 BODEN 2014 ($) 75.87 73.89 69.79 69.51 88.80
 DISCOUNT ($) 72.65 73.87 73.98 73.21 103.89

 Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 698 675 669 650 250
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 297 285 257 254 184

 (1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
 (2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 15 Monetary Report                                                              FEBRUARY 2008

9. Glossary

AFJP: Pension Fund Administrators (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones).
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires).
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (Banco Central de la República Argentina).
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond (Bono del Estado Nacional).
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011 (Bono de la Nación Argentina en dólares estadounidenses 7% 2011).
BOVESPA: Stock Index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil) (Índice accionario de la Bolsa de Valores de San Pablo).
CC: Current account (Cuenta corriente).
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient (Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia).
CNV: National Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional de Valores).
DISC: Discount Bond (Bono Descuento).
USA: United States of America (Estados Unidos de América).
EM: Minimum Cash (Efectivo Mínimo).
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds (Fondos comunes de inversión).
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA (Reserva Federal de los EE.UU.).
FF: Financial Trusts (Fideicomisos financieros).
y-o-y: Year-over-year (interanual).
IGBVL: Stock Index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru) (Índice accionario de la Bolsa de Valores de Lima).
IGPA: Stock Index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile) (Índice accionario de la Bolsa de Valores de Santiago).
CPI: Consumer Price Index (Índice de precios al consumidor).
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills (Letras del Banco Central).
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the non-financial public and private sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market (Mercado Abierto Electrónico).
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market (Mercado Electrónico de Corredores).
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market (Mercado de Valores de Buenos Aires).
MEXBOL: Stock Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico) (Índice accionario de la Bolsa de Valores de México).
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market (Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios).
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes (Notas del Banco Central).
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations (Operaciones Concertadas a Término).
ONs: Negotiable Obligations (Obligaciones negociables).
PAR: Par Bond (Bono Par).
GDP: Gross Domestic Product (Producto interno bruto).
PM: Monetary Program (Programa Monetario).
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises (Pequeñas y medianas empresas).
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market (Mercado a término de Rosario).
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (Central Bank of Brazil reference interest rate) (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custodia).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System (Sistema de Operaciones Electrónicas).
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements (Sistema Centralizado de Requerimientos Informativos).
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (Tipo de cambio real multilateral).
IRR: Internal Rate of Return (Tasa interna de retorno).
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate (Tasa nominal anual).
UVP: Product-linked Units (Unidades vinculadas al producto).
VN: Nominal Value (Valor nominal).

 16
