# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 6 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 8 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 8 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 9 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 9 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 10 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 12 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 12 | Stocks
Page 13 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Institutional Investors
Page 13 | Pension and Retirement Fund Managers
Page 14 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 15 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 21. Summary1
• The month of May was characterized by an increase in the demand for foreign currency, which was not related to the situation of the financial market or to the fundamentals of the economy. In that context, the Central Bank intervened by generating all possible liquidity instruments both in local and foreign currency in order to moderate expectations. In effect, active reverse repurchase agreements continued to be offered at fixed interest rates (for up to $3,000 million), the scheme for granting active reverse repurchase agreements in pesos with a margin over the BADLAR rate was modified, which changed from being auctioned to being established at a fixed level, and a mechanism for providing active reverse repurchase agreements in dollars was created. As a result of the actions taken, the fluctuations of financial variables were limited and the average balances of total deposits in pesos, of the means of payment (M2) and of M3 (M2 plus time deposits) showed increases with respect to the averages of the previous month.

• The average balance of M2 showed a monthly increase of $2,000 million (1.3%) and accumulated an year-over-year growth of 16%. Considering its components, the monthly increase in M2 was based on an increase of $1,500 million (1.7%) in sight deposits, while currency in circulation also showed an increase, although more moderate, of $500 million (0.8%). For its part, total deposits in pesos and M3 also increased during the month under analysis, by $400 million and $900 million, respectively, thus accumulating variations of 17% and 18%, respectively, in relation to May 2007.

• Banking liquidity indicators continued at very high levels in May. In effect, the more restrictive banking liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements for the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—was located at 18.7%, above the average value it presented in the last two years. Additionally, banks ended the month with a surplus of reserve requirements of 0.4% of total deposits. It is worth mentioning that, in order to avoid excessive volatility in the monetary market, the Central Bank established a two-month period for reserve requirements for June and July 2008. Similarly to what was established for the two-month period of October-November 2007, it was provided that surpluses from the first month could not be carried over to the second month of the two-month period.

• In a framework in which the Central Bank acted in the foreign exchange market, the absorption of pesos derived from the sale of foreign currency was partially offset with various mechanisms, which mainly included the repurchase of Lebac and Nobac in the secondary market and the partial renewal of their maturities. In this way, the Central Bank once again ratified the characteristic of liquidity reserve that these securities have, which are issued when there is excessive liquidity and are redeemed when market conditions require it. This counter-cyclical management of liquidity made it possible to avoid excessive fluctuations in interbank rates. A more comprehensive measure of liquidity, which includes the banking portfolio of the aforementioned securities, was located at 38% during the month under analysis, a figure similar to that of recent months.

• Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, registered a monthly increase of 3.3% ($3,880 million). In particular, in the peso segment the monthly increase was 3.5% ($3,450 million), although to a large extent it was explained by the carry-over effect of the strong growth that commercial lines showed during April. In year-over-year terms, the increase in peso financing was located at 42.6%.

• In mid-May the Central Bank established increases of between 0.75 percentage points and 1 percentage point for reverse repurchase operations in which it participates. From then on, 7-day fixed rate reverse repurchase agreements are agreed at 9% and 11%, for
the passive and active operations, respectively. On the other hand, as of May 30th, the Central Bank created a mechanism for the provision of active repurchase agreements in dollars, as an additional signal of its willingness and capacity to offer the foreign currency that the market demands. Nevertheless, there was no significant demand for active repurchase agreements, either in pesos or in dollars.

• Short-term interest rates increased during the month, especially those related to wholesale fixed-term deposits (amounts exceeding $1,000,000). Thus, the monthly average of the BADLAR rate for private banks stood at 13%, with an increase of 4.3 percentage points with respect to the level recorded in April. For its part, the interest rate on retail placements (amounts under $100,000) stood on average at 9.3%, registering a monthly increase of 0.9 percentage points. In the interbank market, the interest rate increased by 2.0 percentage points and averaged around 10% for the month.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All the figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In May, the average balance of total means of payment (M2) was $154,400 million, $2,000 million (1.3%) above that registered in April. Said monthly increase implied an increase of 16% compared to the same month of the previous year. As for its components, the monthly rise in M2 was based mainly on the increase in checking accounts, of $1,500 million (1.7%), while currency in circulation also showed an increase, although more moderate, of $500 million (0.8%).

Chart 2.1
Factors Explaining M2
(May 2008, on average)
thousands of
million $

When analyzing the determining factors of the M2 variation during the month under review, the main expansion factor was the growth of loans to the private sector, which continued to show very good performance. On the other hand, the Central Bank supplied the demand for money through the partial renewal of LEBAC and NOBAC maturities and repurchase operations in the secondary market of these securities. Part of these redemptions were carried out with non-financial private sector holders which helped increase monthly M2. These operations contributed to counteract the monetary contraction generated by BCRA intervention in the foreign exchange market, in the context of an increase in demand for foreign currency, which was not related to the financial market situation or to the economy's fundamentals. Additionally, private sector holders decreased their balances in time deposits, which also constituted an expansive factor for means of payment (see Chart 2.1).

Indeed, private sector time placements decreased $1,200 million (2%) in May, with different behavior depending on the amount for this deposits segment: while placements of more than $1 million increased $300 million, those made below that amount decreased $1,500 million. This differentiated behavior would be associated with the combined effect of a higher interest rate for wholesale deposits and a certain information asymmetry between those more sophisticated investors, who know with greater precision the degree of soundness of the economy's fundamental variables, compared with small savers who do not have that information. Also, public time deposits registered a decrease in their monthly average balance, of $500 million, although between late April and May they accumulated an increase of $1,500 million.

Chart 2.2
Factors Explaining the BM
(May 2008, on average)
thousands of
million $

In short, total deposits in pesos registered a monthly increase of $400 million and the broader aggregate in pesos, M3, registered an increase of $900 million, with which they accumulated variations of 17% and 18%, respectively, in relation to May 2007.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 4
In the dollar segment, total deposits increased by $140 million, because placements of the private sector increased by $160 million, while those of the public sector decreased by $20 million.

**Chart 2.3**
**CPI Rest and Market Expectations**
**% (year-on-year var.)**

In particular, the increase in private sector placements was composed of $60 million from time deposits and $100 million from sight placements (explained by the statistical carryover of government bond service payments in dollars at the end of April).

In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes the total of deposits in pesos and dollars increased $1,200 million (0.4%).

Regarding the primary creation of money, as mentioned, the Central Bank continued participating actively in the foreign exchange market, to satisfy an increase in demand for foreign currency. In turn, this Institution intervened by generating all possible liquidity instruments both in local and foreign currency in order to mitigate expectations. Complementary to repurchases in the secondary market and partial renewal of those securities, the Central Bank made active repos in pesos available to banks. These operations, which had low demand, and the cancellation of part of the balance of passive repos that entities maintain at the Central Bank were also a source of monetary base creation (see Chart 2.2).

On the other hand, in the month under analysis, an active repo operation in dollars was put into operation, as a complementary signal of this Institution's willingness and capacity to fully supply the demand for foreign currency.

Regarding the evolution of prices, in May 2008 the CPI Rest subindex for the GBA prepared by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with high tax component) showed a monthly increase of 0.4%, which was lower than the rise in May 2007 (0.5%). In this way, the year-on-year rate (y.o.y.) of CPI Rest rose to 11.6% (see Chart 2.3), placing itself above what was observed a year earlier (9.8%).

**Chart 3.1**
**Bank Liquidity**
**% of deposits**

**3. Bank Liquidity¹**

The broader liquidity indicator, which includes LEBACs and NOBACs in the portfolio of entities, continued at a high level, similar to that of previous months (see Chart 3.1).

For its part, the more restricted bank liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, bank current accounts at the BCRA and passive repos to the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—stood in May at 18.7%, 1 p.p. below the previous month (see Chart 3.2). Although this ratio was slightly lower than that of recent months, liquidity continued at levels above those observed in recent years. Analyzing the components of bank liquidity, both cash and deposits in current accounts at the BCRA remained at a level similar to that observed in April while there was a decline in the stock of passive repos.

Regarding the minimum cash position, the average

---

**Chart 3.2**
**% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos**
**deposits**

**Chart 3.3**
**% of Minimum Cash Position**
**deposits**
2.0 Surplus Daily Position The accumulated position of the system ended with a surplus of 0.4% of
 total deposits in pesos, similar to that of the previous
1.5 months. Financial entities in general began the

1.0 month with a widely surplus position and the
 daily position of the total system showed no deficit un-
0.5 til only the last days of the month (see Chart
 3.3).
0.0

-0.5 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash
 position remained at a level similar to that of the
-1.0 previous month, with a surplus of 15% of deposits
 Mar-08 Apr-08 May-08 in dollars.
 Source: BCRA

 Finally, it is important to mention that, in order to
Chart 4.1 avoid excessive volatility in the monetary market,

 % Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector % the Central Bank established a position in pesos for the
 60 25 two-month period of June and July 2008. In a similar
 23 manner to what was established for the two-month pe-
 40 21
 riod of October-November of last year, it was provided
 19 that surpluses from the first month could not be trans-
 20 17 ferred to the second month of the two-month pe-
 15 riod².
 0 13

 11
-20 9

-40 7 4. Loans
 y.o.y. variation in nominal terms 1 3
 In terms of GDP (right axis)
-60 5
 Jun-97 Dec-98 Jun-00 Dec-01 Jun-03 Dec-04 Jun-06 Dec-07
 Source: BCRA Loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign
 currency, increased in May by 3.3% ($3,880 mil-

2 See Communication A 4807.
3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to
financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 6Chart 4.2 lions), registering the largest increase of the present year.

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to Private Sector % Nevertheless, a large part of the average monthly
 (var. of monthly averages)
4,000 42.6 44 growth was explained by the drag effect of the
 strong increase that financing had in April in pesos
3,500 May-07 39
 related to commercial activity. With growth of 42%
3,000 May-08 34 in year-on-year terms, the stock reached $121,000

 y.o.y. var. (%) - right axis million, which represents approximately 12.2% of GDP
2,500 29
 (see Chart 4.1).
2,000 24
 With advances in all lines, especially in financing re-
1,500 19 lated mainly to commercial activity and in personal
 loans, credits in pesos showed a monthly variation of
1,000 14
 3.5% ($3,450 million). In this way, they reflected
 500 9 with respect to the same period of the previous year
 an increase of 42.6% (see Chart 4.2).
 0 4

Source: BCRA

 Financing with predominantly commercial destina-
 tion advanced in May by 3.7% ($1,460 million), regis-
 tering the largest expansion of the present year and
 accumulating over the last 12 months a variation of
Chart 4.3 31%.

 Loans with Real Guarantee After a first fortnight of strong increases – charac-
 millions of $ %
 600 100 teristic of this part of the year due to the concentration
 Monthly Var. Mortgages of tax payment deadlines that companies face –, which
 500 Monthly Var. Secured by Pledge 80
 Y.o.y. Var. Mortgages (Right Axis) contrasted with the second part of the month where
 400 Y.o.y. Var. Secured by Pledge (Right Axis)
 60 reductions were registered, the advances in current
 account showed a monthly increase of 5.1% ($790 mil-
 300 40
 lion). In contrast, driven partially by the statistical
 200 20 drag from the month of April, the documents showed
 in the period an expansion of 2.7% ($520 million).
 100 0

 0 -20
-100 -40 Lines intended mainly for consumption in-
 May-05 Sep-05 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08
 Source: BCRA creased compared to the previous month by 3.8% ($1,480 mil-
 lion), with a year-over-year variation close to 57%. The
 monthly growth was explained fundamentally
 by personal loans that rose 4.1%
 Graph 4.4
 ($1,100 million). For its part, credit card
 Thousands of Documents in Foreign Currency and Exports Thousands of financing advanced 3% ($380 million).
 millions of U$S millions of U$S
 7.3 6.0
 Exports (s.e.) During May loans with real guarantee in-
 6.3 Documents in Foreign Currency (right axis) 5.0 creased 2.4% ($510 million), showing in relation to the same
 month of the previous year a growth of 43.3%. Credit
 5.3 4.0
 lines for mortgages rose during the period by 1.9%
 4.3 3.0 ($280 million), while chattel mortgages grew
 3.5% ($230 million), registering the largest increase
 3.3 2.0 of the year (see Graph 4.3).

 2.3 1.0
 Finally, driven by the recovery of export activity,
 1.3 0.0 loans in foreign currency to the
 May-03 Nov-03 May-04 Nov-04 May-05 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 private sector increased during May by 3% (US$160
 Source: BCRA based on own information and INDEC
 million), more than doubling the increase registered
 in April (see Graph 4.4).

 Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 7 5. Interest Rates

 Securities Issued by the BCRA4

 In May the interest rates of the primary market for
 LEBAC increased compared to the previous month for
 all terms (see Graph 5.1). In the case of NOBAC the same
 occurred, although securities were only placed for less
 than one year and in small amounts, from which
 it is concluded that the market preference was maintained
 for fixed rate instruments over those at
 Graph 5.1 variable rate.

 TNA, % Interest Rate of LEBAC The BCRA continued operating in the secondary market
 of LEBAC and NOBAC although with a larger amount than
 11.8 in previous months. Greater activity in repur-
 11.6 chases sought to inject liquidity into the market to compensate,
 through this and other instruments, the contractionary effect
 11.3 of foreign currency sales. The Central Bank repurchased these
 29-Apr securities in operations settleable in pesos for an amount
 20-May exceeding $1,450 million. In this way, the BCRA
 11.1 again reaffirmed the characteristic of liquidity reserve
 that these securities have, which are issued when there is
 10.8 excess liquidity and are redeemed when market
 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 conditions so require.
 Source: BCRA duration (days)

 With the same objective of supplying liquidity, the Ban-
 co Central also made placements in the primary market
 Graph 5.2 for an amount less than what was maturing. As a conse-
 millions of $ Monthly Maturity Profile quence of these placements and repurchases in the
 8,000 secondary market, the total stock of securities issued by the
 7,000 BCRA was reduced in May by 5.3% compared to the previous
 month and was located at the end of the month at a FV of
 6,000 $53,909 million.
 Banks Other
 5,000
 4,000 For its part, when disaggregating the maturity profile of
 3,000 LEBAC and NOBAC by holder it is observed that the main
 holders of instruments maturing in the coming months
 2,000 are banks, institutional investors and
 1,000 foreign holders (see Graph 5.2). Therefore, financial
 institutions have an important liquidity
 0 reserve –as was also mentioned in section
 Jun-08 Nov-08 Apr-09 Sep-09 Feb-10 Jul-10 Dec-10 May-11 3 on Liquidity– in this type of instruments, with a
 residual average term close to 190 days.
 
 4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 8 Interbank Markets

 Repo Market1
In May, the average stock of passive repos for the BCRA fell $1,000 million. Nevertheless, it remained at elevated levels and ended the month at $6,200 million, an amount that was distributed among all the modalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO round, overnight operations and Investment Common Funds). For its part, some active repo operations were recorded although their stock at the end of the month was only $21 million.

**Table 1**

| Term in days | Passive Liabilities Previous Current | Active Fixed Rate Previous Current | Active Variable Rate Previous Current |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | 8.00 8.75 | 9.75 10.75 | BADLAR+Spread |
| 7 | 8.25 9.00 | 10.25 11.00 | BADLAR+Spread 4% |
| 14 | 10.50 X | - | - |
| 30 | 10.70 X | - | - |
| 60 | 10.75 X | - | - |

Mid-month, the BCRA modified the current scheme for repo operations. In the first place, it altered the operations of active repos at variable rate, in which the spread over the BADLAR rate of private banks became fixed instead of auctioned. In this sense, the spread set was 4 p.p. for operations at 7 days.

In turn, it raised the interest rates of fixed rate repos, in accordance with what is indicated in Table 1. The limit for active repos to be granted with fixed interest rate remains at $3,000 million, to be distributed among entities according to their participation in deposits. Furthermore, the sum of active repos at fixed rate and variable rate for each bank cannot exceed once its computable equity responsibility.

Finally, as of May 30th, the BCRA enabled the operation of short-term active repos in US dollars against the reception, in counterpart, of Securities issued by the BCRA, by the National Government or BOGAR, as an additional signal of its disposition and capacity to offer the foreign currency that the market demands. On the last day of the month, operations of this type were carried out for a reduced amount, less than u$s 40 million.

**Graph 5.3**
% Interest Rates

20
Interbank Market (call)¹
18 Call Private Banks
16 BCRA Active Repos 7 days
14 BCRA Passive Repos 7 days
12
10
8
6
4
2
Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08 Apr-08

Source: BCRA

In May, the interest rates of the interbank market increased by 2 p.p., averaging the month at around 10%. Despite the increase in the monthly average, the operations of the last days show a slight downward trend of this rate. Ultimately, this rate reached a peak much lower than that shown in the days of greatest turbulence of external origin during July of last year, and was located mostly within the channel of repo rates (passive-active, see Graph 5.3).

In turn, the average interest rate for operations at 1 business day was placed at 9.8%, which implied an increase of 1.9 p.p. with respect to the previous month. The increase in the rate had its correspondence in larger amounts operated, which averaged $1,200 million, $450 million above the average of the previous month.

The dispersion⁵ of interest rates for call operations averaged May at 2.5 p.p., 2.2 p.p. more than in April.

**Graph 5.4**
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
18 Capital and GBA - Daily Data
16
14
12 Retail Private Banks
   Wholesale Private Banks
10
8
6
Dec-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08 May-08

Source: BCRA

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

During May, the entities strongly increased their passive interest rates with the purpose of retaining their deposits. This increase was recorded mainly in the wholesale segment (placements of more than one million pesos), given the need of the entities to capture funds from institutional investors and large

**Graph 5.5**
# Interest Rate on Fixed-Term Deposits for 30-59 days companies, to cover previously open active positions.
Private Sector in pesos
% average monthly weighted by amount operated

Indeed, the monthly average for May of the BADLAR6 rate for private banks was positioned at 13%, with an increase of 4.3 p.p. compared to the level registered in April (see Chart 5.4).

When considering the main range of fixed-term placements (30-59 days) and behavior by type of depositor, it was observed that the interest rate paid to financial services companies registered the highest increase (4.9 p.p.) reaching an average value of 13.7%, widely exceeding the interest rate perceived by individuals and companies (see Chart 5.5).

For its part, the interest rates paid by private banks for retail placements (amounts less than $100,000) was positioned at 9.3%, registering an increase of 0.9 p.p. compared to the average of April. In this way, the positive differential between the interest rates of the wholesale and retail range increased (see Chart 5.6).

## Active Interest Rates 17

Regarding active interest rates, an increase was appreciated in all lines, although lower than that registered in wholesale fixed-term rates. In fact, while the BADLAR interest rate, as was noted in the preceding point, increased on average 4.3 p.p., active rates rose on average between 1 p.p. and 3 p.p..

The interest rate for advances rose 2.9 p.p. compared to the April level, positioning itself at 20.6% (see Chart 5.7) while the interest rate for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents rose 3.3 p.p., positioning itself on average at 17.6%. Loans associated mainly with commercial activity were the lines that registered the greatest increase, accompanying the rise in passive rates. This is explained by the greater relationship that these lines – mostly short-term advances – have with funding through wholesale deposits also of reduced duration.

Regarding interest rates for loans related to consumption, in May the rate corresponding to personal loans was 29%, with an increase of 2 p.p. compared to that observed the previous month (see Chart 5.8). For its part, the interest rates for credit card financing corresponding to the month of April increased slightly (0.4 p.p.)

---

**Footnotes:**

5 It is defined as the standard deviation of agreed interest rates.
6 Interest rate on fixed-term deposits of 30-35 days of more than 1 million pesos.
7 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to March 2008, the values for April and May 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires. All data are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 10
TNA, % reaching an average value of 26.1%.
31 Credit Cards TNA, %
17
30 Personal 16 Mortgage
By last, the interest rates of longer-term financings
29 15 Pledge
registered slight increases. In the case of the interest
14
28 13 rate on mortgage loans, it reached a monthly average
of 12.4%, with an increase of 0.5 p.p.
27 12
compared to the level observed in April. On the other
26 11
hand, the interest rate corresponding to financings with
25 10
pledge guarantee was placed at 15.3% (see Chart 5.8),
9
24 8 with an increase of 0.2 p.p..
23 7
May-05 May-06 May-07 May-08May-05 May-06 May-07 May-08
Source: BCRA

Chart 6.1 International Reserves of the BCRA 6. International Reserves and

thousands of (gold, foreign currency and
millions of US$ time placements)
55
Foreign Exchange Market8
50

45 During the month of May, the stock of international
reserves declined compared to the previous month by
40
US$1.659 million, which represented a decrease of
35
3.3% of the total. In this way, at the end of the month,
30 the stock of reserves totaled US$48.588 million (see
Chart 6.1).
25
The main factor that explained the monthly decrease
20
were the net sales of foreign currency in the Single and
15 Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC). While through
May-05 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08
government operations reserves increased slightly,
Source: BCRA
said variation was offset by the decline in the stock of
current accounts in foreign currency of financial
entities at the Central Bank.

8 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 11 With respect to the foreign exchange market, the peso
Chart 6.2
appreciated against the dollar by 0.5%. In this sense, the
Nominal Reference Exchange Rate (Wholesale) wholesale dollar quote (Reference) ended the month
$/US$
at 3.0978 $/US$ (see Chart 6.2). Similarly, the peso
3.20
appreciated against the euro 1.7%, with the average
quote for the month of 4.908 $/Euro. Finally, in
3.15
relation to the real, the peso depreciated 1% with an
3.10 average monthly quote of 1.899 $/Real.

3.05

3.00 7. Capital Market
Source: BCRADec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 Jun-07 Aug-07 Oct-07 Dec-07 Feb-08 May-08
Equities
During May, in equity markets a reduction in volatility
was generally observed (Chart 7.1).
Chart 7.1
In the variable income market, the BOVESPA (Brazil)
registered an increase of 6.9% driven, in part, by the
Volatility (%) Volatility of Equity Markets Volatility (%) fact that another risk rating agency granted the
22 days 22 days
MERVAL (Argentina) 34 sovereign debt of that country the investment grade
65 IPC (Mexico) category. In the same sense, the MEXBOL (Mexico) had
BOVESPA (Brazil) 30
Shangai Index (China) Shangai a positive return of 5.6%, the IGPA of Chile of 1.8%,
55 S&P 500 (USA) (Right Axis) 26
and the S&P 500 of 1.1%. For its part, the Shanghai
45 22 Index (China) fell 7%, while the IGBVL of Peru had a
negative return of 1.7%, all measured in their original
35 18
currency.
14
25
In Argentina, during May the MERVAL index -
10
measured in pesos - registered a gain of 5.3%, reaching
15 6
a value of 2.206 points at the end of the month. Over
5 2 the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained a
Sep-06 Nov-06 Jan-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data negative return of 0.7%, and so far this year it has a
positive result of 2.5%.

Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a positive
Chart 7.2 variation of 7.5% in May. Additionally, the gain of
BOVESPA (Brazil) stood out, of 9.3% (favored by the
Sovereign Risk Indicators strengthening of the real), and the IPC (Mexico) which
grew 7.2%. They had negative returns the IGBVL (Peru
basic points EMBI of Argentina and of the Region 8.3% and the IGPA (Chile) 8.6%.
CDS of Argentina spreads spreads

CDS 2 years in b.p. in b.p.
CDS 5 years 400 Latin American stock exchanges registered decreases
630 CDS 10 years 580 EMBI Argentina
350 in their volatilities. Specifically, the volatility of the
EMBI Latin America (right axis) MERVAL - 18 trading sessions - in annualized terms and
480 480 300 measured in dollars was 16.1 in April (1 p.p. less than
250 that of April).
330 380

200

180 280 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos
150
Aires Stock Exchange decreased with respect to April.
30 180 100 The average amount traded reached $90 million daily,
Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08Sep-05 Jun-06 Mar-07 Dec-07
Source: Bloomberg $37 million less compared to the previous month.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 12 Chart 7.3 Public Securities

Annual real yield (%) Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos
14.0 Bogar 18 During May, as mentioned, a climate of lower
Boden 14 Apr-30 volatility was recorded in the markets, observing a
PRO 12 May-30 lower risk aversion of investors to invest in fixed
12.0
DISC $ income securities of emerging countries. The EMBI+
which measures the spreads of emerging countries,
PAR $ decreased 22 b.p. For its part, the spread of
10.0
external debt of Latin America was reduced by 31 b.p.
8.0 and the spread of Argentina by 28 b.p., both
PRE 08 measured by the EMBI (Chart 7.2). In the case of the
6.0 spreads of Argentina's Credit Default Swaps (CDS)
contracts at 5 years, they were reduced by 27 b.p.,
Boden 08 while Brazil's CDS at 5 years decreased 24 b.p. in
4.0
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18 20 the month and 90 b.p. since the investment grade
Duration (years) was reported to be granted to its debt.
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

From the yield curve of public securities in indexed
pesos, the lower yield of the BOGAR 18 and the
Chart 7.4 Discount stands out due to better quotations
(Chart 7.3). In the same sense, the yield curve of
Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars securities in dollars also decreased in almost all
Yield Spread (p.p.)
annual (%) Boden 15 segments (Chart 7.4).

14 16 BONAR V BONAR VII
13 14
12 Boden 13 Private Securities
12
11 DISC USD 10
Boden 12 PAR USD
10 8
The financing via negotiable obligations (ON) took
9 6
8 4 place in May through three issuances. On one hand,
Apr-30 among the larger companies, was the one corre-
7 30-May 2
Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve Apr-08 (right axis) sponding to IMPSA, for a nominal value of u$s 65
6 Spreads over U.S. Treasury curve May-08 (right axis) 0
million, and the one issued by Compañía Financiera
0 3 5 8 10 13 15 18
Duration (years) Argentina S.A., for $85 million. And on the other
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute hand, an ON of SMEs by Cooperativa Agrícola Ganadera
de Arroyo Cabral Ltda. for u$s 460 thousand.

Chart 7.5
Composition of the FJP and legal investment limits
Institutional Investors

%
25 Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds9

Participation in the FJP as of 12/28/2007
20.0 Participation in the FJP as of 04/15/2008
20 Participation in the FJP as of 04/30/2008
Investment Limit as of 04/29/2008
The total of the Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP)
Participation in the FJP as of 05/15/2008
15 reached mid-May to $96,370 million, registering in
the last month a decrease of 1.4% ($1,360 million
9.7 10.0 illions).
 10 9.0 8.9
 8.0 8.2 8.0 8.4 7.9 8.3
 7.3 6.6
 6.2 6.0
 Income from contributions to the Pension and Retirement
 5
 Fund Administrators (AFJP) in the month of April
 amounted to $940 million, a period in which no transfers
 0 were recorded to the public regime of MERCOSUR Foreign Securities Titles
 FCI FCI 
 Source: SAFJP as a consequence of the transfers of individual capitalization
 accounts established in the pension reform.

 9 With information provided by the AFJP Superintendency (SAFJP) as of May 15.

 Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 13 sional reform.

 The investment portfolio, with $94,860 million, presented
 a decline over the last thirty days of 1.8% ($1,710 million).
 This reduction is partially explained by the increase in the
 available funds maintained by the administrators ($350
 million). On the other hand, among the items that in-
 creased, fixed-term deposits stood out, which rose $1,130
 million.

 The volatility observed in the markets had a negative im-
 pact on profitability. The main declines were concentrated
 in National Government Securities, Mutual Investment
 Funds (FCI), Shares and in Negotiable Futures and Op-
 tions Contracts. Within the FCI, those belonging to MER-
 COSUR explained almost the entire decline recorded
 Chart 7.6 since mid-April ($770 million). However, in the first
 thousands of fifteen days of May these placements increased
 millions $ Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 20 (variation May 08 vs. April 08) by $370 million. In this way, the AFJP reduced
 Fixed Income Millions of $ their portfolio in FCI of MERCOSUR to comply
 18 Mixed Income 322
 Variable Income with the limit established by the regulations for the end
 16 1
 Money Market -200 of April, and subsequently partially recomposed their
14
 positions in these assets (see Chart 7.5).
12 -700

10 -2.172
 -1.200 As a consequence of last year's pension reform, the
 8
 AFJP must invest between 5% and 20% of the funds in
6 -1.700
 assets intended to finance productive or infrastructure
4
 -2.200 projects in the medium and long term in the Argentine
2 -400 Republic. In order to comply with the 1% target estab-
0 -2.700 -25 lished for October 2008, in the coming months it is
 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data expected that the administrators will increase their place-
 ments in investments related to the real economy, which
 currently represent only 0.02% of the FJP.

 Mutual Investment Funds

 The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos
 experienced a decline in May of $2,275 million (14%)
 (see Chart 7.6), mainly due to what happened with money
 market funds. In this way, its equity totaled $13,852 mil-
 lion, while that denominated in foreign currency reached
 $5,305 million, 7.3% higher than the previous month.

 With respect to the structure by type of funds, as men-
 tioned above, money market funds were those that marked
 the decline in the total equity of the FCI, with a decline
 of $2,172 million due to the withdrawal of shares. This
 could not be offset by the increase in the equity of vari-
 able income funds ($322 million), originating from both
 revaluation and the increase in the number of shares). In
 this sense, a decline was evident in the participation of
 money market funds (42% of the total in May), thus
 Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 14 stopping the increase in their importance that had been
 Chart 7.7
 Financial Trust Issuances
 occurring.
 millions of $
1,800 (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
40 observed for the past year, together with the increase of 9 p.p.
1.600
 May 2008:
1.400 $690 M in the participation of equity funds (41%
 19 41 in May). For their part, mixed-income and fixed-
1.200 11 28
 income funds, again experienced declines in their assets
1.000 prom. 2007: 24
 15 $727M 32 (8.5% and 16% respectively), reaching $266 million
 800 prom. 2006: 22 19 281321
 prom. 2005: $628M 21 18 for the first case and $2.090 billion for the second
 10 19
 600 $430M 16 27 13 20 1515 one.
 16 17 1518
 11 1313 16 10
 400 10 12 9
 10 13 12
 200 4 96

 0
 Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08 Financial Trusts10
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data
 
 Financial trust emissions totaled in May $690 million
 (see Chart 7.7), which meant a decrease of 28% in the
 securitized amounts compared to April. As for the
 quantity, 18 emissions have been recorded (6 fewer than
 in the previous month). In the year-over-year comparison,
 the total issued increased 22%, while in terms of quantity
 Chart 7.8 2 fewer emissions were recorded, which results in an
 Underlying Assets increase in the average amount per placement compared to
 (issued amounts) the same month of the previous year ($38 million in May
 2008 versus $28 million in May 2007). In this way, in the
 May 2008 April 2008 first five months of the year, FF emissions totaled $3.894
 Leasing Contracts
 Leasing Contracts 5% billion, implying an increase of 34% compared to what
 10%
 was securitized in the same period of the previous year.
 Future Flows of
 Funds
 4%
 The majority of the securitized assets in May were those
 Credit Card Coupons
 Credit Card Coupons Personal Loans linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons)
 Personal Loans
 which represent 86% of the total (see Chart 7.8), as had
 Consumption = 85.9% Consumption = 95.3%
 been observed in recent months. However, their
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data. participation in the total decreased about 10 p.p. compared
 to that of the previous month. On the other hand, the
 securitization of leasing contracts for $67 million (10%
 of the total) was significant, which doubled their amount
 Chart 7.9 compared to the previous month.
 Participation by Type of Trustor
 (12-month accumulated) The structure by type of trustor in May was different
 100% from that recorded in the previous month. In particular,
 for financial entities which increased their contribution
 80%
 by 25 p.p., reaching 39% of the total, while they doubled
 60% the amount issued. For their part, the participation of
 40% mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
 20% decreased to represent half of what was achieved in the
 0% previous month, issuing $158 million. Finally, retail
 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 merchants maintained stable their participation in the
 Retail Merchants total. In the 12-month (rolling) accumulated (see Chart
 Others 7.9), the trend of decrease in financial entities as
 Financial Entities trustors can be observed, while there is growth in the role
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers of retail merchants and mutuals, cooperatives and non-
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data. bank credit card issuers.

10 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

 In May, placements reached higher cut-off interest rates
 Chart 7.10 than those of the previous month, accompanying the trend
 FF Cut-off Rates of the money market. In effect, when calculating the
 % (Class A Securities in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) weighted average by amount, the senior securities
20
 Fixed rate
18 Variable rate
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks
16
14
12
Fixed rate placements reached 15.2% while variable rate ones reached 17.4% (see Chart 7.10), which represented an increase compared to April of 3.5 p.p. for the first case and 5.4 p.p. for the second. The weighted average duration by amount of senior FF securities issued in May reached 5 months (a level similar to that of FF with personal loans as underlying assets). This meant a decline of 3.2 months with respect to April, being the lowest mark since August 2007.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 168. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables May-08 Monthly Last 12 months Apr-08 Mar-08 May-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 98,787 98,040 97,880 81,024 0.8% 0.2% 21.9% 11.7%
Monetary circulation 72,722 72,003 72,141 59,448 1.0% 0.4% 22.3% 12.1%
In the hands of the public 66,166 65,647 65,162 54,529 0.8% 0.2% 21.3% 11.2%
In financial entities 6,556 6,356 6,979 4,918 3.1% 2.5% 33.3% 22.2%
Current account in the BCRA 26,065 26,036 25,739 21,576 0.1% -0.5% 20.8% 10.7%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 6,242 7,703 8,348 5,774 -19.0% -19.5% 8.1% -0.9%
Assets 119 0 0 3

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 32,258 32,621 30,263 19,984 -1.1% -1.7% 61.4% 47.9%
In dollars 0 0 0 19

NOBAC 22,309 24,556 26,733 36,438 -9.1% -9.7% -38.8% -43.9%

BCRA international reserves (5) 49,422 50,327 50,039 39,633 -1.8% 24.7%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 192,242 191,878 189,811 163,629 0.2% -0.4% 17.5% 7.7%
Current account (2) 52,568 50,135 48,180 48,460 4.9% 4.2% 8.5% -0.6%
Savings account 35,706 36,671 36,488 29,940 -2.6% -3.2% 19.3% 9.3%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 89,951 91,411 91,383 70,138 -1.6% -2.2% 28.2% 17.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 1,137 1,390 1,524 4,085 -18.2% -18.7% -72.2% -74.5%
CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 25
Other deposits (3) 12,880 12,271 12,235 10,980 5.0% 4.3% 17.3% 7.5%

Private sector deposits 137,930 139,718 137,963 117,456 -1.3% -1.9% 17.4% 7.6%

Public sector deposits 54,312 52,160 51,847 46,173 4.1% 3.5% 17.6% 7.8%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 8,065 7,920 7,637 5,958 1.8% 35.4%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 111,152 107,785 105,012 81,449 3.1% 2.5% 36.5% 25.1%

Loans to the private sector 100,022 96,599 93,723 70,108 3.5% 2.9% 42.7% 30.8%
Overdrafts 16,210 15,428 14,718 12,272 5.1% 4.4% 32.1% 21.1%
Documents 19,510 18,990 18,414 14,805 2.7% 2.1% 31.8% 20.8%
Mortgage loans 15,388 15,102 14,864 11,053 1.9% 1.3% 39.2% 27.6%
Pledge loans 6,622 6,389 6,253 4,300 3.6% 3.0% 54.0% 41.1%
Personal loans 25,140 24,079 23,311 15,519 4.4% 3.8% 62.0% 48.5%
Credit cards 12,595 12,216 11,864 8,489 3.1% 2.5% 48.4% 36.0%
Others 4,557 4,395 4,298 3,671 3.7% 3.1% 24.2% 13.8%

Loans to the public sector 11,130 11,186 11,290 11,342 -0.5% -1.1% -1.9% -10.1%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5,668 5,505 5,420 4,209 3.0% 34.7%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 118,734 115,782 113,342 102,989 2.5% 1.9% 15.3% 5.7%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 154,441 152,454 149,831 132,930 1.3% 0.7% 16.2% 6.5%
M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 258,408 257,525 254,973 218,158 0.3% -0.3% 18.4% 8.6%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 283,828 282,603 279,067 236,514 0.4% -0.2% 20.0% 10.0%
## Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (cash in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 104.968 104.162 102.645 85.441 0.8% 0.2% 22.9% 12.6%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 137.198 137.676 136.296 112.426 -0.3% -0.9% 22.0% 11.9%
M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 204.096 205.365 203.125 171.985 -0.6% -1.2% 18.7% 8.8%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 226.575 227.432 224.938 188.642 -0.4% -1.0% 20.1% 10.1%

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 747 0.8% 3.506 3.5% 2.430 2.5% 17.763 18.0%
Financial sector 1.572 1.6% 4.297 4.3% -3.865 -3.9% -1.841 -1.9%
Public sector -361 -0.4% -553 -0.6% -1.150 -1.2% -6.749 -6.8%
Temporary advances + profit transfers 497 2.304 5.300 4.587
Use of national government account -1.387 -4.704 -6.707 -10.145
External credit 529 1.847 257 -1.191
Private external sector -3.130 -3.2% -1.483 -1.5% 6.111 6.2% 17.435 17.6%
BCRA Securities 2.424 2.5% 947 1.0% 415 0.4% 7.178 7.3%
Others 242 0.2% 298 0.3% 919 0.9% 1.739 1.8%

International reserves -905 -1.8% 1.015 2.1% 3.713 7.5% 9.790 19.8%
Intervention in foreign exchange market -985 -2.0% -460 -0.9% 1.958 4.0% 5.638 11.4%
Payment to international organizations -120 -0.2% -594 -1.2% -1.168 -2.4% -1.512 -3.1%
Other public sector operations 359 0.7% 1.397 2.8% 1.519 3.1% 2.514 5.1%
Minimum cash -169 -0.3% 113 0.2% -57 -0.1% -1.153 -2.3%
Repo valuation -177 -0.4% 102 0.2% 588 1.2% 1.367 2.8%
Others 212 0.4% 483 1.0% 933 1.9% 2.997 6.1%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being performed.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 10.06 7.99 7.85 9.21 7.64
Amount traded 1.273 835 669 1.040 1.221

Fixed Term Deposits
In pesos
30 days 10.06 8.12 8.10 10.19 7.02
60 days or more 11.38 9.07 9.03 11.20 7.77
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.82 8.10 8.02 11.11 7.16
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.22 8.71 8.50 13.54 7.65

In dollars
30 days 1.37 1.22 1.25 1.23 1.11
60 days or more 2.03 2.04 2.13 2.28 2.06
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.55 1.68 1.33 1.08 0.80
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.87 2.89 2.80 3.32 2.82

Active Interest Rates May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

Prime in pesos at 30 days 15.88 11.59 11.55 15.99 8.64

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.98 8.04 7.50 13.13 7.10
Amount traded (total terms) 143 135 124 156 120

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
Current account advances 20.56 17.64 17.91 18.93 16.32
Documents on signature alone 17.62 14.35 14.78 16.97 12.23
Mortgages 12.37 11.91 11.23 12.44 10.75
Pledged loans 15.25 15.08 15.25 15.47 10.45
Personal loans 29.83 27.82 28.91 27.71 25.31
Credit cards n/a 26.09 25.70 27.47 25.66

International Interest Rates May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

LIBOR
1 month 2.50 2.79 2.82 5.04 5.32
6 months 2.85 2.85 2.69 4.84 5.37

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.43 2.04 1.59 3.11 4.77
10 years 3.88 3.65 3.50 4.09 4.75

FED Funds Rate 2.00 2.24 2.71 4.33 5.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.75 11.49 11.25 11.25 12.50
(1) Data up to March correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while those for April and May are estimates made based on the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 19 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

BCRA pass-through rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.54 8.00 8.00 8.00 7.00
 Liabilities 7 days 8.79 8.25 8.25 8.25 7.25
 Assets 7 days (1) 11.00 10.25 10.25 10.25 9.25

REPO total trading floor pass-through rates
 1 day 9.00 7.89 7.88 8.60 7.26
 7 days 9.74 8.31 8.25 9.43 7.31

Amount traded in REPO pass-through trading floor (daily average) 4,729 4,376 4,360 2,177 3,944

LEBAC rates in pesos (2)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 10.65 n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 10.67 n/a
 3 months n/a n/a n/a 10.75 7.90
 9 months 11.19 11.19 11.20 n/a 10.11
 12 months 11.60 11.47 11.40 n/a 10.33

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.25 0.98 1.34 2.13 0.80
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a 2.44 2.21 n/a 1.36
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a 2.51 n/a 1.65

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 400 511 537 284 512

 Foreign Exchange Market May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.16 3.17 3.16 3.14 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.15 3.17 3.16 3.14 3.08

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.18 3.18 3.16 3.14 3.08
 ROFEX 1 month 3.15 3.17 3.16 3.14 3.08
 Amount traded (all terms, millions of pesos) 136 274 283 172 352

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.90 1.88 1.85 1.76 1.55

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.91 4.99 4.91 4.58 4.16

 Capital Market May-08 Apr-08 Mar-08 Dec-07 May-07

MERVAL
 Index 2,165 2,138 2,110 2,185 2,170
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 104 152 100 148 83

Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 88.42 86.72 87.72 88.53 94.73
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 84.15 84.78 88.90 98.76 107.10
 BODEN 2014 ($) 63.55 69.25 72.67 69.79 87.81
 DISCOUNT ($) 56.89 63.57 67.96 73.98 100.20

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 786 897 804 631 256
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 267 291 317 257 167

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 20 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** State Bond.

**BONAR V:** Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CC:** Current account.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DISC:** Discount Bond.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Funds.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the U.S.

**FF:** Financial Trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-over-year.

**IGBVL:** Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).

**IGPA:** Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MAE:** Electronic Open Market.

**MEC:** Electronic Brokers Market.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MEXBOL:** Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**NDF:** Non-Deliverable Forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.

**PAR:** Par Bond.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SELIC:** Special System of Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIOPEL:** System of Electronic Operations.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**TCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**U.V.P.:** Units Linked to the Product.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

---

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 21

---

Monetary Report | May 2008 | BCRA | 22
