# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2008

Monthly Monetary Report
July 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Equity
Page 12 | Fixed Income
Page 12 | Institutional Investors
Page 12 | Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
Page 13 | Investment Mutual Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is stated: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on August 12, 2008. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary

• In July, the means of payment (M2) were located at $161,220 million, implying a year-on-year variation of 15%, with increases in both sight deposits and currency in circulation held by the public. For its part, private M2 was located at $139,300 million with a year-on-year variation that also reached 15%. The total of deposits in pesos accumulated a monthly increase of $4,570 million, driving an M3 growth in pesos of $6,270 million.

• An important part of the M3 increase was driven by the good performance of fixed-term deposits from the private sector, which totaled an increase of $2,000 million in July. In particular, deposits of less than $1 million, which had been the most affected between late April and mid-June, were those that explained the subsequent change in trend. In the month there was growth in both wholesale deposits (more than $1 million) and retail deposits.

• In a month with positive seasonality in money demand and within the framework of the normalization of financial markets, the Central Bank increased the availability of monetary resources with the regulatory instruments it had been using (repurchase of its own public securities and Treasury securities), together with a net purchase of foreign currency. In this way, international reserves ended the month at u$s47,545 million, a level somewhat higher than what they registered at the end of June.

• Once the compliance with reserve requirements was ensured, mainly in the second half of July, the entities accumulated their excess resources in repurchase agreements with the Central Bank. In July, the balance of these operations reached a historical maximum. The liquidity ratio – defined as the balance in current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks and repurchase agreements, as a proportion of deposits in pesos – was located at 20.5%, 1.5 percentage points above the value corresponding to the previous month. In this framework, banks completed the bimonthly position – which covered June and July – of minimum cash with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits.

• The growth of deposits and banking liquidity was reflected in short-term interest rates. The BADLAR interest rate of private banks (deposits of more than $1 million, 30 to 35 days) ended the month at 12.7%, with a decrease of 3.6 percentage points with respect to the level it presented at the end of June. Likewise, the average of interest rates paid for retail deposits (up to $100 thousand) decreased, standing at 11.4% at the end of July. When analyzing the daily evolution of shorter-term active interest rates, a downward trend was also observed, particularly from the last days of July. Meanwhile, in the interbank loan market, an average monthly decrease of 1 percentage point in interest rates was recorded.
• Loans to the private sector increased 1.2% in the month, with an annual expansion rate of 35%. Financing granted in pesos increased 1.1% ($1,150 million) in July, with an increase of $470 million in loans granted with real guarantees, followed by financing intended for consumption, which totaled a monthly increase of $400 million and loans linked to commercial activity, which grew $290 million.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In July, total means of payment (M2) stood at $161,220 million while private M2 stood at $139,300 million. In both cases, their year-on-year variation reached 15%. When considering their components, it was observed that both currency in circulation and demand deposits also grew around 15% over the last 12 months.

In a month with positive seasonality in money demand and within the framework of financial market normalization, the Central Bank supplied the increase in demand for means of payment primarily through the reduction of LEBAC and NOBAC stock in circulation and the purchase of National Government bonds in the secondary market.

Furthermore, it is important to note that in July this Institution became a net buyer of foreign currency again, so these operations also became an expansion factor for monetary aggregates. Although the "carry-forward effect" from June meant that the expansive effect of foreign exchange intervention was relatively reduced on average, net purchases during the course of July totaled u$s 803 million. In turn, the increase in loans to the private sector also constituted a channel for growth of monetary resources. On the other hand, time deposits of the private sector strengthened the upward trend they showed in June and their growth acted as a contraction factor when explaining the causes of M2 variation (see Chart 2.1).

Chart 2.2

Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector - Less than $1 million
thousands of (stock Federal Capital and GBA) thousands of
billions of $ millions of $

Following the decline that occurred mainly in May, private time deposits resumed an upward trajectory from mid-June, which was consolidated in July, when they accumulated an increase of $2,000 million (3.4%). In particular, deposits of less than $1 million, which had been the most affected between late April and mid-June, were those that explained the subsequent change in trend. When analyzing information developed from data on amounts of new deposits made in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires (which represent around 60% of the total balance of private time deposits), it is confirmed that the deposit segments where the greatest decline and subsequent recovery occurred were those with amounts under $100 thousand, followed by those between $100 thousand and $500 thousand. In both segments, the account holders are, in their great majority (around 80%), natural persons.
# Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 4

On the other hand, $1,500 million of the monthly increase in private fixed-term deposits were made up of deposits of $1 million and more, where the Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators had an important participation, allocating to this type of placements part of the funds that they must reallocate

**Graph 2.3**

IPC Rest and Market Expectations in accordance with the regulations that limit, in an increasingly strict manner, their investments in common funds of the

% (var. y-o-y) MERCOSUR (see Institutional Investors Section).
16
15 Dec-05 Nevertheless, it is estimated that their participation in
14.2
14 the monthly increase of the total wholesale placements
13 was between 40% and 50%, for which reason an
12 important growth of fixed-term deposits from other
Dic-07 11.5
11 10.6 10.7 account holders would also have been recorded.
10 Dic-06
10.2 9.3
9 With respect to fixed-term placements from the public
8 IPC Rest sector, during July they registered an average
7 Market Expectations IPC GBA 2008 (dec-dec) decrease of $700 million. However, this decline was
6 related to the "carryover" effect from June on the July
Ene-05 Jul-05 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08
average, since towards the end of the month they
Source: INDEC and REM accumulated significant growth.

In summary, deposits in pesos increased $4,570 million in July, which added to the growth of currency in public hands totaled an increase of $6,270 (2.4%) million for the broader aggregate in pesos, M3.

On the other hand, deposits in foreign currency increased US$110 million in the month, mainly due to the increase in private sight deposits. However, that result was the product of the growth of wholesale balances in a single day and in one bank, that if excluded yields a practically null variation for dollar placements.

**Graph 3.1**

% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos With respect to prices, in July the IPC GBA Rest sub-index
deposits prepared by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of
21 Cash + CC BCRA + Repos prices with seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or
20 Cash + CC BCRA with high tax component) presented an increase of 0.2%
19 monthly. In this way, the year-over-year (y-o-y) growth rate
18 Repos of IPC reached 11.5% (see Graph 2.3), placing itself 1.9
17 Rest percentage points (p.p.) above what was observed
16 a year earlier (9.6% y-o-y).

15

14
Ene-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Ene-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 3. Bank Liquidity¹
Source: BCRA

In July, once compliance with reserve requirements was ensured, banks accumulated their excess liquid resources in passive repo operations with the Central Bank. The banking liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, bank current accounts at the BCRA and passive repos with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—presented an average level of 20.5%, 1.5 p.p.

**Graph 3.2**

% of Minimum Cash Position above the previous month's average (see Graph
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position 3.1). The liquid resources maintained in the form of
2.5 repo operations with the Central Bank reached a
2.0 historical maximum during the course of July.
1.5
1.0 With respect to the minimum cash position, it should be
0.5 0.3 recalled that June and July were included in a unified
0.0 period for the measurement of reserve requirements.
-0.5 At the end of July, the minimum cash position
-1.0 Bimonthly Position (bimonthly June-July) of the system presented a surplus of 0.3% of total
-1.5 deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2). In the breakdown by
Abr-08 May-08 Jun-08 Jul-08 type of entity, for the case of private banks this ratio
Source: BCRA was 0.6% and 0.1% for public banks.
In the foreign currency segment, the position of minimum cash was maintained at a similar level to the previous month, with a surplus of 15% of dollar deposits.

## 4. Loans

Total loans to the private sector (in pesos and foreign currency) increased 1.1% ($1,310 million) in July. The stock reached $123,200 million, representing approximately 12% of GDP (see Chart 4.1). Total financing softened its expansion rate, varying in year-on-year terms at 35.3% compared to 39% recorded in the previous month.

Driven mainly by personal loans and mortgages, credits in pesos to the private sector advanced in the month 1% ($1,020 million), reflecting with respect to the same period of the previous year an increase of 36% (see Chart 4.2).

Following the monthly decline recorded in June, the lines destined mainly for commercial purposes presented in July an increase of 0.4% ($150 million). However, this increase was distributed unevenly among the different lines. Financings arranged through documents contracted 0.7% ($140 million). For their part, current account overdrafts advanced in the month 1.6% ($250 million), while the remaining commercial financings expanded in the period 0.8% ($40 million).

Financings destined mainly for consumption increased compared to the previous month 1% ($400 million), with a year-on-year variation close to 51.3%. The monthly growth was explained mainly by the behavior of personal loans which rose 1.9% ($530 million). For their part, credit card financings fell back 1.1% ($130 million), replicating the behavior of previous years where cancellation of card balances was observed on the occasion of the receipt of half of annual supplementary salary.

For their part, loans with real guarantees increased 2% ($470 million), showing in relation to the same month of the previous year a growth of 41.3%. Chattel loans grew 1.5% ($110 million), while mortgages rose during the period 2.3% ($360 million), exhibiting together with the previous month the largest increase of the year.

Finally, destined mainly to finance export activity (see Chart 4.3), loans in foreign currency to the private sector increased during June 2.4% (u$s 140 million).

## 5. Interest Rates

**Titles issued by the BCRA**

In July the interest rates of the primary market of LEBAC increased with respect to June for all

---

**Footnote 2:** Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

*Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 6*
10.8 terms (see Graph 5.1). In the case of NOBACs, the BCRA again carried out placements for significant amounts, among them, the placement of a NOBAC with a term greater than 600 days, a term at which placements had not been made since mid-April.

Graph 5.2 The BCRA continued operating in the secondary market
Call Interest Rate
% of LEBACs and NOBACs in order to regulate market liquidity. This Institution repurchased its securities in

13
operations settleable in pesos and through operations
12 settleable in dollars.

11
On the other hand, and following its monetary regulation
10 objective, the BCRA carried out placements in the primary
market for an amount lower than what was maturing. It should
9
be noted that the better liquidity situation of the system

Call private banks allowed for a smaller injection of funds, both through this
8
Call at 1 business day (Total of banks) channel, as well as through the secondary market repurchases

7 already mentioned. As a consequence of the BCRA's actions,
1-5 11-5 21-5 31-5 10-6 20-6 30-6 10-7 20-7 30-7 the total stock of securities was reduced in July by 2.2%

Source: BCRA
3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 7

Graph 5.3 with respect to the previous month and stood at the end of the month at PN
of $49,216 million.

Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day
%

30 Interfinancial Markets

25
Repo Market 1
Daily average

20 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
Once the reserve requirement compliance was assured, fundamentally in the second half of July,
banks increased their repo holdings at the
15
BCRA. In effect, the balance of passive repos showed a

strong increase reaching record levels ($15,430
10
million on July 29). Thus, the average balance

5 of passive repos for the BCRA increased
30-Jun 29-Aug 28-Oct 27-Dec 25-Feb 25-Apr 24-Jun $5,300 million, an amount that includes all the
Source: BCRA modalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO round,
overnight operations and investment funds).
For its part, there was only one active repo operation, which was for $155.5 million at variable rate
Graph 5.4 (BADLAR) and for a term of 60 days.

Call Market
millions of $ The interest rates of fixed-rate repos
800 (Net position average monthly by entity group) remained at the same levels as in June for

700 Foreign both active and passive operations. Thus,
600 Private National the interest rates of passive repos
500 Public remained at 8.75% and 9% for 1 and 7 days

400
300 respectively, while the interest rate of 7-day

200 active repos stood at 11%.

100

0

-100
-200 Interbank Market (call) 1

-300

-400
-500 During July the interest rate of operations up to
Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 15 days in the interbank market was reduced by 1 basis point,
Source: BCRA averaging 9.2% for the month. This decline can be attributed
to the comfortable liquidity situation that banks were experiencing. In this context, the decline in the
interbank interest rate was constant throughout the month (see
Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.5 The average interest rate of operations at 1 business day

% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 business days stood at 8.8%, which implied a decline of 1 basis point
20 Capital and GBA - Daily Data with respect to the previous month. The amounts traded in this

18 segment averaged the month at a value above

16 Retail Private Banks $650 million, $280 million below the average
Wholesale Private Banks for June.

14
In turn, in July the dispersion between the interest rates
12 negotiated daily was attenuated, a phenomenon that intensifies in
10 moments of uncertainty in the markets. In
 effect, the deviation of interest rates for call
 8
 operations with respect to their daily average was placed at

 6 2.37 p.p. on average in July, 0.34 p.p. less than in
 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08 May-08 Jun-08 Jul-08
 Source: BCRA June. However, the evolution of the deviation was not
 homogeneous throughout the month, and it began to

 Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 8Graph 5.6 decrease towards the third week of July, so the
 deviation at the end of July was 1.5 p.p. lower than
 % Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector
 19 Private Banks - By amount bracket registered at the end of June (see Graph 5.3).

 18
 17 Up to $100,000
 From $100,000 to $499,999 Finally, during July, unlike what occurred
 16 From $500,000 to $999,999 in May and June, private banks were net
 15 $1 million and above suppliers in the call market. Public banks were -

 14 as is customary - also net suppliers, although with
 13
 12 a significantly smaller amount than in the two
 11
 10 previous months (see Graph 5.4).

 9

 8

 7
 6 Passive Interest Rates¹

 Mar-07 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08
 Source: BCRA
 During July, passive interest rates showed a
 significant decline, especially in the wholesale bracket
 of short-term placements, stabilizing during the
 last week. This reduction occurred within a framework of
Graph 5.7 comfortable bimonthly position of minimum cash of banks
 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos and recovery of fixed-term placements.
 Private Sector In fact, the BADLAR rate for private banks was placed at
 % average monthly weighted by amount operated month-end at 12.7%, with a decline of 3.6 p.p. with respect
 20
 to the level registered at the end of June (see Graph 5.5).
 18 30-59 days
 60-89 days
 16 90-179 days
 14 180-365 days On the other hand, a decline was also observed, although to a lesser
 12 extent, in the interest rates paid by
 10 private banks for retail placements (for
 8 amounts less than $100,000), which reached a level
 6 of 11.4%, having decreased 0.9 p.p. with respect to the last
 4 June figure. In this way, a sharp decline was observed in the
 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 spread of interest rates for the different amount brackets,
 Note: Adjustable fixed-term operations by CER are not included. which returned to the levels of the first months
 Source: BCRA of the year (see Graph 5.6). Finally, when analyzing the
 interest rates of total placements by time bracket, a
 decline is observed for all segments, with the
 smaller decline standing out in the bracket of 30 to 59
Graph 5.8 days (see Graph 5.7) influenced by the high
 TNA, % Commercial Loans participation of retail placements in the total
 26 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount) of deposits within this time bracket.

 24

 22 Active Interest Rates¹ 4

 20

 18 Active interest rates evidenced dissimilar movements,

 16 with those belonging to short-term brackets standing out,

 14 in line with the decline in passive interest rates.

 12

 10
 Advances
 8 Documents The average interest rates of financings
 6 associated with commercial activity evidenced
 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 declines with respect to the month of June. The average
 Source: BCRA interest rate of advances fell 1.4 p.p., placing it at

4 The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to May 2008; the values for June and July 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.
Variable Income

In July, an increase in volatility was observed in the main stock markets, with the exception of the Chinese one (Graph 7.1). Along with greater volatility there were falls (in some cases significant) in stock market indices measured in their currency of origin, also in this case with the exception of the Shanghai index. The largest fall -of a series of selected indices- was observed in the IGBVL index (Peru) and was 15.5%, followed by that of BOVESPA (Brazil), of 8.5%; the one registered by MEXBOL (Mexico), of 6.4%; and then, those presented by the IGPA of Chile (2.1%) and the American S&P (1%). In contrast, the Shanghai index of China showed a positive result, of 1.4%. In this context, the VIX -index that measures the volatility of the S&P-
# 3.00 averaged July 24.4% (2.3 p.p. more than the previous month).
 Ene-07 Mar-07 May-07 Ago-07 Oct-07 Dic-07 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08
 Source: BCRA
 This scenario of negative performance for equity
 was influenced by fears of a worsening of the crisis
 affecting several important financial entities in the U.S.. The main drivers of these fears were the two largest
 mortgage credit companies in the U.S.: Fannie
 Mae and Freddie Mac. To assist these companies the
 Federal Reserve authorized, as an emergency measure,
 the Federal Reserve of New York to grant them
 loans at the primary credit rate, which must have
 as collateral Treasury bonds or federal agency bonds. The funding to these mortgage companies
 by the FED should be understood as a complement
 to the financial support of the Treasury, as stated by the
 board in the statement.

 Chart 7.1 
 Stock Market Volatility In Argentina, during July the MERVAL index measured
 in pesos registered a loss of 8.9%, reaching a
 Volatility (%) Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days value of 1,834 points at the end of the month. In the last
 MERVAL (Argentina) 62
 65 IPC (Mexico) twelve months the MERVAL accumulated a decline of 11.9%,
 BOVESPA (Brazil) 52 and so far this year it has lost 10.8%.
 Shanghai Index (China)
 55 S&P 500 (U.S.) (right axis)
 42 45 Measured in dollars, practically all the region's stock
 markets had losses in the month, except the Chilean one.
 32 35 The MERVAL showed a negative variation of 9.5%. As
 25 22 in the case of variations in local currency,
 15 12 the largest drop - measured in dollars - is headed by the
 5 2 IGBVL with a variation of -11%, followed by the
 Sep-06 Nov-06 Ene-07 Mar-07 May-07 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Ene-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08Brazil stock exchange, which fell 6.3%, and the IPC
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data which lost 3.9%. On the other hand, the
 Chilean stock exchange rose 1.9%, although due
 exclusively to the appreciation of the Chilean peso.

 In Latin American stock exchanges increased
 volatility was also recorded. In particular, the
 MERVAL volatility - 18 trading sessions - in annualized
 Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 11 terms and measured in dollars was 24.8% in July
 (6.1 p.p. greater compared to the previous month).

 The volumes traded daily on average at the
Chart 7.2 Buenos Aires Stock Exchange remained unchanged
 % Composition by items of the Pension and Retirement Fund compared to June, averaging $72 million
 daily.
 100
 Rest
 21.4 21.8 21.6 21.9
 80 Fixed Income Fund
 9.0 8.2 6.8 7.4
 60 13.9 13.4 13.4 11.6
 Stocks The volume of sovereign bonds traded (on average
 2.3 3.5 5.1 5.8
 per day) decreased compared to the level reached the
 40 Fixed Term previous month, having been in July $2,367 million,
 52.2 51.6 51.9 52.1$172 million less than during June.
 20 Public Securities
 National
 Available Funds On the other hand, in July two financing operations
 0 1.2 1.6 1.2 1.2
 15-Apr-08 15-May-08 13-Jun-08 15-Jul-08 were carried out through negotiable obligations, in
 pesos and at variable rate, maturing in 2010. The
 Source: BCRA based on information from SAFJP first, corresponding to Gas Natural BAN SA, was
 for a nominal value of $126 million. The other issuance,
 carried out by Rombo Financial Company, was for a
 nominal amount of $97 million. Both pay a
 margin over the BADLAR rate of private banks, which
 resulted in 4.2% for Gas Natural BAN and 4.25% for
 Rombo.

 Institutional Investors

Chart 7.3 
 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators6
 Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of
 billion $ Fixed income (variation July 08 vs. June 08) The total assets of the Pension and
 20 Mixed income millions of $ Retirement Funds (FJP) reached mid-July at $96,760
 18 Variable income million, showing in the last month a decline of
 16 Money Market 450
 196
14 250 1% ($960 million). The investment portfolio, with

 12 242 $95.630 billion, fell $940 million, while
 50
 10 1 cash balances remained stable during the period.

 8 -150
 The items that presented the largest declines

 6 -350 -677 were equities ($1,940 million) and Public

 4 Securities ($300 million).
 2 -550

 0 -750 -8
 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 The main increases occurred in fixed-term

 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data deposits ($660 million) and Common Investment Funds
 (FCI, $530 million). The new fixed-term placements,
 combined with the decline in market value of
 other assets, implied that these deposits
 increased again their participation within the
 FJP, moving from 5.1% to 5.8% (see Chart 7.2). On the
 other hand, although the FCI grew, a differential
 behavior was observed between local funds and
 those belonging to MERCOSUR. While the

 6 With information provided by the AFJP Superintendence (SAFJP) as of July 15.

 Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 12 former expanded ($980 million), the latter
 contracted ($450 million). It should be noted that these
 investors must adapt the composition of their portfolio to
 the limits established for MERCOSUR FCI holdings,
 modified last year. It is expected that
Chart 7.4 in order to reach the limit established by the regulations
 at the end of August, the administrators
 Financial Trust Issuances
 millions of $ (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
 1,800 will continue reducing their participation in MERCOSUR FCI
 40 from the current 5.5% to 4% of the FJP
 1,600
 (approximately $1,400 million).
 1,400
 19 41 July 2008:
 1,200 11 $1,043 M
 28
 The income from contributions to the
 25
 1,000 prom. 2007: 24 Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
 prom. 2006: $727M
 $628M 15 32 28
 (AFJP) for the month of June amounted to approximately
 800 prom. 2005: 22 19 1321 $960 million, recording a transfer of
 10 $430M 19 21 1814
 600 16 27 13 20 1515 approximately $65 million to the public system
 16 1518
 11 13 16 17 10 as a consequence of the transfers of individual
 400 13 9
 10 10 1213 12 capitalization accounts established in the
 200 4 96 pension reform.
 0
 Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others On the other hand, in the coming months the
 administrators should increase their placements
 in investments related to the real economy, which
 currently represent only 0.02% of the FJP. Indeed,
 last year's pension reform establishes
 as a partial goal for October 2008 that this type of
 investments reach 1% of the FJP.

 Common Investment Funds

 The assets of common investment funds (FCI)
 in pesos showed a decline in July, of $247 million
 (1.8%) (see Chart 7.3). In this way, the assets
Chart 7.5 of the FCI in pesos reached $13,178 million, while
 Underlying Assets those denominated in foreign currency were
 (issued amounts)
 located at $4,517 million, after falling 6.7% in the month.

 Underlying Assets Settlors

 Commercial Loans Personal Retail Loans
 75% 41%
 When considering the different types of funds, it is found
 Others that both money market and fixed income funds
 3%
 registered asset increases, explained by the
 increase in the value and quantity of shares. In
 this way, the assets of money market funds,
 which continued recovering after their decline
Mutuals, in May, reached $6,332 million (4% above the previous month) and represented 48% of the total FCI. Meanwhile, the equity of fixed-income funds registered an increase of 10% compared to June and reached $2,155 million. In contrast, the equity of variable-income funds decreased by 13.3%, totaling $5,111 million, due to the decline in the value of their quotas, in line with the behavior of the local variable-income market already mentioned.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 13 Financial Trusts

The issuances of financial trusts totaled in July $1,043 million (see Chart 7.4), and marked a record for what has gone of the year, both in amounts and in quantity of issuances (25), after two months of stability. Indeed, compared to June they experienced an increase of 54% and in relation to the same month of the previous year an increase of 76%. It is worth mentioning that placements in dollars were recorded, after several months with issuances exclusively in pesos. In the accumulated January-July 2008, the issuances of FF totaled $5,616 million, implying an increase of 33% compared to what was securitized in the same period of the previous year.

The underlying assets linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons) again constituted almost all of the securitized assets, representing 97% of the total (see Chart 7.5). The remainder corresponded to securitizations of commercial credits, whose participation has been discontinuous for what has gone of the year, since in general it is related to agricultural activity. However, in June and July this type of assets have been securitized again, although in amounts smaller than those observed in 2007.

The structure by type of trustor presented an increase in the participation of the role of retail merchants (41% of the total - see Chart 7.5) to the detriment of mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers (19%), while the importance of financial entities remained unchanged (37%). In this sense, the amounts placed by retail merchants doubled compared to June, while financial entities issued 50% more than the previous month.

During July, the interest rate cut reverted the upward trend observed since April of this year to begin to decline, in line with what happened in the monetary market. Indeed, when calculating the weighted average by amount, the interest rates of senior securities placed at variable rate reached 18.3% (see Chart 7.6) evidencing a decline compared to June of 2.2 p.p.. For its part, the rates of placements agreed at fixed rate were placed at 15.3%, noting a decline compared to June of 4.4 p.p.. In this way, it can be observed that the gap between the rates of the two types of securities widened significantly. For its part, the weighted average duration by amount of the senior FF securities issued in July began to recover after the decline that took place in May, increasing by 1.6 months compared to the past month and rising to 6.8 months.

7 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 14
Finally, it is important to mention the change in regulations regarding the payment of income tax by financial trusts, through Decree 1207/2008. This regulation eliminates the exemption from the payment of income tax to financial trusts, excepting financial trusts linked to the execution of infrastructure works dedicated to the provision of public services that meet the requirements detailed in the decree, related to fiduciary assets, terms and other aspects. By virtue of this, in the first days of August, some settlors postponed their placements.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Average percentage variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Jul-08 Monthly Last 12 months Jun-08 May-08 Jul-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 100,676 100,512 98,787 87,663 0.2% -0.2% 14.8% 5.2%
Monetary circulation 75,142 73,532 72,722 64,972 2.2% 1.8% 15.7% 6.0%
In the hands of the public 68,141 66,440 66,156 59,471 2.6% 2.2% 14.6% 5.0%
In financial entities 7,001 7,092 6,566 5,501 -1.3% -1.6% 27.3% 16.6%
Current account at the BCRA 25,534 26,980 26,065 22,691 -5.4% -5.7% 12.5% 3.1%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 9,710 4,682 6,242 2,595 107.4% 106.6% 274.2% 242.9%
Assets 70 16 119 65

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 27,419 29,929 32,773 26,359 -8.4% -8.7% 4.0% -4.7%
In dollars 0 0 0 19

NOBAC 22,319 21,876 22,331 35,334 2.0% 1.6% -36.8% -42.1%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) 47,600 47,918 49,422 43,869 -0.7% 8.5%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 196,145 191,605 192,264 167,664 2.4% 2.0% 17.0% 7.2%
Current account (2) 55,567 54,223 52,603 47,717 2.5% 2.1% 16.5% 6.7%
Savings account 37,516 35,508 36,177 33,049 5.7% 5.3% 13.5% 4.0%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 91,692 90,178 89,969 71,486 1.7% 1.3% 28.3% 17.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 744 895 1,137 3,750 -16.8% -17.1% -80.2% -81.8%
CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 25
Other deposits (3) 10,626 10,801 12,378 11,637 -1.6% -2.0% -8.7% -16.3%

Private sector deposits 139,722 136,218 137,929 121,999 2.6% 2.2% 14.5% 4.9%

Public sector deposits 56,423 55,386 54,336 45,665 1.9% 1.5% 23.6% 13.2%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 8,220 8,109 8,064 5,990 1.4% 37.2%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 112,946 111,934 111,148 85,474 0.9% 0.5% 32.1% 21.1%

Loans to the private sector 101,868 100,986 100,027 74,932 0.9% 0.5% 35.9% 24.6%
Advances 16,185 15,934 16,197 13,511 1.6% 1.2% 19.8% 9.8%
Documents 18,919 19,054 19,514 15,556 -0.7% -1.1% 21.6% 11.4%
Mortgage loans 16,110 15,753 15,387 11,730 2.3% 1.9% 37.3% 25.8%
Pledge loans 6,958 6,853 6,625 4,597 1.5% 1.2% 51.4% 38.7%
Personal loans 26,048 25,651 25,140 16,884 1.5% 1.2% 54.3% 41.4%
Credit cards 12,758 12,890 12,607 8,766 -1.0% -1.4% 45.5% 33.4%
Others 4,890 4,851 4,557 3,889 0.8% 0.4% 25.8% 15.2%

Loans to the public sector 11,079 10,948 11,121 10,541 1.2% 0.8% 5.1% -3.7%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5,996 5,811 5,674 4,409 3.2% 36.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (cash in circulation in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 123,708 120,663 118,759 107,188 2.5% 2.2% 15.4% 5.8%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 161,224 156,171 154,936 140,237 3.2% 2.9% 15.0% 5.3%
M3 (cash in circulation in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 264,286 258,044 258,421 227,135 2.4% 2.0% 16.4% 6.6%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 289,129 282,731 283,838 245,763 2.3% 1.9% 17.6% 7.8%
## Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (cash in circulation + private current account in pesos) 104.760 103.518 104.963 91.483 1.2% 0.8% 14.5% 4.9%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 139.303 136.021 137.666 121.123 2.4% 2.0% 15.0% 5.4%
M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 207.863 202.658 204.085 181.470 2.6% 2.2% 14.5% 5.0%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 229.619 224.275 226.561 198.485 2.4% 2.0% 15.7% 6.0%

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 165 0.2% 2.637 2.6% 4.319 4.3% 13.014 12.9%
Financial sector -4.974 -4.9% -1.920 -1.9% -7.356 -7.3% -7.405 -7.4%
Public sector 93 0.1% -301 -0.3% -1.090 -1.1% -4.935 -4.9%
Private external sector 363 0.4% -6.591 -6.5% 2.649 2.6% 4.072 4.0%
BCRA Securities 2.390 2.4% 8.472 8.4% 6.463 6.4% 17.048 16.9%
Others 2.292 2.3% 2.977 3.0% 3.653 3.6% 4.234 4.2%

International reserves -318 -0.7% -2.727 -5.7% 1.891 4.0% 3.731 7.8%
Intervention in the exchange market 121 0.3% -2.085 -4.4% 857 1.8% 1.329 2.8%
Payment to international organizations 72 0.2% -125 -0.3% -1.173 -2.5% -1.366 -2.9%
Other public sector operations -650 -1.4% 322 0.7% 1.483 3.1% 1.786 3.8%
Minimum cash -31 -0.1% -411 -0.9% -299 -0.6% -1.089 -2.3%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 170 0.4% -430 -0.9% 1.056 2.2% 3.106 6.5%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 9.23 10.26 10.06 9.21 10.43
Amount traded 750 1.085 1.254 1.040 1.422

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 12.41 13.10 10.06 10.19 7.34
60 days or more 13.14 13.92 11.38 11.20 7.92
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.84 14.93 10.82 11.11 7.70
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.65 17.41 13.22 13.54 8.61

In dollars
30 days 1.45 1.38 1.37 1.23 1.19
60 days or more 2.15 2.33 2.03 2.28 2.01
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.58 1.33 1.55 1.08 1.37
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.67 2.77 2.87 3.32 3.40

## Active Interest Rates Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

Prime in pesos at 30 days 22.47 23.81 15.88 15.99 8.90

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.28 13.37 10.98 13.13 8.36
Amount traded (total maturities) 142 141 143 156 119

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Advances in current account 22.91 24.32 20.36 18.93 18.07
Documents at single signature 21.58 22.63 17.38 16.97 13.15
Mortgages n/a 12.87 11.97 12.44 10.72
Pledge loans 21.86 17.79 15.72 15.47 10.13
Personal loans 33.22 29.66 28.72 27.71 24.71
Credit cards n/a 26.63 26.37 27.47 26.63

## International Interest Rates Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

LIBOR
1 month 2.46 2.47 2.50 5.04 5.32
6 months 3.12 3.10 2.85 4.84 5.37

US Treasury Bond
2 years 2.56 2.74 2.43 3.11 4.80
10 years 3.98 4.07 3.88 4.09 4.98

FED Funds Rate 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.33 5.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.45 12.18 11.75 11.25 11.79

(1) Data up to May correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while those from June and July are estimates made based on the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
# Reference Interest Rates Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 8.75 8.75 8.54 8.00 7.36
 Liabilities 7 days 9.00 9.00 8.79 8.25 7.61
 Assets 7 days (1) 11.00 11.00 11.00 10.25 9.61

Total Round REPO Repo Rates
 1 day 8.57 8.87 9.00 8.60 8.37
 7 days 9.10 9.29 9.74 9.43 8.12

Amount Operated of REPO Round Repos (daily average) 7,083 4,219 4,729 2,177 3,650

LEBAC Rates in Pesos (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.65 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.67 n/o
 3 months 11.05 n/o n/o 10.75 7.93
 9 months n/o 11.49 11.19 n/o 10.03
 12 months 11.94 11.82 11.60 n/o 10.24

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (2)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 0.99 n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.25 0.99 1.25 2.13 0.79
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.60 n/o n/o n/o 1.60
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.90

Amount Operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) n/d 452 408 284 453

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

Dollar Spot
 Exchange Houses 3.02 3.05 3.16 3.14 3.11
 BCRA Reference 3.02 3.04 3.15 3.14 3.11

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.05 3.07 3.18 3.14 3.13
 ROFEX 1 month 3.02 3.04 3.15 3.14 3.12
 Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 114 114 136 172 393

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.90 1.88 1.90 1.76 1.65

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.76 4.74 4.91 4.58 4.28

 Capital Market Jul-08 Jun-08 May-08 Dec-07 Jul-07

MERVAL
 Index 1,944 2,105 2,165 2,185 2,242
 Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 93 89 104 148 102

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 87.83 85.49 88.42 88.53 94.67
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 86.84 86.78 84.15 98.76 95.46
 BODEN 2014 ($) 64.65 63.63 63.55 69.79 83.65
 DISCOUNT ($) 62.06 61.24 56.89 73.98 88.67

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 882 769 786 631 312
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 297 258 267 257 198

(1) In the month of August 2007 it corresponds to the margin of interest rate tendered on the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 199. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank

**BODEN:** National State Bond

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient

**CNV:** National Securities Commission

**DISC:** Discount Bond

**EE.UU.:** United States of America

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Funds

**Fed:** Federal Reserve of the U.S.A.

**FF:** Financial Trusts

**i.a.:** year-over-year

**IGBVL:** Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru)

**IGPA:** Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile)

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector

**M3\*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the non-financial public and private sector

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market

**MEXBOL:** Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico)

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations

**PAR:** Par Bond

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product

**PM:** Monetary Program

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market

**SAFJP:** Superintendency of AFJP

**SELIC:** Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil)

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Informational Requirements

**VN:** Nominal Value

Monetary Report / July 2008 | BCRA | 20
