# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT
September 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 6 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 6 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 10 | Equities
Page 11 | Fixed Income
Page 12 | Institutional Investors
Page 12 | Pension and Retirement Fund Managers
Page 13 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 15 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was October 10, 2008. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In September, the average balance of total means of payment (M2) stood at $162,880 million. With the level reached, a new quarter of compliance with the monetary program was completed, with means of payment that continued growing at a rate lower than nominal output.

• The demonstrated flexibility of monetary policy in the face of past episodes of greater turbulence allowed local variables to continue showing signs of normality despite the context of elevated international volatility. The availability and continuous development of instruments to address critical situations constitute an "insurance" that allows mitigating the effects of adverse shocks in the monetary market in particular and in the local economy in general.

• Within this framework, term deposits from the private sector continued to increase and in September accumulated growth of $1,500 million (2.4%), which was comprised of both wholesale and retail placements (of less than $1 million). In this way, term deposits from the private sector accumulated an increase of $7,250 million between the end of May and September 30.

• Financial entities continued showing significant liquidity levels. The banking liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—presented an average level of 21%, similar to the average of the previous month. When also considering holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, the broader liquidity ratio remained at 39%. Reinforcing the character of liquidity reserve of these securities, the Central Bank enabled as of the end of September an automatic repurchase round for LEBAC and NOBAC with up to 6 months of residual term in the possession of banks.

• The Argentine financial system nearly doubled its equity over the past four years, a period in which rediscounts for illiquidity situations practically disappeared. During those years the public sector became a net creditor of the financial sector (with deposits exceeding loans by almost 4 times) and financing to the private sector (which was half of the public sector in 2004) represents more than double the assistance to the State, whether the Nation, the provinces or municipalities.

• The balance sheet presented by our financial system is solid; evidencing its strengthening over the years through the growth of deposits (almost 12,000 million pesos in the third quarter, with more than half of the increase coming from the private sector); beyond the profound international financial deterioration, aggravated exponentially in the last month of September.
• Total loans to the private sector, in pesos and in foreign currency, showed an increase of 2.2% ($2,800 million). Although the current increase was significantly higher than that observed in the three previous months, the total balance continued to moderate its expansion rate, varying in year-on-year terms by 31% compared to 33% in the previous month. Driven mainly by advances and personal loans, credits in pesos to the private sector advanced 2.2% ($2,270 million), reflecting an increase close to 32% compared to the same period of the previous year.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 3
 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Graph 2.1
 Means of Payment in terms of GDP
 %
 19 In September, the average balance of total means of
 18 payment (M2) was $162,880 million, after registering a
 17 monthly increase of 3.4%. With the level reached, a new

 16 quarter of compliance with the monetary program was
 15 completed, with means of payment that continued
 growing at a slower rate than nominal product (see
 14
 Graphs 2.1 and 2.2).
 13

 12 The monthly increase in M2 was driven by demand
 deposits, as cash in the hands of the public decreased

 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 slightly (0.2%).

 Source: BCRA
 In particular, the monthly growth of private time
 deposits was $1,500 million (2.4%) and was composed of
 both wholesale and retail placements (of less than $1
 million). In this way, the average balance in this latter
 segment practically reached the April level, prior to the
 Graph 2.2 May decline (see Graph 2.1). This behavior, together with
 Growth of Means of Payment and GDP the sustained growth of wholesale placements, led to
 % (y-o-y var.) time deposits accumulating an increase of $7,250 million
 5 since the end of May.

 3 Y-o-y var. M2 - Y-o-y var. GDP (in p.p.)

 1 Considering furthermore the behavior of the rest of the
 -1 deposits in September, M3 – which includes cash in the
 -3 hands of the public and total deposits in pesos –
 -5 accumulated an increase of $4,200 million (1.6%).
 -7
 The main factor that contributed to the expansion of M3
 -9 was the growth of loans to the private sector, followed
-11 by Central Bank operations: foreign currency purchases,
-13 decrease in the outstanding stock of LEBACs and NOBACs
-15 and purchases of national government securities in the
 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 secondary market (see Graph 2.3).

 Source: BCRA

 Meanwhile, foreign currency deposits increased u$s110
 million in the month, mainly driven by placements from
 Graph 2.3 the private sector. In particular, an increase in time
 Factors Explaining M3 deposits in this group of holders was recorded.
 thousands of (September 2008, on average)
 millions of $
 5
 4 In all, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, which
 3 includes deposits in pesos and dollars and cash in the
 2 hands of the public, accumulated a monthly increase of
 1 $5,000 million (1.7%), with year-on-year growth of 18%.
 0

 -1 With respect to prices, the Rest of the Remainder
 -2 subindex of the CPI GBA prepared by INDEC (which
 -3 excludes the measurement of prices with seasonal
 -4 behavior, regulatory-related or with high tax component)
 Foreign Currency Sector Private LEBAC and Net Purchase Gov't Titles Other M3 presented a monthly increase of 0.6%, which was lower
 Purchases* Loans NOBAC of National Banks than the September 2007 increase (0.9%). From this
 excluded subject to
 regulation
 *Includes Central Bank intervention and Treasury purchases
 Source: BCRA
Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 4

manner, the year-on-year growth rate (y.o.y.) of CPI
Rest declined to 11.0%, although positioned 1.2
percentage points (p.p.) above what was observed
Chart 2.4 a year ago (9.8% y.o.y., see Chart 2.4).
CPI Rest and Market Expectations
% (y.o.y. change) 1
16

3. Bank Liquidity
15 Dec-05
14.2
14 In September the banking liquidity ratio of financial
13 entities, defined as cash in banks, bank current
12 accounts at the BCRA and reverse repos for the BCRA
Dic-07
11 10.6 10.7 11.0 as a percentage of deposits in pesos, presented an
10 Dec-06 average level of 21% similar to that of the previous
10.2 9.1
9 month. In this manner, the CPI Rest
8 continued the situation of comfortable liquidity in the
7 Market Expectations CPI GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec) entities. Additionally, the broader liquidity ratio
6 –also considering holdings of LEBAC
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 and NOBAC– was positioned at 39%, also stable
Source: INDEC and REM regarding August (see Chart 3.1).

Chart 3.1
For its part, the position of minimum cash in pesos
Bank Liquidity Ratio finished with a surplus of 0.3% of total
% of deposits 30-day moving average deposits in pesos. Both private banks
50 and public banks finished with a surplus, of 0.4%
48 and 0.1% of deposits, respectively, similar to the
46 levels registered at the end of other periods of
44 Cash + CCBCRA + Repos + LEBACs reserve requirement calculation (see Chart 3.2).
42
40 As indicated in Section 5, referring to the Repo
38 Market, a large portion of the excess liquidity above
36 the minimum cash requirement was placed in repos
34 at the Central Bank.
32

30
Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 The position of minimum cash for the foreign
Source: BCRA currency segment finished September with a surplus
of 16% of deposits in dollars, increasing 2
Chart 3.2 p.p. compared to the previous month.

Data estimated

Daily Cumulative 1 1
% of % of 4. Loans
deposits deposits
Private Banks Public Banks
5 5

4 4 Total loans to the private sector, in pesos and in
3 3 foreign currency, showed an increase of 2.2%
2 2 ($2,800 million) during September. Although this
1 0.4 0.1 1 increase proved significantly higher than
0 0 that observed in the three previous months, the
-1 -1 total balance continued to moderate its expansion
-2 Bim. Pos. -2 pace, varying in year-on-year terms 31% versus
-3 -3 33% in the previous month. In this manner, the
-4 -4 total stock reached $127,400 million,
Jun-08 Jul-08 Aug-08 Sep-08 Jun-08 Jul-08 Aug-08 Sep-08 representing approximately 12% of
Source: BCRA GDP (see Chart 4.1).

1 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans in portfolios of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 5

Driven mainly by advances and personal
Chart 4.1 loans, credits in pesos to the private sector
Loans to Non-Financial Private Sector advanced 2.2% ($2,270 million) in the month,
% % reflecting with the same period of the previous year
60 25 an increase of close to 32%.
23
40 21 The lines with predominantly commercial
20 19 purposes presented an advance of 2.9% ($1,160
17 million) in September. This increase was explained
0 15 fundamentally by advances on current account,
13 which grew 5% ($800 million). In this sense, although
-20 11 advances increased their year-on-year rate of change
9 relative to the previous month, going from 22% to
-40 var. y.o.y. in nominal terms 32%, part of this acceleration is explained by the
7 In terms of GDP (right axis) slowdown
-60 5
Jun-97 Dec-98 Jun-00 Dec-01 Jun-03 Dec-04 Jun-06 Dec-07 that suffered the previous year (see Graph 4.2). The
 Source: BCRA
 financings instrumented with documents expanded
 1.5% ($290 million), while the remaining commercial
 financings grew in the period 1.4% ($70 million).

Graph 4.2 For its part, credits destined mainly to

 millions of $ Commercial Loans %
 900 (monthly and year-on-year avg. var.) 90 consumption increased 1.6% ($700 million) compared
 to the previous month. Personal loans

 700 70 rose in the period 2.2% ($640 million),

 500 50 while credit card financings advanced 0.5% ($60
 million).

 300 30

 100 10 Loans with real guarantee increased 1.9% ($410
 million), with both lines softening their expansion

-100 -10 pace. Chattel loans grew 1.6% ($120 million), with
 Monthly Var. Advances
-300 Monthly Var. Documents -30 a year-on-year variation of 43% (see Graph 4.3).
 Y-o-y Var. Advances (right axis) Meanwhile, mortgages rose 1.8% ($290 million),
-500 Y-o-y Var. Documents (right axis) -50
 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 showing an expansion of 32% with the same period
 of the previous year.

Source: BCRA

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
 destined mainly to finance export activity, increased
Graph 4.3 during August 1.1% (u$s 70 million).

millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 %
600 Monthly Var. Mortgages 90

 Monthly Var. Chattel Loans 5. Interest Rates
500 Y-o-y Var. Mortgages (Right Axis) 75
 Y-o-y Var. Chattel Loans

 Securities issued by the BCRA2
400 60

300 45 During September and in line with the increase
 implemented in the interest rates of Central Bank
200 30
 repo operations, the interest rates in the primary

100 15 market of LEBAC increased by approximately 0.7
 p.p. for all terms. In the case of NOBAC, the

 0 0 auctioned margins remained stable compared to the
 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08
 Source: BCRA previous month. It should be noted that NOBAC with
 residual terms greater than 1 year were only

 2 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 6
 adjudicated in early month (see Graph 5.1). On the
 other hand, the larger amounts placed in both

Graph 5.1 instruments during September were lower than the
 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC total that matured, thus producing an expansionary

 NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR LEBAC - TNA monetary effect in the month of approximately $43.4
 %
3.5 % million.

 12.3 The BCRA continued operating in the secondary
3.0

 12.05 market of LEBAC and to a greater extent NOBAC,
2.5
 with the objective of injecting liquidity into the
2.0 11.8
 market. Repurchases were carried out in operations

1.5 11.55 settled in pesos for an amount of $64 million. As
 with the previous month, repurchases were also not
1.0 11.3
 carried out under the modality of operations
 26/08/2008 26/08/2008 settleable in dollars.
0.5 23/09/2008 11.05 23/09/2008
0.0 10.8 With the purpose of reinforcing the mechanisms for
 Source: BCRA 50 250 450 650 850 30 130 230 330 duration (days)
 provision of immediate liquidity, this Institution announced
 the implementation of a daily round to repurchase
 automatically, LEBAC and NOBAC securities with up to
 6 months of residual term in the possession of banks.
 To access this source of funds, the nominal values will
 Table 1 be discounted at a rate equivalent to the BADLAR of
 Line of fixed-rate repos of the BCRA in effect since Sep-08 (%) private banks plus a spread of 6%. However, to date
 there has been no demand for funds through this channel.
 Days Previous* Current Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
 1 10.75 8.75 11.75 9.75
 7 11.25 9.25 12.25 10.25 The total stock of securities issued by the BCRA
 14 11.75 9.75 12.75 10.75 decreased slightly (0.1%) during this month compared
 21 12.00 10.00 13.00 11.00 to the previous one, standing at the end of September at
 28 12.25 10.25 13.25 11.25 VN $49,881 million.
 60 14.00
 *From 08/08/08 to 22/09/08
 Interbank Markets
 Repo Market1

 As in the month of August, entities continued to allocate
 an important part of their excess resources to the repo
 market with the Central Bank. Indeed, the average balance
 of passive repos for this Institution remained around
 Chart 5.2 $11,100 million, a similar amount to the average for the
 % Call Interest Rate previous month, considering repos arranged under all
 the modalities in which the Central Bank operates (REPO
13 round, overnight operations and mutual funds). On the
 other hand, the average balance of active repos was
12
 slightly reduced, standing at $113 million.
11
 At the end of the month the BCRA modified the current
10 scheme of interest rates for repo operations. In this
 regard, it raised by 1 p.p. the interest rates on fixed-rate
9 repos, as indicated in Table 1. Finally, the Central Bank
 extended the maximum available term –to 90 days– for
8 Call Private Banks active repo operations at a variable rate at a BADLAR4
 Call at 1 business day (Total Banks) private banks rate plus 4 p.p. spread.
7
 1-5 11-5 21-5 31-5 10-6 20-6 30-6 10-7 20-7 30-7 9-8 19-8 29-8 8-9 18-9 28-9 Interbank Market1

 Chart 5.3 In September the interest rate of the interbank market
 Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 business day increased by 0.5 p.p., averaging 9.2% for the month.
 % In particular, the average interest rate for operations
30 at 1 business day stood at 9%, which implied an
 increase of 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month
25 Daily Average (see Chart 5.2). The amounts traded in this
 Average ± 1 Std Deviation segment averaged around $650 million for the month,
 $50 million above the August average.
20
 The deviation of interest rates for call operations
15 relative to their daily average stood at 0.55 p.p. on
 average in September, a deviation 0.4 p.p. lower than
10 that observed in August (see Chart 5.3), continuing thus
 the downward trend in this indicator.
5
 It should be noted that, as of September 22, they began
 30-Jun 29-Aug 28-Oct 27-Dec 25-Feb 25-Apr 24-Jun 23-Aug to show a moderate upward trend, in coincidence with the
 Source: BCRA change in the interest rate structure for repo operations
 issued by the BCRA.

1
 Passive Interest Rates
 Chart 5.4
 Throughout September the passive interest rates
 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days remained stable both in the wholesale segment and in
21 Capital and GBA - Daily Data the retail segment, reflecting the adequate liquidity
 situation of the financial system. Indeed, the average of
19 the BADLAR rate of private banks stood at
# BADLAR Private Banks 12.1%, with a decline of only 0.1 p.p. compared to the August average (see Graph 5.4). On the other hand,

stability was also observed in the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements (for amounts less than $100,000), which reached an average level of 11.3% at the end of September, similar to that recorded during August. In this way, the spread of interest rates for the different amount brackets remained unchanged.

Similarly, when analyzing interest rates by type of depositor in the most relevant bracket (30 to 59 days), generalized stability is observed for the different depositors. The average rates offered to financial services companies were located at 11.9% with a decline of 0.1 p.p. compared to the August average, while the rates offered to natural persons decreased slightly (0.1 p.p.) reaching an average of 11.7% in September (see Graph 5.5).

It is noted, however, that in the last business days of the month an increase in passive interest rates began to be noticed.

## Active Interest Rates
average monthly rate weighted by amount traded

Active interest rates showed declines in most of the lines, and especially in those of short term, more sensitive to the situation, which continued with the downward trend initiated in July.

The interest rate for advances fell 1 p.p. compared to the average level of August, placing itself at 18.8% (see Graph 5.6). In turn, when considering a more homogeneous segment that concentrates a high proportion of this market, that of advances with agreement for one day, granted to companies for amounts exceeding $10 million in Capital and GBA, it is observed that the interest rate was located at 14.9%, with no changes compared to August. For its part, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents fell 0.4 p.p., placing itself on average at 17.7%. This decline was explained by the fall in the interest rate of the most relevant segment of documented loans, which is that corresponding to companies, for more than one million pesos, and up to 30 days of term, which fell 0.5 p.p..

Regarding the interest rates of consumer loans, in September the average interest rate for personal loans was 30.5%, with a decline of 1.1 p.p. compared to that observed in August. This fall was explained mainly by the decline in the rate observed in the bracket of loans from $5 thousand to $10 thousand pesos, which dropped 1 p.p.. For its part, the interest rates of credit card financing corresponding to August remained stable, in the order of 27.8%.

Finally, the interest rates of longer-term financing registered slight increases. In the case of the interest rate for mortgage loans, it reached a monthly average of 12.9% with an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to the level observed in August and a high participation of public banks as lenders. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to
5 The information to elaborate this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to July 2008. The values for August and September 2008 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data from loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 9

financings with pledge guarantee stood at 18.8%, with an increase of 0.2 p.p.

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market6

The stock of international reserves remained practically stable compared to the previous month, totaling at the end of September US$47,121 million (see Graph 6.1). While operations of the public sector originated an increase in reserves, the rest of the factors that impact international reserves practically offset its effect.

In the foreign exchange market, the wholesale Dollar quotation (Reference) with respect to the peso increased by 1.6%, with the average quotation being 3.08 $/US$. Meanwhile, with respect to the Euro, the peso appreciated by 2.4%, registering an average quotation of 4.43 $/Euro. Finally, the peso also appreciated with respect to the Real (8.9%), as the monthly average quotation was 1.72 $/Real.

Source: BCRA

7. Capital Market

Equity

In September, an abrupt and unprecedented increase in volatility was observed in the stock markets (Graph 7.1). Along with greater volatility, there were sharp declines in stock indices measured in their original currency. The largest decline - of a series of selected indices - was observed in the IGBVL index of Peru which fell 15.3%, followed by BOVESPA (Brazil), which decreased 11%, the American S&P with 9.1% decline, the IGPA of Chile (5.9%), the MEXBOL (Mexico) (5.3%), and the Shanghai Index with a decline of 4.3%. In this context, the VIX – index that measures the expected volatility of the S&P - averaged 30.2% in September (9.5 p.p. more than the previous month) reflecting the context of high uncertainty in which international markets operated during this month.

This scenario of strongly negative performance for equity (and also for fixed income of emerging countries) was influenced by a worsening of the crisis affecting several important entities in the U.S. and Europe, compromising market stability and increasing risks regarding a global recession. It also negatively influenced the performance of certain stock exchanges the evolution of the price of the main commodities.

6 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 10
Specifically, problems in the functioning of the main interbank markets worsened considerably, especially in the U.S. and Europe, which led to the bankruptcy of some banks, and necessitated rescues of banks (and financial and insurance companies) by the U.S. Treasury and some European countries. In this context, and to prevent greater systemic contagion from affecting economic activity to a greater extent, the U.S. Treasury proposed a plan to help put a floor under the prices of the so-called "toxic" assets that are on the balance sheets of the financial system. At the end of September, the climate of uncertainty continued (it even worsened).

In Argentina, during September the MERVAL index – measured in pesos – registered a loss of 10.1%, reaching a value of 1,598 points at the end of the month. Over the last twelve months, the MERVAL obtained a negative return of 27%, and so far this year it has also lost value by 25.7%.

Chart 7.2

Sovereign Risk Indicators: Measured in dollars, all stock exchanges in the region had EMBI spreads of Arg and the Region spreads strong losses due, in part, to the sharp in basis points basic CDS of Argentina in basis depreciation of emerging market currencies, points
600 CDS 2 years 950 EMBI Argentina which reverses the appreciation trend observed
1200 CDS 5 years EMBI Latin America (right 550 1000 CDS 10 years 850 axis) 500
750 450 in much of 2008. In particular, the MERVAL
800 400 exhibited a negative variation of 13%. Of the other
650 350 stock indices, the largest fall – measured in dollars –
600 550 300 was that of the Brazilian stock exchange, which decreased
400 450 250 23.9%, followed by the IGBVL (Peru) with a variation of
200 –16.2%, the IGPA of Chile of -12.6%, and the IPC
200 350 150 (Mexico) which lost 11%.

0 250 100
Jun-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jun-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08

Source: Bloomberg Volatility in the Latin American stock exchanges also recorded considerable increases. In the specific case of MERVAL volatility – 18 trading sessions in annualized terms and measured in dollars – it was 60% in September (30.5 p.p. higher compared to the previous month).

The average daily volumes traded on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange increased compared to August by $18 million, given that the average amount traded reached $76 million daily.

Fixed Income

The marked climate of volatility in the markets already mentioned translated into a decrease in appetite for risk and an advance in the deleveraging process, with the corresponding flight to quality. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries, increased 115 b.p.. For its part, the spread of Latin America's external debt also increased by 123 b.p. and that of Argentina by 282 b.p. (Chart 7.2). Meanwhile, the spread of Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts increased by 202 b.p..

The volume of public securities traded in the local market (on average daily) decreased compared to the level reached the previous month, having been in September $1,904 million, $397 million less than during August.

With regard to the private debt market, during September, financing through negotiable obligations was carried out through two issues. The first was made by Tarjeta Naranja SA placing an amount of u$s 20 million for 1 year, at an annual rate of 11%. The other corresponded to Central Térmica Loma de la Lata SA for an amount of u$s 178 million with maturity in 7 years, at a rate of 12.95%.

Institutional Investors

Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators7

Chart 7.3 The total Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP) reached mid-September at $94,190 million,
millions $ Variation by items of the Pension Fund showing in the last month a decline of 2.9% ($2,780

600 millions). In this way, it registered the largest

400 decrease since August 2007, when the

200 FJP was declining as a consequence of transfers of

0 funds from individual capitalization accounts

-200 to the public system established in the pension

-400 reform.

-600

-800
 Income in the form of contributions to the
-1,000
 Pension Fund Administrators
-1,200
 (AFJP) for the month of August amounted to approximately
-1,400
 Nat. Pub. Tit. FCI Shares Foreign Productive Fixed Rate $1,020 million.
 Titles Projects
 Source: BCRA based on SAFJP information

With regard to the investment portfolio, with $92,980 million, it presented in the last thirty days under analysis a decrease of 3.2% ($3,050 million). The instruments that registered the main declines were Public Securities ($1,280 million), Investment Funds ($1,020 million), Shares ($590 million) and Foreign Securities ($580 million), affected by the crisis in international financial markets (see Chart 7.3).

7 With information provided by the AFJP Superintendency (SAFJP) as of September 15.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 12

The main advances were verified in Productive or Infrastructure Projects ($440 million) and in Fixed Rate investments ($370 million). These latter placements again increased their participation within the FJP, moving from 6.5% to 7.1%.

Through investment in negotiable obligations issued by the Pampa Energía company, to finance expansion works of the Loma de la Lata Thermal plant, the AFJPs increased their placements in investments related to the real economy. In this way, these assets expanded their participation within the FJP moving from 0.02% to approximately 0.5%. Other similar projects would be in the process of analysis or implementation that would allow the administrators to meet the partial goal of 1% established for October 2008 by the pension reform of last year.

Investment Funds
Chart 7.4

thousands of The equity of the investment funds (FCI) in
millions $ Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos
20 pesos reached at the end of September $12,368
Fixed Income (Variation September 08 vs. August 08)
Millions of $ million, decreasing by $355 million (2.8%)
18 Mixed Income
15 300 with respect to the previous month. In turn, the equity of
16 Variable Income 200
Money Market 283 funds in foreign currency registered a decline of
14 100
20.5% in the month, standing at $3,021 million at
12 0
the end of September. In this last group, the abrupt
 1
10 -100 decrease was concentrated in the segment of
8 -200
variable income funds, in line with the negative scenario
6 -300
that prevailed in the month for this market
-546 -400
4
(see Section 7. Variable Income).
-500
2
-600
0 In the peso segment, money market funds
Ene-05 Jul-05 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08-700
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data registered growth again explained by the increase in the number of share units. Thus they totaled an equity of $6,996 million in September, and gained participation in the total (57% vs. 53% last month).

On the other hand, variable income funds in pesos showed a sharp decrease (15%), although less than that registered last month, thus reaching an amount of $3,124 million. Said decline of $546 million was due to both lower prices and quantity of share units.

For its part, fixed income funds in pesos also showed a decline (5%) in their equity ending September at $2,005 million. This change was explained mainly by the fall in the quantity of share units.
# Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 13

## Financial Trusts⁸

The issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled $893 million in September (see Graph 7.5), showing a clear recovery after the contraction observed last month, related to the tax change implemented through Decree 1207/2008. The variation compared to August was 117% ($481 million) and 20% in year-over-year terms ($152 million). For its part, the number of issuances also recovered, registering 22 placements, (14 more compared to the previous month and 3 more compared to September 2007). When considering the accumulated amount in January-September 2008, FF issuances totaled $6,922 million, 25% above what was securitized in the same period of the previous year.

Regarding the underlying assets, although those linked to consumption continued to constitute the majority of securitized assets, this month they decreased their participation in relation to recent months (16 percentage points compared to August), representing 77% of the total (See Graph 7.6). However, this was not related to a decline in the securitized amount, which grew 6% compared to August, but rather to other types of assets gaining importance. In particular, pledge loans, which had not had a presence during the year so far, increased their participation to 11% of the total issued in the month, through a $100 million operation. Despite this, in the accumulated total so far this year, a strong concentration of assets linked to consumption is observed (with a participation of 91%).

During September, the structure by type of trustor registered a major change compared to the previous month, tending to readjust after the particular composition observed in August. In this sense, retail stores once again concentrated the majority of securitizations, as in July, with 49% of the total (+36 percentage points compared to August), followed by mutual societies, cooperatives, and non-bank credit card issuers, which contributed 40% of what was issued, (-28 percentage points compared to August). By contrast, financial entities failed to recover their previous level of participation prior to the modification of the tax treatment of FFs, representing only 4% of the total.

The interest rates on senior titles presented disparate behavior depending on their type of return. In this sense, when calculating the weighted average rate by amount, senior titles placed at fixed rates, which in August had registered an increase mainly due to the greater

---

⁸ Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.
millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF uncertainty generated by the tax change,
16.000 (detail by type of trustee)
 Financial Entities returned to levels similar to those in July,

14.000 Mutual Societies, Cooperatives and Credit Card Issuers not reaching 15.2% (see Chart 7.7) through a
 bank
12.000 Retail Stores decrease of 1.2 p.p. While the negotiated securities

10.000 Others at variable rate, practically did not register any variation,
 placing themselves at 15.6% compared to 15.7% registered in the
 8.000
 previous month.

 6.000

 4.000 According to the latest balance information

 2.000 corresponding to June 2008, the stock of assets of
 the FF reached $16,265 million (see Chart 7.8),
 0
 2004-IV 2005-II 2005-IV 2006-II 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV 2008-II growing 2.2% compared to March, while in the

Source: own elaboration based on CNV year-on-year comparison such stock advanced 20%.

 Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 15
 8. Monetary and
 Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Sep-08 Monthly Last 12 months Ago-08Jul-08Sep-07
 NominalRealNominalReal

 Monetary base 101,628 100,723 100,676 87,831 0.9% 0.2% 15.7% 6.3%
 Monetary circulation 74,121 74,509 75,142 64,841 -0.5% -1.2% 14.3% 5.0%
 In the hands of the public 67,276 67,427 68,129 59,334 -0.2% -0.9% 13.4% 4.1%
 In financial entities 6,845 7,082 7,013 5,507 -3.3% -4.0% 24.3% 14.1%
 Current account at the BCRA 27,507 26,214 25,534 22,990 4.9% 4.2% 19.6% 9.9%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 11,064 11,122 9,710 3,535 -0.5% -1.2% 213.0% 187.4%
 Assets 113 157 70 758

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 22,678 25,193 27,419 25,009 -10.0% -10.6% -9.3% -16.7%
 In dollars 0 0 0 16

 NOBAC 27,462 24,581 22,319 34,232 11.7% 10.9% -19.8% -26.3%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 47,072 47,300 47,600 42,931 -0.5% 9.6%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 204,116 199,777 196,151 172,137 2.2% 1.5% 18.6% 8.9%
 Current account (2) 59,194 53,543 55,564 44,572 10.6% 9.8% 32.8% 22.0%
 Savings account 36,409 36,517 37,525 32,903 -0.3% -1.0% 10.7% 1.6%
 Time deposits not adjustable by CER 97,367 98,694 91,746 78,859 -1.3% -2.0% 23.5% 13.4%
 Time deposits adjustable by CER 483 612 707 3,210 -21.1% -21.6% -85.0% -86.2%
 CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 14
 Other deposits (3) 10,664 10,413 10,608 12,579 2.4% 1.7% -15.2% -22.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 143,589 141,570 139,763 122,816 1.4% 0.7% 16.9% 7.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 60,527 58,208 56,388 49,321 4.0% 3.3% 22.7% 12.7%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,593 8,479 8,221 6,742 1.3% 27.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 116,098 114,034 112,904 90,242 1.8% 1.1% 28.7% 18.1%

 Loans to the private sector 105,121 103,077 101,830 79,642 2.0% 1.3% 32.0% 21.2%
 Advances 16,914 16,113 16,166 12,845 5.0% 4.2% 31.7% 20.9%
 Documents 19,280 18,987 18,912 16,694 1.5% 0.8% 15.5% 6.1%
 Mortgage loans 16,705 16,413 16,083 12,710 1.8% 1.1% 31.4% 20.7%
 Pledge loans 7,236 7,125 6,960 5,093 1.6% 0.9% 42.1% 30.5%
 Personal loans 26,774 26,358 26,048 18,693 1.6% 0.9% 43.2% 31.5%
 Credit cards 13,336 13,275 12,818 9,607 0.5% -0.2% 38.8% 27.5%
 Others 4,876 4,807 4,843 3,999 1.4% 0.7% 21.9% 12.0%

 Loans to the public sector 10,977 10,957 11,074 10,600 0.2% -0.5% 3.6% -4.9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6,170 6,114 5,994 4,851 0.9% 27.2%
Future Dollar
NDF 1 month | 3.13 | 3.06 | 3.05 | 3.14 | 3.17
ROFEX 1 month | 3.09 | 3.03 | 3.02 | 3.14 | 3.16
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) | 680 | 511 | 465 | 172 | 435

Real (Pesos x Real) | 1.71 | 1.88 | 1.90 | 1.76 | 1.65

Euro (Pesos x Euro) | 4.43 | 4.54 | 4.76 | 4.58 | 4.38

## Capital Market | Sep-08 | Ago-08 | Jul-08 | Dec-07 | Sep-07
# MERVAL
| Index | 1.643 | 1.770 | 1.944 | 2.185 | 2.088 |
| Amount traded (millions of pesos) | 100 | 84 | 93 | 148 | 107 |

# Government Bonds (at par)
| BODEN 2012 (US$) | 76.29 | 80.25 | 87.83 | 88.53 | 89.66 |
| DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 76.78 | 78.39 | 86.84 | 98.76 | 89.26 |
| BODEN 2014 ($) | 63.55 | 67.29 | 64.65 | 69.79 | 72.81 |
| DISCOUNT ($) | 58.18 | 61.14 | 62.06 | 73.98 | 75.63 |

# Country Risk (basis points)
| Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond | 1.411 | 1.080 | 882 | 631 | 545 |
| EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) | 375 | 311 | 297 | 257 | 232 |

(1) In the month of August 2007 corresponds to the interest rate margin auctioned over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks.
(2) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 18

Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates | Sep-08 | Ago-08 | Jul-08 | Dec-07 | Sep-07

Call in pesos (1 day)
| Rate | 9.20 | 8.72 | 9.23 | 9.21 | 11.03 |
| Amount traded | 695 | 663 | 755 | 1.040 | 1.229 |

Time Deposits
In pesos
| 30 days | 11.12 | 10.74 | 12.41 | 10.19 | 9.56 |
| 60 days or more | 11.45 | 11.92 | 13.14 | 11.20 | 9.65 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 11.20 | 10.66 | 12.84 | 11.11 | 10.78 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 12.19 | 12.26 | 14.65 | 13.54 | 12.86 |

In dollars
| 30 days | 1.44 | 1.46 | 1.45 | 1.23 | 1.28 |
| 60 days or more | 2.22 | 2.30 | 2.15 | 2.28 | 2.26 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.60 | 1.45 | 1.58 | 1.08 | 1.50 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 2.78 | 2.77 | 2.67 | 3.32 | 3.40 |

# Active Interest Rates | Sep-08 | Ago-08 | Jul-08 | Dec-07 | Sep-07

Prime in pesos at 30 days | 17.89 | 18.79 | 22.47 | 15.99 | 13.44 |

Repurchase agreements in pesos
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 11.47 | 11.14 | 12.28 | 13.13 | 9.21 |
| Amount traded (total terms) | 132 | 145 | 142 | 156 | 114 |

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
| Current account advances | 18.82 | 19.85 | 22.36 | 18.93 | 19.13 |
| Single signature documents | 17.69 | 18.13 | 20.70 | 16.97 | 15.96 |
| Mortgage loans | 12.86 | 12.75 | 12.32 | 12.44 | 11.37 |
| Collateral loans | 18.83 | 18.62 | 18.47 | 15.47 | 11.73 |
| Personal loans | 30.48 | 31.62 | 29.06 | 27.71 | 26.27 |
| Credit cards | n/d | 27.84 | 27.74 | 27.47 | 26.14 |

# International Interest Rates | Sep-08 | Ago-08 | Jul-08 | Dec-07 | Sep-07

LIBOR
| 1 month | 2.93 | 2.47 | 2.46 | 5.04 | 5.49 |
| 6 months | 3.34 | 3.11 | 3.12 | 4.84 | 5.35 |

US Treasury Bond
| 2 years | 2.07 | 2.41 | 2.56 | 3.11 | 4.01 |
| 10 years | 3.68 | 3.88 | 3.98 | 4.09 | 4.52 |

FED Funds Rate | 2.00 | 2.00 | 2.00 | 4.33 | 5.03 |

SELIC (at 1 year) | 13.48 | 13.00 | 12.45 | 11.25 | 11.29 |

(1) The data up to July correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for August and September are estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 19

9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

AFJP: Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S..
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars of the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Sole and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Term Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Liquidation and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
S&P: Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Units linked to the product.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 20

Monetary Report | September 2008 | BCRA | 21
