# Monthly Monetary Report
October 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Equities
Page 13 | Fixed Income
Page 13 | Institutional Investors
Page 13 | Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators
Page 14 | Investment Funds
Page 15 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closure of this report was November 12, 2008. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary¹

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) stood at $162,070 million, after declining 0.5% in the month and accumulating annual growth of 17%. As a consequence of the reduction in private deposits in pesos during October, M2 accumulated a decline of 3.6% between the end of September and October. Similarly, while the average balance of total M3 barely varied with respect to September, its balance at the end of October was 1.7% lower than that recorded at the end of the previous month. Likewise, M3* (which includes cash in circulation and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency) showed an average monthly growth of 0.7%, maintaining its annual growth rate at 18%.

• The evolution of private sector deposits during October must be considered within the framework of extreme volatility prevailing in world markets. Despite the adverse context prevailing (capital outflows, portfolio changes, increased risk aversion), demand for local currency reacted in a relatively limited manner. Although the decrease in private deposits in pesos was similar to that of last May, during October private deposits in foreign currency increased (unlike what occurred in May). This portfolio shift within the system reflects public knowledge of banking soundness conditions, strengthened in the course of recent years. Indeed, it should be noted that the Central Bank continued providing liquidity, both in pesos and in foreign currency, to reduce the impact of external volatility on the local monetary market.

• Financial institutions continued showing high liquidity levels. The bank liquidity ratio—defined as cash in banks, checking accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repos with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in pesos—presented an average level of 20.5%. This level, although slightly lower than that of September, stood almost 3 percentage points above the average recorded over the last 3 years. When also considering holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, the broader liquidity ratio stood at 38%. To facilitate the management of more liquid assets in an environment that continues to be volatile, the Central Bank arranged a bimonthly period for the minimum cash position in pesos during October and November. Upon completion of the first month of this period, entities accumulated a surplus of 0.4% of total deposits in pesos. Additionally, at the end of October, the current regulations for the provision of financial assistance for illiquidity were updated, adjusting the allocation criteria and characteristics of the financing.
• The interest rate operated in the interbank market increased by 3.8 percentage points, registering an average of 13%, while the average BADLAR rate for private banks was located at 16.8%, with an increase of 4.6 percentage points with respect to the September average. An increase in interest rates paid by private banks for retail placements (for amounts less than $100,000) was also observed, which reached a monthly average of 12.7%, reaching a level of 15.3% at the end of October.

• Total loans to the private sector, considering those denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, increased $3,610 million (2.8%) and its year-on-year growth rate was located at 30.1%, 0.6 percentage points below its level in September. In particular, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 2.2% ($2,410 million), with increases in almost all lines, with credits granted through documents and lines fundamentally directed toward consumption standing out. The year-on-year expansion rate of peso credits was located at 30.6%.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 3

2. Monetary Aggregates1

In a scenario of notable advance in volatility, which affected international markets in an extended manner, the demand for local money reflected a relatively limited impact. The monetary aggregate M2 registered a monthly average balance of $162,070 million, showing a decline of 0.5% with respect to September and a year-on-year growth of 17%, while the broader monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, ended the month with an average balance practically unchanged in relation to the previous month and maintained its year-on-year growth rate also at 17%. Although this report comments on the evolution of average levels of variables, in the case of this October month, in which the evolution of deposits was marked by a downward trajectory, reference will also be made to variations throughout the month. In that sense, while the monetary aggregate M2 contracted 3.6%, the monetary aggregate M3 decreased 1.7%.

When considering the sources of expansion and absorption of monetary aggregates, it is observed that the stability of the average balance of M3 was the result of net sales of foreign currency compensated by the growth of loans to the private sector and the monetary regulation operations carried out by this Institution. Indeed, during the month the Central Bank expanded the monetary supply through the reduction of the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC in the hands of the non-financial private sector and the purchase of Treasury securities (see Graph 2.1).

As for the components of M3, they had dissimilar behaviors by sector, both with regard to average values and between end-of-month balances. Considering average figures, currency in circulation held by the public almost did not vary with respect to September both in current terms and in real seasonally adjusted terms. Meanwhile, deposits from the private sector registered an average decrease of 1.3%, which was offset by the increase in public sector placements. For its part, when analyzing variations between end-of-month balances, the stability was also evident
**Daily Balance** relative of circulating currency in the hands of the public facing a
130
 30-day moving average balance decline in private deposits that was around 5% (see Graph
125 2.2).

 Dec-31 Jan-30 Feb-29 Mar-30 Apr-29 May-29 Jun-28 Jul-28 Aug-27 Sep-26 Oct-26
 Source: BCRA
 In the sight deposit segment, public sector deposits remained stable while
 those of the private sector showed an average monthly decrease of 1%. However,
 between the end of September and October, the fall in private sight
 deposits in pesos reached 5.1%.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 4

 Among time deposits, the direction of movements between private and public
 placements was replicated, with a decrease in the former and an advance in
 the latter. In particular, private time deposits decreased on average 1.8%, with
 reductions in both the wholesale and retail segment (placements of up to $1
 million). In this deposit segment,
 
Graph 2.3 the retraction of balances at the end of October compared to
 CPI Rest and Market Expectations those of the last day of September reached 4.4%.
 % (annual var.)
 16

 15 Dec-05
 14.2 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits
 14 increased, on average, 3% in October. This growth
 13 was explained by the increase in private sector
 12 placements, which totaled u$s230 million and
 Dec-07 which consisted of both sight and time placements.
 11 10.6 10.7 10.7
 10 Dec-06 Unlike what occurred in the peso segment, private
 10.2 foreign currency deposits also increased between
 9 8.8
 the end of September and October (1.8%), unlike
 8 CPI Rest what was observed in May last year, when they had
 Market Expectations CPI GBA 2008 (Dec-Dec) declined 1.1%.
 7

 6
 Considering the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes
 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 the circulating currency in the hands of the public and the total of deposits
 Source: INDEC and REM in pesos and foreign currency, a monthly increase of 0.7% is observed, maintaining its year-on-year growth rate at 18%.

 In October 2008, the Rest subindex of the CPI GBA prepared by INDEC (which excludes the measurement of prices with seasonal behavior, subject to regulation or with a high tax component) presented an increase of 0.6% monthly, which was lower than the rise in October 2007 (0.8%). In this way, the year-on-year (y-o-y) growth rate of the Rest CPI decreased to 10.7% (see Graph 2.33), although positioning itself 0.6 percentage points (p.p.) above what was observed a year earlier (10.1% y-o-y).

 **3. Bank Liquidity**

 In October, financial entities continued to show a comfortable liquidity situation. In effect, the bank liquidity ratio, defined as cash in banks, current accounts of banks in the BCRA and passive repos for the BCRA as a percentage of deposits in pesos, presented an average level of 20.5%. Although this level represented a slight decrease of 0.5 p.p. with respect to the ratio of the previous month, it was found almost 3 p.p. above the average of the last 3 years. Additionally, the broader liquidity ratio - considering holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs – continued at elevated levels, of approximately 38% (see Graph 3.1).

 In order to provide greater certainty and room for maneuver to financial entities, through Communication A 4858 a bimonthly period was established to meet the minimum cash requirements

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 5

 Graph 3.2
## Minimum Cash Position in Pesos in October and November

Estimated Data

The minimum cash position of the system accumulated at the end of October showed a surplus of 0.4% of total deposits in pesos. Both private and public banks ended with a surplus of 0.8% and 0.2% of deposits, respectively (see Graph 3.2). Additionally, on October 30 -through Communication A 4859- the assistance requirements for illiquidity have been updated to the structure of assets of the entities and market conditions. In particular, through this modification access to said assistance was expanded, considering the decrease in banks' funding sources, in addition to deposits.

The minimum cash position for the foreign currency segment ended October with a surplus of 17% of deposits in dollars, continuing with the upward trend and increasing by 3 percentage points with respect to the previous month. On October 16, through Communication A 4851, the minimum cash requirement for dollar deposits was reduced, so that entities would have greater resources for granting loans in that currency (intended for the tradable sector), given the volatile conditions of the international market.

---

## 4. Loans

In October, total loans to the private sector, considering those denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, increased $3,610 million (2.8%) and its year-on-year growth rate stood at 30.1%, 0.6 percentage points below its level in September.

In particular, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 2.2% ($2,410 million), with increases in almost all lines, highlighting credits granted through documents and lines mainly directed toward consumption (see Graph 4.1). The year-on-year expansion rate of credits in pesos stood at 30.6%.

The credit lines most linked with commercial activity totaled a monthly growth of 1.5% ($630 million), with dissimilar behavior among them. Loans instrumented through documents showed notable growth of 3.9% ($750 million), favored by the significant statistical carryover from September. For its part, credits granted as advances in current account decreased 0.9% ($150 million), while the rest of commercial loans increased 0.8% ($30 million).

On the other hand, loans oriented mainly toward consumption increased 2.8% ($1,210 million), following the strong recovery of credit card financing (see Graph 4.2), which increased 4.5% ($630 million) and accelerated its year-on-year growth rate to 41% (compared to the 39% presented in September). Nevertheless, personal loans also showed significant growth of 2% ($580 million).

Loans granted with real guarantees continued...

---

**Footnote 2:** The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 6
millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee
 (monthly average and year-on-year variation) %
 600 90 increasing although at a slower pace. In effect, its
 Monthly Var. Mortgage
 Monthly Var. Pledged 2.3% monthly growth ($570 million),
 500 Var. y.o.y. Mortgage (right axis) 75 although its year-on-year growth rate was 2.7 p.p.
 Var. y.o.y. Pledged (right axis)

 400 60 lower than that registered in September, placing itself at
 31.8% (see Chart 4.3). Pledged loans grew

 300 45 2.8% ($210 million). Meanwhile, mortgage loans
 rose during the period 2.1% ($360 million).
 200 30

 100 15 Finally, intended mainly to finance export activity,
 loans in foreign currency

 0 0 to the private sector increased during October 1.4%
 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08
 Source: BCRA (u$s90 million). In this sense, and as was men-
 tioned in Section 3. on Banking Liquidity, the BCRA
 Communication A4851 reduced the requirement for
 minimum cash for foreign currency deposits,
 Chart 5.1 with the objective of contributing to the financing of activi-

 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC ties related to the export sector.

 % NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR LEBAC - TNA

 1.8 % 5. Interest Rates

 1.6 13.8

 1.4 13.3 3
 Securities issued by the BCRA
 1.2
 12.8
 1.0
 With respect to the interest rates in the primary
 0.8 12.3 market of LEBAC, it should be noted that they
 0.6 11.8 increased for all terms. However, in the case
 0.4 14-Oct-08 14-Oct-08 of NOBAC, the auctioned margins remained
 23-Sep-08 11.3 23-Sep-08 stable compared to the previous month. (see Chart 5.1).
 0.2 10.8

 0.0
 Source: BCRA50 150 250 350 45030 80 130 180 230duration (days)

 On the other hand, the placed amounts of both instru-
 ments were lower than those registered in September.

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 7

 Additionally, they were lower than the total that was maturing,
 thus producing an expansive monetary effect in the month
 of approximately $2,000 million.

 The BCRA continued operating in the secondary market
 of LEBAC and to a greater extent NOBAC, with the objective
 of injecting liquidity into the market. The repurchases were
 Chart 5.2 conducted in transactions settleable in pesos, for an

 thousands of Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder amount of VN $555 million. Like the previous month,
millions $
 40 Stock millions $ 31-Oct vs 26-Sep repurchases were not conducted either under the modality
 0 of transactions settleable in dollars.
 35

 30 BANKS -500 The total stock of securities issued by the BCRA registered a
 OTHERS -1,572 sharp decline (5.6%) during this month compared to the
 25 35.2 -1,000 previous one, placing itself at the end of October at VN $47,096
 36.7
 20 -1,500 million.

 15 13.2 -2,000 Taking into account the distribution of the stock of letters and
 11.9 -1280 notes by holder, it was observed that, despite the decline
 5 -2,500 they had during the month, the largest percentage of holdings
 0 remained in the hands of banks. Thus, these holders ended

 Sep-08 Oct-08-3,000 the month with an amount of $35,200 million, 75% of total

Source: BCRA stock in circulation (see Chart 5.2). With respect to the rest of the
 holders (Insurance Companies, AFJP, Investment Funds, Foreign
 Investors, among the most important), a decline in their stock
 was also registered compared to the previous month, which
 was generalized, although mutual investment funds were
 those that experienced the greatest decline, in line with the
 decrease in assets (see Section 7).

 Interfinancial Markets
 Repo Market1
In October, the average stock of passive repo operations for the BCRA fell $2,120 million. To a large extent, the funds released by this operation were allocated by financial entities to increase their balances in current accounts at this Institution (see Section 3). Nevertheless, the entities continued maintaining elevated levels of liquidity in this type of assets. Ultimately, the average monthly stock of passive repo operations for the Central Bank, considering all the modalities in which it operates (REPO round, overnight operations and Investment Mutual Funds), was placed at $8,950 million. For its part, some active repo operations were recorded during the first part of the month, although the average stock ($90 million) was reduced compared to that registered in September ($110 million).

At the beginning of the month the BCRA modified the existing scheme of interest rates for repo operations. In this sense, it raised 0.75 p.p. the interest rates of fixed-rate repos, in accordance with what is indicated in Table 1.

**Interbank Lending Market¹**

In October, in a context of growing volatility in international and local financial markets, and in which deposits evolved in accordance with what is described in Section 2, the interest rate of the interbank market increased by 3.8 p.p., registering an average of 13% (see Graph 5.3). The amounts operated continued to decrease, until reaching an average lower than $600 million, which represents the lowest level of the last three years.

In addition to the higher average value, during the month an important increase in the dispersion between interest rates agreed each day with respect to the daily average could also be appreciated (see Graph 5.4). The deviation of interest rates of operations agreed at 1 business day reached a maximum in October, similar to that of May and June, and not seen since the beginning of 2003. This is explained, at least in part, by the greater weight that non-bank financial institutions have acquired, especially at the beginning of the month, when they became the main type of net funds borrower.

In the daily evolution of the rates of this market, behavior that differed throughout the month could be appreciated. Interest rates had ended September at 9.8% with a slight upward trend that rapidly accelerated, increasing to 14.6% in the middle of the month. In this first half of the month the main borrowers were non-bank financial institutions, which typically fund themselves at interest rates somewhat higher than the average of banks, while the main lenders were public banking and, to a lesser extent, private banks with national capital. Subsequently, they fell abruptly to stabilize around 11.5%, to increase again at the end of the month, again exceeding 14%. In the last part of the month, it was the entities with
10 foreign entities who displaced non-banking entities as the principal net taker of funds (see Graph 5.5).

-250 6
 1
 Passive Interest Rates

-500 4
 31-Mar 07-May 11-Jun 18-Jul 25-Ago 29-Sep
Source: BCRA

 Throughout October, entities increased passive interest rates both in the wholesale segment and in the retail segment, in order to try to counteract the decline in term placements of the private sector. The average BADLAR rate for private banks was 16.8%, with an increase of 4.6 p.p. compared to the September average (see Graph 5.6). Although this level is below the maximum recorded in the month of June (17.4%), at the end of October the BADLAR rate for private banks reached 23%. On the other hand, an increase was also observed in the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements (for amounts less than $100,000), which reached a monthly average of 12.7%, the maximum level recorded in the year, when positioned at the end of October at 15.3%.

 Source: BCRA

 Similarly, when analyzing interest rates by type of depositor in the most relevant segment (30 to 59 days), the main increase in rates offered to financial services companies is observed, which were positioned at 16.8% with an increase of 4.8 p.p. compared to the September average, while interest rates offered to individuals increased 2.1 p.p., reaching in October an average of 13.8% (see Graph 5.7).

Graph 5.7

Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-59 days

% Private Sector in pesos
20 monthly average weighted by amount operated

18 Individuals
16 1 4
 Financial Services Active Interest Rates
14 Other Companies
 Accompanying the increase in passive rates, active
12 interest rates showed slight increases in most loan lines.
10

8 The interest rate on current account advances rose
6 3.1 p.p. compared to the average level of September,
 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08
Source: BCRA positioning itself at 22.9% (see Graph 5.8). In turn, when considering a more homogeneous segment that concentrates a high proportion of this market, that of advances with agreement for one day term, granted to companies for amounts exceeding $10 million in Capital and GBA, it is observed that the interest rate was positioned at 21.2% with an increase of 5.2 p.p. On the other hand, interest rates for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents also rose (3.8 p.p.), positioning themselves on average at 22.4%.

Graph 5.8

TNA, % Commercial Loans
 26 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 24 With regard to interest rates on consumer loans, in October the average interest rate for personal loans was 31.5%, with a decline of 1.5 p.p. compared to that observed in September. This decline was mainly explained by the increase in the participation of public entities in the amounts granted in this credit line. On the other hand, the interest rates for credit card financing

 22

 20

 18

 16

 14

 12

 10

 8 Advances
 Documents

 6

 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08
Source: BCRA

4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information through August 2008, the values for September and October 2008 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 10
corresponding to September remained stable, in
Graph 6.1 the order of 28.6%.

International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of (gold, foreign exchange and time deposits)
millions of US$

Finally, interest rates for longer-term financing
55 registered slight increases. In the case of the

50 interest rate on mortgage loans, it reached an

45 average monthly rate of 13.1% with an increase of 0.5 p.p.
with respect to the level observed in September and a high
40 participation of public banks as lenders.

35 On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to fi-
nancing with pledge guarantee was located at 19.6%,
30
with a slight increase of 0.1 p.p..
25

20

15 6. International Reserves and
Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08
Source: BCRA 5
Foreign Exchange Market

The stock of international reserves was US$44,941
million at the end of October, which meant a decline
Graph 6.2 of US$2,180 million with respect to the position at the end
Foreign Exchange Market of September (see Graph 6.1). The operations of the
(average quotations) public sector resulted in an increase in the reserves balance,
$/Euro while the BCRA turned out to be a net seller
$/Real $/US$ of foreign exchange in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange

5.0 2.2 3.4 Market (MULC). These operations were a reflection of the inter-
$/Euro $/US$ (Reference)
$/Real, right axis 3.3 vention aimed at mitigating the impact of international tur-
2.0
4.6 bulences on the local market.

1.8 3.2
4.2 In the foreign exchange market, the quotation of the Dollar
1.6 3.1 wholesale (Reference) with respect to the peso increased again.
3.8
In the month of October the depreciation against the United
1.4 3.0 States currency was 6.8%, with the average quotation being
3.4 2.9 3.24 $/US$ (see Graph 6.2). For its part, with respect to the
1.2
3.0 1.0 2.8 Euro, the peso appreciated 5.2%, being double that of
Dec-05 Aug-06 Apr-07 Dec-07 Aug-08Dec-05 Aug-06 Apr-07 Dec-07 Aug-08 September and recording an average quotation of 4.30 $/Euro.
Source: BCRA Finally, the peso appreciated 20.9% in relation to the Real,
since the average monthly quotation was 1.492 $/Real.

Graph 7.1

Volatility (%) Stock Market Volatility Volatility (%)
22 days 22 days
MERVAL (Argentina) 7. Capital Market

115 IPC (Mexico) 110
105 BOVESPA (Brasil) 100
Shanghai Index (China) Equities
95 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 90

85 80

75 70 During October the markets continued showing critical levels
65 60 of volatility (Graph 7.1). There were also
55 50
45 40 strong declines in stock indices measured in

35 30 original currency. The largest decline -of a series of selected
25 20 indices- was observed in Peru's IGBVL index

15 10 which fell 36.5%, followed by BOVESPA (Brasil)
5 0 24.8%, the Shanghai Index 24.6%, the MEXBOL (Mexico)
Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 18.6%, the American S&P 16.9%, and the IGPA of

Source: Elaboration based on Bloomberg data Chile 9.1%. In this context, the VIX –index that measures
the expected volatility of the S&P- averaged October
5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified. 61.2% (31 p.p. more than the previous month). It should be noted
that this VIX value is a historical record, and in previous
Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 11 peaks it had barely exceeded the 30% level.

During October a strongly negative performance was observed
for equities as highlighted in the evolution of the MSCI and
S&P indices (Graph 7.2). The same occurred in the case of
corporate and sovereign fixed income in the case of emerging
countries. In contrast, this phenomenon is restricted only to
corporate debt for a part of developed countries.
All of this evolution was influenced by the transformation of the global financial crisis into a problem of systemic nature. Along with this, there was added a revision of growth expectations at the global level (including emerging countries). The evolution of the price of the main commodities also had a negative influence on the performance of certain stock exchanges.

**Graph 7.2
Performance of World Stock Indices**
135
125
115
105
95
85
75 MSCI World
65 MSCI Europe
55 MSCI Japan
MSCI Latam
45 S&P 500
35
Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

To face this scenario, the main economies of the world and many emerging countries took unprecedented measures. Just to mention some, the FED, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England, among other central banks, reduced their reference interest rates in a coordinated manner (and outside of schedule) at the beginning of October. Subsequently, the Treasuries of these same countries, in collaboration with their respective central banks, made capital contributions with official funds.

Other more specific measures taken by the FED included the elimination of the limit to swap lines to provide liquidity in dollars to other central banks (England, Japan, European Central Bank, among others). The objective of this measure was to prevent the collapse of the interbank market, whose stress situation was evidenced in the high spread between the overnight indexed swap and the Libor (in US$) at one and three months, an objective that would be successfully being met. Such swap lines were also implemented for an unlimited amount with emerging and developed countries with which they did not previously exist.

Finally, the Federal Reserve created new instruments to provide liquidity to the market, among which stands out the one that assists Money Market funds and corporate issuers of commercial papers.

In this context, all exchanges in the region had strong losses measured in dollars, influenced by the depreciation of their currency. The MERVAL exhibited a negative variation of 41% in October. Of the rest of the stock indices, the largest drop—measured in dollars—is led by the IGBVL (Peru) with a variation of –39.2%, followed by the Brazil exchange—the BOVESPA— which fell 33.7%, the IPC (Mexico) which lost 29.9%, and the IGPA of Chile which varied –25.1%.

Measured in pesos, in Argentina, the MERVAL index registered a loss of 36.8%, reaching a value of 1,011 points at the end of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL obtained a negative return of 57%, and so far this year it is also losing value, at 53%.

The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange increased compared to September by $30 million despite the judicial measure that prevented the AFJPs from operating for a few days. Thus the average amount traded in October reached $105 million daily.

**Fixed Income**

The marked climate of volatility in the markets already mentioned caused risk aversion and the advance in the deleveraging process to continue during October; this went hand in hand with portfolio reallocation towards assets perceived as less risky (flight to quality), which had begun in September. The EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging countries increased 256 b.p. For its part, the spread of Latin America's external debt also increased by 253 b.p., and that of Argentina by 939 b.p..

The volume of public securities traded in the local market (on average daily) was reduced compared to the level reached the previous month, having been in October $1,898 million, $403 million less than during September.

**Graph 7.3**
millions $ Variation by items of the Pension and Retirement Fund
1,000 On the other hand, in the private debt market, during
500 October there was no new financing through negotiable
0 337 securities
-734 -435
-500
-1,000 -1,546 -1,253 Institutional Investors

-1,500
-2,000 -4,178 Pension Fund Administrators6

-2,500
-3,000
-3,500 The National Executive Branch recently submitted a
-4,000 Bill to reform the Integrated Pension and Retirement
-4,500 System (SIJP). The initiative contemplates a profound
Nat. Pub. Tit. Titles Actions FCI FF Fixed Term Foreign modification of the current system and implies the tran-
Source: BCRA based on SAFJP information sition towards a single public pay-as-you-go regime. Cur-
rently, the project has half approval from the Chamber
6 With information provided by the AFJP Superintendence (SAFJP) as of October 15. of Deputies, remaining for its review in the Chamber of

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 13 Senators.

The total of the Pension and Retirement Fund (FJP) 
reached $86,230 million in mid-October, showing a de-
cline of 8.5% ($7,960 million) in the last month. The in-
come from contributions to the Pension Fund Adminis-
trators (AFJP) for the month of September amounted to
approximately $1,060 million.

With regard to the investment portfolio, with $84,820
million, it presented a decline of 8.8% ($8,160 million)
in the last thirty days under analysis. The instruments
that registered the main declines were Public Securities
($4,180 million), Foreign Securities ($1,550 million),
Shares ($1,250 million) and Mutual Investment Funds
($730 million), affected by the crisis in financial markets
(see Chart 7.3). For their part, advances were verified
mainly in Fixed Term deposits ($340 million).

Chart 7.4
thousands of Patrimony of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos Finally, on October 29 through a Joint Resolution issued
millions $ (Variation October 08 vs. September 08) by SAFJP, BCRA and CNV, the regulations regarding
20 Fixed Income Millions of $ AFJP investments in Mutual Investment Funds of
18 Mixed Income 500 MERCOSUR were modified once again. In this sense, the
16 Variable Income limit that administrators can hold in said assets was re-
14 Money Market -491 duced to 0% of the FJP, establishing a convergence pe-
-500 riod to the mentioned limit of three (3) business days
12 from the notification of the regulation.
10 -1,529
8
6 -1,500 Mutual Investment Funds
-33
4 -816
2
0 -2,500 The patrimony of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 ended October with a total amount of $9,940 million, reg-
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data istering a sharp decline, equivalent to $2,428 million
(20%) compared to the previous month.

Following their structure, the segment of money market
funds registered a slight decline explained by the drop in
the price of quota-shares. Thus it totaled a patrimony of
$6,947 million in October. Despite this result, and due
to the declines registered in the rest of the segments,
money market funds gained participation in the total
(70% vs. 57% last month).

On the other hand, variable income funds showed a pro-
nounced decline (49%) compared to last month, reaching
an amount of $1,529 million. Although the prices for

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 14

this segment were lower, the decline is explained mainly
by the reduction in the quantity of quota-shares. It is
Chart 7.5 worth noting the loss of participation that they registered
Financial Trust Issuances in the total of FCI in pesos, reaching
millions of $ 
1,800 (number of issuances above the bar of each month in the series of amounts)
40 to represent only 16%, 9 p.p. less than in Sep-
 1.600
 tember.
 1.400 41
 October 2008:
 1.200 19 $889M
 11 28 For their part, fixed income funds in pesos also
 25
 1.000 avg. 2007: 24
 avg. 2006: $727M 2217 showed a sharp decline (41%) in their assets, ending
 15 32 28
 800 avg. 2005: $628M 22 19 21 18 October at $1.889 million. This change was based
 10 $430M 21 13 14
 27 19
 600 16 13 15 20 1515 on the fall in the number of share units.
 13 1616 17 18
 400 11 13 9 10 8
 10 10 1213 12
 200 6 Additionally, funds in foreign currency decreased
 4 9
 sharply during the month (59%), positioning them-
 0
 Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08 Oct-08selves at $1.216 million at the end of October. In line

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others with the negative scenario that prevailed for this mar-
 ket, the decline was recorded mainly in the variable
 income segment, which accumulated a decrease of 80%
 in the year.

Graph 7.6
 Financial Trusts7
 Underlying Assets
 (amounts issued)

 September 2008 October 2008 The issuances of financial trusts totaled in

 4% October $889 million (see Graph No. 7.5), almost the
 5 %

 11% same amount as September, maintaining in this

 64% way the securitized volume after the sharp contraction
 1% 66%

 6% 29% of August, due to the change in the tax treatment
 of FF. As for the number of placements, 17 were
 14%
 recorded, showing a decline both in relation to the
 Consumption=77% Consumption=95% previous month and to the same month of the previous

 Personal Loans Credit Card Coupons Commercial Credits year (5 less and 11 less respectively). As a

 Future Fund Flows Secured Loans Leasing Contracts result, the average amount per placement rose to

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others. $52 million, a value similar to that of February, when
 the maximum level for the year was recorded. In this
 way, in the January-October period of 2008, FF
 placements accumulated $7.811 million, 18% more
 compared to the same period of 2007.

 Graph 7.7 Regarding the underlying assets, those linked to

 % Participation by Settlor

 100 consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons),
 which last month had recorded the lowest participation

 80 of the year (77%), constituted practically all of the
 securitized assets, representing 95% of the total (see

 60 Graph No. 7.6). This was due both to the increase in
 the securitized amount of this type of assets (+22%

 40 compared to September) as well as the lower variety
 of securitized assets. The remaining 5%

 20 corresponded to commercial credits related to
 agricultural activity. Similarly, throughout the first

 0 ten months of 2008, loans linked to consumption stood
 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08out, representing 91% of the total compared to 82% in

 Financial Entities Retail Businesses Other Non-Regulated Fin. Institution the same period of 2007.
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others.

 7 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 15

 For their part, the structure by type of settlor continued
 to be readjusted during October until reaching a
Graph 7.8 composition similar to that of July, before the

 % modification in the tax treatment of FF.
 35 (Senior Titles in Pesos)
 Thus, the main settlors were retail businesses,
 concentrating, as in July, 41% of issuances (see
 30
 Graph 7.7), followed by mutuals, cooperatives and
 25 non-bank credit card issuers that securitized 31% of
 the total. Meanwhile, financial entities managed to
 20
 reverse the
# 8. MONETARY AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

## 15 important loss of participation in September to
 contribute with 24% of total securitized, registering
 10
 Variable rate Fixed rate in this way the greatest variation (20 p.p.) with respect to the
 
 5 previous month, among all types of securitizers. Despite
 this, such level of participation still continues being low in
 0 relation to those that were being observed in the months
 1-Oct 6-Oct 11-Oct 16-Oct 21-Oct 26-Oct 31-Oct
 prior to the tax change.

The interest rates at the cut-off of senior securities
experienced an important increase, in line with the
behavior of money market rates. In this sense, when
calculating the weighted average by amount, senior
securities arranged at fixed rate increased 4.1 p.p.,
placing themselves at 19.3%, a level similar to that of
June, when there was a jump with respect to the
previous month. Meanwhile, securities arranged at
variable rate reached a historic maximum of 26.3%
through a substantial increase (10.6 p.p.). The
important difference in the yield of both types of
placements could, in part, be explained by the fact
that fixed rate emissions were placed mainly at the
beginning of the month, while those at variable rate
were arranged throughout the first three weeks (see
Graph 7.8). It should be recalled that as of October 17
practically no FF were placed, as was mentioned
previously.

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 16

---

| **Main monetary and financial system variables** | **Oct-08** | **Sep-08** | **Aug-08** | **Oct-07** | **Monthly percentage variations** |  | **Last 12 months** |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  |  |  |  |  | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| **Monetary base** | 102,453 | 101,628 | 100,723 | 88,171 | 0.8% | 0.4% | 16.2% | 7.2% |
| **Monetary circulation** | 74,463 | 74,121 | 74,509 | 65,410 | 0.5% | 0.1% | 13.8% | 5.0% |
| In public hands | 67,180 | 67,272 | 67,426 | 59,890 | -0.1% | -0.5% | 12.2% | 3.5% |
| In financial entities | 7,283 | 6,849 | 7,083 | 5,520 | 6.3% | 5.9% | 31.9% | 21.7% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 27,990 | 27,507 | 26,214 | 22,761 | 1.8% | 1.4% | 23.0% | 13.5% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Liabilities | 8,946 | 11,064 | 11,122 | 2,622 | -19.1% | -19.5% | 241.1% | 214.8% |
| Assets | 94 | 113 | 157 | 381 |  |  |  |  |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| In pesos | 20,247 | 22,678 | 25,193 | 24,220 | -10.7% | -11.1% | -16.4% | -22.9% |
| In dollars | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  |
| **NOBAC** | 28,559 | 27,462 | 24,581 | 33,797 | 4.0% | 3.6% | -15.5% | -22.0% |
| **BCRA international reserves (5)** | 46,608 | 47,072 | 47,300 | 42,724 | -1.0% | 9.1% |  |  |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 204,221 | 204,190 | 199,883 | 171,901 | 0.0% | -0.4% | 18.8% | 9.6% |
| Current account (2) | 58,825 | 59,135 | 53,543 | 45,378 | -0.5% | -0.9% | 29.6% | 19.6% |
| Savings account | 36,069 | 36,417 | 36,517 | 33,090 | -1.0% | -1.3% | 9.0% | 0.6% |
| Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER | 98,052 | 97,486 | 98,800 | 78,891 | 0.6% | 0.2% | 24.3% | 14.7% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 411 | 483 | 612 | 3,035 | -14.9% | -15.3% | -86.5% | -87.5% |
| CEDRO with CER | 0 | 0 | 0 | 10 |  |  |  |  |
| Other deposits (3) | 10,863 | 10,669 | 10,411 | 11,498 | 1.8% | 1.4% | -5.5% | -12.8% |
| **Private sector deposits** | 141,752 | 143,578 | 141,554 | 123,507 | -1.3% | -1.7% | 14.8% | 5.9% |
| **Public sector deposits** | 62,468 | 60,612 | 58,329 | 48,395 | 3.1% | 2.7% | 29.1% | 19.1% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 8,848 | 8,595 | 8,479 | 6,952 | 2.9% | 27.3% |  |  |
| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 118,241 | 116,061 | 114,045 | 92,767 | 1.9% | 1.5% | 27.5% | 17.6% |
| **Loans to private sector** | 107,360 | 105,092 | 103,088 | 82,217 | 2.2% | 1.8% | 30.6% | 20.5% |
| Advances | 16,727 | 16,883 | 16,113 | 13,095 | -0.9% | -1.3% | 27.7% | 17.9% |
| Documents | 20,024 | 19,277 | 18,987 | 16,990 | 3.9% | 3.5% | 17.9% | 8.7% |
| Mortgage | 17,064 | 16,707 | 16,412 | 13,205 | 2.1% | 1.7% | 29.2% | 19.2% |
| Pledged property | 7,395 | 7,236 | 7,134 | 5,360 | 2.2% | 1.8% | 38.0% | 27.3% |
| Personal | 27,277 | 26,769 | 26,359 | 19,527 | 1.9% | 1.5% | 39.7% | 28.9% |
| Credit cards | 13,965 | 13,348 | 13,276 | 9,914 | 4.6% | 4.2% | 40.9% | 30.0% |
| Others | 4,907 | 4,871 | 4,807 | 4,126 | 0.7% | 0.3% | 18.9% | 9.7% |
| **Loans to public sector** | 10,881 | 10,969 | 10,957 | 10,550 | -0.8% | -1.2% | 3.1% | -4.8% |
Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.240 6.172 6.115 4.991 1.1% 25.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in circulation held by public + current account in pesos) 126.005 126.406 120.969 105.268 -0.3% -0.7% 19.7% 10.4%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 162.074 162.823 57.486 138.357 -0.5% -0.9% 17.1% 8.1% 1
 M3 (cash in circulation held by public + total deposits in pesos) 271.401 271.462 67.309 231.791 0.0% -0.4% 17.1% 8.0%2
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 300.028 297.962 293.031 253.764 0.7% 0.3% 18.2% 9.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in circulation held by public + private current account in pesos) 105.400 105.853 104.964 93.749 -0.4% -0.8% 12.4% 3.7%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 137.534 138.357 37.926 123.704 -0.6% -1.0% 11.2% 2.6%1
 M3 (cash in circulation held by public + total private deposits in pesos) 208.932 210.849 08.980 183.396 -0.9% -1.3% 13.9% 5.1% 2
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 234.240 234.246 231.532 203.697 0.0% -0.4% 15.0% 6.1%

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 17
 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 825 0.8% 1.777 1.7% 6.096 5.9% 14.282 13.9%
 Financial sector 2.135 2.1% 729 0.7% -6.627 -6.5% -6.690 -6.5%
 Public sector -251 -0.2% -1.974 -1.9% -3.064 -3.0% -5.072 -5.0%
 Private external sector -4.813 -4.7% -1.903 -1.9% 746 0.7% 4.652 4.5%
 BCRA titles 1.729 1.7% 1.815 1.8% 8.277 8.1% 14.201 13.9%
 Other 2.024 2.0% 3.111 3.0% 6.764 6.6% 7.191 7.0%

 International reserves -464 -1.0% -992 -2.1% 899 1.9% 3.885 8.3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.492 -3.2% -526 -1.1% 331 0.7% 1.582 3.4%
 Payment to international organizations -8 0.0% -213 -0.5% -1.386 -3.0% -850 -1.8%
 Other public sector operations 1.330 2.9% 562 1.2% 2.045 4.4% 2.543 5.5%
 Minimum cash 11 0.0% -37 -0.1% -336 -0.7% -589 -1.3%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) -304 -0.7% -778 -1.7% 279 0.6% 1.232 2.6%

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of the use of unified funds.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 18

 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
 Passive Interest Rates Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 12.96 9.20 8.71 9.21 8.88
 Amount traded 589 697 624 1.023 1.040

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 13.64 11.12 10.74 10.19 9.75
 60 days or more 12.89 11.45 11.92 11.20 9.74
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.06 11.20 10.66 11.11 10.80
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 16.72 12.19 12.26 13.54 12.57

 In dollars
 30 days 1.57 1.44 1.46 1.23 1.30
 60 days or more 2.30 2.22 2.30 2.28 2.19
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.62 1.60 1.45 1.08 1.53
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.78 2.78 2.77 3.32 3.39

 Active Interest Rates Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07
 Prime in pesos at 30 days 23.97 17.89 18.79 15.99 14.76

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.09 11.47 11.14 13.13 10.13
 Amount traded (total terms) 128 132 145 156 128
 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 22.91 19.82 20.95 18.93 18.87
 Documents at sole signature 22.42 18.63 19.00 16.97 16.36
 Mortgage 13.09 12.58 12.47 12.44 11.55
 Pledged assets 19.55 19.49 18.99 15.47 13.34
 Personal 31.46 32.97 32.43 27.71 27.07
 Credit cards n/d 28.56 28.55 27.47 26.50
## International Interest Rates Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07
 LIBOR
 1 month 3.78 2.93 2.47 5.04 4.98
 6 months 3.86 3.34 3.11 4.84 5.05

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.59 2.07 2.41 3.11 3.96
 10 years 3.77 3.68 3.88 4.09 4.51

 FED Funds Rate 1.55 2.00 2.00 4.33 4.74
 SELIC (at 1 year) 13.75 13.48 13.00 11.25 11.25

 (1) The data through August correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those of September and October are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 19
 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07

 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.40 9.07 8.75 8.00 8.00
 Liabilities 7 days 10.90 9.57 9.19 8.25 8.25
 Assets 7 days (1) 12.90 11.57 11.19 10.25 10.25

 Total REPO Round Repo Rates
 1 day 11.10 9.22 8.81 8.60 8.49
 7 days 11.45 9.59 9.24 9.43 9.63

 Operated Amount of REPO Round Repos (daily average) 5,447 5,053 6,553 2,177 2,345

 LEBAC Rates in Pesos (2)
 1 month 12.48 n/o n/o 10.65 10.50
 2 months 12.50 11.29 10.86 10.67 10.64
 3 months 12.55 11.35 11.15 10.75 10.70
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o 12.21 12.20 n/o n/o

 NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon (2)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR 1.24 1.33 1.02 n/o n/o
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR 1.52 1.56 1.55 2.13 2.25
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o 3.20 3.22 n/o n/o
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o 3.57 3.48 n/o n/o

 Operated Amount of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 301 273 577 284 397

## Foreign Exchange Market Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 3.24 3.08 3.04 3.14 3.17
 BCRA Reference 3.24 3.08 3.03 3.14 3.16

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.55 3.13 3.06 3.14 3.17
 ROFEX 1 month 3.25 3.09 3.03 3.14 3.16
 Operated Amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 735 680 511 172 331

 Real (Pesos per Real) 1.49 1.71 1.88 1.76 1.76

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.30 4.43 4.54 4.58 4.50

## Capital Market Oct-08 Sep-08 Aug-08 Dec-07 Oct-07

 MERVAL
 Index 1,177 1,643 1,770 2,185 2,273
 Operated Amount (millions of pesos) 126 100 84 148 131

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 52.82 76.29 80.25 88.53 91.10
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Leg.) 52.28 76.78 78.39 98.76 93.68
 BODEN 2014 ($) 41.75 63.55 67.29 69.79 74.28
 DISCOUNT ($) 38.08 58.18 61.14 73.98 78.40

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 3,902 1,411 1,080 631 482
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 640 375 311 257 209

 (1) In the month of August 2007 corresponds to the margin of interest rate auctioned on the interest rate BADLAR of private banks.
 (2) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 20

9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in US dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S..
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Broker Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross domestic product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal rate of return.

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 21

TNA: Annual nominal rate.
U.V.P.: Units linked to the product.
VN: Nominal value.

Monetary Report | October 2008 | BCRA | 22
