# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2008

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the BCRA
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Equities
Page 12 | Fixed Income
Page 13 | Institutional Investors
Page 13 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 13 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on January 12, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject
to revision

Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In December, the average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $173,200 million, with an year-on-year growth of 18.9%. In this way, as was noted in the presentation of the 2009 Monetary Program to the Senate, M2 was positioned near the center of the range provided for in the Monetary Program. In the last month, M2 showed a growth of 8.6%, mainly associated with the seasonal increase in demand for transactional money at the end of the year. For its part, private M2 showed an annual growth of 8.4% and was positioned at $143,500 million, below the range provided for in the Monetary Program. This deviation was due to a reduction in demand for transactional money generated by external shocks that occurred during the course of the year, which had an intensity and magnitude not foreseen at the time of preparing the 2008 Monetary Program. The abrupt deterioration of international markets caused a change in the composition of the investment portfolio of economic agents that translated into a strong and widespread exit of capital from emerging economies.

• In 2009 the Central Bank aims to continue providing a framework of predictability for the development of economic activity. Thus, in addition to maintaining the scheme of targets and estimates provided for in 2008, it adds quarterly estimates of private M2 for both 2009 and for twelve-month forward scenarios that will be published in a timely manner, at the end of each quarter. The targets of the 2009 Monetary Program provide for M2 aggregate growth in the range of 8.7%-17.8% year-on-year in December, and for private M2 between 9.8% and 18.9% in December.

• The recent pension reform produced a change in ownership of deposits, fundamentally fixed-term deposits, which were in the portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators. Adjusting the balances for said change in ownership, private deposits advanced 1.6% in December, while public sector placements showed a decline of 9.8%, mainly associated with the use of resources to acquire foreign currency to meet maturities of public debt in foreign currency.

• The liquidity of financial entities – defined as the sum of cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and net repos for the BCRA – as a percentage of deposits in pesos averaged 20.8% in December. This level was 0.5 percentage points higher than in November and one of the highest in recent years. Considering the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, the liquidity ratio was positioned at 36.3%. On the other hand, the quarterly position of minimum cash December 2008 - February 2009 accumulated at the end of the first month a surplus of 1.7% of total deposits in pesos.
• Given the scenario of solid liquidity conditions, short-term passive interest rates halted the upward trend they had been showing since September. In particular, the average BADLAR rate for private banks decreased 2.4 p.p. compared to November, while the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements (for amounts under $100,000) remained stable. The interbank market interest rate also decreased gradually after the highs it had reached in early November and, on average, decreased 1.1 p.p compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, the interest rates on shorter-term loans also showed reductions compared to November.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 0.5% ($550 million) in December, driven mainly by mortgage loans and credit card financing. Compared to the same period of the previous year, they reflected an increase of 22.3%.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

In December, the average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $173,200 million, a value close to the center of the range provided for in the Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1), with year-on-year growth of 18.9%. In the last month, M2 showed growth of 8.6%, mainly associated with the seasonal increase in demand for transactional money at the end of each year. In particular, currency in circulation held by the public rose 6% compared to the previous month, while demand deposits registered a monthly increase of 10.5%.

For its part, private M2 showed annual growth of 8.4% and was positioned at $143,500 million, a level below the range provided for in the Monetary Program. This deviation was due to a reduction in M2 demand from the private sector generated by external shocks that occurred throughout the year, which had an intensity and magnitude not foreseen when the 2008 Monetary Program was prepared. Indeed, the local economy was not exempt from the impact caused by the abrupt deterioration of international markets, which generated a change in the composition of the investment portfolio of economic agents translated into a strong capital outflow from emerging economies.

Meanwhile, total time deposits decreased 15.2%, driven by the behavior of public sector placements (see Chart 2.2), in a month with significant debt maturities.

To understand the evolution of deposits by segment during December, it is important to recall the recent reform of the pension system that implied the creation of the Integrated Argentine Pension System (SIPA). The change in the pension system, among other consequences, eliminated the Capitalization System. This resulted in the transfer of the portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) to the Sustainability Guarantee Fund of SIPA (FGS) administered by the National Social Security Administration (ANSES). In terms of deposits, this
M2 implied the reallocation of funds from the private sector to the public sector, with an approximate average effect of $5,000 million in December on deposits in pesos. This transfer took place basically in the time deposits segment. In this sense, in order to better analyze the evolution of deposits by type of depositor, the variations were adjusted to contemplate these modifications.

In this way, private deposits advanced 1.6% in December, while public sector placements presented a decline of 9.8%. Adding the growth of cash in circulation held by the public, it was observed that the broader aggregate in pesos, M3, registered a slight increase of 0.1% and accumulated in 2008 a growth of 11.2%.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits increased 2.4% in December, mainly through sight deposits. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency registered a monthly growth of 0.6% and accumulated in 2008 an increase of 13.7%.

The December 2009 target for Total M2 in nominal values was adjusted taking into account the final value observed in December 2008.

**Monetary Program 2009**

Considering the macroeconomic context expected for the year 2009, bands have been set for compliance with the Monetary Program that imply a year-on-year variation for Total M2 between 8.7% and 17.8% and between 9.8% and 18.9% for private M2.

Taking into account the balances that these monetary aggregates finally reached in December last, the ranges of variation of the targets for December 2009 imply amounts between $188,190 million and $203,951 million for Total M2, and between $157,601 million and $170,661 million for Private M2 (see Table 2.1).

In Table 2.2 quarterly estimates of private M2 are attached. Considering the behavior of transactional deposits of the private sector allows greater focus on the savings and investment decisions of families and businesses, which in the long term can be reflected in prices.

**3. Bank Liquidity**

The liquidity of financial entities – defined as the sum of cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and net repos for the BCRA – as a percentage of deposits in pesos was on average 20.8% in December (see Graph 3.1). This level was 0.5 percentage points higher than November and one of the highest of recent years. Additionally, considering the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by the entities, the liquidity ratio was placed at 36.3%, which meant a decline of 0.9 percentage points in the month.
15 The quarterly position of minimum cash December
 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and net transfers for the BCRA 2008 - February 2009 accumulated at the end of the first month
 a surplus of 1.7% of total deposits in pesos

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 5 Graph 3.2 (see Graph 3.2). Both private banks and
 public banks ended with a surplus of 2.8% and 0.4% of
 % of Minimum Cash Position
 deposits respectively.
 Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position

 2.4 In the foreign currency segment, the minimum cash
 2.0 1.7
 position ended December with a surplus of
 1.6
 39% of deposits in dollars, approximately 7 p.p. above
 1.2
 the previous month.
 0.8

 0.4
 It should be mentioned that as of December the
 0.0
 proportion of cash in banks admissible for the
 -0.4
 calculation of the integration of reserve requirements
 -0.8
 both in pesos and in dollars increased, which explained
 -1.2
 Bimonthly Pos. Quarterly Pos. part of the aforementioned surpluses. Cash in pesos
 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08
 represented 1.6% of total deposits in pesos
 Source: BCRA while cash in dollars represented 3% of
 deposits in dollars.

Graph 4.1 4. Loans 1 2

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % Loans in pesos to the private sector showed an
 (var. of monthly averages)
 600 44 increase of 0.5% ($550 million) in December, driven
 mainly by mortgage loans and
 400 39 credit card financing. Compared to the same
 period of the previous year they reflected an increase of
 200 34 22.3% (see Graph 4.1). In this way, they continued
 0 29 to show a deceleration in their year-on-year expansion
 rate, generalized across all lines.
 -200 22.3 Dec-08 24
 y-o-y var. Total Loans (%) - right axis
 -400 19
 Credits with primarily commercial purposes
 -600 14 presented a monthly decline of 1.3% ($540 million).
 The reduction was recorded both in overdrafts on
 Source: BCRA current accounts, which fell 0.8% ($130 million),
 as well as in financing implemented with
 documents, which decreased 2.4% ($480 million).
 In this way, in the last year they showed an
 Graph 4.2 expansion of 10.7% and 7.6%, respectively. For their
 part, the remaining commercial financing registered a
 millions of $ Credit Card Financing %
 800 (var. monthly average) 80 monthly growth of 1.5% ($70 million) and 14.9%
 Monthly Variation Credit Cards
 700 70 year-on-year.

 600 Y-o-y var. Credit Cards (right axis) 60
 On the other hand, credits destined mainly for
 500 50 consumption increased 1.3% ($590 million) in
 400 40 December. In particular, personal loans rose
 300 30 0.5% ($150 million), with an advance in the last
 200 20 twelve months of 31.5%. Meanwhile, credit card
 100 10 financing, driven by year-end purchases, advanced
 0 0 3% ($440 million), growing in year-on-year
 -100 -10 terms 35.4% (see Graph 4.2).
 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08
 Source: BCRA

 2 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers
 of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
**Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 6** Meanwhile, loans with real guarantee increased 2% ($510 million). In this segment, pawn loans grew 0.6% ($40 million), presenting a year-on-year variation of 30.9%. In this way, the

**Chart 4.3** deceleration in the rate of expansion of pawn loans observed in recent months accompanied the decrease in automotive sales to the

**Pawn Loans and Automotive Sales thousands of domestic market (see Chart 4.3). Meanwhile, mortgage millions of $ (average monthly variation of loans - monthly sales) units**
400 70 loans rose 2.7% ($470 million), registering the greatest expansion of the current year and
350 60
Pawn Var. showing with respect to the same period of the previous year a growth of 28.1%.
Automotive sales to domestic market (right axis)
300 50
250 It should be mentioned that during December, within the framework of the modification of the pension regime, ANSES began
40
200 to auction fixed-term deposits. The financial entities that are awarded
30 these funds must apply them to the granting of personal loans, either
150
for consumption or purchase of automobiles, or for SMEs. It is
20
100 expected that the effects of these operations on the stock of loans
50 10 will only begin to be observed in the coming months.
0 0
Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08
Source: BCRA Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector fell 2.3% in the last month (u$s140 million), registering in year-on-year terms a variation of 15.2%.

**5. Interest Rates**

**Chart 5.1** **Securities issued by the BCRA³**

**NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR**
%
2.0 During December, in the primary market of NOBAC there were no significant changes in the adjudicated interest rates
1.8 (see Chart 5.1). With respect to LEBAC, adjudications
1.6 were carried out for terms of less than two months and with
1.4 interest rates that averaged 12.3%. In a month characterized
1.2 by the increase in money demand, the amount placed in the
1.0 primary market was lower than maturities, and these instru-
0.8 ments continued to constitute a channel for providing liquidity.
0.6 30-Dec-08
0.4
25-Nov-08 The Central Bank also continued operating in the secondary
0.2 market of LEBAC and NOBAC, complementing the liquidity
0.0 injection mechanisms. Again, repurchases were carried out in
Source: BCRA 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 duration (days) operations that could be settled in pesos, and no repurchases were carried out under the modality of settleable in dollars.

Consequently, the total stock of securities issued by the BCRA registered a decrease of 14% compared to the previous month, positioning itself on December 31st at VN $37,326

**Chart 5.2** thousands of **Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder** millions. When analyzing the holdings of LEBAC and NO-
millions $ millions $ 26-Dec vs 28-Nov BAC by holder, it is observed that banks, despite registering a
35 Stock fall of 15% compared to the previous month, continued maintaining
(data as of December 26th) a high participation in the total (76.8% of circulating stock, see
30 Chart 5.2). The rest of the holders (Insurance Companies, FCIs,
BANCO Foreign Investors, among the most important), also evidenced a
25 RESTO -2,000 decrease in their LEBAC and NOBAC balances compared to the
-5,057 previous month.
20 33.2
28.2 **Interfinancial Markets**
15 -4,500
10 10.4 8.5 **Repurchase Agreement Market¹**
5 -1,848
0 -7,000
Nov-08 Dec-08
Source: BCRA
The interest rates for fixed-rate repos remained at the same levels as in November, both for active and passive operations. In this way, the interest rates for passive repos remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates for active repos of 1 and 7 days were located at 12.5% and 13%, respectively. Thus, in 2008 the interest rates for fixed-yield operations in the 7-day segment accumulated an increase of 2.75 p.p.

On the other hand, since mid-December, in the segment of active operations for the Central Bank at variable rate, the reduction was established – from 4% to 0% – of the margin applied over the BADLAR rate of private banks.

On the other hand, the average stock of passive repos for the BCRA rose compared to the average of November and, considering all the modalities in which this Institution operates (REPO round, overnight operations and Investment Common Funds), it was located at $10,200 million, $1,100 million above that recorded in November. For its part, the average stock of active repos was located at $2,300 million, corresponding almost entirely to a single institution, belonging to the public sector.

## Interbank Market

The average interest rate of the interbank market decreased gradually after the highs it had reached in early November and averaged 14.1% in December, 1.1 p.p below the previous month.

The daily average of the amounts traded in the interfinancial loan market was located at $622 million, a historically reduced value, influenced by the high prevailing liquidity and by the atypical days of this month, in which operations were conducted in a reduced manner.

In the segment of interbank loans agreed at 1 business day (call), where the largest quantity of operations is concentrated, the average interest rate decreased by 0.8 p.p. compared to November (see Graph 5.3). In this market segment, a relatively low average amount traded was recorded with a high dispersion of the agreed interest rates (see Graph 5.4)

## Passive Interest Rates

In the scenario of solid liquidity conditions that continued to prevail, short-term passive interest rates halted the upward trend they had been recording since September. In particular, the average of the BADLAR rate for private banks decreased 2.4 p.p. compared to November, while the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements (for amounts less than $100,000) remained stable. However, the levels reached at the end of the year were higher than those recorded at the end of 2007, reflecting the impact on the deposit market of the different episodes that occurred in the year.
% Private Sector in Pesos
22 weighted monthly average by amount operated In fact, the December average of the interest rate
 BADLAR of private banks was located at 19.1%, 5.1
20
 p.p. above the average recorded in December 2007,
18 Natural Persons
 Financial Services while the average retail rate (for amounts less
16 Other Companies than $100,000) accumulated in the year an increase

14 of 7.1 p.p. reaching a value of 16.6% (see Graph

12 5.5).

10
 When analyzing the range of operations between 30
 8 and 59 days maturity during December, a decline is
 6 observed for all types of depositors, highlighting the
 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08
Source: BCRA recorded for rates paid to financial services compa-
 nies, which were located at 18.9%, 2.2 p.p. below the
 previous month. Meanwhile, the rates offered to natural
 Graphic 5.7 persons fell 1 p.p. reaching an average value in
 December of 17.1% (see Graphic 5.6).

 % Short-Term Interest Rates - Wholesale Segment
 35 Daily Data - Private Banks of Capital and GBA Active Interest Rates 1 4

 30 Active interest rates evidenced dissimilar movements,
 Advances to Companies more than $10M with declines in those of short-term, more

 25 BADLAR sensitive to the situation.

 20 In particular, the average of the advance interest rate
 was located in December at 30.6%, with a monthly

 15 decline of 0.3 p.p.. In turn, when considering a more
 homogeneous segment that concentrates a high pro-

 10 portion of this market, that of advances with agree-
 ment at 1 day, granted to companies for amounts

 Jul-08 Aug-08 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08
 Source: BCRA

 4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until October
 2008, the values of November and December 2008 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with data on loans
 granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 9 exceeding $10 million in Capital and GBA, it is observed
 that the interest rate was located at 23.8%, registering
 a decline of 3.4 p.p. with respect to November (see
 Graphic 5.7). For its part, the average of the interest
 rate for loans granted under the form of documents
 on sole signature reached 26.9%, 1.6 p.p. below the
Graphic 5.8 average level observed in the previous month (see
 Graphic 5.8).
TNA, % Commercial Loans
34 (Average interest rate monthly weighted by amount)
32 For its part, the interest rates for loans related to
30
28 consumption evidenced increases. In this sense, that
26 corresponding to personal loans presented an in-
24 crease of 2.5 p.p., reaching a value of 37.2%, while
22 the interest rates of credit card financings correspond-
20
18 ing to November increased 0.6 p.p., reaching an
16 average value of 28.5%.
14
12 Finally, the interest rates for mortgage loans reached
10 Advances an average monthly of 13.5%, with a reduction of
 8 Documents 2.5 p.p. with respect to the level observed in November.
 6 It is worth mentioning that this interest rate is referred
 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 only to operations agreed at fixed or adjustable inter-
Source: BCRA est rate and does not include those agreed at variable
 rate. On the other hand, the interest rate correspond-
 ing to financings with chattel mortgage guarantee was
 located at 24.7%, with a monthly increase of 3.2 p.p..

 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market 5

 The stock of international reserves increased u$s314
 million in December, reaching a total of u$s46.386
 Graphic 6.1 million at the end of the year (see Graphic 6.1). The Bank
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE BCRA

The Central Bank was a net buyer of foreign currency in the Unique and Free Exchange Market (MULC), as is expected for this time of year, in line with the seasonal increase in demand for pesos, thereby accumulating international reserves through this channel. Other concepts that implied increases in reserves during the month were foreign currency swap operations and income from reserve yields. On the other hand, public sector operations resulted in a contraction of the stock of international reserves due to foreign currency-denominated debt payments that occurred during the month.

## Exchange Market

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated again against the Dollar, although to a lesser extent than in the two previous months. The average quotation was $/US$3.42, which implied an increase of 5.7% with respect to November (see Chart 6.2). In turn, the peso depreciated 9.5% with respect to the Euro, registering an average quotation of 4.64 $/Euro. Finally, the average appreciation of the peso in relation to the Real was 2.3%, notably lower than that of previous months, with the average monthly quotation being 1.43 $/Real. In 2008 the peso depreciated with respect to the Dollar, Euro and Real by 1.5%, 8.7% and 9% respectively.

---

# 7. Capital Market

## Equity

During December, the historical volatility of stock markets continued to decrease following the peaks registered in October (Chart 7.1). Another volatility measure, the VIX (expected volatility of the S&P), averaged 52.4% in December (10.2 p.p. less than the previous month) and also indicated less adverse conditions, although its level continued to be one of the highest historically.

In this context of lower volatility, for the first time in several months, some of the relevant stock indices experienced positive variation, in certain cases significant (measured in original currency). In this sense, the increases are led by the MEXBOL (Mexico) with a gain of 9%, followed by the BOVESPA (Brazil), which accumulated a positive return of 2.6%, and the American S&P, which rose 0.8%. In contrast, Chile's IGPA lost 1.4%, the Shanghai index registered a decline of 2.7%, and finally, Peru's IGBVL index fell 5.2%.

The evolution of stock indices by region according to the MSCI (measured in dollars), as well as the individual indices of the countries surveyed, showed a recovery. The global MSCI gained 3.1%, Europe's 9.7%, Japan's 8%, and Latin America's 2.4% (Chart 7.2). In the annual performance of these indices, the magnitude of the 2008 crisis can be observed. In this regard, the largest decline in the year occurred in the Latin America MSCI which lost 52.8%, followed by that of Europe (49.2%) and Japan (30.5%). Meanwhile, the global MSCI lost 42.1% during the year. It should also be noted that in 2008 the American S&P 500 accumulated a loss of 38.5%.

---

**Note:** *In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.*

**Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 10*
35 In December, the lower volatility in stock market indices
 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08and the gains observed in most of them was
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
 due, in part, to the deepening of the actions carried
 out by the main central banks (see

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 11Section 8), treasuries and multilateral
organizations.

In Argentina during December the MERVAL index -
measured in pesos - registered a gain of 8.6%, reaching
a value of 1,080 points at the end of the month. In the
last twelve months the MERVAL had a loss of 50%.

Measured in dollars, practically all stock exchanges in
the region had positive results in December, except the
IGBVL (Peru) which lost 5.8%. The MEXBOL index
(Mexico) leads the stock exchanges with a positive result
of 7.1%, followed by the MERVAL which showed a posi-
tive change of 6.2%, the BOVESPA of Brazil (3.2%),
and the IGPA of Chile (2.3%).

Latin American stock exchanges also decreased their
volatility and, in the specific case of MERVAL volatility
–18 trading sessions, in annualized terms and measured
in dollars– it was 45% in December, 33 p.p. lower than
in November, although it remains a historically high
value.

The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires
Stock Exchange decreased with respect to November by
$25 million, due, in part, to seasonal factors. Thus the
average amount traded in December reached $41 million
daily.

Fixed Income

Along with lower volatility in equity markets, the flight
to quality was reduced and some debt securities in the
region improved their quotations. In this sense, the
EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging coun-
tries was reduced by 28 b.p., the spread of external debt
of Latin America did the same by 26 b.p., and that of
Argentina was reduced by 18 b.p. In the case of the
spread of Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, Argen-
tina's 5-year spread decreased by 167 b.p., while Brazil's
5-year CDS spread was reduced by 29 b.p.

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily)
in December in the local market continued at the low
values observed in recent months, although it increased
slightly compared to November by 6 million with the
average daily traded being $439 million.

With respect to the private debt market, in December
two issues were made via negotiable bonds. One of them
was issued by Consumo S.A., for a nominal value of
$26 million, at the BADLAR rate of private banks plus
a margin of 750 b.p., for 230 days. The second was
placed by Rural Ceres S.A., for an amount of U$S 1.35
million, at a fixed rate of 14% annually, for 750 days.

Institutional Investors

Graph 7.3 Mutual Investment Funds

thousands of Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
millions $
20 The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) in pesos
Fixed income (Change December 08 vs. November 08)
18 Mixed income Millions of $ increased 8.7% compared to November, ending
1,100
16 Variable income the month at $12,000 million (see Graph 7.3).
Money Market 26
61
14
In particular, in the money market segment a
12 considerable increase was registered, explained mainly by
10
500 the largest amount of fund shares. In this way, the pa-
 8 893
 trimony of the funds in this group closed the month with an
 6
 amount exceeding $9,160 million, with an increase of
 4
 10.8% compared to November. Thus it reached representing
 2
 more than 76% of the total funds in pesos (1.5 p.p. above
 -23
 0 -100 the November value).
 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

 On the other hand, equity funds reversed part of the decline
 recorded in recent months by increasing their patrimony by
 4.6%. This increase was due to the rise in the price of fund
 shares and allowed the patrimony of equity funds to close
 the month at $1,395 million. However, they continued
 losing participation in the total of FCI in pesos, representing
 11.6% of the total.

 For their part, fixed income funds in pesos showed a slight
 Graph 7.4
 decline due to the lower amount of fund shares, ending the
 month with $1,237 million. Finally, an increase of 13% was
 recorded in mixed income funds that reached a patrimony
 of $228 million.

 millions of $ Financial Trust Emissions
 December 2008:
1.800 (number of emissions above the bar for each month in the series of amounts)
 40
1.600 $1,049M
 19 41
 11 prom. 2007: 28
1.400 $727M 25 31
 prom. 2006: 24 23
1.200 With respect to funds in foreign currency, during December
 prom. 2005: 15 32 2217
 32 they registered an increase (4%), after 5 months of decline,
 $430M $628M 28
1.000 22 21 19 1321 18
 10 19 14 placing themselves at $1,205 million. The increase was
 800
 16 2713 1518201515 observed mainly in the fixed income segment both due to
 11 1313161617 10 8
 600 10 1213 9 higher prices and the increase in the amount of fund shares.
 10 12
 400
 49 6
 200

 0
 Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08 Oct-08Financial Trusts6
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

 In December, emissions of financial trusts totaled $1,049
 million (see Graph 7.4), 9% more than in November,
 reaching the largest securitized amount during 2008. The
 number of placements also increased compared to the
 previous month, recording a total of 31 in December
 compared to 23 in November. It should be noted that during
 December there were four FF emissions that had to extend
 their placement period until January while another was
 suspended. This was related to the inability of the

 Graph 7.5
 fiduciants to place the entirety of fiduciary debt securities
 in subscription.

 millions of $ Underlying Assets
 10.000 Personal Loans Credit Card Coupons
 Commercial Credits Future Flows of Funds
 9.000 Rest (*)

 8.000 26%
 Among the underlying assets, consumption-linked loans
 7.000
 20% continued to stand out, maintaining the same level of
 6.000 +43%
 participation as the previous month (86% of the total). For
 5.000
 their part, pledged credits increased their importance
 4.000
 65% compared to November in a significant manner,
 3.000 62%
 representing 9% of the total securitized, while commercial
 2.000 +17%
 credits contributed the remaining 5%, a percentage slightly
 1.000
 higher than in November. During 2008 there was evidence
 0
 2007 2008 of lower diversification of underlying assets compared to
 (*) Public Securities, Mortgage Loans, Real Estate, Pledged Credits and Leasing Contracts
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others the previous year (see Graph 7.5) since consumption-linked
 assets concentrated 91% of the total, compared to 82% in
 2007.

 Graph 7.6
 The structure by type of fiduciant experienced a profound
 Fiduciants change in December since both
December 2007 November 2008 December 2008 mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
(35% of the total, a percentage similar to
21% 8%43%3%
26% 5% November; see Chart 7.6) as well as financial entities
(34% of the total compared to 18% the previous month)
33% 35%
surpassed retail stores in importance
(26% of the total compared to 43% last month), which
38% 36%
had been having a dominant participation since
34%
18% July, excluding the particular composition of August
resulting from the change in the tax treatment of FF.

Financial Entities FF.
Retail Stores
Others
Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-Bank Credit Card Issuers

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others. The interest rates at the cut-off of senior securities
evolved showing an upward trend throughout
the entire month, positioning themselves at elevated levels. In
effect, when calculating the amount-weighted average,
Chart 7.7
senior securities traded at variable rate reached 33.7%
and those awarded at fixed rate reached 31.1%, increasing

millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF
8.6 p.p. and 4.1 p.p. respectively compared to the previous
17,000 Balance 100%
month. In this way, since the beginning of the year the
15,000 variations
cut-off rates of senior securities have doubled.
i.a % (right axis) 90%

13,000 80%
70% According to the latest balance sheet information
11,000
60% corresponding to September 2008, the stock of
9,000
50% FF assets reached $16,184 million (see Chart
7,000
40% 7.7), a level similar to that of June. On the other hand,
5,000
30% when analyzing the stock of FF with underlying assets
3,000
20% comparable to loans (not considering those with public
1,000
10% and private securities as underlying assets, future cash
-1,000 I-05 II-05 II-05 IV-05 I-06 II-06 II-06 IV-06 I-07 II-07 III-07 IV-07 I-08 II-08 III-08 0%
flows, leasing contracts, among others) it was found that
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data
such amount reached $8,997 million in December. This
amount represented slightly more than 7% of bank loans
Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 14 to the private sector, a percentage slightly lower than
that recorded in June.

Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary and Financial System Variables Dec-08 Monthly Last 12 Months Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 106,439 101,146 102,453 96,358 5.2% 4.6% 10.5% 2.7%
Monetary Circulation 80,247 74,437 74,463 70,577 7.8% 7.2% 13.7% 5.8%
In public hands 70,934 66,923 67,169 63,658 6.0% 5.4% 11.4% 3.6%
In financial entities 9,313 7,514 7,294 6,919 23.9% 23.2% 34.6% 25.2%
Current account at BCRA 26,192 26,709 27,990 25,781 -1.9% -2.5% 1.6% -5.5%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 10,187 9,086 8,946 2,492 12.1% 11.5% 308.9% 280.3%
Assets 2,302 33 94 252

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include repo portfolio)
In pesos 11,771 16,752 20,247 21,291 -29.7% -30.2% -44.7% -48.6%
In dollars 0 0 0 0

NOBAC 28,389 28,572 28,559 31,588 -0.6% -1.2% -10.1% -16.4%

International Reserves of BCRA (5) 46,198 45,664 46,608 45,710 1.2% 1.1%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 197,125 200,987 204,190 177,328 -1.9% -2.5% 11.2% 3.4%
Current account (2) 64,915 56,900 58,853 46,510 14.1% 13.4% 39.6% 29.8%
Savings account 37,356 35,668 36,062 35,521 4.7% 4.1% 5.2% -2.2%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 82,490 97,227 98,064 78,320 -15.2% -15.7% 5.3% -2.0%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 320 383 401 2,322 -16.5% -17.0% -86.2% -87.2%
CEDRO with CER 0 0 0 1
Other deposits (3) 12,045 10,810 10,810 14,654 11.4% 10.8% -17.8% -23.6%

Private sector deposits 135,862 138,622 141,800 129,752 -2.0% -2.6% 4.7% -2.6%

Public sector deposits 61,263 62,365 62,390 47,576 -1.8% -2.4% 28.8% 19.8%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.346 9.127 8.848 7.271 2.4% 28.5%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 119.002 118.581 118.240 98.970 0.4% -0.2% 20.2% 11.8%

Loans to the private sector 108.094 107.685 107.354 88.356 0.4% -0.2% 22.3% 13.8%
 Advances 15.738 15.871 16.729 14.220 -0.8% -1.4% 10.7% 2.9%
 Documents 19.512 19.994 20.029 18.133 -2.4% -3.0% 7.6% 0.1%
 Mortgage loans 17.930 17.463 17.063 13.996 2.7% 2.1% 28.1% 19.2%
 Collateral loans 7.609 7.569 7.407 5.813 0.5% -0.1% 30.9% 21.7%
 Personal loans 27.671 27.615 27.252 21.045 0.2% -0.4% 31.5% 22.3%
 Credit cards 14.679 14.290 13.991 10.838 2.7% 2.1% 35.4% 26.0%
 Others 4.957 4.882 4.883 4.312 1.5% 0.9% 14.9% 6.9%

Loans to the public sector 10.908 10.896 10.886 10.614 0.1% -0.5% 2.8% -4.4%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.973 6.121 6.241 5.194 -2.4% 15.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 135.849 123.823 126.021 110.168 9.7% 9.1% 23.3% 14.7%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 173.205 159.491 162.083 145.689 8.6% 8.0% 18.9% 10.6%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 268.059 267.910 271.358 240.985 0.1% -0.5% 11.2% 3.5%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 300.075 298.322 299.988 263.821 0.6% 0.0% 13.7% 5.8%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 109.752 104.330 105.440 99.559 5.2% 4.6% 10.2% 2.5%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 143.492 136.056 137.569 132.383 5.5% 4.8% 8.4% 0.8%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 206.797 205.545 208.968 193.410 0.6% 0.0% 6.9% -0.6%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 234.634 232.497 234.275 214.434 0.9% 0.3% 9.4% 1.8%

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2008 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 5.293 5.0% 4.810 4.5% 10.081 9.5% 10.081 9.5%
 Financial sector 1.182 1.1% 3.148 3.0% -5.614 -5.3% -5.614 -5.3%
 Public sector -2.998 -2.8% -3.747 -3.5% -6.560 -6.2% -6.560 -6.2%
 Private external sector 1.036 1.0% -9.591 -9.0% -4.032 -3.8% -4.032 -3.8%
 BCRA Securities 5.547 5.2% 11.117 10.4% 17.665 16.6% 17.665 16.6%
 Others 525 0.5% 3.883 3.6% 8.622 8.1% 8.622 8.1%

International reserves 535 1.2% -874 -1.9% 489 1.1% 489 1.1%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 309 0.7% -2.943 -6.4% -1.120 -2.4% -1.120 -2.4%
 Payment to international organizations -16 0.0% 26 0.1% -1.353 -2.9% -1.353 -2.9%
 Other public sector operations -749 -1.6% 852 1.8% 1.567 3.4% 1.567 3.4%
 Minimum cash 180 0.4% 628 1.4% 281 0.6% 281 0.6%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) 811 1.8% 564 1.2% 1.147 2.5% 1.147 2.5%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 17 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 14.06 15.21 12.91 9.21 9.21
 Amount traded 624 695 574 1.023 1.023

Fixed term
 In pesos
 30 days 15.76 16.89 13.64 10.19 10.19
 60 days or more 17.41 18.04 12.89 11.20 11.20
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 16.59 18.24 14.06 11.11 11.11
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.07 21.22 16.72 13.54 13.54
In dollars
 30 days 1.68 1.67 1.57 1.23 1.23
 60 days or more 2.48 2.38 2.30 2.28 2.28
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.50 1.88 1.62 1.08 1.08
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.86 3.00 2.78 3.32 3.32

 Active Interest Rates Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

Prime in pesos at 30 days 27.76 32.46 23.97 15.99 15.99

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 15.67 11.68 13.09 13.13 13.13
 Amount traded (total terms) 120 110 128 156 156

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.63 30.95 24.77 18.93 18.93
 Single-signature documents 26.87 28.51 21.92 16.97 16.97
 Mortgages 13.48 16.03 13.07 12.44 12.44
 Pledge loans 24.66 21.43 18.96 15.47 15.47
 Personal loans 37.15 34.69 31.58 27.71 27.71
 Credit cards n/d 28.50 27.94 27.47 27.47

 International Interest Rates Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

LIBOR
 1 month 1.02 1.61 3.78 5.04 5.04
 6 months 2.14 2.66 3.86 4.84 4.84

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.81 1.19 1.59 3.11 3.11
 10 years 2.38 3.47 3.77 4.09 4.09

FED Funds Rate 0.61 1.00 1.55 4.33 4.33

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.75 13.75 13.75 11.25 11.25

(1) Data through October correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for November and December are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.40 8.00 8.00
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 10.90 8.25 8.25
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 12.90 10.25 10.25

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 10.53 10.79 11.10 8.60 8.60
 7 days 12.56 13.97 11.45 9.43 9.43

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 5,580 7,457 5,447 2,177 2,177

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 12.50 12.50 12.48 10.65 10.65
 2 months 12.18 12.87 12.50 10.67 10.67
 3 months 12.50 n/o 12.55 10.75 10.75
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o 1.17 1.24 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.75 1.56 1.52 2.13 2.13
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 130 138 298 284 284

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.42 3.33 3.24 3.14 3.14
 BCRA Reference 3.42 3.33 3.24 3.14 3.14

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.60 3.66 3.55 3.14 3.14
 ROFEX 1 month 3.44 3.35 3.25 3.14 3.14
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 467 411 735 172 172

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.43 1.47 1.49 1.76 1.76

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.64 4.24 4.30 4.58 4.58

 Capital Market Dec-08 Nov-08 Oct-08 Dec-07 Dec-07

MERVAL
 Index 1,055 994 1,177 2,185 2,185
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 42 69 126 148 148

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 52.32 45.77 52.82 88.53 88.53
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 34.97 38.01 52.28 98.76 98.76
 BODEN 2014 ($) 23.83 23.76 41.75 69.79 69.79
 DISCOUNT ($) 29.72 25.51 38.08 73.98 73.98

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 3,439 4,522 3,902 631 631
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 713 658 640 257 257

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms up to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BONAR V: Argentine Nation Bond in United States dollars 7% 2011.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CC: Current account.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DISC: Discount Bond.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging markets bonds index.
FCI: Common investment funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S.A..
FF: Financial trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: Stock index of the Lima Stock Exchange (Peru).
IGPA: Stock index of the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile).
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and dollars from the public and private non-financial sector.
MAE: Electronic Open Market.
MEC: Electronic Brokers Market.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MEXBOL: Stock index of the Mexico Stock Exchange (Mexico).
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PAR: Par Bond.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Clearing and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIOPEL: Electronic Operations System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 20

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
U.V.P.: Units Linked to Product.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | December 2008 | BCRA | 21
