# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2009 Monthly Monetary Report
September 2009

Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Stocks
Page 11 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 12 | Investment Funds
Page 13 | Financial Trusts

Page 15 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was October 9, 2009. All figures are provisional and are sub-
ject to revision

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• The demand for money continues with its gradual recovery, as a result of the framework of monetary and financial stability derived from the countercyclical policies developed by the Central Bank. In this way, in September the total means of payment (M2) showed growth again, and were located within the range established in the Monetary Program, reaching an average of $178,700 million (9.8% y-o-y). Meanwhile, private M2 presented an average value of $148,800 million (7.6% y-o-y).

• The total of deposits in pesos showed a monthly expansion of 2.5%, with increases in both placements of the private sector and those corresponding to the public sector. Fixed-term deposits concentrated the largest proportion of the increase in private deposits, with significant growth in both the wholesale and retail segments. In this way, private fixed-term placements in pesos completely reversed the decline they had presented in the second quarter of the year.

• The proportion of liquid assets in pesos (current accounts at the Central Bank, cash, net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and LEBAC and NOBAC) of banks in terms of deposits in the same currency, amounted to 35.6%. During the month a decrease in the net position of repurchase agreements with the Central Bank was observed, which was more than offset by the increase in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, reflecting less conservative liquidity management, in a scenario of less uncertainty.

• The Central Bank continued deepening its countercyclical monetary policy, and implemented a new reduction of 0.25 p.p. in interest rates for repurchase agreement operations. In this way, the interest rates for passive repurchase agreements were set at 9.25% and 9.75%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates for active repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days were positioned at 11.25% and 11.75%, respectively. In this way, over the last three months the cumulative reduction in the reference interest rates established through the repurchase agreement market reached 1.25 p.p..

• The main interest rates of the money market, both passive (deposits) and active (loans), presented significant decreases during the month, in line with the reductions made in the Central Bank's reference rates. The BADLAR rate, corresponding to wholesale fixed-term deposits, was positioned at 12.2%, with a decline of 0.5 p.p. compared to the average recorded in August. For its part, in the interbank loan market the interest rate for 1 business day operations averaged 9.2% in September, 0.3 p.p. below the level it presented in August.

• In the segments of loans in pesos most operated, interest rates registered declines greater than those observed in passive interest rates, with a reduction in spreads being recorded. Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate of the most traded segment, corresponding to advances to companies for up to 7 days of term for amounts exceeding $10 million, was positioned at 14.3% with a monthly decline of 0.8 p.p..

• Since mid-August loans in pesos to the private sector began to show signs of renewed dynamism, led by financing destined for consumption. In this way, in September the total of loans presented an increase in its monthly average of 0.8% ($920 million). In particular, credits destined mainly for consumption exhibited a monthly increase of 1.6% ($730 million), the largest monthly expansion since November 2008.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates
Monetary aggregates in pesos continued with the recovery initiated from mid-year. Favored by the action of the Central Bank, the recovery that money demand has been showing is registered in a context of solid confidence in the financial system. In this way, total means of payment (M2) were positioned in September again within the range established in the Monetary Program, reaching an average of $178,700 (9.8% y.o.y.) and increasing in the month by 2.1%. Meanwhile, private M2 presented an average value of $148,800 million (7.6% y.o.y.), also within the estimates of the Monetary Program (6.5% y.o.y.-14.7% y.o.y.).

Graph 2.1
Factors Explaining the Variation of M2
(September 2009, on average)
thousands of
millions of $

Among the main determinants that explained the monthly growth of M2, the expansionary effects of foreign exchange purchases, public sector operations and loans to the private sector stood out. These effects were partially offset by the contractions caused by the increase in time deposits of the private sector and the increase in the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC of the non-financial private sector (see Graph 2.1).

*Includes time deposits and others, loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered in September an increase of 1.9%, continuing with the growth path initiated last May. Meanwhile, private M2 presented an increase of 0.7%, while private M3 grew 1%.

Graph 2.2
Time Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
(daily balance and monthly average)
thousands of
millions of $

The total deposits in pesos showed an expansion of 2.5%, with increases both in those of the private sector and in those corresponding to the public sector. As adjusted by transfer to the FGS in August, time deposits concentrated the largest proportion of the monthly increase in private sector placements.

Adjusted by transfer to the FGS in August
Monthly average

Sight deposits grew 3.5%, with increases both in those corresponding to the public sector and in those of the private sector. Regarding the latter, increases were recorded both in current accounts and in savings accounts.

Time placements grew 2.3% in September, with similar growth rates in the public and private sectors. In the particular case of private sector deposits, increases were verified both in the wholesale segment and in the retail segment, although the latter (placements of up to $1 million) concentrated 70% of the increase. It is important to highlight that the strong dynamism presented by private sector time deposits in recent months, once corrected by the effect of the pension system reform at the end of 2008, allowed them to reach a maximum level (see Graph 2.2).

Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09
Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits increased 1.6%. Public placements presented a slight reduction. Meanwhile, those corresponding to the private sector showed growth, both in sight deposits and time deposits, favored by the inflow of funds associated with capital laundering towards the end of August. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation and the total deposits in pesos and foreign currency, advanced in September 1.9%.

Graph 3.1
Bank Liquidity in Pesos

% of % of
deposits deposits
40 Bank Reserves Repos Lebac and Nobac EM Position (right axis) 1.0
35 0.9
0.8
30
0.7
25 0.6
0.5
20
0.4
15 0.3
10 0.2

3. Bank Liquidity1
5 0.1
 The minimum cash position of the segment in pesos
 0 0.0
 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 of financial entities showed in September an excess
Source: BCRA
 over the requirement of 0.5% of deposits
 (see Graph 3.1). Meanwhile, by type of entity, the excess
 of private banks was 0.6%, while that of public banks
 was 0.3% (see Graph 3.2). In this way, the integration
 of reserve requirements (cash in banks plus current
 accounts of all entities in the BCRA) represented 15.7%
 of deposits in pesos, a level similar to that of the previous
 month.

 Considering also the net position of repos with the
 Graph 3.2 BCRA, the liquidity ratio in pesos of entities was
 20.2% in September, 0.4 p.p. lower than that of the previous
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos month. The decline in net repos was more than
 Estimated Data compensated by the increase in holdings of LEBAC
 % of Daily Cumulative and NOBAC, which increased the broader liquidity
 % of
deposits Private Banks(*) deposits Public Banks ratio by 0.9 p.p. of deposits. In this way, said
 5 5 ratio rose to 35.6% of deposits in pesos, again evidencing
 4 4 better liquidity management in a scenario of declining
 3 3 uncertainty.
 2 2

 1 1 For its part, the minimum cash position in the
 0.6 0.3
 0 0 foreign currency segment ended the month with an
-1 -1 increase of 2 p.p. in the excess compared to August.
-2 -2 This was due to the increase in the stock of deposits in
-3 -3 foreign currency, and – as mentioned in the next
(*) Includes Non-Banking Financial Entities Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 section – a contraction in the balance of loans in the
 same denomination. Consequently, the excess in
 September was 51% of deposits in dollars.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 5 4. Loans 1 2

 Graph 4.1 Since mid-August, loans in pesos to the
 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % private sector began to show signs of renewed
 1,000 (var. of monthly averages) 18 dynamism, mainly due to the greater activity shown
 800 15 by financing aimed mainly at consumption. In this way,
 Sep-09 in September the total loans showed an increase in their
 600 var. y.o.y. (%) - right axis 12 monthly average of 0.8% ($920 million), registering
 400 7.6 9 year-on-year expansion of 7.6% (see Graph 4.1).
 200 6
 0 3 Credits mainly commercial presented a slight
 increase of 0.1% ($30 million) in September. Although
 -200 0 overdrafts on current account declined on average 0.7%
 ($130 million), throughout the month they remained at
 Source: BCRA levels similar to those observed in August. For its part,
 financing instruments with documents grew 0.9%
 ($190 million), showing great activity throughout the
 Graph 4.2 month and leaving an important positive statistical
 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee carryover for the next month.
 (var. monthly and year-on-year avg.) %
 600 70

 500 60 The balances of loans with real guarantee increased
 400 50 0.6% ($160 million), presenting the largest monthly
 expansion of the current year. Secured loans grew 1.3%
 300 40
 ($90 million), driven in large part by a specific financing
 200 30 operation for the agricultural sector. Meanwhile, mortgage
 100 20 loans showed an increase of 0.4% ($70 million), driven
 0 10 both by housing credits and by financing, with real
 Var. Monthly Mortgages guarantee, to SMEs (see Graph 4.2).
 -100 Var. Monthly Secured Loans 0
 Var. y.o.y. Mortgages (right axis) -10
 -200 Var. y.o.y. Secured Loans (right axis)
 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09
 Source: BCRA
For its part, credits destined mainly for consumption exhibited an increase of 1.6% ($730 million) in September, the largest monthly expansion since November 2008. Financing with credit cards increased in the month by 1.4% ($210 million). Meanwhile, personal loans grew 1.7% ($520 million), driven in large part by private entities (see Graph 4.3). Both lines show increasing dynamism since mid-August, which is reflected in the larger increases in absolute terms and in the stabilization of their year-on-year variation.

For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered in September a contraction of US$190 million, slightly easing its rate of decline with respect to August.

## 5. Interest Rates

**Securities Issued by the BCRA³**

In September, in a context of consolidation of the recovery in money demand, and in which the Central Bank deepened its countercyclical policy by reducing interest rates on repurchase agreements, decreases were registered in the interest rates of the primary market of the securities it issues. In particular, the interest rates of the LEBAC cutoff were decreasing throughout the month, while the amounts and average maturity of the letters awarded were higher in relation to the previous month. This was due mainly to the placement of securities with maturities exceeding 500 days, something that had not occurred since mid-July 2007 (see Graph 5.1). On the other hand, in the case of NOBAC, the average margins paid over BADLAR for comparable terms and the amounts placed were lower in relation to August.

As in previous months, the total placed in the primary market was higher than the amount matured, resulting in a contractionary monetary effect. In turn, the BCRA continued to conduct operations in the secondary market, being in this month a net buyer of securities.

As a consequence of the above, the stock of securities issued by the BCRA increased 10%, ending at $40,909 million, with an increase in the participation of LEBAC in the total.

Analyzing the distribution of securities by type of holder, it is observed that Banks registered an increase of 12% compared to August. Financial entities ended September with a holding of $34,404 million, 83% of the total securities in circulation, with more than 60% of their holdings concentrated in LEBAC. On the other hand, the rest of the holders (Insurance Companies, FCIs, Foreign Investors, among the most important) also registered an increase in their stock of 8.1% in comparison to the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

## Interbank Markets

**Repurchase Agreement Market¹**

Within the framework of the consolidation of adequate conditions of liquidity and solvency, in September the Central Bank continued deepening its countercyclical policy and made a new reduction of 0.25
3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | p.p., in the interest rates for repo operations.
Chart 5.3 In this way, the interest rates of passive repos

Interest Rates for Call Operations, BADLAR and Repos were set at 9.25% and 9.75%, for 1 and 7 days,
%
26 respectively, while the interest rates of

24 BCRA 1-day Passive Repos Rate active repos of 1 and 7 days moved to 11.25%
1-day Call
BCRA 1-day Active Repos Rate and 11.75%, respectively. The main short-term interest
22 BADLAR Private Banks
 rates of the money market aligned
20 their trajectory to the new corridor established by the

18 Central Bank (see Chart 5.3). In this way, in the

16 last three months the accumulated reduction in the

14 interest rates of reference established through the

12 repo market is 1.25 p.p..

10
The average stock of passive repos for the Central
8
Jul-08 Aug-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Bank, including all the modalities in which it
Source: BCRA
operates, decreased $1,900 million compared to August, and
reached a monthly average of $10,900 million. For
its part, the average stock of active repos
increased $250 million, reaching $535 million.

Chart 5.4

Interest Rate of Call Interbank Market 1

%
17

16 In line with the reduction established for repo interest

15 rates, the interest rates agreed in the interbank loan
market also registered
14 1-day Call Business Day (Total Entities)
 decreases. Particularly, the interest rate for
Private Banks 1-day Call Business Day
13
1-day business day operations averaged September at 9.2%,
12
0.3 p.p. below the level in August (see
11
Chart 5.4).
10

9 The amounts traded in this market continue at historically

8 low levels, having remained almost unchanged compared to
30/9/08 9/11/08 19/12/08 28/1/09 9/3/09 18/4/09 28/5/09 7/7/09 16/8/09 25/9/09 August. Specifically, in
Source: BCRA
September the average amount traded was $566 million,
$6 million less than in August.

Regarding the distribution of the amount traded
in the interbank market by type of entity, during
Chart 5.5 September the pattern of recent months was repeated, with
non-bank financial entities (EFNB) leading
$ millions Call Market
(net position monthly average by group of entities) the net providers of funding, with a daily average
600 of fund contribution of $220 million. While public
entities also continued being net providers,
400 but by an insignificant amount, $6

200 million. Finally, foreign banks and domestic

0 private banks were, in that order, the main
demand sources for market funding, by $180 and $46
-200 million, respectively (see Chart 5.5).

-400 Foreign
Priv. Nat. [Private National]
-600 Public For its part, the deviation of the interest rate of interbank

EFNB operations at 1 business day was slightly reduced
-800 compared to the level observed in August and was at
Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09
Source: BCRA 0.7%.

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 8 Passive Interest Rates 1
In response to the reduction of the interest rates on the Central Bank's repurchase operations, the main short-term passive interest rates decreased during the month. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 12.2%, with a decrease of 0.5 p.p. with respect to the average registered in August (see Chart 5.3). For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks, for the same term, on retail placements was reduced 0.4 p.p., placing itself at 11.6%.

On the other hand, it should be mentioned that at the end of August, and with the purpose of deepening the measures aimed at promoting credit, the Central Bank together with the Electronic Open Market (MAE) took initiatives to promote the development of the interest rate futures market. In particular, the Central Bank began to participate in this market through the so-called "Giro Function", joining counterparties that, willing to agree to operations under identical conditions, could not do so due to lack of credit between them. Thus, from the participation of the Central Bank, a significant increase in the quantity of BADLAR futures contracts closed in September was observed. While in August operations were sporadic, in September around 130 contracts were operated daily on average. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the participation of the Central Bank was reduced and that most of the operations were agreed upon without using the Giro Function. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in contracts with maturity on December 31 was located at 13.3%, while the rate corresponding to the contract with maturity at the close of the first quarter of 2010 was 13.65%

## Commercial Active Interest Rates
% TNA
Capital and GBA - Monthly Average

Just as with the rest of the short-term interest rates, most of the active rates decreased during September. In particular, in the most operated segments, decreases greater than those observed in passive interest rates were registered, recording a reduction in spreads.

The information to prepare this section comes from the SISCEN 18 information requirement, with daily data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

Among the commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate for advances in current account with prior agreement, which represent close to 90% of total operations, corresponding to company financing for terms of up to 7 days for amounts exceeding $10 million, was located at 14.3% with a decrease of 0.8 p.p. with respect to the average observed in August. Meanwhile, the interest rate for advances in current account for the total terms was located at 20.8%, with a decrease of 0.5 p.p. with respect to the average for August.

For its part, the interest rates of the three modalities of financing through documents (discounted, at sole signature and purchased) registered a similar evolution, with a decrease with respect to August. The average interest rate of discounted documents, the most operated line (with 50% of total operations) was located at 15.8%. Meanwhile, the average of the rate for sole signature documents was located at 18.1% (see Chart 5.6).

## Chart 6.1
## International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 9
The interest rates on personal loans granted in Capital and GBA by private banks registered a decline of 1.1 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching an average value of 35%.

Finally, also considering the operations arranged by private banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rates on mortgage loans to families remained at a level close to 15%. It is worth mentioning that this interest rate is referred only to operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable interest rates and does not include those agreed at variable rates. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financings with pledge guarantee was located at 22.1%, 1.1 p.p. below the August average.

**Graph 6.2**

**Foreign Exchange Market**
millions of $ $/US$
1,000 (monthly averages) 3.9
900 Forward amount traded in Rofex 3.8
$/US$ (Reference) - right axis
800 Avg: $ 657 millions 3.7

700 3.6

600 6. International Reserves and
3.5
500 Foreign Exchange Market5
Avg: $ 275 millions
3.4
400
300 3.3

200 3.2 The stock of international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 increased in September by u$s327 million and was located at u$s45,348 million at the end of September. The purchases of foreign exchange by the BCRA in the Unified Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) were the main explanatory factor of the monthly increase in reserves.

100 3.1

0 3.0

Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09
Source: BCRA and ROFEX

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 10 In the foreign exchange market, the exchange rate with respect to the U.S. currency remained stable (increased 0.1% compared to August), continuing with the deceleration of depreciation observed in recent months. This deceleration was accompanied by the relative stabilization of the amount traded in the foreign exchange futures market (ROFEX) which, although it increased compared to August, remained below the maximums it had reached in the second quarter of the year.

**Graph 7.1**

**Performance of World Stock Market Indices**
(base index 02/07/07 =100) In the meantime, the quotations of the Real and the Euro were 2.1
135
$/Real and 5.6 $/Euro, respectively, which implied
115 that the monthly depreciation with respect to these currencies
95 was 1.4% and 2.1%, respectively.

75 **7. Capital Markets**

**Stocks**
55 MSCI World
MSCI Europe
MSCI Japan
MSCI Latam During September, stock markets in the world generally
S&P 500
35 had good performance. The global MSCI increased by 3.8%. Meanwhile, the MSCI index for Latin America increased 12%, and the index of European stock exchanges had an increase of 6.2%. In contrast, the MSCI for Japan registered a decline of 2.3%. For its part, the U.S. S&P 500 showed a positive result of 4.5% (see Graph 7.1).

Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data

The MERVAL index of Argentina also showed very good performance during September, ending the month at 2,075 points, with a monthly increase of 16.5%, measured in pesos. Thus, it was the first time in the last fifteen months that MERVAL closed the month above 2,000 points. Compared to a year ago, the local stock exchange also registered a significant increase of 29.8%, while in 2009 so far it has accumulated a gain of 92.2%.

**Graph 7.2**

**Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets**
22 days
MERVAL (Argentina)
115 IPC (Mexico)
105 BOVESPA (Brazil)

95 S&P 500 (USA)
Shanghai Index (China)
85

75

65

55

45 The volatility of stock markets began to reduce in March, a trend that continued during September, although in a more limited manner. Specifically, the historical volatility of MERVAL - 18

35

25

15
5
 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09wheels - in annualized terms and measured in dollars,

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data was 23.6% during September, 0.6 p.p. less than during the previous month (see Chart 7.2). On the other hand, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) averaged 25% in September, that is 0.4 p.p. less than during August, the lowest value since September of last year.

The volume traded daily on average on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange during September was

6 Measured in dollars in all cases

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 11 of $50 million, which represents an increase of $5 million from the amount traded in August, although 34% less than in the same period of the previous year.

Public Securities

During September, sovereign risk indicators decreased and, especially, those of the local market. Specifically, the EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, was reduced by 55 b.p., closing at 327 b.p.. Meanwhile, the spread of debt in foreign currency of Latin America decreased 61 b.p., ending at 354 b.p., that of Argentina 173 b.p. and that of Brazil 37 b.p., ending the month at 784 and 234 b.p., respectively. In the case of the EMBI of Argentine debt, it reached the lowest value of the last twelve months. When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, it is observed that the spread of Argentina's 5-year contracts (the most traded segment) decreased 478 b.p., while the spread of Brazil's CDS at the same term was reduced 11 b.p. (see Chart 7.3).

On the other hand, it should be mentioned that during the month the second tranche of the debt swap adjustable for CER was launched, whose main eligible instrument is the Boden 14, which will be exchanged for a bond with a coupon following BADLAR. More precisely, a new bond, the BO-Chart 7.3 NAR 15, which will be amortized in 6 semi-annual installments starting Sovereign Risk Indicators from September 2013. The coupon will be floating based on

spread spread spread BADLAR Private Banks plus a margin of 300 b.p..
 CDS 5-year in b.p. in b.p. EMBI
 1,950
5,000 Argentina 700 EMBI Argentina It will be capitalizable for the first 2 years for the BADLAR portion while it will pay in cash 300 b.p..

 Brazil (right axis) 600 1,650 EMBI Latin
4,000 America
 500 1,350

3,000 400
 1,050 The volume traded of public securities (on average daily) continued at reduced levels, although it remained almost
2,000 300 unchanged with respect to August at $712 million, $30
 750 million more than the previous month.
1,000 450 200 With respect to September 2008, what was traded this
 100 year was $1,200 million less.
 0 0 150
 Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09
Source: Bloomberg Private Securities

 During September, a high amount of placements was recorded in the private debt market. The issuances of negotiable obligations (ON) were intended for financing working capital, refinancing of liabilities, or funding investment projects. Placements were concentrated mainly in the oil sector and in agricultural-livestock companies.

The largest placement was made by the oil company YPF SA, which issued debt of $205 million at a rate of BADLAR private banks plus a margin of 1.75% per annum. Said security will pay interest quarterly and the principal in full in March 2011, its maturity date. According to information provided by the company, the funds will be allocated to various investment projects.

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 12
# Translation to English

On the other hand, Petroquímica Comodoro Rivadavia SA (PCR) also placed a bond in domestic currency for $75 million, at a variable interest rate equivalent to the BADLAR private banks plus a margin of 5.25% nominal annual. Interest will be paid quarterly and capital amortizations will be made in 5 payments of 20% each, beginning from 12 months after its integration until its maturity date in September 2011.

Another of the companies that financed itself in the local debt market was the company Gregorio, Numo and Noel Werthein, dedicated to agricultural, livestock and real estate activities. In particular, it completed its debt placement of $50 million, for a 5-year term, with the objective of allocating it to the refinancing of liabilities. Interest payment will be semi-annual at a BADLAR private banks rate plus a margin of 6.75%. Meanwhile, semi-annual amortizations will begin from month 42, canceling in the first two installments 12.5% of capital in each one and in the last two 37.5%.

Additionally, Cresud SACIF placed two series of bonds in order to effect the repayment of short-term debt and the integration of working capital. The first for $15.5 million at a BADLAR private banks rate plus a margin of 3%. It will pay quarterly interest and amortize at maturity, in June 2010 (270 days term). With the second series it placed the dollar equivalent of $34.5 million at a fixed rate of 7.20%. Interest payments will also be quarterly and amortization at maturity in September 2010 (365 days term).

On the other hand, Quickfood obtained USD 10 million at the beginning of the month for a 5-year term. The reference rate for this security is the 180-day LIBOR plus a margin of 5%, while interest payment will be made semi-annually. According to the amortization schedule, capital will be paid semi-annually starting from month 30. The amounts to be paid in the first two payments will be USD 500 thousand each, being USD 1 million, USD 1.5 million, USD 3 million and USD 3.5 million for the remaining dates. The funds will be invested in the construction of feed-lots by the company.

For its part, Finansur placed debt securities of short-term for $29.3 million with maturity in May 2010 (240 days term). The applicable rate corresponds to the BADLAR private banks plus a margin of 4.5%. Interest will be paid monthly and capital amortizations in three payments. The first two, at 3 and 6 months of 30% of capital each one, and the third at maturity, for the remaining capital.

Graph 7.4 
Thousands of millions of Pesos Heritage of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
Fixed income
Mixed income
Variable income
Money Market
(Variation Sep-09 vs. Aug-09)
(in thousands of millions $)

Finally, the smallest placement was that of company Álvarez Hermanos, which placed a SME bond for USD 300 thousand, at a fixed annual rate of 8%, with maturity in September 2011. In this case, interest payment will be made quarterly starting in December of this year, and will also amortize quarterly although beginning next June.

## Common Investment Funds

During September, the heritage of common investment funds (FCI) registered a monthly increase of 3%, ending the month at $15,080 million. The increase was evidenced both in the local currency and foreign currency segment. In particular, the heritage of FCI in pesos ended September at $13,130 million, approximately 2% above the level at which they ended August (see Graph 7.4).

Graph 7.5

Fixed Income Funds
(Heritage at end of month) in Millions
2.500 Sep-09 vs Dec-08 The growth of FCI assets in pesos was
 + 130%
 explained mainly by the fixed income segment which,
 2.000
 thanks to larger quantities and prices of its quota
 1.500 shares, ended the month with assets of $2,900 million,

 1.000 17.3% higher than in August. This class of FCI
 500 increased its participation in the total of FCIs in pesos,
 reaching 22%. As was highlighted the previous month,
 0
 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09the fixed income segment continues to experience
 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data
 considerable monthly increases since the beginning of
 the year, accumulating an increase of more than 130%
 compared to December 2008 (see Chart 7.5).

 Chart 7.6 The variable and mixed income segments also experi-
 enced increases in their assets, of 8% and 5%
 millions of $
 Financial Trusts Issuances respectively. In both cases, the increases were due
 2.000 (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
 to higher price levels, ending the month with
 1.800 14
 40 13 returns of 7.7% for variable income funds
 1.600 and 3.3% for mixed income funds. This evolution was
 1.400 41 prom. 2008: in line with the good performance of equity
 $821M
 1.200 11 prom. 2007: 28 securities both at local and international levels,
 25 31
 1.000 $727M 24 1823 14as mentioned in the Equities Section.
 prom. 2006: 15 32 22
 $628M 19 28 18 21
 800 22 21 13 21 14
 19 1515 21
 600 13 151820 16 Instead, the money market segment registered a
 131316 16 17 10 8 19
 400 9 12 4% decline in its assets, explained by the decrease in
 12
 200 5 quantities of quota shares. Although they continue to
 0
 account for more than half of total funds (58%), in the

 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09month money market lost 4 percentage points of participation.
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 14 With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, a
 strong increase in assets was evident, of 11%.
 The most notable increases were experienced, thanks to
 the increase in quota share prices, by the fixed income,
 mixed income and variable segments in dollars.

 Financial Trusts7
 Chart 7.7
 Underlying Assets Financial trust (FF) issuances reached
 (amounts issued)
 August September $507 million in September (see Chart 7.6).
 Loans Loans
 Mortgage Credits Personal Credits Said amount represented nearly half of the total
 Commercial 59% 56% placed the previous month despite 16 operations
 3%
 having been recorded, two more than in August. This is
 because last month two FFs were placed for
 Credits relatively high amounts, series IX and X of Argentine
 Commercial Mortgage Credits Mortgage Certificates. In fact, if they were excluded
 11%
 Credit Card Credit Card it would be observed in September an increase of 35%
 Coupons Loans Personal Coupons in the total placed. Likewise, a 43% decline was
 8% 30% 33% observed compared to the same month of the previous
 Consumption=38% Consumption=89% year, registering 6 fewer operations than in September 2008.

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data.
 Regarding underlying assets, consumer financing
 once again constituted the largest part of securitized
 assets in the month, representing 89% of the total
 (see Chart 7.7), compared to 38% the previous month.
 The remaining 11% corresponded to commercial credits
 denominated in dollars. As for the amounts securitized,
 both consumer loans and commercial credits showed an
 increase compared to the previous month, of 31% and
 81%, respectively.
Chart 7.8
% Among the settlors, retail stores stood out by con-
 35 Cutoff Rates of the FF
 (titles A in pesos - monthly weighted averages by amount) centrating close to half of the securitized assets in the

 30 month, with an increase in their securitizations of 36%

 Fixed rate compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, mutuals,

 25 Variable rate cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks
 were settlors of 21% of the total, with a rise of 38% in

 20 the securitized amount. For their part, financial entities,
 which last month had had dominant participation, in

 15 September were responsible for 19% of securitizations
 through 3 placements that totaled $96 million.

 10 The cutoff interest rates of senior titles increased

 5 with respect to August, although they remained at
 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09
 substantially lower levels than those that had been
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others observed in the preceding months (see Chart 7.8). In
 effect, the cutoff rate (weighted average by amount)
 of titles awarded at variable rate was located at
 14.1% and that of those arranged at fixed rate at 13.3%, re-
 gistering an increase of 1.3 p.p. and 3.9 p.p., in one and
 the other case respectively. For its part, the duration (weighted average by

7 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 15 amount) of senior titles was located at 8 months, decreas-
 ing significantly with respect to August (54 months),
 due to the significant participation that that month had
 mortgage loans as underlying assets.

 According to the latest balance information corresponding
 to June 2009, the stock of assets of the FF amounted to
 close to $14,900 million (see Chart 7.9), with an in-
Gráfico 7.9 crease of 24% compared to the balance of the previous

 millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF quarter, which was explained mainly by FF emissions

 18.000 Financial Entities (detail by type of settlor) destined to finance infrastructure projects. In effect, if

 16.000 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers they are excluded, a decline of 10% is observed. In line

 14.000 Retail Stores with the foregoing, the main settlors of the circulating

 Others stock belong to the energy sector and the public sector,
 12.000
 representing together 37% of the total. For their part,

 10.000 financial entities were settlors of 33% of the total.

 8.000 Regarding underlying assets, those linked to consumption
 (personal loans and credit card coupons) continued to be
 6.000
 the most relevant (41% of the total), followed by future
 4.000 cash flows (31% of the total), which substantially in-
 2.000 creased their participation in the total. For their part,
 financial entities were holders of close to half of the se-
 0
 2005-II 2005-IV 2006-II 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV 2008-II 2008-IV 2009-IIcurities (43% of the total), followed by ANSES, which
 Source: own elaboration based on CNV data accounted for 37% of the total, while FCIs were holders
 of 6% of the titles backed by fiduciary assets.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 16

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Sep-09 Monthly Last 12 months Aug-09 Dec-08 Sep-08
 Nominal Real Nominal Real
# MONETARY REPORT - SEPTEMBER 2009

## MONETARY BASE AND CIRCULATION

**Monetary base** 106.268 105.293 106.439 101.628 0.9% 0.4% 4.6% -1.3%

**Monetary circulation** 81.784 82.062 80.247 74.121 -0.3% -0.8% 10.3% 4.2%

In public hands 73.405 73.321 70.897 67.268 0.1% -0.4% 9.1% 3.0%

In financial entities 8.379 8.741 9.350 6.853 -4.1% -4.6% 22.3% 15.5%

Current account in the BCRA 24.484 23.231 26.192 27.507 5.4% 4.9% -11.0% -15.9%

## STOCK OF REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS (PASES)

**Liabilities** 10.877 12.805 10.187 11.064 -15.1% -15.5% -1.7% -7.2%

**Assets** 535 285 2.302 113

## STOCK OF BCRA SECURITIES (at nominal value)

**LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)**

In pesos 20.638 16.054 11.771 22.678 28.6% 27.9% -9.0% -14.1%

**NOBAC** 18.671 19.306 28.389 27.462 -3.3% -3.8% -32.0% -35.8%

## INTERNATIONAL RESERVES

**International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009** 45.193 44.851 46.198 47.072 0.8% -4.0%

**SDR allocation 2009 (5)** 2.630 0 0 0

## DEPOSITS IN PESOS

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** 206.237 201.156 197.274 204.180 2.5% 2.0% 1.0% -4.6%

Current account (2) 66.124 62.855 64.944 59.124 5.2% 4.7% 11.8% 5.6%

Savings account 39.192 38.889 37.358 36.417 0.8% 0.3% 7.6% 1.6%

Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 90.608 88.484 82.623 97.486 2.4% 1.9% -7.1% -12.2%

Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 32 102 322 483 -69.2% -69.3% -93.5% -93.8%

Other deposits (3) 10.282 10.826 12.028 10.670 -5.0% -5.5% -3.6% -9.0%

**Deposits of the private sector** 142.223 140.135 135.455 143.501 1.5% 1.0% -0.9% -6.4%

**Deposits of the public sector** 64.014 61.021 61.819 60.679 4.9% 4.4% 5.5% -0.4%

## DEPOSITS IN DOLLARS

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** 12.201 12.007 9.346 8.595 1.6% 42.0%

## LOANS IN PESOS

**Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** 129.427 126.919 119.040 116.077 2.0% 1.5% 11.5% 5.3%

**Loans to the private sector** 113.017 112.557 108.136 105.067 0.4% -0.1% 7.6% 1.6%

Advances 17.960 18.094 15.735 16.885 -0.7% -1.2% 6.4% 0.4%

Documents 20.391 20.204 19.517 19.277 0.9% 0.4% 5.8% -0.1%

Mortgage loans 17.601 17.880 17.931 16.708 -1.6% -2.0% 5.3% -0.5%

Secured loans (prendarios) 6.943 6.885 7.610 7.244 0.8% 0.3% -4.2% -9.5%

Personal loans 28.488 28.069 27.668 26.768 1.5% 1.0% 6.4% 0.5%

Credit cards 15.558 15.362 14.712 13.348 1.3% 0.8% 16.6% 10.1%

Others 6.076 6.063 4.963 4.836 0.2% -0.3% 25.6% 18.6%

**Loans to the public sector** 16.410 14.362 10.904 11.010 14.3% 13.7% 49.0% 40.7%

## LOANS IN DOLLARS

**Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** 5.306 5.499 5.973 6.171 -3.5% -14.0%

## TOTAL MONETARY AGGREGATES (1)

**M1** (cash in public hands + current account in pesos) 139.529 136.176 135.841 126.392 2.5% 2.0% 10.4% 4.2%

**M2** (M1 + savings account in pesos) 178.721 175.065 173.198 162.809 2.1% 1.6% 9.8% 3.7%

**M3** (cash in public hands + total deposits in pesos) 279.642 274.477 268.171 271.448 1.9% 1.4% 3.0% -2.7%

**M3*** (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 326.529 320.572 300.185 297.949 1.9% 1.4% 9.6% 3.5%

## PRIVATE MONETARY AGGREGATES

**M1** (cash in public hands + private current account in pesos) 113.212 112.353 109.263 105.844 0.8% 0.3% 7.0% 1.0%

**M2** (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 148.810 147.839 143.005 138.348 0.7% 0.2% 7.6% 1.6%

**M3** (cash in public hands + total private deposits in pesos) 215.628 213.457 206.352 210.769 1.0% 0.5% 2.3% -3.4%

**M3*** (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 254.832 251.740 233.507 234.166 1.2% 0.7% 8.8% 2.8%

---

Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations

## VARIATION FACTORS

| | **Monthly** | **Quarterly** | **Accumulated 2009** | **Last 12 months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary base** | 975 | 0.9% | 2.616 | 2.5% | -171 | -0.2% | 4.640 | 4.4% |
| **Financial sector** | 2.146 | 2.0% | 4.414 | 4.2% | -2.314 | -2.2% | 835 | 0.8% |
| **Public sector** | 262 | 0.2% | 1.593 | 1.5% | -4.109 | -3.9% | -7.856 | -7.4% |
| **External private sector** | 1.929 | 1.8% | 137 | 0.1% | -1.299 | -1.2% | -10.890 | -10.2% |
| **BCRA securities** | -3.277 | -3.1% | -3.673 | -3.5% | 4.761 | 4.5% | 15.878 | 14.9% |
| **Others** | -85 | -0.1% | 146 | 0.1% | 2.790 | 2.6% | 6.673 | 6.3% |
International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 342 0.8% -1,193 -2.6% -1,006 -2.2% -1,880 -4.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 503 1.1% 29 0.1% -293 -0.6% -3,237 -7.2%
 Payment to international organizations 257 0.6% 381 0.8% 134 0.3% 160 0.4%
 Other public sector operations -511 -1.1% -2,907 -6.4% -3,903 -8.6% -3,052 -6.8%
 Minimum cash 13 0.0% 805 1.8% 1,730 3.8% 2,358 5.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 80 0.2% 500 1.1% 1,328 2.9% 1,891 4.2%

SDR allocations 2009 2,313 2,630 2,630 2,630

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 9.33 9.74 10.38 14.04 9.17
 Amount traded 566 573 522 574 713

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11.32 11.81 11.95 15.76 11.12
 60 days or more 12.68 12.95 12.94 17.41 11.45
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.51 12.07 12.34 16.59 11.20
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.23 12.73 13.04 19.07 12.19

 In dollars
 30 days 0.66 0.77 0.90 1.68 1.44
 60 days or more 1.08 1.33 1.32 2.48 2.22
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.85 0.91 1.12 1.50 1.60
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.93 1.08 1.28 2.86 2.78

 Active Interest Rates Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate 30 days 12.56 11.85 13.01 15.75 11.47
 Amount traded (total terms) 159 148 267 122 132

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 22.73 23.24 22.27 27.72 20.56
 Documents on signature alone 18.82 20.02 19.65 25.94 18.90
 Mortgages 16.18 16.11 15.58 16.23 12.88
 Pledged loans 20.10 21.25 22.24 21.07 19.17
 Personal loans 33.29 34.34 34.21 35.45 32.54
 Credit cards n/a n/a 31.04 29.04 28.55

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 13.89 15.15 15.93 n/d n/d

 International Interest Rates Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.25 0.27 0.29 1.02 2.93
 6 months 0.68 0.84 0.98 2.14 3.34

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.94 1.10 1.00 0.81 2.07
 10 years 3.39 3.58 3.55 2.38 3.68

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.00

SELIC (1 year) 8.75 8.75 9.06 13.75 13.48

(1) Data through July correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for August and September are estimates made
based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 19 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.41 9.63 10.10 10.50 9.07
 Passive 7 days 9.91 10.13 10.60 11.00 9.57
 Active 7 days 11.91 12.13 12.60 13.00 11.57

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.45 10.06 10.13 10.53 9.22
 7 days 10.60 10.76 10.82 12.56 9.59

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 5,607 7,736 7,458 5,580 5,053

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 12.48 n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 12.18 11.29
 3 months n/a 14.28 14.50 12.50 11.35
 9 months 15.35 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 12 months 15.91 n/a 16.24 n/a 12.21

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a 1.27 1.37 n/a 1.33
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.95 1.78 1.79 1.75 1.56
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.20
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a 2.45 n/a n/a 3.57
Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 155 185 111 130 273

 Foreign Exchange Market Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.84 3.84 3.81 3.42 3.08
 BCRA Reference 3.84 3.84 3.81 3.42 3.08

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.88 3.87 3.87 3.60 3.12
 ROFEX 1 month 3.88 3.88 3.87 3.50 3.09
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 874 663 972 458 680

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.11 2.08 1.98 1.43 1.71

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.60 5.48 5.37 4.64 4.43

 Capital Markets Sep-09 Aug-09 Jul-09 Dec-08 Sep-08

MERVAL
 Index 1.933 1.777 1.617 1.055 1.643
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 61 55 43 42 100

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 77.49 72.87 65.99 52.32 76.29
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 66.80 62.06 54.84 34.97 76.78
 BODEN 2014 ($) 62.61 53.34 51.29 23.83 63.55
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.68 45.57 44.60 29.72 58.18

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 1.471 1.814 2.433 3.439 1.411
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 357 377 425 713 375

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held in each month.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 21. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
IMF: International Monetary Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus all peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus all deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Integrated Argentine Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
FV: Face Value.

 Monetary Report | September 2009 | BCRA | 21
