# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2009 | Monthly Monetary Report
June 2009

## Contents

Page 3  |  1. Summary

Page 4  |  2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5  |  3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6  |  4. Loans

Page 7  |  5. Interest Rates
Page 7  |  Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7  |  Interfinancial Markets
Page 7  |  Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8  |  Interbank Market
Page 9  |  Passive Interest Rates
Page 9  |  Active Interest Rates

Page 10  |  6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11  |  7. Capital Markets

Page 11  |  Stocks
Page 11  |  Public Securities
Page 12  |  Private Securities
Page 13  |  Mutual Investment Funds
Page 14  |  Financial Trusts

Page 16  |  8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20  |  9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on July 13, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• Total means of payment (M2) were located in June once again within the range established in the Monetary Program, upon registering an average balance of $175,200 million (12.2% y.o.y.), $3,600 million above the lower limit. Meanwhile, private M2 showed a significant recovery that had already been hinted at in May and was consolidated in June, registering an average value of $145,650 million (7.1% y.o.y.), which meant an increase of 3.1% in the month, whereby it was also found within the bands foreseen in the estimates of the Monetary Program.

• In June, although prudential behavior was observed in economic agents that translated into a preference for assets of greater liquidity, confidence in the local monetary and financial system was evidenced in the increase in total placements in pesos. In this way, total deposits in pesos grew 0.5%. Likewise, the broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered in June a growth of 1.3%, while private M3 showed an advance of 1.6%.

• During the month under analysis, the BCRA arranged the holding of auctions for options of access to active repos in pesos, a measure aimed at preserving financial stability and credit dynamics. To date, 2 auctions have been completed, one in mid-June and another in early July. After declaring the first auction void, the BCRA introduced changes in the operating mechanism. In this way, in the second auction, the entities submitted bids for $90 million of which the BCRA decided to award $50 million, determining a cut premium of 1%. The awarded entities will be able to exercise the option of access to an active repo at a fixed rate of 13.4375% within the next 365 days. The amount of the repo to which they may access may not exceed the growth in loans that they register from the auction until the moment of exercising the option.

• The liquidity of financial entities did not show significant variations in June. The liquidity ratio resulted on average at 22.7% of total deposits in pesos when considering liquidity composed of cash in banks, current accounts of entities at the BCRA, and repos (net) at the BCRA. Meanwhile, when including holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, the liquidity ratio was 36.4% of deposits in pesos, a value similar to that of May.

• Passive interest rates remained stable, while those charged for credit to the private sector presented reductions in practically all lines. In particular, the monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and up to 35 days maturity (BADLAR) stood at 12.9%. With regard to the most representative active interest rates, the one corresponding to advances granted with agreement up to 7 days to companies for amounts greater than $10 million, in Capital and GBA, reached an average level of 16%, 0.7 p.p. below the average of the previous month. In the same sense, the interest rate of the most traded segment of discounted documents corresponding to companies, for a term of up to 90 days, also in Capital and GBA, fell 0.6 p.p., standing at an average of 16.5%. In this way, the margin between active and passive rates continued to narrow.

• In June, credit in pesos to the private sector intensified the recovery that it had been showing throughout the second quarter of the year. Thus, loans in pesos to the private sector showed a monthly increase of $1,240 million (1.1%), a variation that had not been observed since the deepening of the international financial crisis, in October 2008. The increase in the month...
had been explained fundamentally by the financings with destination predominantly commercial.

---

**Alternative, more natural phrasing:**

was explained fundamentally by financing with predominantly commercial purposes.

or

was fundamentally explained by financing directed predominantly toward commercial purposes.
1  Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 3
2. Monetary Aggregates

**Graph 2.1** Total means of payment (M2) were positioned in June

thousands of M2 - 2009 Targets again within the range established in the Mone-
millions of $ tary Program (see Graph 2.1). The average balance
210 reached $175,200 million (12.2% y.o.y.), increas-
204.0 ing 3.8% in the month. For its part, private M2
200 Bands PM 2009 (17.8% y.o.y.) showed significant recovery that had already
M2 - monthly average been hinted at in May and consolidated in June. In
190 189.3 188.2 this way, private means of payment reached an
183.8 (16.3% y.o.y.) (8.7% y.o.y.) average level of $145,650 million (7.1% y.o.y.),
180 (17.7% y.o.y.) increasing 3.1% in the month and also being found
176.7 175.9
(17.9% y.o.y.) 171.6 (8.1% y.o.y) within the bands foreseen in the Monetary Program
170 (9.9% y.o.y.) estimates (6.1%-13.9%). The growth of both aggre-
165.6
(10.5% y.o.y.) gates was motivated by the good performance shown
160 by both currency in circulation in the hands of the
public, which registered a monthly increase of 3.5%,
150 and sight deposits, which accumulated growth of
Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 4% (see Graph 2.2).
Source: BCRA

**Graph 2.2** Among the factors that contributed to supply the grow-

Monetary Aggregates ing demand for M2, the following can be mentioned:
(June 2009, on average) the increase in loans in pesos to the private sector that
returned to grow by more than $1,000 million for the
US$ Deposits first time since October 2008, public sector operations
(increase in loans and fall in fixed-term deposits), the
Other Deposits Public Sector decrease in the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC of the
Private Sector M3* non-financial private sector, and the reduction in
1.3% private fixed-term placements (see Graph 2.3).
Time Deposits M3
1.3%
Sight Deposits M2 The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered growth
3.8% of 1.3% in June, while private M3 showed an advance
of 1.6%.
Currency and Coins

-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 In June, although prudential behavior was observed
thousands of millions of $ in economic agents that translated into a preference
Source: BCRA for assets of greater liquidity, confidence in the local
financial system was reflected in the increase in total
placements in pesos. In particular, total deposits in
**Graph 2.3** pesos grew 0.5% in June. Those belonging to the pub-

Factors Explaining M2 lic sector showed slight growth of 0.3%, while private
thousands of (June 2009, on average) ones grew 0.6% (see Graph 2.4).
millions of $
7 In the sight placements segment, public sector deposits
6 grew 7.1%. This average increase was influenced by
5 the statistical carryover of the increase in public de-
4 posits in May, a month of high tax collection. For their
3 part, those from the private sector showed an advance
2 of 2.8%, with increases in both savings account and
1 current account placements.
0
-1 Time deposits fell back in June by 3.2%, behavior
Purchase of Public LEBAC and Prést. al Deposit Time Other M2 explained fundamentally by the

Sector NOBAC Sector and Others
Foreign Currency Public* Privados
excluded Banks
*Includes fixed-term deposits and others, loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 4
thousands of Total Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector public sector, which reduced its term placements
millions $ 5.9%. For its part, the term deposits of the pri‐
144
 vate sector fell 1.8%, registering reductions
142 both in the retail segment (deposits of up to
 $1 million) and in the wholesale segment.
140
 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits
138 remained stable at May levels, with decreases in public
 placements that were offset by the increase in pri‐
136 vate placements. The growth of the latter also reflec‐
 ted the public knowledge of the solid conditions
134 Monthly average
 Daily value that the financial system maintains. In this way, the
132 broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency
 01-Jan 21-Jan 10-Feb 02-Mar 22-Mar 11-Apr 01-May 21-May 10-Jun 30-Jun in circulation held by the public and the total deposits
 in pesos and foreign currency, advanced 1.3% in June
Source: BCRA showing an expansion of 11.5% over the last year.

 Graph 3.1

 % of Bank Liquidity 3. Bank Liquidity1
 deposits (monthly average) % of deposits
 28 39
 Financial entities' liquidity remained ele‐
 27 38
 26 37 vated in June, and the liquidity ratio, which includes
 cash in banks, the current accounts of entities
 25 36
 at the BCRA and repos (net) with the BCRA, re‐
 24 (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos)/Dep 35
 sulted on average in 22.7% of total deposits in
 23 34
 (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos+Lebacs)/Dep (right axis) pesos. Meanwhile, when considering the holdings of
 22 33
 LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, the liquidity ratio
 21 32
 was 36.4% of deposits in pesos, a value similar to
 20 31 that of May (see Graph 3.1). It is worth noting
 19 30
 that unlike what occurred in previous months, a
 18 29
 Jun-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 decrease in net repos was observed in terms of de‐
 posits in pesos of 0.3 p.p., while there was an
Source: BCRA
 increase in holdings of securities issued by the
 BCRA of 0.1 p.p.. This latter movement was expla‐
 Graph 3.2
 ined mainly by the behavior of private banks.

 % of Minimum Cash Position
 deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position
 3.5
 The minimum cash position in June ended with
 3.0
 a surplus of 0.5% of total deposits in pesos
 2.5
 (see Graph 3.2). By group of entities, a surplus
 2.0
 was observed both in private banks and in public
 1.5
 banks, of 0.8% and 0.2% of deposits, respectively.
 1.0
 0.5 0.5
 0.0 Meanwhile, the minimum cash position in foreign
 -0.5
 currency in June resulted in a surplus of 43% of
 -1.0
 deposits in dollars. In a context of stability of the
 -1.5
 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 stock of foreign currency deposits (see Section
 Monetary Aggregates), the surplus was similar to
Source: BCRA
 that of the previous month.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 4. Loans 1 2

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 1,400 (var. of monthly averages) 24 In June, credit in pesos to the private sector intensi‐
 1,200 Jun-09 21 fied the recovery that it had been showing
 1,000 y‐o‐y var. (%) - right axis 18 throughout the second quarter. Thus, loans in
 800 15 pesos to the private sector showed an increase of
 600 10 $1,240 million in the month (1.1%), a variation that
 400 9 had not been observed since the deepening of the
 200 6 international financial crisis in October 2008. In
 0 3 this way, this type of loan stabilized its year‐on‐
 -200 0 year expansion rate at levels close to 10% (see
 Graph 4.1).
Growth in the month was explained fundamen‐
 Commercial Guar. Real Consumption
 Source: BCRA (y.o.y. 8.2%) (y.o.y. 10.7%) (y.o.y. 11.7%) tally by financing with predominantly commer‐
 cial destination. These lines increased by 3%
 ($1,230 million), registering the greatest expan‐
Chart 4.2 sion since May of last year and reaching a year‐
 over‐year variation of 8.2%. Advances in current
 thousands of
 millions of $ Stock of Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector account grew 3.6% ($620 million) favored
 21 (daily value and monthly average) by the significant positive statistical carryover
 that May left (see Chart 4.2). Meanwhile, finan‐
 20 cing arranged with documents increased by
 19 0.8% ($150 million), exhibiting important
 dynamism throughout the month. Finally, the
 18 remaining commercial financing showed an
 increase of 9.1% ($460 million), driven by the
 17 granting of credits for infrastructure works.
 16
 Advances - Daily Value
 Advances - Monthly Average
 15 Loans with real guarantee presented in the period
 Documents - Daily Value
 Documents - Monthly Average a decline close to 0.4% ($90 million), regis‐
 14 tering in the last 12 months a growth of 10.7%.
 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Chattel mortgage loans declined 0.8% ($60
 Source: BCRA million), showing in recent months a decrease
 in their rate of decline accompanying the
 dynamics in automobile sales (see Chart 4.3).
 Meanwhile, mortgage loans contracted in the
Chart 4.3 period 0.2% ($30 million).
 millions of $ Chattel Mortgage Loans and Automobile Sales
 thousands 300 90

 250 80 For its part, credits intended mainly for con‐
 200 70 sumption increased in June 0.2% ($100 million),
 150 60 presenting in year‐over‐year terms a growth of
 100 50 11.7%. This increase was explained fundamen‐
 50 40 tally by personal loans that advanced 0.3%
 0 30 ($90 million), while credit card financing
 -50 20 remained stable.
 -100 Chattel mortgage loans 10
 Sale of automobiles to domestic market (right axis)
 -150 0
 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09
 Source: BCRA based on own data and ADEFA

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
 of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 6 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the
Chart 5.1 private sector registered a contraction in June
 of 0.5% (u$s 30 million).
 % NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR
 3.5 LEBAC - TNA
 %
  5. Interest Rates 16.6
 3.0
 16.2

 2.5 15.8

 2.0 15.4

 15.0 Securities Issued by the BCRA3
 1.5 14.6

 1.0 14.2

 13.8 19/05/2009 During June, the rates in the primary market for
 0.5 19/05/2009 16/06/2009
 16/06/2009 13.4 LEBAC and NOBAC remained relatively stable.
 0.0 days 13.0 Days Meanwhile, the average terms and the amounts
 150 350 550 750 95060 120 180 240 300 360 placed were higher for both cases compared
 Source: BCRA to those registered during May.

 Like the previous month, the total placed in the
 primary market was lower than the matured
 amount, yielding an expansionary monetary
Chart 5.2 effect. Regarding the secondary market, the
 thousands of Distribution of Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC by Holder BCRA conducted purchase operations resulting
 millions in an expansionary effect of $1,750 million.
 $
 Stock June vs May
 30 (data as of June 26)
 millions $

 25 -100
 BANKS
 REST
 20 -600 -1,163 As a consequence of the aforementioned, the
 stock of securities issued by the BCRA was
 reduced by 7%, ending
27.9 26.8 during the month in VN$33,123 million. LEBACs lost
participation in the total in circulation, reaching
15 -1,100
34% of the securities (4 percentage points below the
10 -1,600
percentage from the previous month).

-1,424
5 7.8 6.4 -2,100
Taking into account the composition by holder, it
0 -2,600 is observed that the greatest concentration contin‐
ued in the hands of banks. These registered a
Source: BCRA May-09 Jun-09
decrease of 4% in their holdings compared to the
previous month, ending with an amount of VN$26.8
thousand million pesos. More significant was the
decline evidenced by the rest of the holders (Insur‐
ance Companies, FCIs, Foreign Investors, among the
most important), which decreased their stock by 18%
Graph 5.3
compared to the previous month.

Call Market
Interfinancial Markets
millions of $ %%
3,000 18 25

16.00
16
14.59 Repurchase Agreement Market1
14 13.96 12.94
2,500
12 11.30 20
12.23 11.04 11.09 10.74
10 11.79 10.69 In June, there was a decline in the average stock
10.07 10.42
2,000 8 of net repurchase agreements (liabilities-assets)
30-9 31-10 3-12 7-1 6-2 10-3 15-4 18-5 19-6
for the BCRA, with a lower stock of repurchase
15
Amount traded between private parties liability positions, while the stock of repurchase
1,500 Amount traded rest
asset positions remained unchanged. However, the
Interest rate op. at 1 business day (right axis)
10 stock of net repurchase agreements continued at
1,000
elevated levels, consistent with the context of ample
banking liquidity. The average balance of repurchase
500 5
agreement liabilities was reduced by $1,380 million
and its average monthly value reached a level of
0 0
Jan-03 Oct-03 Jul-04 Apr-05 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09
$14,900 million, equivalent to 7% of total deposits
3 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless another specification is indicated.
in pesos. For its part, the average stock of repurchase

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 7 agreement asset positions remained unchanged at
$39 million.

The interest rates of repurchase agreements at fixed
rate remained at the same levels observed since Oc‐
tober 2008, both for active and passive operations.
The interest rates of repurchase agreement liability
Graph 5.4
positions remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1 and 7
millions of $ Call Market days, respectively, while the interest rates of repo‐
(Average monthly net position by group of entities) purchase agreement asset positions of 1 and 7 days
600
were located at 12.5% and 13%, respectively. How‐
400 ever, it should be mentioned that, continuing with
countercyclical monetary policy, as of the date of
200
preparation of this report, July 7th, the Central Bank
0
implemented a reduction of the aforementioned
-200 rates of 0.5 percentage points.
-400 Foreign
Domestic Private During June, the BCRA began to conduct auctions
-600 Public
of options to access active repurchase agreements
NBFI in pesos, a measure aimed at preserving financial
-800
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 stability and credit dynamics. The objective of this
instrument is to ensure entities the possibility of
accessing active repurchase agreements in pesos,
allowing them better management of liquidity and
interest rate risks. Up to now, 2 auctions have been
completed, one in mid-June and another in early
July. After declaring the first auction unsuccessful,
the BCRA relaxed the criteria that must be met in
order to exercise the option, to make the instru‐
ment more attractive. Thus, in the second auction,
entities submitted bids for $90 million of which the
BCRA decided to award $50 million determining a
Graph 5.5 cut-off premium of 1%. The entities [text continues]
TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days award winners may exercise the option of access
20 (Capital and GBA - Daily Data) to an active repo at a fixed rate of 13.4375%

19 within the next 365 days. The amount of the repo to

18 which they may have access may not exceed the growth

17 of the loans they register from the auction

16 BADLAR private banks until the moment of exercising the option.

Retail private banks
15

14

13 Interbank Market 1

12

11 In June, the interest rate for operations of up to 15

10 days of maturity in the interbank market decreased slightly,
averaging the month at 10.5%, 0.5 p.p. below
Ene-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Abr-09 May-09 Jun-09
Source: BCRA the level of May. The average for operations at 1
business day also decreased, closing May at 10.4%,
also 0.5 p.p. less than during May (see Chart 5.3).

The amounts operated in this market have been for
several months at historically low levels, having
remained almost unchanged compared to the previous
month. Specifically, in June the average amount
operated was $574 million, $41 million more with
Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 8 respect to May.

For its part, the deviation of the interest rate for
interbank operations at 1 business day had an
important reduction compared to May. The average
Chart 5.6 deviation in the month of June was 1.6%, half of

% Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the private sector that observed in the previous month.

22 Private Banks - By type of depositor Regarding the distribution of the interbank market
by type of entity, non-bank financial entities
20
(EFNB) continued to be atypically the main net
Physical Persons
18 Other Companies providers of funding with an average daily fund
Financial Services contribution of $233 million. Public entities continued
16 to be net providers of $25 million, although again
by an amount reduced compared to what they
14 typically lend in this market. Finally, foreign and
domestic private banking were, in that order, the
12 main demanders of funding in the market for $210
10 million and $52 million respectively (see Chart 5.4).

Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09
Source: BCRA Passive Interest Rates 1

During June, passive interest rates also remained
stable. The monthly average of the interest rate
paid by private banks for retail placements, for
Chart 5.7 amounts less than $100,000, remained at 12%. For
its part, the monthly average of the interest rate
Short-Term Interest Rates paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and
% TNA Daily Data - Private Banks of Cap and GBA up to 35 days of maturity (BADLAR) was located at
35 12.9%, slightly above the average registered in May
(see Chart 5.5).
30 Discounted Documents Companies h.90d
Advances to Companies over $10M On the other hand, the analysis of interest rates by
BADLAR type of depositor shows that they remained stable.
25 The average of interest rates paid to companies
was located at 13%. Meanwhile, the average of
20 interest rates paid to families remained at a level
of 12.5% (see Chart 5.6).
15

Active Interest Rates 1 4
10
01-Sep 01-Oct 31-Oct 30-Nov 30-Dec 29-Jan 28-Feb 30-Mar 29-Apr 29-May 28-Jun
Source: BCRA Active interest rates registered declines in almost all
loan lines during June.

Within commercial loans, in the most operated
segment, corresponding to advances granted
4  The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents
information through April, the values for May and June were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with
daily data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA |  9 granted with agreement up to 7 days to companies for amounts
 Chart 6.1 exceeding $10 million, in Capital and GBA, the interest

 International Reserves of the BCRA rate reached an average level of 16%, 0.7
 thousands of (gold, foreign exchange and time basis points below the average of the previous month. In the
 millions of US$ same sense, the interest rate of the most traded

 55 segment of discounted documents corresponding to
 50 companies, for a term of up to 90 days, also in
 45 Capital and GBA, fell 0.6 basis points placing itself at
 40 an average of 16.5%. In this way, in June continued
 to decrease the margin over BADLAR of short-term
 35 loan interest rates (see Chart 5.7).

 30
 25 The interest rates of personal loans registered a de‐
 crease of 1.1 basis points with respect to the previous
 20 month, reaching an average value of 32.5%. For its
 15 part, the interest rates of credit card financing corre‐
Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 sponding to April remained stable, reaching an average
Source: BCRA value of 29.6%.

 Chart 6.2
 Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotes)
 $/Euro The interest rates of mortgage loans reached a monthly
 $/Real $/US$ average of 16.2%, with a slight increase of 0.3 basis
 5.4 2.3 3.9
 5.3 $/Euro 2.2 3.8 points with respect to the level observed in May. It is
 5.2 $/US$ (Reference) worth mentioning that this interest rate refers only to
 $/Real, right axis 2.1 3.7
 5.1
 2.0 3.6 operations arranged at fixed or renegotiable interest
 5.0
 4.9 1.9 3.5 rates and does not include those agreed at variable
 4.8 1.8 3.4
 4.7 1.7 rates. On the other hand, the interest rate correspond‐
 3.3
 4.6 1.6 3.2 ing to financing with pledge guarantee was placed at
 4.5 1.5
 3.1 21.6%, with a monthly decrease of 1.4 basis points.

 4.4
 4.3 1.4 3.0

 4.2 1.3 2.9
 1.2 2.8
 4.1
 4.0 1.1 2.7
 Source: BCRA Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09

 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market 5

 Chart 7.1
 The stock of international reserves ended June at
 u$s46,026 million (see Chart 6.1), which represented
 Performance of World Stock Market Indices a decrease of u$s519 million with respect to the
 base index 02/07/07 = 100 balance of the previous month. Operations in the
 135 Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) with the

 125 non-financial private sector constituted the principal
 115 explanatory factor of the variation in international

 105 reserves.

 95
 85 In the foreign exchange market, the peso continued
 75 its depreciation with respect to the United States
 MSCI World Dollar, which in June was 1.2% (see Chart 6.2). However,
 65 MSCI Europe the depreciation in June with respect to the Real and
 MSCI Japan
 55 MSCI Latam the Euro was 6.4% and 3.9% respectively, lower than
 45 S&P 500 that registered in May. The average quotes for these
 35 currencies were 1.92 $/Real and 5.29 $/Euro.
 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09

 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except when otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 10 7. Capital Markets

 Stocks
After a brief period in which the markets had a clear positive trend, in the month of June the performance of the main stock indices in the world grouped by region according to MSCI was uneven. During June the MSCI of Latin America fell 2.3% and that of Europe 2.9%. In contrast, the S&P 500 of North America showed a positive result of 6.5% and the MSCI of Japan of 1.7%. The global MSCI remained almost unchanged, decreasing by 0.6% (see Graph 7.1).

In this context, the spread between LIBOR (for loans in dollars at 1 month) and the OIS rate (overnight index swap), which is a measure of the perception of counterparty risk and illiquidity in the interbank market, decreased slightly during June, with the average spread for this month being 0.11 p.p., substantially lower than the peak it reached in mid-October 2008 (3.34 p.p., see Graph 7.2).

The MERVAL index of Argentina remained almost unchanged compared to May, ending the month at 1,588 points. In this way the MERVAL reduced the loss of the last twelve months to 24%, while in what has elapsed of 2009 it accumulates a gain close to 50%.

With respect to the volatility of stock markets, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) was on average in June of 29%, that is 3.1 p.p. less than during May, being the lowest value since August of last year. The local stock exchange was no exception, in this context of lower volatility, registering a scenario with a slight decrease in volatility. Specifically, the historical volatility of MERVAL, 18 trading sessions, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 37.4% during June, 0.2 p.p. less than in May.

At the local level, the volume traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange during June was $46 million, which represents a reduction in the amount traded of $9 million with respect to May (see Graph 7.3).

## Public Securities

During June the EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole decreased 35 basis points. Meanwhile, the spread of external debt of Latin America decreased 62 basis points, that of Argentina by 279 basis points, and that of Brazil by 10 basis points. When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, it was observed that the spread of Argentina's contracts at 5 years decreased by 590 basis points and the spread of Brazil's CDS at the same term did likewise by 15 basis points (see Graph 7.4).

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) continued at reduced levels, although almost doubling compared to May, standing at $995 million. As in the case of stocks, the volume traded compared to the same month of the previous year decreased, in the case of public securities by $1,543 million.

## Private Securities

Regarding the private debt market, in June there were four issuances of negotiable bonds (ON) and two of short-term debt securities. Of the latter, one corresponded to Frávega and was for an amount of $50 million. The reference rate...
# Source: Bloomberg reference is the BADLAR of Private Banks plus a margin of 6%. The interests of this instrument will be paid monthly until its maturity in March 2010. The principal will be amortized in three consecutive installments, with the first two being 25% each and the third 50% of the remainder. The second placement was carried out by Atlantis Sociedad Inversora S.A., for $6 million. The reference rate is the BAIBOR plus a margin of 2% and the interests will be paid together with the principal at maturity in June 2010.

Graph 7.5 With respect to the ONs, the Galicia Financial Group placed two series for a total of u$s45 million. Thousands of Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos On one hand, Series I was issued for u$s34.4 million at a millions $ one year term. Series II amounts to u$s10.6 million and matures within two years. In both 20 Thousands (Variation June 09 vs. May 09) Fixed income millions $ series, the principal will be amortized at the end of each pe‐ 18 800
riod and the cut-off rates were 8% and 10.50%, re‐
16 Mixed income 47 spectively.
49
Variable income
14 600
Money Market
12 A second ON, issued by Grimoldi, was for a total 400
of $30 million. The applicable rate is the BADLAR
10 of Private Banks plus a margin of 6.5%. The ma‐
8 691 turity date of this obligation will be in December
6 2011.
200
4

2 On the other hand, Aluar Aluminio Argentino carried out
0 a placement for u$s50 million with a five-year term.
Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-090 The rate will be LIBOR plus a margin of 3%, however,
Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data it may not be lower than the minimum interest rate of 6.5% nominal annual. It will pay interest semi-annually in the months of December and

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 12 June of each year and will amortize, beginning in 2010, also semi-annually.

Finally, the company IMPSA placed an ON for Graph 7.6 $200 million with a three-year term. The reference rate
millions $ Financial Trust Emissions is the BADLAR plus a margin of 6.75%. The in‐
2000 (amount and number of operations; right axis) 45 terests will be paid quarterly and amortizations will
1800 Trust Created 40 be made in nine consecutive quarterly installments
by Decree 976/01
1600 $1,500 M from June 2010.
35
1400 30
1200 Common Investment Funds
25
1000
20 In June, the equity of common investment funds (FCI)
800
15 experienced an increase, registered in both the local
600 and foreign currency segment. The total amount was
10 positioned above $13,900 million at the close of the
400 month, 6.3% higher compared to May.
200 5

0 0 On one hand, the equity of FCI in pesos ended at
Ene-06 Jun-06 Nov-06 Abr-07 Sep-07 Feb-08 Jul-08 Dic-08 May-09 $12,400 million, experiencing increases in all of its
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data segments. The equity of money market funds regis‐
tered a considerable increase (8.9%) totaling an amount of $8,500 million. This fact is explained mainly by the greater quantities of share units registered. It is worth noting that they continue to maintain the highest percentage of the total funds, representing 68.4% of FCI in pesos. Meanwhile, variable income funds increased

Graph 7.7 close to 3%, ending June at a value above $1,810 million. For this segment, higher levels of prices and quan‐
Fiduciants tities of share units were observed. Although they
millions $ accumulate several consecutive months
400 (amounts issued - excluding the Trust Created by Decree 976/01)

Non-Regulated Financial Institution
300 Retail Businesses tives of increases, still have not recovered from the
 Financial Entities +286% fall of last year, with a net worth markedly
 200 lower than that registered in June 2008. On
 +101% the other hand, fixed income funds remained relatively
 100 stable. They ended June at $1,830 million,
 -28% barely 0.2% higher than the previous month. This type
 0 of FCI registered lower quantities of shares but
 prices higher than those in May. Finally, the mixed
 -100 income segment experienced an increase of 2.5% in
 May June the equity explained by the greater quantities of shares
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others (see Chart 7.5).

 Regarding FCI in foreign currency, a considerable
 increase (7%) was evident compared to May. The
 largest increase was experienced in the fixed income
 segment, thanks to its higher price levels and
 quantities of shares. This segment together with the
 variable income one, represent more than 90% of the
 funds denominated in dollars.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 13 Financial Trusts6

 Chart 7.8 After the significant contraction in May, in June the
 35 % Cut-off Rates of FF emissions of FF reached the highest amount
 (Class A Titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) recorded to date, totaling $1,860 million
 30 through 14 placements (see Chart 7.6). However,
 Fixed rate this great dynamism was explained by the emission
 Variable rate of an FF from the public sector intended to finance
 25 BADLAR Rate Private Banks road infrastructure projects, which constituted
 20 more than 80% of the total placed in the month
 ($1,500 million). In any case, if said placement is
 15 excluded, an increase in the total emitted of 63%
 ($123 million) is observed with respect to May,
 10 although in relation to the same month of the previous
 year a fall of 53% is evident.
 5
 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others Given the significant placement of the trust intended
 to finance road infrastructure projects, the future
 flows of funds constituted the main underlying assets
 of the month (82% of the total), just as in March,
 when a trust related to the energy sector was placed.
 The rest corresponded only to personal loans (35%
 of the total) and credit card vouchers (13% of the
 total), with an increase in the securitized amount of
 25% in the first case and more than triple in the
 second case.

 Unlike what usually happens and because of the
 Chart 7.9 particular placement that took place this month,
 millions of $ during June the National State stood out in the role
 Stock of Underlying Assets of FF of trustor. For their part, both retail businesses
 18,000 (detail by type of trustor) and mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking
 Financial Entities
 16,000 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-banking Credit Card Issuers credit card issuers registered a significant increase
 Retail Businesses in the securitized amounts (the former doubled the
 14,000 Others amount emitted in May and the latter quadrupled it;
 12,000 see Chart 7.7).
 10,000
 The cut-off interest rates of the senior titles
 8,000 remained without major changes compared to the
 6,000 previous month, in line with the behavior of the
 4,000 passive interest rates of the money market. In effect,
 2,000

 0
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables | Jun-09 | May-09 | Dec-08 | Jun-08 | Monthly | Last 12 months | Nominal | Real

Monetary base | 103,652 | 100,741 | 106,439 | 100,512 | 2.9% | 2.4% | 3.1% | -2.1%
Monetary circulation | 79,526 | 76,859 | 80,247 | 73,532 | 3.5% | 3.0% | 8.2% | 2.7%
In the hands of the public | 71,005 | 68,626 | 70,897 | 66,433 | 3.5% | 3.0% | 6.9% | 1.5%
In financial entities | 8,521 | 8,233 | 9,350 | 7,099 | 3.5% | 3.0% | 20.0% | 13.9%
Current account at the BCRA | 24,126 | 23,881 | 26,192 | 26,980 | 1.0% | 0.5% | -10.6% | -15.1%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities | 14,886 | 16,262 | 10,187 | 4,682 | -8.5% | -8.9% | 218.0% | 201.8%
Assets | 39 | 37 | 2,302 | 16 | | | |

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
In pesos | 12,496 | 13,116 | 11,771 | 29,929 | -4.7% | -5.2% | -58.2% | -60.4%

NOBAC | 21,640 | 22,437 | 28,389 | 21,876 | -3.6% | -4.0% | -1.1% | -6.1%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) | 46,385 | 46,556 | 46,198 | 47,918 | -0.4% | -3.2% | | 

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 200,570 | 199,510 | 197,274 | 191,600 | 0.5% | 0.0% | 4.7% | -0.6%
Current account (2) | 65,389 | 62,724 | 64,944 | 54,215 | 4.2% | 3.7% | 20.6% | 14.5%
Savings account | 38,809 | 37,473 | 37,358 | 35,509 | 3.6% | 3.1% | 9.3% | 3.7%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 85,142 | 87,965 | 82,623 | 90,184 | -3.2% | -3.7% | -5.6% | -10.4%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 113 | 121 | 322 | 895 | -6.7% | -7.2% | -87.4% | -88.0%
Other deposits (3) | 11,118 | 11,228 | 12,028 | 10,797 | -1.0% | -1.5% | 3.0% | -2.3%

Deposits of the private sector | 138,503 | 137,650 | 135,455 | 136,215 | 0.6% | 0.1% | 1.7% | -3.5%

Deposits of the public sector | 62,067 | 61,860 | 61,819 | 55,385 | 0.3% | -0.2% | 12.1% | 6.4%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) | 11,600 | 11,591 | 9,346 | 8,109 | 0.1% | 43.0% | |

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 122,381 | 120,738 | 119,040 | 111,974 | 1.4% | 0.9% | 9.3% | 3.7%

Loans to the private sector | 111,243 | 110,117 | 108,136 | 101,025 | 1.0% | 0.5% | 10.1% | 4.5%
Advances | 18,042 | 17,420 | 15,735 | 15,930 | 3.6% | 3.1% | 13.3% | 7.5%
Documents | 19,530 | 19,378 | 19,517 | 19,049 | 0.8% | 0.3% | 2.5% | -2.7%
Mortgages | 18,065 | 18,099 | 17,931 | 15,751 | -0.2% | -0.7% | 14.7% | 8.9%
Pledges | 6,970 | 7,032 | 7,610 | 6,858 | -0.9% | -1.4% | 1.6% | -3.5%
Personal | 27,973 | 27,979 | 27,668 | 25,666 | 0.0% | -0.5% | 9.0% | 3.5%
Credit cards | 15,143 | 15,148 | 14,712 | 12,922 | 0.0% | -0.5% | 17.2% | 11.2%
Other | 5,519 | 5,061 | 4,963 | 4,849 | 9.1% | 8.5% | 13.8% | 8.0%

Loans to the public sector | 11,138 | 10,621 | 10,904 | 10,948 | 4.9% | 4.3% | 1.7% | -3.4%

---

According to the latest balance sheet information corresponding to March 2009, the stock of assets of the FF was placed at $11,925 million (see Graph 7.9), the lowest amount since the end of 2006, with a decline of 30% compared to the previous quarter and 25% compared to March 2008. This decrease is explained, principally, by the reduction in the stock of assets of FF with loans guaranteed as underlying assets, which was related to the debt swap that the Treasury carried out in February. Regarding the holders of fiduciary debt securities, it should be noted that financial entities held slightly more than half of the securities issued by FF (51% of the total).

Source: own elaboration based on CNV data

The cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of the securities agreed at fixed rate remained at 17.3% (see Graph 7.8), while that of the securities awarded at variable rate was placed at 17.1%, 0.4 percentage points below that recorded in May. For its part, the duration—weighted average by amount—of the senior securities reached 60.3 months, although without including the public sector trust, it was placed at 4.3 months, a value slightly below that recorded the previous month.

6 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 14

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 15
# Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.026 6.057 5.973 5.811 -0,5% 3,7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in circulation with the public + current accounts in pesos) 136.394 131.350 135.841 120.648 3,8% 3,3% 13,1% 7,3%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 175.203 168.822 173.198 156.157 3,8% 3,3% 12,2% 6,5%
 M3 (cash in circulation with the public + total deposits in pesos) 271.575 268.136 268.171 258.033 1,3% 0,8% 5,2% -0,1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 315.290 311.333 300.185 282.720 1,3% 0,8% 11,5% 5,9%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in circulation with the public + private current accounts in pesos) 110.964 107.705 109.263 103.503 3,0% 2,5% 7,2% 1,8%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 145.648 141.228 143.005 136.007 3,1% 2,6% 7,1% 1,7%
 M3 (cash in circulation with the public + total private deposits in pesos) 209.508 206.276 206.352 202.648 1,6% 1,1% 3,4% -1,9%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 245.076 241.156 233.507 224.265 1,6% 1,1% 9,3% 3,7%

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.911 2,8% 2.304 2,2% -2.787 -2,7% 3.140 3,0%
 Financial sector 1.397 1,3% 1.239 1,2% -6.728 -6,5% -9.960 -9,6%
 Public sector -65 -0,1% -895 -0,9% -5.701 -5,5% -11.078 -10,7%
 Private external sector -441 -0,4% -1.648 -1,6% -1.436 -1,4% -7.754 -7,5%
 BCRA Securities 1.738 1,7% 2.565 2,5% 8.435 8,1% 22.026 21,3%
 Others 282 0,3% 1.044 1,0% 2.644 2,6% 9.906 9,6%

International reserves -171 -0,4% -548 -1,2% 187 0,4% -1.533 -3,3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -114 -0,2% -503 -1,1% -383 -0,8% -2.239 -4,8%
 Payment to international organizations 103 0,2% 1 0,0% -182 -0,4% -290 -0,6%
 Other public sector operations -91 -0,2% 88 0,2% 10 0,0% -556 -1,2%
 Minimum cash -189 -0,4% -144 -0,3% 47 0,1% 597 1,3%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) 120 0,3% 152 0,3% 836 1,8% 1.096 2,4%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 10,54 11,01 11,10 14,05 10,27
 Amount traded 574 533 533 573 1.059

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11,84 11,80 11,84 15,76 13,10
 60 days or more 13,33 13,49 12,94 17,41 13,92
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12,26 12,05 12,05 16,59 14,93
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12,94 12,82 12,75 19,07 17,41

 In dollars
 30 days 0,90 1,00 1,23 1,68 1,38
 60 days or more 1,53 1,61 1,81 2,48 2,33
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,99 1,09 1,21 1,50 1,33
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1,29 1,49 1,97 2,86 2,77

 Active Interest Rates Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08

Prime in pesos at 30 days 20,15 20,23 20,26 27,76 23,81

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 14,04 12,84 12,29 15,75 13,37
 Amount traded (total terms) 146 235 133 122 141

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 22,01 22,90 24,08 27,72 23,15
 Documents on single signature 18,56 20,34 20,75 25,94 21,09
 Mortgages 16,21 15,85 15,54 16,23 12,62
 Pledges 21,61 22,98 23,76 21,07 16,85
 Personal loans 32,46 33,58 35,18 35,45 30,02
 Credit cards n/d 30,17 29,60 29,04 26,75

 International Interest Rates Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08
LIBOR
 1 month 0.32 0.34 0.45 1.02 2.47
 6 months 1.18 1.36 1.65 2.14 3.10

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.16 0.92 0.91 0.81 2.74
 10 years 3.70 3.30 2.90 2.38 4.07

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 9.58 10.25 11.14 13.75 12.18

(1) Data through April correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for May and June are estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.75
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 9.00
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 11.00

Total REPO trading floor rates
 1 day 10.52 10.51 10.58 10.53 8.87
 7 days 11.26 11.10 11.12 12.56 9.29

Amount traded in REPO trading floor repos (daily average) 7,446 9,261 8,934 5,580 4,219

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 12.48 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o 13.95 12.18 n/o
 3 months 14.49 14.50 14.13 12.50 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.49
 12 months 16.25 16.25 n/o n/o 11.82

NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.35 1.20 1.31 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.80 1.65 1.60 1.75 0.99
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.25 3.25 1.80 n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 174 177 143 130 452

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.77 3.73 3.69 3.42 3.05
 BCRA Reference 3.77 3.72 3.69 3.42 3.04

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.83 3.78 3.75 3.60 3.07
 ROFEX 1 month 3.78 3.73 3.70 3.44 3.04
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 950 652 711 458 548

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.92 1.81 1.67 1.43 1.88

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.29 5.09 4.87 4.64 4.74

 Capital Market Jun-09 May-09 Apr-09 Dec-08 Jun-08

MERVAL
 Index 1,598 1,498 1,218 1,055 2,105
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 49 69 48 42 89

Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 64.44 61.70 54.67 52.32 90.00
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 49.71 38.62 29.67 34.97 86.78
 BODEN 2014 ($) 41.40 30.00 29.15 23.83 63.63
 DISCOUNT ($) 35.30 29.98 26.50 29.72 61.24

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 2,666 3,879 4,681 3,439 769
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 467 509 578 713 258

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits in amounts greater than one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds.
FGS: Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
FED: Federal Reserve of the United States.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus the total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Electronic Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | June 2009 | BCRA | 20
