# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2009 Monthly Monetary Report
January 2009

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates
Page 5 | 2009 Monetary Program

Page 6 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Stocks
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Investment Mutual Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on February 11, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
# TASK COMPLETION

## Translation to English

• In January, the recomposition of money demand continued, a process that has been reflected in the dynamics of private sector deposits, the decline in interest rates, and the evolution of the foreign exchange market. Indeed, during the month there was an important recovery of fixed-term deposits from the private sector, which grew 3.2%, an increase similar to that of previous years, when the AFJP participated within this sector. The expansion was verified both in the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) and in the wholesale segment.

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $178,120 million, showing a monthly growth of 2.8% and an interannual variation of 15.4%, while the means of payment of the private sector (Private M2) registered an interannual variation of 8.4%. During the month, currency in circulation advanced 2% while sight deposits increased 3.4%, both following their seasonal pattern. In this way, the process of gradual normalization in the demand for transactional money was consolidated, following the impact, between September and November of last year, of the worsening of the international crisis.

• ANSES continued with its process of periodic auctions of fixed-term deposits with FGS funds. Initially, funds were granted for credits in local currency intended for consumption, the purchase of new vehicles, and the financing of SMEs. In the January auctions, the auto parts industry was incorporated among the beneficiaries, as well as a foreign currency auction was added aimed at pre-financing exports.

• The liquidity of financial entities, which considers the sum of cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the BCRA and repos (net) for the BCRA as a percentage of deposits, was on average 21.8%, which was 1 p.p. higher than the previous month and one of the highest in recent years. For its part, the broader liquidity ratio – that is, considering holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities – also increased and stood at 36.7%, which meant an increase of 0.4 p.p. during the month. The quarterly position of minimum cash in pesos December 2008 - February 2009 noted at the end of January an accumulated surplus of 0.9% of total deposits. Both private and public banks exhibited surplus positions, equivalent to 1.4% and 0.3% of deposits, respectively.

• In this scenario of ample liquidity, short-term passive interest rates continued their downward trend that began the previous month. In particular, the average BADLAR rate for private banks fell 3.2 p.p. with respect to December, while interest rates paid by private banks for retail placements (for amounts less than $100,000) decreased 1.1 p.p.. The interest rate in the interbank market also diminished 1.8 p.p. compared to the previous month, while interest rates on the shortest-term loans also showed reductions compared to December.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed an increase of 0.2% in January ($260 million), driven essentially by mortgage loans and credit card financing. Compared to the same month of the previous year, they registered an increase of 18.8%.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

In January, the average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $178,120 million, showing a monthly growth of 2.8% and an interannual variation of 15.4%, while the means of payment of the private sector (Private M2) registered an interannual variation of...

Chart 2.1
Thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector annual rate of 8.4%. In the last month, currency in circulation
millions of $ (daily balance and monthly average) held by the public advanced 2% while demand deposits increased 3.4%, both following their seasonal pattern. Following the worsening of the international crisis last September, which affected the local economy more intensely than expected, a process of gradual normalization was observed in the demand for transactional money, which was promoted by the timely and vigorous action of the BCRA.

To understand the recent evolution of deposits by type of depositor, it is important to recall that the recent reform of the pension system regime resulted in the transfer of the portfolio of the Pension Fund Administrators (AFJP) to the Sustainability Guarantee Fund (FGS) of the Integrated Argentine Pension System (SIPA) dependent on the National Social Security Administration (ANSES). In terms of deposits, this implied a movement of funds from the private sector to the public sector, mainly in the time deposit segment. For a better analysis of deposits by segment, the figures were adjusted to contemplate said transfer.

Additionally, it is pertinent to mention that ANSES continued with its process of periodic auctions of fixed-term deposits with FGS funds, whose objective is to provide financing to financial entities to promote the granting of loans. In the first instance, funds were granted for credits in local currency intended for consumption, the purchase of new automobiles and the financing of SMEs. In the January auctions, the auto parts industry was incorporated among the recipients, and an auction in foreign currency was also added that aims at pre-financing exports.

In the last month, the broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, excluding registered an increase of 1.2%. For its part, private M2 increased 2.6%, while private M3, adjusted for the transfer of funds, advanced 2.5%.

With respect to total deposits, those belonging to the private sector advanced 2.7%, while public ones showed a decline of 3.6%.

In the demand deposit segment, both deposits from the private sector and those from the public sector showed an increase in the month, 3.2% and 4% respectively. Meanwhile, the variation of fixed-term deposits resulted in a slight contraction of 0.5%, with dissimilar behaviors by sectors. Private placements expanded 3.2% (see Chart 2.1), registering a similar growth to that of previous years when AFJP participation was counted. The expansion was verified both in the retail segment (placements up to $1 million) and in the wholesale segment. For its part, fixed-term deposits from the public sector were reduced 11.5%.

In the foreign currency segment, deposits increased in January by 3.2%, explained mainly by time placements. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, showed an increase in the month of 1.6% and an annual growth of 11.7%.
# PUBLIC SECTOR PURCHASES LEBAC AND REVERSE REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS OTHER FOREIGN EXCHANGE* NOBAC
*Includes Central Bank intervention and Treasury purchases

Regarding the creation of primary money, the average monetary base in January decreased approximately $1,320 million compared to the December average (see Chart 2.3). The primary placement of LEBAC and NOBAC had an expansive effect, since the significant absorption carried out in January through these instruments failed to compensate for the positive "carryover" effect from December. In the same sense, foreign exchange purchases generated an increase in the monetary base. However, both expansive effects were practically neutralized by the contraction generated by reverse repurchase operations (approximately $5,300 million). Finally, the public sector generated a contraction in the base as a consequence of its foreign exchange purchases, while the rest of the financial sector operations had slightly expansive effects.

## 2009 Monetary Program

At the end of 2008, the targets for the 2009 Monetary Program (PM 2009) were set, which consist of ranges of year-on-year variation for March, June, September and December for M2 Total in pesos and for December for M2 Private in pesos. In the case of this latter aggregate, a variation between 9.8% and 18.9% was established.

**Table 2.1**
**Balances, in millions** | Mar-09 | Jun-09 | Sep-09 | Dec-09
M2 total | Lower: 165,603 | 171,633 | 175,950 | 188,190
| Upper: 176,690 | 183,814 | 189,301 | 203,951
M2 private | Lower: 157,075 | — | — | —
| Upper: 170,092 | — | — | —

**Year-on-year var., in %** | Mar-09 | Jun-09 | Sep-09 | Dec-09
M2 total | Lower: 10.5% | 9.9% | 8.1% | 8.7%
| Upper: 17.9% | 17.7% | 16.3% | 17.8%
M2 private | Lower: 9.8% | — | — | —
| Upper: 18.9% | — | — | —

The transfer of deposits from the private sector to the public sector in December 2008, derived from the reform of the pension system, was not properly reported by some financial entities, which only at the end of January made the corresponding corrections. This erroneous information did not modify the M2 Total balance, but rather its composition, implying an average balance of M2 Private in December 2008 approximately $500 million lower than previously reported, which makes it necessary to recalculate the nominal values of the range provided in PM 2009 for this aggregate consistent with the year-on-year variations set as targets. The new M2 Private range is thus located between $157,075 million and $170,092 million (see Table 2.1).

Source: BCRA

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Chart 3.1**
**% of M2 Private average balance December 2008**
**% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos**
(Left axis - deposits | Right axis - deposits)
- Daily series (Cash + Current Accounts BCRA + Net Reverse Repos/Deposits)
- Monthly average (Cash + Current Accounts BCRA + Net Reverse Repos/Deposits)
- Daily series (Cash + Current Accounts BCRA + Net Reverse Repos + Lebacs/Deposits) - right axis
- Monthly average (Cash + Current Accounts BCRA + Net Reverse Repos + Lebacs/Deposits) - right axis

The liquidity of financial entities increased in January compared to the previous month. Indeed, the liquidity ratio in pesos that considers the sum of cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and reverse repurchase agreements (net) for the BCRA as a percentage of deposits was on average 21.8% (see Chart 3.1). Compared to December, it was 1 p.p. higher. For its part, the broader liquidity ratio – that is, considering the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities – also increased and stood at 36.7%, which meant an increase of 0.4 p.p. in the month.

**Chart 3.2**
**% of Minimum Cash Position**
**deposits | Surplus | Daily Position | Cumulative Position**

The quarterly minimum cash position in pesos for December 2008 - February 2009 recorded at the end of January a cumulative surplus of 0.9% of total deposits (see Chart 3.2). Both private banks and [text continues but is cut off]

---

**Source: BCRA**
**Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 5**
-1.0 Bimonthly Position Quarterly Position - public sector exhibited a surplus of 1.4% and 0.3% of

-1.5 deposits respectively.
Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09

For its part, the position of minimum cash in foreign currency was in surplus in January (42% of dollar deposits), which meant an increase of 5 percentage points above the surplus of the previous month.

Graph 4.1

millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (monthly average variation)

600 18.8 20 4. Loans 1 2

400 18

200 16 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in January an increase of 0.2% ($260 million), driven essentially by mortgage loans and credit card financing. In year-on-year terms, they continued to show a deceleration in their expansion rate, registering an increase of 18.8% (see Graph 4.1).

0 14

-200 12

-400 Jan-09 10 y.o.y. Total Loans (%) - right axis
-600 8

-800 6

Source: BCRA

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 6 Credits with predominantly commercial purpose showed in the month a decline of 1% ($420 million),

Graph 4.2

thousands of Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector thousands of millions explained mainly by the decline of 3.3% ($650 million of $ (daily balance and monthly average) of $
12.0 9.0 million) in financing arranged with documents (see Graph 4.2). In this sense, decreases were recorded in documents with sole signature and to a greater extent in remaining document financing (discounted and purchased documents). Meanwhile, current account advances advanced 0.8% ($130 million), showing behavior similar to that of previous years, while remaining commercial financing expanded in January 2% ($100 million).

11.5 8.5

11.0 8.0

10.5 7.5

10.0 Documents with sole signature 7.0 For its part, credits destined mainly for consumption

Other documents (right axis) increased 1.2% ($540 million). Personal loans rose 0.1% ($40 million),

9.5 6.5

9.0 6.0
Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 while credit card financing continued with the dynamism of previous months and advanced 3.3% ($500 million).

Source: BCRA

Graph 4.3 Loans with real guarantees increased in January 0.5% ($140 million). Chattel loans declined 0.6% ($40 million), accompanying the decrease in sales of automobiles to the domestic market (see Graph 4.3). However, mortgage loans rose 1% ($180 million).

millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantees
% (monthly average variation and year-on-year) 90
Monthly Var. Mortgages For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private
500 Monthly Var. Chattel 75 sector declined in the last month 1.9% (u$s110 million).

Var. y.o.y. Mortgages (Right Axis)
Var. y.o.y. Chattel (Right Axis)
400 60

As mentioned, during January ANSES continued with the process of bidding for fixed-term deposits. In the January auctions, the automotive industry and pre-financing of exports (in dollars) were incorporated as destinations. It is expected that the effects of said operations will begin to be observed in the coming months.

300 45

200 30 Graph 5.1

Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC
100 15

0 0
Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 % NOBAC % LEBAC
2.5 14.0

Source: BCRA

13.0 Securities issued by the BCRA3

2.0 12.0

Graph 5.1 During January, in the primary market of LEBAC, rates

5. Interest Rates remained relatively stable, with the exception of
1.5
 10.0 tion of the first auction of the month, where the cut-off
 1 Month
 rate for two-month bills was markedly lower than the
 9.0 2 Months
 1.0 Margin over Badlar
 other auctions (see Chart 5.1, right quadrant). While
 8.0 3 Months
 the amounts placed were lower, registrations occurred
 0.5 7.0 only at two and three-month terms. In the case of
 Jun- Jul- Aug- Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan- Jun- Jul- Aug- Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan- NOBAC, amounts increased, and spreads were higher
 Source: BCRA 08 08 08 08 08 09 08 08 08 08 08 08 09
 than in previous months (see Chart 5.1) although with
 3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
 Badlar declining.

 Chart 5.2
 BADLAR in Decline.

 Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder
 Billions of $ 30-Jan vs 26-Dec Contrary to what had been occurring in recent months,
 millions $
 35 Stock 2.600 during January the total amount placed was greater
 than the maturing amount, resulting in a contractionary
 30 2.150 monetary effect. Thus, the stock of securities issued
 BANKS
 by the BCRA slowed the accumulated decline, showing
 25 OTHERS
 1.700 an increase of 5% compared to the previous month. At
 20 30.7
 the end of January it stood at a nominal value of $39,150
 1.250 2.504
 15 28.2 million, with 79% corresponding to Notes.
 800
 10
 79
 5 8.5 8.5 350
 0 -100 -53
 Dec-08 Jan-09 On the other hand, regarding the secondary market,
 Source: BCRA during the month the BCRA operated to a lesser extent
 than in December. Repurchases were carried out in
 peso-settable operations, for an amount of MV $900
 million. As in previous months, nor were repurchases
 Chart 5.3 carried out under the modality of dollar-settable
 operations.
 % Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of One-Day Call Operations
18

16 Monthly average By type of holder, banks reflected an increase in hol-
 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
14 dings of 9% compared to the previous month. This in-
 crease allowed them to gain 1.6 p.p. of participation
12
 in the total, concentrating 78.4% of circulating stock.
10
 For these holders, January closed with an amount of
 8 $30,700 million (see Chart 5.2). With respect to the
 6 other holders (Insurance Companies, UCIs, Foreign
 4 Investors, among the most important), they maintained
 2 their balances relatively stable compared to December.

 0
 Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09

Source: BCRA
 Interbank Markets

 Repo Market1

 In January, in a context of ample bank liquidity, the
 stock of passive repos for the BCRA increased to reach
 record levels ($18,225 million on January 20), although
 Chart 5.4 the stock of active repos also increased slightly. The
 average balance of passive repos increased $5,608 mil-
 millions of $ Interbank Loan and Liquidity Market
1.700 lion, an amount that was distributed among all the mo-
 (monthly averages) 23
 dalities in which the Central Bank operates (REPO round,
1.500
 22 overnight operations and investment funds –UCIs-).
 For its part, the average stock of active repos registered
1.300
 21 an increase of $321 million.
 1.100
 20
 The interest rates of fixed-rate repos remained at the
 19 same levels as in December, both for active and passive
 900
 18 operations. Thus, the interest rates of passive repos
 700 17 remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1 and 7 days, respec-
 Amount operated in pesos 16
 tively, while the interest rates of active repos for 1 and
 500
 Liquidity with repos (% of deposits in pesos) 15 7 days were located at 12.5% and 13%, respectively.

 300 14
 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.5
millions of $ Call Market Moreover, in the segment of active operations for the
 800 Foreign Exchange (Average monthly net position by entity group)
 Priv. Nat. Central Bank but at variable rate, an increase
 700 Public was implemented –from 0 p.p. to 1 p.p. and finally to 2 p.p.– of
 600 EFNB the margin applied over the BADLAR of private
 banks. This margin had been reduced from 4 p.p. to 0 p.p.
 500 in December.
 400

 300
 200 Interbank Market 1
 100

 0

-100 In a context of abundant bank liquidity, the interest
-200 rate of the interbank market (call) continued the
-300 downward trend that had begun in December after
 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 three months of increases. In this sense, the average
 interest rate for operations at 1 business day terms
 was reduced 1.8 p.p. with respect to December closing
 Graphic 5.6 at 11% (see Graph 5.3).

 TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
26 (Capital and GBA - Daily Data) agreed each day with respect to the daily average
 also decreased. The deviation of interest rates, which
23 had been in December 4.5% (the highest of the last five
 Retail private banks years) was reduced in January to almost half, 2.7%.
20 BADLAR private banks
 The greater liquidity was also reflected in the amounts
17 of call operated. The average daily amount reached in
 January the minimum of almost four years, after descend-
14 ing to $393 million, $234 million less than in December
 (see Graph 5.4).
11

 8 By type of entity, it was possible to appreciate that
 non-bank financial entities (EFNB) were in January, for
 5 the first time since last September, net providers of
 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 funds in the call market (see Graph 5.5).

Source: BCRA

 Passive Interest Rates 1

 Graphic 5.7

 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos During January the passive interest rates showed a
 Private Sector significant decline, both in the wholesale segment and
 % average monthly weighted by amount operated short-term retail. This reduction occurred in a context
20 of comfortable liquidity position of the banks and
18 strong recovery of fixed-term placements.
 30-59 days
16 60-89 days The monthly average of January of the BADLAR private
 90-179 days banks was located at 15.9%, with a decline of 3.2 p.p.
14 180-365 days with respect to the average level recorded in December.
 For its part, a decline was also observed in the interest
12 rates paid by private banks for retail placements, for
10 amounts less than $100,000, which reached an average
 level of 15.4%, 1.1 p.p. below the average level observed
 8 in December. In this manner, during the course of the
 6 month, the retail interest rate was positioned above
 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 the wholesale rate (see Graph 5.6), which is a symptom
 of a situation of very high liquidity.
Note: Fixed-term operations adjustable by CER are not included.
Source: BCRA When analyzing by maturity bracket, a decline was
 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 9 observed for all cases, highlighting the one registered
 for rates on operations from 60 to 90 days, which were
 located at 15.5%, 2.4 p.p. below last month. Meanwhile,
 the rates offered in the most relevant bracket (up to 35
 days) fell 2.1 p.p. reaching an average value in January
 Graphic 5.8 of 14.6% (see Graph 5.7).

 TNA, % Commercial Loans
 30 (Average monthly interest rate weighted by amount)

 28 Active Interest Rates 1 4

 26

 24 The active interest rates showed dissimilar movements,

 22 highlighting the decline of those in the short term in
 response to the strong decline of passive interest rates.
20

 18 Advances

 16 Documents The interest rate on advances fell in the month 1.6 p.p.
 12 Advances being located at an average monthly level of 26.1% (see
10 Graph 5.8). In this case, the decrease was registered princi-
 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09pally in the line of advances granted with agreement to
 Source: BCRA
 companies for amounts exceeding ten million pesos,
 where the interest rate reached an average level
 of 20.3%, with a decrease from December of 3.5
 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate for loans
 granted in the form of documents signed only
 fell 2.2 p.p. placing its average level at 21.4%.

 Graph 6.1 The interest rates of loans related to
 consumption showed increases. In this sense, the
 BCRA's International Reserves corresponding one for personal loans presented a
 thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time placements)
 millions of US$
 55 increase of 3.4 p.p., reaching a value of 40%, while

 50 the interest rates of credit card financing
 corresponding to December increased
 45 0.5 p.p., reaching an average value of 29%.

 40

 35 Finally, the interest rates of mortgage loans
 30 reached a monthly average of 16.5%, with an
 increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the level observed in
 25 December. It should be noted that this interest rate is referred
 20 only to operations arranged at a fixed or renegotiable interest
 15 rate and that does not include those agreed at a variable rate. On the other hand, the interest rate
 Jan-06 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 corresponding to financing with collateral guarantee
Source: BCRA
 was placed at 25.4%, with a monthly increase of 1.5 p.p..

 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market5

 4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to Novem-
 ber 2008, the values of December 2008 and January 2009 were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data
 of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 10 Graph 6.2 The stock of international reserves reached in January
 US$47,009 million, increasing US$613 million
 Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotations) with respect to December (see Graph 6.1). Among the factors

 $/Euro $/Real that explained such increase is the intervention
 5.0 2.4 $/US$
 4.0 in the foreign exchange market by the BCRA, since
 $/US$ (Reference)
 4.8 $/Euro 2.23.8 it returned to being a net buyer of foreign currency in the Unified
 $/Real, right axis
 4.6 2.0 and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC). Additionally,
 3.6
 among the factors that implied a contraction of
 4.4 1.83.4
 the stock of international reserves are the payments

 4.2 1.63.2 of debt denominated in dollars by the public

 4.0 1.43.0 sector.

 3.8 1.22.8
 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated in January

 3.6 1.02.6 with respect to the United States Dollar and with respect to the Brazilian
 Source: BCRA Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08
 Real (1.2% and 4.7% respectively), with the average quotations
 being 3.46 $/US$ for the first case and 1.5
 $/Real for the second. Meanwhile, with respect to the Euro the peso
 appreciated 1.1%, with the average quotation 4.59
 $/Euro (see Graph 6.2).

 Graph 7.1 7. Capital Market

 Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets Volatility (%)
 22 days 22 days Shares
 MERVAL (Argentina)
 115 IPC (Mexico) 92
 105 BOVESPA (Brazil) In the first half of January the trend that
 Shanghai Index (China) 82
 95 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) began in November continued towards a lower level of vola-
 85 72
 75 62 tility in the stock markets. However, this

 65 52 trend reversed in the second half of the month (see

 55 42 Graph 7.1). For its part, another volatility indicator

 45 32 of the North American market, the VIX (expected
 volatility of the S&P), averaged in January 46.7%, 5.7 p.p. less
 35 than the previous month, although it continues to be one of the

 25 22

 15 12
5 2 highest values of the historical series. With respect to
 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 the volatility of the MERVAL - 18 trading sessions - in
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
 annualized terms and measured in dollars was 45 in January, almost
 unchanged compared to the previous month, also being
 one of the highest values of the series.

 Chart 7.2 The evolution of stock indices by region, according

 Performance of World Stock Indices to MSCI, again showed losses following the recovery

 135 that had been observed in December. The MSCI

 125 of the world lost 8.8%, that of Europe 14.2%, that of Japan

 115 6.8%, and that of Latin America, which was the one that had risen

 105 the least in December, remained almost unchanged with

 95 a decline of 0.3% (Chart 7.2). The evolution of the last

 85 twelve months shows the significant losses resulting from
 MSCI World the crisis, the MSCI of Europe lost 50.6%, followed
 75 MSCI Europe by that of Latin America 49.7%, that of the world 42.8%, and
 65 MSCI Japan
 MSCI Latam that of Japan 32.1%. It should also be noted the loss
 55 S&P 500 in the same period of the North American S&P 500 which

 45 was 40.1%.
 35
 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 11 In Argentina during January the MERVAL index -
 measured in pesos - registered almost no changes, losing
 only 0.2% reaching a value of 1,077 points at the end
 of the month. In the last twelve months the MERVAL
 had a loss of 50%.

 The volumes traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires
 Stock Exchange (BCBA) during January were $32 million,
 decreasing $9 million compared to December.

 Public Securities
 Chart 7.3

 In the public securities market it was possible to observe

 Evolution of the rate of U.S. Treasury Bonds a slight reduction in the elevated risk aversion that

 % has been observed since September. At the same time, the

 6 increase in the yield of long-term American bonds (10 and
 5 30 years) continued, which began in mid-December due
 to doubts about the pressure that the need to finance

 4 the growing fiscal deficit of that country will exert on the
 Episodio Bear debt market (see Chart 7.3).
 3 T-Bills 1 month Stearns Episodio Lehman

 Brothers
 T-Bond 10 years In the local debt market it should be noted the strong
 2 T-Bond 30 years reduction in the EMBI and the 5-year CDS spread of

 1 Argentina which was, in part, linked to the debt swap
 0 carried out by the government. Specifically at the end of
 Jul-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 the month the "local tranche" of the Guaranteed Loans
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
 (PG) swap closed for $15,100 million (principal and
 interest). This operation allowed the exchange of PGN for
 a bond or a promissory note maturing in 2014 with full
 BADLAR amortization at maturity (January 2014). The interests,
 payable quarterly, will be BADLAR plus 275 basis
 Chart 7.4 points, except for the services maturing in the first year
 whose interest rate will be 15.4%.
 EMBI of Argentina and of the Region

 spreads In this context, the EMBI+ which measures the spreads
 in b.p.
 of emerging countries was reduced by 57 b.p.. In the case
 1900 of the spread of Latin American external debt it did the
 same by 36 b.p., that of Brazil decreased by 19 b.p., and
 1600 EMBI Argentina that of Argentina was the one that was most reduced, 209 b.p.
 EMBI Latin America (right (see Chart 7.4). In the case of the spread of Credit Default
 1300 axis) Swaps (CDS) contracts, that of Argentina at 5 years

 1000 decreased by 916 b.p., while the spread of Brazil's
 5-year CDS increased by 45 b.p in

 700
400 month of January with respect to December.

100
The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) in January continued at the low values observed in recent months, decreasing slightly with respect to December by 1.3 million as the average daily traded was $392 million.

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 12 Private Securities

In the month of January, three issues of negotiable obligations (ON) were made. The first corresponds to Umbro Argentina S.A. for an amount of $1 million that will be amortized in six consecutive quarterly installments and will pay BADLAR of private banks plus 400 basis points, with a minimum of 17% and a maximum of 25%. The cut-off rate resulted in 25% nominal annual. A second was carried out by Bazar Avenida S.A. placing a total of $15 million. This corresponds to a series of short-term ON, maturing within 8 months and without accruing interest. The cut-off price was 85.31%. The last ON had a longer term than the previous ones (3 years) and corresponded to Juan Minetti S.A. It was placed for a nominal value of $70 million, with a differential margin of 650 basis points over the BADLAR of

Graph 7.5
Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos
thousands of millions of $ private banks. In this case the capital will be amortized in four payments (for an amount of 10% in July 2010, 20 20% in January 2011, 35% in July 2011 and January 2012) and
18 Money Market Variable income
16 173 interest will be paid quarterly.
14 Mixed income Fixed income
0
12

10 Investment Funds in Common

-835
8

6 -600
During January, the equity of investment funds in common (FCI) in pesos experienced a 6% decline
4
-780 with respect to December of last year, ending the month
2
0 with an amount close to $11,300 million. The FCI in

Jan-04 Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 pesos accumulate a pronounced decline (42%) in
-1,200
Source: Own preparation based on CAFCI data comparison to their maximum reached in October 2007, which is explained by the disappearance of the AFJPs and poor market performance. For the coming months, the fund market would be planning to make modifications to the characteristics of some of its products, aimed at attracting small savers and especially ANSES.

Regarding the structure by fund type, the largest decrease was recorded in the money market segment and was explained by the lower number of shares in fixed-term deposits. In this way, January closed with an amount of $8,300 million, 9% lower than the previous month. Its participation in the total FCI in pesos decreased by 2.4 percentage points, reaching 73.8% at the end of January.

For its part, variable income funds also experienced a decline, ending the month at $1,300 million and accumulating a decline of 79% with respect to January of last year. This was due especially to the decrease in the number of shares. It is worth mentioning that these funds were the ones that had the greatest negative impact as a result of the international crisis,

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 13 finding themselves at levels similar to those registered towards the end of 2004.

Graph 7.6
millions of $ Financial Trusts Emissions On the other hand, fixed income funds in pesos showed
1,800 (number of emissions above the bar of each month of the series of amounts) an increase due to higher values and quantities of shares, ending the month with $1,400
1,400 million. Finally, a slight decline of 0.1% was recorded

41 avg. 2008: January 2009:
1,200 11 $819M $744M in mixed-income funds, ending with a patrimony of $227 million.
28 31
avg. 2007: 25
1,000 24 23
$727M 2217
avg. 2006: 15 32
800 22 19 28 18 21
$628M 21 13 21 14 With respect to funds in foreign currency during
19
600 13 15182015 15 January, a slight decline was recorded, placing them at
131316 1617
10 8 $1,200 million. This was mainly due to the decrease in
400 9
12 quote prices of the mixed-income segment. The fixed-
200 income and mixed-income segments in dollars ended
0 the month at levels similar to 2004, while fixed-term
Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 deposits in this currency reached one of its lowest levels
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others recorded since 2002.

Chart 7.7 Financial Trusts6

millions $ Underlying Assets In the first month of the year, emissions of financial
1,200 (January 2008, December 2008 and January 2009)
Personal Loans Credit Card Vouchers Commercial Credits trusts totaled $744 million (see Chart 7.6), which
Future Cash Flows Pledge-based Loans Leasing Contracts represented a decline of 29% compared to the previous
1,000
month, as usually occurs at the beginning of each year.
800 This behavior is due to the fact that in December the
amount placed tends to increase temporarily in response
600 to greater seasonal consumption spending and the
86% consequent increase in financing, factors absent in
400 84% the following month. As for the quantity of placements,
91%
a total of 21 emissions were recorded, 10 fewer than
200 the previous month.

0
Ene-08 Dic-08 Ene-09 The underlying assets showed strong concentration in
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others those linked to consumption, with personal loans and
credit card vouchers, together, concentrating 91% of the
Chart 7.8 total issued (see Chart 7.7). Thus, they gained impor-
% Participation by Trustor tance both with respect to December and to January
100 2008. The remainder was composed of commercial
credits in dollars related to agricultural activity (6% of
80 the total) and leasing contracts (3% of the total).

60 Regarding representativeness by type of trustor, it was
observed that retail stores recovered the leadership they
40 had been showing in recent months (47% of the total
securitized; see Chart 7.8), prior to the abrupt loss of
20 participation in the previous month. It is worth noting
that retail stores were the only trustors that recorded an
0 increase in the amount placed in relation to the previous
Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Ene-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Ene-09 month (+22%). In this way, the decline in the total secu-
Financial Entities Retail Stores Other Non-Regulated Financial Institution ritized was explained exclusively by the lower securiti-
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others. zations of mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit
card issuers and financial entities, which in January were
6 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered. trustors of 23% and 24% of the total, respectively. The

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 14 remaining 6% corresponded to SMEs and other compa-
nies engaged in agricultural activity.

Chart 7.9 After several periods of sharp increases, the cut rates of
interest of the senior titles began to decline, accompa-
% Cut Rates of the FTs nying the downward trend of money market rates (see
35 (Class A Titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) Chart 7.9). In effect, the cut rate of the senior titles

30 Fixed Rate (weighted average
Variable rate by amount) was positioned at 21.3% in the case of the
25 BADLAR Rate Private Banks
 titles agreed at variable rate and at 21.1% in the case of those

20 awarded at fixed rate, which meant a reduction

15 of 12 p.p. and 10 p.p. with respect to the previous month, in one and
 the other case. In this way, the spread with respect to BAD-
10 LAR private banks was 5 p.p. for both types of

 5 placements, less than half that in December of

 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-092008. For its part, the average duration weighted by
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others amount of the senior titles of FF issued in January
 increased 1 month with respect to December 2008, being
 found at 6.8 months.

 The holding of titles issued by FF by financial
 entities, ended January at $5,718 million
 (amount similar to that of the previous month), which represented
 only 1.8% of the total assets of the financial system7. Meanwhile, in the comparison with the same month of the
 previous year, said amount showed an increase of 9%.

7 Corresponding to the total assets netted based on the latest balance sheet information, dated December 2008.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system Jan-09 Monthly Last 12 monthsDec-08Nov-08Jan-08
 NominalRealNominalReal

 Monetary base 105,121 106,439 101,146 97,577 -1.2% -1.8% 7.7% 0.8%
 Monetary circulation 80,919 80,247 74,437 71,897 0.8% 0.2% 12.5% 5.3%
 In the hands of the public 72,311 70,897 66,922 65,368 2.0% 1.4% 10.6% 3.5%
 In financial entities 8,609 9,350 7,515 6,529 -7.9% -8.5% 31.8% 23.4%
 Current account at the BCRA 24,202 26,192 26,709 25,680 -7.6% -8.1% -5.8% -11.8%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 15,795 10,187 9,086 7,324 55.0% 54.1% 115.7% 101.8%
 Assets 2,621 2,302 33 62

 Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 9,291 11,771 16,752 21,777 -21.1% -21.5% -57.3% -60.1%

 NOBAC 29,269 28,389 28,572 30,566 3.1% 2.5% -4.2% -10.4%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 46,789 46,198 45,664 46,909 1.3% -0.3%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 199,090 197,183 200,977 183,803 1.0% 0.4% 8.3% 1.3%
 Current account (2) 67,894 64,949 56,901 52,515 4.5% 3.9% 29.3% 21.0%
 Savings account 37,917 37,356 35,667 36,530 1.5% 0.9% 3.8% -2.9%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 82,197 82,552 97,215 80,976 -0.4% -1.0% 1.5% -5.0%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 237 320 383 1,952 -26.0% -26.4% -87.9% -88.7%
 Other deposits (3) 10,846 12,006 10,810 11,831 -9.7% -10.2% -8.3% -14.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 136,645 135,540 138,605 132,843 0.8% 0.2% 2.9% -3.8%

 Deposits of the public sector 62,444 61,644 62,372 50,960 1.3% 0.7% 22.5% 14.6%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,644 9,346 9,128 7,500 3.2% 28.6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 119,124 119,029 118,581 101,686 0.1% -0.5% 17.1% 9.6%

 Loans to the private sector 108,153 108,123 107,685 91,042 0.0% -0.6% 18.8% 11.1%
 Advances 15,861 15,735 15,868 14,927 0.8% 0.2% 6.3% -0.6%
 Documents 18,871 19,514 19,994 18,179 -3.3% -3.9% 3.8% -2.9%
 Mortgage 18,114 17,932 17,463 14,256 1.0% 0.4% 27.1% 18.9%
 Pledge 7,474 7,609 7,569 5,939 -1.8% -2.4% 25.8% 17.7%
 Personal 27,609 27,669 27,615 21,772 -0.2% -0.8% 26.8% 18.6%
 Credit cards 15,169 14,702 14,293 11,480 3.2% 2.6% 32.1% 23.6%
 Others 5,056 4,962 4,882 4,488 1.9% 1.3% 12.6% 5.4%

 Loans to the public sector 10,971 10,905 10,896 10,644 0.6% 0.0% 3.1% -3.6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,854 5,973 6,121 5,373 -2.0% 9.0%
Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 140.204 135.846 123.823 117.883 3.2% 2.6% 18.9% 11.3%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 178.121 173.202 159.490 154.413 2.8% 2.2% 15.4% 7.9%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 271.400 268.080 267.899 249.171 1.2% 0.6% 8.9% 1.9%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 304.800 300.095 298.312 272.753 1.6% 1.0% 11.7% 4.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 111.185 109.267 104.330 101.374 1.8% 1.1% 9.7% 2.6%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 145.880 143.007 136.055 134.597 2.0% 1.4% 8.4% 1.4%
 M3 (cash in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 208.956 206.437 205.527 198.211 1.2% 0.6% 5.4% -1.4%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 236.829 233.596 232.480 219.541 1.4% 0.8% 7.9% 0.9%

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base -1.318 -1.3% 2.667 2.5% -1.318 -1.3% 7.544 7.2%
 Financial sector -5.262 -5.0% -4.249 -4.0% -5.262 -5.0% -5.850 -5.6%
 Public sector -1.726 -1.6% -5.222 -5.0% -1.726 -1.6% -8.007 -7.6%
 Private external sector 3.415 3.2% -1.362 -1.3% 3.415 3.2% -5.560 -5.3%
 BCRA securities 1.998 1.9% 11.385 10.8% 1.998 1.9% 18.602 17.7%
 Others 257 0.2% 2.116 2.0% 257 0.2% 8.358 8.0%

 International reserves 591 1.3% 181 0.4% 591 1.3% -120 -0.3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 994 2.1% -457 -1.0% 994 2.1% -1.701 -3.6%
 Payment to international organizations 33 0.1% 67 0.1% 33 0.1% -1.206 -2.6%
 Other operations of the public sector -987 -2.1% -1.465 -3.1% -987 -2.1% 1.349 2.9%
 Minimum cash 236 0.5% 853 1.8% 236 0.5% 562 1.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 315 0.7% 1.183 2.5% 315 0.7% 877 1.9%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of the use of unified funds.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation changes

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

 Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 12.06 14.04 15.21 14.04 8.13
 Amount traded 393 573 695 573 754

 Time deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 14.26 15.76 16.89 15.76 8.93
 60 days or more 14.00 17.41 18.04 17.41 9.55
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.21 16.59 18.24 16.59 9.02
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 15.60 19.07 21.22 19.07 10.24

 In dollars
 30 days 1.64 1.68 1.67 1.68 1.24
 60 days or more 2.27 2.48 2.38 2.48 2.23
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.70 1.50 1.88 1.50 1.11
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.59 2.86 3.00 2.86 3.30

 Active Interest Rates Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 25.99 27.76 32.46 27.76 15.27

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.98 15.75 11.68 15.75 10.05
 Amount traded (total terms) 114 122 110 122 138

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on checking account 26.13 27.75 28.08 27.75 18.08
 Documents on signature alone 21.44 23.67 25.19 23.67 16.47
 Mortgage loans 16.46 16.18 16.03 16.18 11.72
 Pledge loans 25.42 23.93 20.61 23.93 14.11
 Personal loans 39.96 36.53 34.33 36.53 27.72
 Credit cards n/d 28.96 28.50 28.96 26.07

 International Interest Rates Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.38 1.02 1.61 1.02 3.91
 6 months 1.62 2.14 2.66 2.14 3.78
# GLOSSARY / GLOSSARY

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.79 0.81 1.19 0.81 2.45
 10 years 2.47 2.38 3.47 2.38 3.71

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.61 1.00 0.61 3.93

 SELIC (at 1 year) 13.37 13.75 13.75 13.75 11.25

 (1) Data through November correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for December and January are estimates made from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.00
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 8.25
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 10.25

Total REPO Round Repo Rates
 1 day 10.52 10.53 10.79 10.53 7.91
 7 days 11.84 12.56 13.97 12.56 8.38

Amount Operated of REPO Round Repos (daily average) 8,272 5,580 7,457 5,580 4,679

LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o 12.48 12.50 12.48 10.69
 2 months 11.00 12.18 12.87 12.18 10.73
 3 months 12.27 12.50 n/o 12.50 10.81
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.00
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

NOBAC Margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.43 n/o 1.17 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.87 1.75 1.56 1.75 1.63
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount Operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 123 130 138 130 316

 Exchange Market Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 3.46 3.42 3.33 3.42 2.86
 BCRA Reference 3.46 3.42 3.33 3.42 3.14

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.56 3.60 3.59 3.60 3.15
 ROFEX 1 month 3.48 3.44 3.35 3.44 3.15
 Amount Operated (all terms, millions of pesos) 503 458 411 458 263

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.50 1.43 1.47 1.43 1.77

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.59 4.64 4.24 4.64 4.63

 Capital Market Jan-09 Dec-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-08

MERVAL
 Index 1,112 1,055 994 1,055 2,042
 Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 41 42 69 42 105

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 56.53 52.32 45.77 52.32 88.41
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Leg.) 35.84 34.97 38.01 34.97 92.68
 BODEN 2014 ($) 26.73 23.83 23.76 23.83 73.89
 DISCOUNT ($) 33.75 29.72 25.51 29.72 73.87

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 3,511 3,439 4,522 3,439 626
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 667 713 658 713 285

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**AFJP:** Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.

**BODEN:** National State Bond.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Common Funds.

**FGS:** Sustainability Guarantee Fund.

**FED:** Federal Reserve of the U.S.

**FF:** Financial Trusts.

**i.a.:** Year-on-year.

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable Forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.

**PG:** Guaranteed Loans.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**PyMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SELIC:** Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

**SIPA:** Integrated Argentine Pension System.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard & Poor's.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**VIX:** Expected Volatility Index of the S&P.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

---

Monetary Report | January 2009 | BCRA | 20
