# Monthly Monetary Report
August 2009 | Monthly Monetary Report
August 2009

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Equities
Page 11 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 12 | Investment Funds
Page 13 | Financial Trusts

Page 15 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on September 9, 2009. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In August, significant growth was observed in broader monetary aggregates in pesos, as a consequence of the significant increase in time deposits, in a context of improvements in expectations, facilitated by the action of the Central Bank. For its part, the M2 monetary aggregate responded to its seasonal pattern and registered a monthly decrease of 0.5%, with lower participation of currency in circulation compared to the previous month, in which the payment of bonuses had had full effect. In this way, M2 reached in August $175,070 million, with which its growth compared to the same month of the previous year was placed at 11.2%.

• Time deposits showed significant growth, increasing in the month by 4.6%, with increases in both the public and private sectors. Private sector placements grew 3.6%, showing increases in both the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) and the wholesale segment.

• Continuing its monetary policy strategy, and given the better performance of the local money market, on 10/08/09 the Central Bank ordered a new reduction of 0.5 percentage points in interest rates for repo operations. In this way, the interest rates on passive repos were established at 9.5% and 10% for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates on active repos of 1 and 7 days were placed at 11.5% and 12%, respectively. Market interest rates converged to the new interest rate corridor established by the BCRA.

• Bank reserves in pesos (cash in banks plus the balances of current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA) represented in August 15.7% of deposits in pesos, which yielded a surplus of 0.3 percentage points above the minimum cash requirement, somewhat lower than other periods, denoting better liquidity management in a context of lower uncertainty. Adding the net repo position with the BCRA, the peso liquidity of entities was in August 20.6% (similar to the previous month). Meanwhile, incorporating the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, the broad liquidity ratio rose to 34.7% of deposits in pesos (0.3 percentage points higher than in July).

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in August an increase in its monthly average of 0.3% ($380 million), registering year-over-year expansion of 9%. Monthly growth was explained mainly by financing intended for consumption. After four months of declines, mortgage loans (net of declines recorded by portfolio securitizations) advanced 0.2% ($40 million).

• The BCRA continued working to deepen regulations aimed at encouraging credit to the private sector. In this sense, it approved a series of measures aimed at making various credit access requirements more flexible, which seek to simplify the information required both for the presentation of credit applications by economic agents and that necessary for the evaluation of the risk profile of applicants and the subsequent origination of credits by financial entities. Additionally, jointly with the Electronic Open Market (MAE), it adopted measures aimed at dynamizing the interest rate futures market. The BCRA enabled a mechanism to participate in the interest rate futures market OCT-MAE, facilitating credit between counterparties through the so-called "Transfer Function," which allows carrying out operations whose "sides" (buy and sell offers) had identical terms but could not be agreed due to lack of credit to operate between the parties.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates
In August, monetary aggregates in pesos showed very good performance, with a seasonal decline in the most liquid aggregate, M2, and growth in broader definitions of money, as a consequence of the significant increase in time deposits in a context of greater confidence in the financial system, facilitated by the actions of the Central Bank. Indeed, total M2 registered a monthly decrease of 0.5% and reached in August $175,070 million, recording in the last year a growth of 11.2%. The contractionary effects on M2 from the increase in time deposits of the private sector were partially offset by the expansionary monetary effect of foreign exchange purchases by the BCRA, operations of the public sector, and loans from the private sector (see Graph 2.1).

**Graph 2.1**
**Factors Explaining the Variation of M2**
(August 2009, in average)
thousands of millions of $

[Graph showing: Foreign Exchange Purchases | Public Sector* | LEBACs and NOBAC Loans | Time Deposits and Other Private Sector Deposits excluding Banks | Others | M2]

*Includes time fixed deposits and others, loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered in August a growth of 1%. Meanwhile, private M2 presented a decrease of 0.9%, while private M3 showed an advance of 0.2%.

The total of deposits in pesos showed an expansion of 1.7%, with increases in both sectors. Deposits belonging to the public sector showed an advance of 3.8%, while those corresponding to the private sector increased 0.8%.

In the sight deposits segment, public sector deposits grew 1.8%. Meanwhile, those corresponding to the private sector showed a contraction close to 1%, with an increase in the current account and a decrease in the savings account.

Time deposits grew significantly, increasing in the month 4.6%, with increases in both public sector placements and private sector. Private sector placements grew 3.6%, showing increases in both the retail segment (placements up to $1 million) and the wholesale segment (see Graph 2.2). For its part, time deposits corresponding to the public sector registered a growth of 6.6%.

**Graph 2.2**
**Fixed Time Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos**
(daily value and monthly average)
thousands of millions of $

[Graph showing data from Jan-09 through Aug-09, with values ranging from 53 to 61]

Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, the total deposits increased 2.1%. Public sector placements showed a decline, while those corresponding to the private sector presented growth, both in sight placements and in time deposits. Thus, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in circulation and the total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, advanced in August 1.3%, accumulating 4 consecutive months of growth, which reflects confidence in the local financial system.

**Graph 3.1**
**Bank Liquidity**
% of deposits (monthly average)
(Ef+CCBCRA)/Dep | Net Repos/Dep | Lebacs/Dep

[Graph showing values from 45 down to 0, with specific percentage values listed: 17.8, 17.8, 17.5, 16.9, 15.4, 14.9, 15.0, 13.6, 13.4, 13.6, 13.6, 13.5, 14.1 on one line and 4.6, 4.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.1, 5.5, 6.3, 7.1, 6.8, 7.1, 6.7, 4.9, 5.0 on another, with 16.4, 16.6, 17.1, 16.8, 17.8, 16.2, 15.8, 16.1, 16.1, 15.9, 16.0, 15.9, 15.7 on the bottom]

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

Bank reserves in pesos (considering the concepts for integration of minimum cash: cash in banks plus the balances of the current accounts of financial entities in the BCRA) represented in August 15.7% of deposits in that currency (see Graph 3.1). Thus, the minimum cash position (requirement minus integration) shows a surplus.
Aug-08 Nov-08 Feb-09 May-09 Aug-09 of 0.3 p.p., which was relatively stable throughout the
 Source: BCRA
 month, unlike what occurred in previous months (see
 Chart 3.2). Likewise, the entities maintained a
 surplus lower than other periods, denoting a better Chart 3.2
 liquidity management in a context of lower uncer-
 tainty. By type of entity, the surplus of private Minimum Cash Position
 banks was 0.5%, while that of public banks was % of
 0.1%. deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position
 3.5

 3.0

 2.5 Adding the net repurchase agreement position with the
 BCRA, the liquidity in pesos of the entities was 20.6% 2.0

 in August (similar to that of the previous month). 1.5

 Meanwhile, incorporating the holdings of LEBAC and 1.0

 NOBAC, the broad liquidity ratio rose to 34.7% of 0.5 0.3

 deposits in pesos (0.3 p.p. higher than July), showing 0.0

 once again an increase in LEBAC and NOBAC hold- -0.5

 ings. In the foreign currency segment, the minimum -1.0

 cash position increased its surplus by 3 p.p. from the -1.5

 previous month. Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09
 Source: BCRA

Chart 4.1 4. Loans 1 2

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 400 (var. of monthly averages) 18 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in
 300 15 August an increase in their monthly average of 0.3%
 200 12 ($380 million), registering an year-on-year expan-
 9 sion of 9% (see Chart 4.1). Growth in the period was
 100 9
 explained mainly by financing destined for con-
 0 6
 sumption.
 -100 Aug-09 3

 -200 var y.o.y. (%) - right axis 0
 Credits destined mainly for consumption exhibited
 -300 -3 in August an increase of 1% ($460 million). Financ-
 -400 -6 ing with credit cards advanced in the month 1% ($160
 million). Meanwhile, personal loans grew 1% ($300
 million), showing during the second half of the month
 Source: BCRA
 important dynamism (see Chart 4.2) that was driven
 in large part by national private entities. Move to the
 second paragraph

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of entity loan portfolios to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 5 After months of strong growth, credits destined
 mainly for commercial purposes remained in the
 month virtually unchanged (-0.2%). Current account
 advances fell back 1.7% ($320 million), influenced by
 the significant negative statistical carryover from July
 (see Chart 4.3). For their part, financing instruments
 with documents grew 0.6% ($120 million), while the
 remaining commercial financing increased 2.2% ($120
 million).

 The balances of loans with real collateral remained Chart 4.2

 at levels similar to those recorded in July. Pledged thousands of Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private
 Sector millions of $
 credits fell back 0.6% ($40 million), stabilizing their (daily stock and monthly average)
 level of decline in line with the performance of the 29.0
 automotive industry. Meanwhile, after four months Daily stock
 28.8 Monthly average
 of declines, mortgage loans advanced in the period
 28.6
 0.2% ($40 million), driven by the participation of the
 28.4
 Mortgage Bank (BH) and its new line of housing
 28.2
 credits. It should also be noted the issuance carried
 28.0
 out by the BH of series IX and X of the Argentine
 27.8 Mortgage Bonds (CHA) for approximately $550
 27.6 million (see Financial Trusts within Section 7). This
 27.4 operation implied the securitization of part of the
 27.2 mortgage loan portfolio, so the balance of mortgage
 27.0 loans should be corrected for this transfer.
 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09
 Source: BCRA
Money Market Transactions¹
Deepening its monetary policy strategy, the Central Bank arranged a new reduction of 0.5 p.p. in interest rates for repo operations. In this way, interest rates on passive repos were established at 9.5% and 10%, for 1 and 7 days,

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.3 respectively, while interest rates on active repos for 1 and 7 days moved to 11.5% and 12%, respectively. Market interest rates converged to the new interest rate corridor established by the BCRA (see Graph 5.3).

Interest Rates for Call Operations, BADLAR and Repos %

The average stock of passive repos for the Central Bank, including all the modalities in which this Institution is enabled to operate, increased $970 million with respect to July, and reached a monthly average of $12,800 million, equivalent to 6% of the total deposits in pesos. For its part, the average stock of active repos increased $250 million, reaching its average stock a value of $285 million.

Interbank Market 1

In line with the reduction in interest rates for BCRA repo operations, interest rates in the interbank market decreased during August. The weighted average interest rate for total operations (up to 15 days maturity) decreased 0.6 p.p. with respect to July, with an average of 9.7%. Similar behavior was recorded in the interest rate for operations at 1 business day, averaging 8.9% in August, 0.7 p.p. less than in July (see Graph 5.4).

The amounts traded in this market continue at historically low levels, having remained almost unchanged with respect to July. In August the average amount traded was $574 million, $26 million more than the previous month.

Regarding the distribution of the amount traded in the interbank market by type of entity, the pattern of recent months was repeated, with non-bank financial entities (EFNB) being the main net providers of funds, with a daily average of $214 million. Public entities continued to be net providers, but by a reduced amount, $12 million. Finally, foreign banking and domestic private banking were, in that order, the main net demanders of funds in the market by $174 and $52 million respectively.

For its part, the deviation of the interest rate for interbank operations at 1 business day remained unchanged in the last month. The average deviation in August was 0.83%, practically the same as that observed in July. However, there is a decrease in the average range, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rates agreed each day. The average range was 5.4 p.p., the lowest since September 2008 (see Graph 5.5).

Passive Interest Rates 1
# Translation to English

In line with the reduction in the interest rates of BCRA operations, the main short-term passive interest rates decreased slightly during the month. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 12.7%, with a decrease of 0.3 p.p. compared to that recorded in July, explained, in part, by the reduction in the BCRA's reference interest rates (see Graph 5.3). For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks, for the same term, on retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000, remained at 12%.

Graph 5.6 On the other hand, certain heterogeneity could be appreciated in the behavior of interest rates by type of

%, TNA Active Commercial Interest Rates depositor. While the interest rate paid to
35 Capital and GBA - Monthly Average
 companies showed a certain declining trend (it stood
30 29.5 Jan-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 at 12.9% with a monthly decrease of 0.3 p.p.), the
 average of the interest rates paid to individuals
25 24.6 25.7
 21.7 22.0 remained at 12.6%.
 21.3
20 19.5 19.3

 16.0 16.6 15.1 16.3 Active Interest Rates 1 4
15

10 Like passive interest rates, active rates decreased
 during August. In particular, in the most traded seg-
5 ments, declines greater than those observed in passive
 rates were recorded, with a reduction in spreads being
0 registered.

 Advances Total Adv. w/ Agreement +$10M Documents Discounted Documents on Sole Signature
Source: BCRA companies

 Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate on current account advances for the total of terms stood at 21.3%, with a slight decrease compared to the July average. Within operations with prior agreement, which represent 88% of total operations, the average interest rate of the most traded segment, corresponding to advances to companies for up to 7 days with amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 15.1% with a decrease of 0.8 p.p. compared to the average observed in July.

 For its part, the interest rates of the three methods of financing through documents (discounted, on sole signature and purchased) recorded a similar evolution, with a decrease compared to July. The average interest rate of discounted documents, the most traded line
 (with 50% of total operations) stood at 16.3%. For its part, the average rate for sole signature documents stood at 19.3% (see Graph 5.6).

 Graph 6.1 In contrast, the interest rates of personal loans,

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009
 55 granted in Capital and GBA by private banks,
 recorded an increase of 0.9 p.p. compared to the
 50 previous month, reaching an average value of 36.3%.

 45

 40 Finally, also considering operations agreed by private
 banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rates of
 35 mortgage loans decreased by 1 p.p., reaching a level
 close to 15%. It should be mentioned that this interest
30 rate is only referred to operations arranged at fixed or
 renegotiable interest rate and does not include those
25 agreed at variable rate. On the other hand, the interest
 rate corresponding to financing with pledge collateral
20 stood at 23.1%, 0.5 p.p. below the July average.

15
 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09
 Source: BCRA
 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market5
The stock of international reserves (excluding the allocation of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) made by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in August 2009) stood at the end of the month at US$45,021 million, which implied a decline of US$1,022 million. At the beginning of August, the National Treasury (TN) paid the service (US dollar quotation) +0.8% corresponding to the State National Bonds maturing in 2012 (Boden 2012). Said payment was met with foreign currency that the Treasury had opportunely acquired from the monetary authority, with resources from its primary surplus, and which at the time of payment were deposited in the BCRA. Given that some of the holders of these securities were residents abroad, not all the foreign currency paid remained in the local financial system, which resulted in a fall in the stock of international reserves (the foreign currency that did remain caused an increase in the minimum cash account in the BCRA). It should be noted that the operation of paying the Boden 2012 did not imply any change in the equity of the BCRA since the operation involved a decrease in assets simultaneously with a reduction in liabilities. For its part, the BCRA turned out to be a net buyer in the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) in August, which partially counteracted the decrease generated by other factors on the reserve balance.

5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 10 In the foreign exchange market, the peso continued to slow its rate of depreciation against the US dollar as occurred in the previous month (0.8% with respect to July - see Chart 6.2). In effect, the average quotation was 3.84 $/US$. Meanwhile, the quotations against the Real and the Euro were 2.1 $/Real and 5.5 $/Euro respectively, which implied that the monthly devaluation was 5.5% and 2.1% respectively.

**Chart 6.2**
**Foreign Exchange Market**
$/US$

**Chart 7.1**

**Performance of World Stock Indices**
(base index 02/07/07 = 100)

MSCI World
MSCI Europe Shares
MSCI Japan
MSCI Latam
S&P 500

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

# 7. Capital Market

During August, stock markets worldwide generally had good performance. The global MSCI increased 3.9%. Meanwhile, the MSCI index for European stock exchanges had an increase of 6.7%, the MSCI for Japan rose 3.9% and that for Latin America 1.9%. In the case of the North American S&P 500, it also showed a positive result, rising 2.6% (see Chart 7.1), measured in dollars, in all cases.

Argentina's MERVAL index had good performance during August, and ended the month at 1,782 points, which implied an increase of 3.6% in the month, measured in pesos. In this way, the MERVAL for the first time in the last twelve months had a positive result compared to a year ago, with an increase of 0.3%, while so far in 2009 it accumulates a gain of close to 65%.

**Chart 7.2**

**Volatility (%)** | **Volatility of Stock Markets**
22 days
MERVAL (Argentina)
IPC (Mexico)
BOVESPA (Brazil)
S&P 500 (USA)
Shanghai Index (China)

With respect to the volatility of stock markets, it should be mentioned that, in general, it has been reduced since March. The last month was no exception for the local stock exchange. The historical volatility of the MERVAL, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 24.1% during August, 8.1 p.p. less than during the previous month (see Chart 7.2). On the other hand, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) averaged
August 25 at 25.3%, this is 1.1 p.p. less than during Ju-
ly, reaching the lowest value since August of the past
year.

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

At the local level, the daily average trading volume at the
Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) during August was
$45 million, which represents an increase of $9 million
with respect to July, although 22% less than in the same
period of the previous year.

Public Securities

During August, sovereign risk indicators remained relatively
stable. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerg-
ing countries as a whole, decreased 8 b.p.. Meanwhile,
the spread of debt in foreign currency of Latin America
decreased 7 b.p. and that of Argentina 5 b.p., having
closed the month below 1000 points for the first time in
the last eleven months. In contrast, that of Brazil in-
creased 6 b.p.. When considering Credit Default Swaps
(CDS) contracts, it was observed that the spread of Ar-
gentina's CDS contracts at 5 years (the most traded seg-
ment) decreased 137 b.p. reaching 1,714 b.p., while the
spread of Brazil's CDS at the same term increased 6 b.p.
placing itself at 132 b.p. (see Graph 7.3).

During the month, the exchange of some species indexed
bonds by CER (PRE9 and PR12) for a bond with coupon
following BADLAR (BONAR14) was announced. More pre-
cisely, the BONAR14 will mature in 2014, will have a yield
equal to the BADLAR rate plus 275 b.p., paying interests
quarterly and principal at maturity.

The traded volume of public securities (on average daily)
continued at reduced levels, although it remained almost
unchanged with respect to July at $673 million. With res-
pect to August 2008, what was traded in the month was
$1,700 million less.

Private Securities

Graph 7.4

Thousands of Common Investment Funds Assets in Pesos
Millions $ (Variation August 09 vs. July 09)

In August, a placement of negotiable obligation and a
short-term debt value were registered. On one hand, Tar-
jeta Naranja placed u$s50 million in two series. One for
u$s35 million at one year term, and the other for u$s15
million at two years term. Both will amortize at maturity
and only the second will pay semiannual interests at a fixed
rate of 12.5% per annum, while the first will make them
effective at its maturity.

On the other hand, Piedra Buena Thermal Power placed
short-term debt values for an amount of $25 million at 270
days. It will pay quarterly interests at a private banks
BADLAR rate plus a margin of 470 b.p. and will amortize
totally at maturity.

Common Investment Funds

In August, common investment funds (FCI) experienced a
slight monthly decline, ending at $14,650 million, 0.4%
below July.

This decrease is explained by the portion of FCI in pesos
that closed on the last day of the month with an asset
value of $12,900 million, 1.3% lower than that registered
in July. The only segment that experienced a decline, ex-
plained by the smaller amount of quotas registered, was
that of money market, which ended the month with an asset
value of $8,045 million (6.5% lower than

Graph 7.5

Financial Trust Issuances
millions of $ (number of issuances above the bar for each month of the series of amounts)
FF of the sector closing July), thus losing 3.5 p.p. of participation
2,000 public
FF of the sector 14 in the total of the FCIs in pesos.
1,800 energy
1,600 13

1,400 As in July, the largest increase (13.3%) was recorded
Mortgage 1,200 in the fixed income segment, which ended August with
Bonds 25 31 IX and X
1,000 24 14 a net worth of $2,454 million. This fact is explained
28 22 18 23 both by higher prices and by a greater number of
800 21
13 2118 14 21 fund shares, and caused that segment to gain partici-
600
pation in the total of the funds (2.5 p.p. greater than the
400 8 19 12 percentage of July). It should be noted that the fixed
200 5 income segment has been accumulating increases since
0 the beginning of the year, reaching an amount 100%
Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and othersJan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 higher compared to that recorded at the end of
December 2008.

On the other hand, the mixed income and variable
segments also experienced increases in their net worth,
Chart 7.6 of 6% and 4.6%, respectively. These increases are
Fiduciaries related to a strong increase in the prices of their fund
shares.
millions $
(amounts issued)
1,000

Mutual Societies, Cooperatives and Non-
800 Banking Credit Card Issuers Regarding FCIs in foreign currency, an increase in
Retail Commerce net worth of 5.6% was evidenced. The most notable
-24% increases were experienced by the fixed income and
Financial Entities mixed income segments in dollars.
600

-10%
400 Financial
Trusts 6 In August, mortgage credits were securitized again
+444% (which had not occurred for almost two and a half
200 years). These are the placements of series IX and X of
0 the Argentine Mortgage Bonds (CHA) of Banco Hipote-
July August cario, for $546 million. Due to this, the issuances of
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data financial trusts (FF) totaled $927 million in August,
more than double that of July. However, in the
absence of these extraordinary placements, it can be
Chart 7.7 observed that market performance in the year so far
continues to be weak as it fails to recompose the
Cut-off Rates of FF emission levels of 2008 (see Chart 7.5). In terms of
% (A series securities in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) quantity, a total of 14 placements were recorded in
35 % the month, similar to that of the last two months.
35 Variable Rate
30 Fixed Rate Regarding the underlying assets, mortgage loans
30 BADLAR Private Banks Rate BADLAR Private Banks Rate concentrated nearly 60% of the securitizations.
Spread Spread For their part, consumer financing represented together
25 25 38% of the total, with a slight decrease in the securitized
20 amount (-10% compared to the previous month), explained
20 mainly by the lower securitizations of credit card
15 coupons. The remainder corresponded to commercial
15 credits in dollars, intended to finance agricultural
10 -3.3 p.p.
10 activities.
5 5
Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul-
06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data

6 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 13
In the role of fiduciaries, financial entities stood out with a significant increase in the amount securitized with respect to the previous month (see Chart 7.6), being responsible for 68% of the total issued in the month. In addition to Banco Hipotecario, which concentrated the largest part of the issuances, 2 other entities participated, in both cases with securitizations of personal loans. For their part, both retail trade (20% of the total) and mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers (8% of the total) registered a decrease in the amounts placed, of 10% and 24%, respectively.

Chart 7.8
millions of $ Financial Assets in Portfolio of Financial Entities %
6,400 25 The interest rates of the senior securities registered a significant decline. In effect, the cut-off rate - amount-weighted average - of the species offered at variable rate decreased 6.9 p.p., reaching 12.9% (see Chart 7.7). For its part, the corresponding one for securities awarded at fixed rate (modality under which a single operation was agreed, which is therefore not representative) was placed at 9.4%, the lowest value since October 2005, with a decrease of 7.7 p.p. with respect to last month. Meanwhile, the duration (amount-weighted average) of senior securities increased significantly, as was to be expected given the reappearance of mortgage credit as underlying, placing itself at 54 months.

5,600 20 Balances of VDF and CP at the close of each month
Var. i.a

4,800 15

4,000 10

3,200
5
2,400
0
1,600
-5
800

0
Ene-07 Jun-07 Nov-07 Abr-08 Sep-08 Feb-09 Jul-09
Source: BCRA

For their part, the securities issued by FF in the portfolio of financial entities ended the month at $5,934 million (see Chart 7.8), with a decline of 3.7% ($231 million) with respect to last month. Meanwhile, the variation with respect to the same month of the previous year was 3%, accentuating the deceleration in the rate of interannual growth evidenced in recent months.

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 148. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables Aug-09 Monthly Last 12 months Jul-09 Dec-08 Aug-08
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 105,293 105,960 106,439 100,723 -0.6% -1.2% 4.5% -1.0%
Monetary circulation 82,062 82,999 80,247 74,509 -1.1% -1.7% 10.1% 4.3%
In the hands of the public 73,330 73,968 70,897 67,424 -0.9% -1.5% 8.8% 3.0%
In financial entities 8,732 9,031 9,350 7,085 -3.3% -3.9% 23.2% 16.7%
Current account at BCRA 23,231 22,961 26,192 26,214 1.2% 0.6% -11.4% -16.1%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities 12,805 11,835 10,187 11,122 8.2% 7.5% 15.1% 9.1%
Assets 285 37 2,302 157

Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
In pesos 16,054 13,051 11,771 25,193 23.0% 22.3% -36.3% -39.6%

NOBAC 19,306 20,408 28,389 24,581 -5.4% -6.0% -21.5% -25.6%

International reserves of BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 44,851 45,993 46,198 47,300 -2.5% -5.2%

SDR allocation 2009 (5) 317,000

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 201,170 197,785 197,274 199,882 1.7% 1.1% 0.6% -4.7%
Current account (2) 62,861 61,543 64,944 53,543 2.1% 1.5% 17.4% 11.2%
Savings account 38,880 40,465 37,358 36,517 -3.9% -4.5% 6.5% 0.9%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 88,484 84,587 82,623 98,799 4.6% 4.0% -10.4% -15.2%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 102 108 322 612 -5.1% -5.7% -83.2% -84.1%
Other deposits (3) 10,842 11,082 12,028 10,411 -2.2% -2.8% 4.1% -1.3%

Deposits of the private sector 140,134 138,999 135,455 141,481 0.8% 0.2% -1.0% -6.2%

Deposits of the public sector 61,036 58,786 61,819 58,401 3.8% 3.2% 4.5% -1.0%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11,997 11,765 9,346 8,480 2.0% 41.5%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 126,537 124,959 119,040 114,048 1.3% 0.6% 11.0% 5.1%
# Loans to the private sector
112.172 112.439 108.136 103.053 -0.2% -0.9% 8.8% 3.1%
 Advances 18.102 18.421 15.735 16.113 -1.7% -2.3% 12.3% 6.4%
 Documents 20.208 20.090 19.517 18.983 0.6% 0.0% 6.5% 0.8%
 Mortgage loans 17.883 18.036 17.931 16.413 -0.8% -1.5% 9.0% 3.2%
 Pledged loans 6.885 6.928 7.610 7.141 -0.6% -1.2% -3.6% -8.7%
 Personal loans 28.072 27.834 27.668 26.358 0.9% 0.2% 6.5% 0.9%
 Credit cards 15.347 15.184 14.712 13.276 1.1% 0.4% 15.6% 9.5%
 Others 5.676 5.946 4.963 4.768 -4.5% -5.1% 19.0% 12.8%

 Loans to the public sector 14.365 12.520 10.904 10.995 14.7% 14.0% 30.6% 23.8%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.500 5.765 5.973 6.115 -4.6% -10.1%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + current accounts in pesos) 136.191 135.511 135.841 120.967 0.5% -0.1% 12.6% 6.7%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 175.071 175.976 173.198 157.484 -0.5% -1.1% 11.2% 5.3%
 M3 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 274.499 271.753 268.171 267.305 1.0% 0.4% 2.7% -2.7%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 320.557 316.564 300.185 293.028 1.3% 0.6% 9.4% 3.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + private current accounts in pesos) 112.366 112.468 109.263 104.961 -0.1% -0.7% 7.1% 1.4%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 147.844 149.235 143.005 137.924 -0.9% -1.5% 7.2% 1.5%
 M3 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 213.463 212.968 206.352 208.904 0.2% -0.4% 2.2% -3.2%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 251.740 249.467 233.507 231.457 0.9% 0.3% 8.8% 3.0%

 Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base -667 -0.6% 4.552 4.3% -1.146 -1.1% 4.569 4.3%
 Financial sector -792 -0.8% 3.665 3.5% -4.460 -4.2% -1.284 -1.2%
 Public sector 1.000 0.9% 1.266 1.2% -4.371 -4.2% -9.063 -8.6%
 Private external sector 652 0.6% -2.233 -2.1% -3.228 -3.1% -11.459 -10.9%
 BCRA Securities -1.494 -1.4% 1.341 1.3% 8.038 7.6% 19.114 18.2%
 Others -32 0.0% 513 0.5% 2.875 2.7% 7.262 6.9%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.142 -2.5% -1.706 -3.8% -1.348 -3.0% -2.450 -5.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 171 0.4% -588 -1.3% -796 -1.8% -3.287 -7.3%
 Payment to international organizations -28 -0.1% 227 0.5% -124 -0.3% -240 -0.5%
 Other operations of the public sector -1.977 -4.4% -2.488 -5.5% -3.393 -7.6% -2.782 -6.2%
 Minimum cash 478 1.1% 603 1.3% 1.717 3.8% 2.115 4.7%
 Remainder (including foreign exchange valuation) 214 0.5% 540 1.2% 1.248 2.8% 1.743 3.9%

SDR allocations 2009 317 317 317 317

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 16 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.74 10.38 10.54 14.04 8.71
 Traded amount 573 521 578 574 628

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11.81 11.95 11.84 15.76 10.74
 60 days or more 12.95 12.94 13.33 17.41 11.92
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.07 12.34 12.26 16.59 10.66
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.73 13.04 12.94 19.07 12.26
In dollars
 30 days 0.77 0.90 0.90 1.68 1.46
 60 days or more 1.33 1.32 1.53 2.48 2.30
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.91 1.12 0.99 1.50 1.45
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.08 1.28 1.29 2.86 2.77

 Active Interest Rates Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate 30 days 11.85 13.01 14.04 15.75 11.14
 Amount traded (total terms) 148 267 146 122 145

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21.15 21.61 22.75 27.72 20.94
 Single signature documents 20.07 20.19 19.31 25.94 19.02
 Mortgages 14.28 15.98 15.89 16.23 12.49
 Pledge loans 22.01 22.28 22.71 21.07 18.99
 Personal loans 36.09 35.37 33.93 35.45 32.39
 Credit cards n/a n/a 29.44 29.04 28.56

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 15.15 15.93 16.05 n/a n/a

 International Interest Rates Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.27 0.29 0.32 1.02 2.47
 6 months 0.84 0.98 1.18 2.14 3.11

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.10 1.00 1.16 0.81 2.41
 10 years 3.58 3.55 3.70 2.38 3.88

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.75 9.06 9.58 13.75 13.00

(1) Data through May correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those of June and July are estimations made
from the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.63 10.10 10.50 10.50 8.75
 Liabilities 7 days 10.13 10.60 11.00 11.00 9.19
 Assets 7 days 12.13 12.60 13.00 13.00 11.19

Total REPO trading floor repo rates
 1 day 10.06 10.13 10.52 10.53 8.81
 7 days 10.76 10.82 11.26 12.56 9.24

Amount traded in REPO trading floor repos (daily average) 7,736 7,458 7,446 5,580 6,553

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 12.48 n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 12.18 10.86
 3 months 14.28 14.50 14.49 12.50 11.15
 9 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 12 months n/a 16.24 16.25 n/a 12.20

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.27 1.37 1.35 n/a 1.02
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.78 1.79 1.80 1.75 1.55
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a 3.25 n/a 3.22
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.45 n/a n/a n/a 3.48

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 185 111 173 130 577

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.84 3.81 3.77 3.42 3.04
 BCRA reference 3.84 3.81 3.77 3.42 3.03

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.88 3.87 3.83 3.60 3.06
 ROFEX 1 month 3.85 3.83 3.78 3.44 3.03
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 663 972 950 458 511

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.08 1.98 1.92 1.43 1.88

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.48 5.37 5.29 4.64 4.54

 Capital Market Aug-09 Jul-09 Jun-09 Dec-08 Aug-08

MERVAL
 Index 1,777 1,617 1,598 1,055 1,770
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 55 43 49 42 84

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 72.87 65.99 64.44 52.32 80.25
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 62.06 54.84 49.71 34.97 78.39
 BODEN 2014 ($) 53.34 51.29 41.40 23.83 67.29
 DISCOUNT ($) 45.57 44.60 35.30 29.72 61.14

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,814 2,433 2,666 3,439 1,080
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 377 425 467 713 311

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days term.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.

BODEN: National State Bond.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Mutual Investment Funds.

FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.

FF: Financial Trusts.

IMF: International Monetary Fund.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ONs: Negotiable Obligations.

PG: Guaranteed Loans.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SELIC: Special Liquidation and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).

SIPA: Integrated Argentine Social Security System.

SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.

VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P

FV: Face Value.

---

Monetary Report | August 2009 | BCRA | 19
