# Monthly Monetary Report
April of 2009 Monthly Monetary Report
April 2009

Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 4 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 6 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 6 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 7 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 8 | Active Interest Rates

Page 9 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 9 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 9 | Stocks
Page 10 | Public Securities
Page 11 | Private Securities
Page 11 | Common Investment Funds
Page 12 | Financial Trusts

Page 14 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 18 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on May 11, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary¹

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $166,150 million in April, registering in year-on-year terms a growth of 9%. The dynamism displayed during the second half of the month allowed the total M2 to close with an increase between end-of-month balances of 1.3%.

• Time deposits from the private sector showed dissimilar behavior during the month. After a first fortnight in which they maintained the declining trend observed in March, from mid-month onwards a change in behavior was observed. Retail placements halted their declining trend, while wholesale deposits registered a recovery.

• The liquidity of financial entities continued at elevated levels. The sum of cash in banks, current accounts of entities in the BCRA and repurchase agreements (net) with the BCRA represented on average 22.9% of deposits in pesos. Additionally, when incorporating LEBAC and NOBAC holdings by entities, the broad liquidity ratio was 36.3% of deposits in pesos.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed monthly growth of 0.8% ($930 million), driven mainly by financing instruments with documents, personal loans and credit cards.

• Passive interest rates remained relatively stable during April. The monthly average of the BADLAR of private banks stood at 12.8%, while the monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements for amounts less than $100,000 remained at 12.1%.

• During the month a new monetary policy measure was implemented, aimed at preserving credit dynamics. In effect, on April 16, the Central Bank conducted the first auction of fixed-for-variable interest rate swaps (BADLAR private banks) for terms of up to 5 years. This instrument contributes to minimizing the risks of movements in interest rates, by allowing banks to grant loans at fixed rates and for terms longer than those currently observed in the market. At the same time, it acts as a reference for the long-term nominal interest rate term structure. These operations will be executed once per month.

• In general terms, interest rates applied to loans to the private sector remained stable or registered decreases in April. In the most traded segment, corresponding to advances granted by agreement to companies for amounts exceeding $10 million, in the Capital and GBA areas, it reached an average level of 17.2%.

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision
# Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 3

**Graph 2.1**

## 2. Monetary Aggregates

**billions of
$ M2 Total**
(daily value and monthly average)

The average balance of total means of payment in pesos (M2) reached $166,150 million in April, registering year-on-year growth of 9%. The dynamism exhibited during the second half of the month allowed M2 to end April 1.3% above the value registered at the end of March (see Graph 2.1).

The broader aggregate in pesos, M3, presented an advance of 1.1% throughout the month. As for private monetary aggregates, both M2 and private M3 also showed increases of 1.9% and 1.3% respectively.

With respect to total deposits, both those of the public sector and those of the private sector showed increases of 0.3% and 1.2% respectively.

In the on-demand deposits segment, deposits from the private sector showed an advance both considering end-of-month balances (2.3%) and monthly averages (1.4%), reversing the behavior recorded during March (see Graph 2.2). Meanwhile, those corresponding to the public sector decreased in the month by 1.8%.

**Graph 2.2**

**$ thousands of On-Demand Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector**
**millions**

Time deposits from the private sector had dissimilar behavior during the month. After a first fortnight in which they maintained the declining trend observed during March, from mid-month they registered a change in behavior. Retail placements stopped their declining trend, while wholesale deposits recorded a recovery (see Graph 2.3).

In the foreign currency segment, deposits continued to increase, although since early April a decrease in the rate of expansion of private deposits was observed compared to that observed in March.

**Graph 2.3**

**Fixed-Term Deposits from the Private Sector in Pesos**
**(daily value and monthly average)**

## 3. Banking Liquidity¹

The liquidity of financial entities continued at elevated levels. In effect, the sum of cash in banks, the current accounts of entities in the BCRA and the (net) repos with the BCRA represented on average 22.9% of deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1). Additionally, when incorporating the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by the entities, the broad liquidity ratio was 36.3% of deposits in pesos.

**Graph 3.1**

**Banking Liquidity**
**% of deposits CC BCRA Cash**
**Net Repos Lebac and Nobac**

The minimum cash position for April ended with a surplus of 0.7% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2). In particular, private banks showed a surplus of 0.9%, and public banks of 0.3% of deposits.

For its part, the minimum cash position in foreign currency for April accumulated a surplus of 43% of dollar deposits, 3 p.p. higher than the previous month. This occurred in a context of increased foreign currency deposits.

---

**Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 4**

**Graph 3.2**

**% Minimum Cash Position**

## 4. Loans¹ ²

Loans in pesos to the private sector showed growth of 0.8% in April ($930 million), driven mainly by commercial financing, personal loans and credit cards (see Graph 4.1). In year-on-year terms its increase reached 13.2%, moderating its expansion rate by 2.7 p.p.
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position year-on-year with respect to the previous month.

 3.0
 Quarterly Position
 2.5 Credits destined primarily for commercial purposes

 2.0 advanced 1.1% ($440 million), with a year-on-year expansion

 1.5 of 6.5%. Financings instrumented with

 1.0 documents increased 2% ($370 million). Meanwhile, current

 0.5 0.7 account advances increased 0.4% ($70 mi-

 0.0 llion), showing significant dynamism from mid-

 -0.5 month associated with upcoming tax

 -1.0 payment deadlines (see Chart 4.2). Finally, the remaining

 -1.5 commercial financings remained stable in the

 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 period.

 For its part, credits destined primarily for
 consumption showed an increase of 1.3% ($600 mi-
Chart 4.1 llion), showing in year-on-year terms a growth
 of 17.8%. Credit card financings expanded
 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
1.000 24 1.9% ($290 million), partially reversing
 (variation of monthly averages)
 the declines recorded in the previous two-month period.
 800 Apr-09 20 Meanwhile, personal loans increased 1%

 y.o.y. var. (%) - right axis ($310 million), showing since the beginning of the year an
 600 13.2 16
 growing dynamism (see Chart 4.3).
 400 12

 200 8 Loans with real collateral showed during the
 period a decline close to 0.5% ($110 million), recording
 0 4
 in the last 12 months a growth of 17.5%.

 -200 0 Pledge loans declined 1.1% ($80 mi-
 llion), while mortgage loans contracted 0.2%
 ($30 million).
 Commercial Real Collateral Consumption
Source: BCRA (y.o.y. 6.5%) (y.o.y. 17.5%) (y.o.y. 17.8%)

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused
 by transfers of credits in the portfolios of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private
 sector registered in April a reduction of 2.1%
 thousands of
 millions of $ Stock of Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector (u$s 130 million).

 21

 20 It should be noted that during the month the

 19 implementation of a new monetary policy

 18 measure was completed, aimed at preserving credit

 17 dynamics. In effect, on April 16 the Central Bank

 16 conducted the first auction of fixed-to-variable interest

 15 rate swaps (BADLAR private banks) for terms of up to 5

 Advances - Daily Value years. This instrument offers several advantages. On one
 14 Advances - Monthly Average
 Documents - Daily Value hand, it contributes to minimizing the risks of movements
 13 Documents - Monthly Average
 in interest rates, by allowing banks to grant
 12 fixed-rate loans and for terms longer than those currently
 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09
 Source: BCRA observed in the market. At the same time,
 it acts as a reference for the term structure of
 long-term nominal interest rates. These auctions
 will have a monthly frequency.³

Chart 4.3

 millions of $ Consumer Loans %
 1.400 (monthly average variation) 90
 5. Interest Rates

 1.200 80

 1.000 70 Securities issued by the BCRA⁴

 800 60

 600 50 During April, greater placements were registered in the

 400 40 primary market of LEBAC for terms of 2, 3, and 4
 months. It is noteworthy that Letters were awarded for 5
 200 30
 months of term, which had not occurred since October
 0 20 2008. In general terms, the rates of these securities
-200 Personal Loans 10
Credit cards remained stable with respect to the previous month. On
Var. y-o-y Personal (right axis)
-400 Var. y-o-y Credit Cards (right axis) 0 the other hand, the margins paid on the BADLAR rate
Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA for NOBAC evidenced increases. For these
instruments it is necessary to highlight that there were
placements for terms longer than those in March (See
Graph 5.1 Graph 5.1)

Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC With respect to the secondary market, the Central
Bank continued to carry out purchase and sale operations,
% NOBAC% LEBAC
2.5 15.0 completing in the month an expansive net effect of
$ 840 million through this channel.

14.0
2.0 13.0

12.0 Contrary to what happened in March, the total
1.5 placed –considering the operations of the primary
11.0
1 Month 2 Months and secondary markets– was higher than the amount
1.0 10.0
Margin on Badlar-1 year matured generating a contractive monetary effect.
Margin on Badlar-9 Months 9.0 3 Months 4 Months As a consequence, the stock of securities issued by the
Margin on Badlar-2 years

0.5 8.0 BCRA increased, reaching approximately in face value
Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA
$ 35,800 million at the end of the month. The Notes gained

3 It should be mentioned that the financial institutions that participated in this auction committed to increasing medium and long-term loans to productive activity and infrastructure works by at least the capital that was awarded to them during the next quarter.
4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 6 Graph 5.2 6 p.p. of participation in said total, representing 36%
 of the securities in circulation.

millions of $ %Call Market
3,000 25 Interbank Markets

18%

16.00
16
2,500 14.59
14 13.91 13.07 20
Repo Market1

12 11.04 11.30
12.23 11.13
2,000 10 11.79 10.69
10.08

8 15 In April, there was a reduction in the average stock
30-9 31-10 3-12 7-1 6-2 10-3 15-4
1,500 Amount traded between private repo operations (net liabilities-assets) for the BCRA, with
Amount traded remainder a decline in both the stock of passive repos and
Interest rate op. at 1 business day (right axis) 10

1,000 active repos. However, it continued at elevated levels,
given the context of broad banking liquidity.
500 5
The average balance of passive repos showed a
decline of $ 1,300 million and its average monthly
0 0 value reached a level of $ 15,200 million, which
Jan-03 Oct-03 Jul-04 Apr-05 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09
represents 8% of total deposits. For its part, the
average stock of active repos recorded a decline of
$ 440 million.

The interest rates of repos at fixed rates remained
at the same levels observed since October 2008, both
Graph 5.3 for active and passive operations. In this way, the
interest rates of passive repos remained at 10.5%
millions of $ Interbank Loan Market and Liquidity and 11% for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the
(monthly averages) 24 interest rates of active repos of 1 and 7 days were
1,700
1,500 23 placed at 12.5% and 13%, respectively.
22
1,300 21
20 Interbank Market 1
1,100
19
900 18 The average interest rate of the interbank market
showed a slight increase compared to March, of 0.4
700 17
16 p.p., standing at 11.1%. In the segment that concentrates
500 Amount traded in pesos 15 the majority of transactions, that of operations for 1
Liquidity with net repos (% of peso deposits)*
300 14 business day, a similar increase in agreed interest rates
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09
was observed (see Graph 5.2).

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts in the BCRA and net repos for the BCRA
The amounts traded in this market continued at historically low levels. Specifically, during April the average amount traded was $530 million, $100 million more compared to March. The scarce amount of funds traded in the interbank market since mid-2008 continues to be associated with the abundant liquidity of the financial system (see Graph 5.3).

**Graph 5.4**
Interest Rate of Call Operations at 1 Business Day
%
Daily Maximum
28 Daily Minimum
Monthly Average Maximum
23 Monthly Average Minimum

18 19.3 17.1
18.8
13

8

3
Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09

For its part, the deviation of the interest rate of interbank operations at 1 business day increased with respect to March by almost 1 p.p., reaching 3.2%. This increase in dispersion is also observed when considering the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rates agreed each day. In effect, this difference was 17.1 p.p., one of the highest in the last two years (see Graph 5.4). The high dispersion of interest rates would be related to the significant participation that non-bank financial entities (NBFE) continued to show in a market with reduced amounts and with certain segmentation.

**Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.5**

TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
29 (Capital and GBA - Daily Data)

26 Retail Rate bancos privados
BADLAR bancos privados
23
TNA, %
**Passive Interest Rates 1**
13.5
20 Retail Rate bancos privados

13.0 BADLAR bancos privados
Passive interest rates remained relatively stable during April. The monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks to retail placements for amounts less than $100,000

12.5
17
12.0
11.5 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA
remained at 12.1%. For its part, the monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks in the wholesale segment was higher than that of March, mainly due to the slightly upward trend that presented in the previous month since throughout April they remained practically unchanged. In particular, the monthly average of the BADLAR of private banks was located at 12.8%, 0.5 p.p. above the level it presented in March (see Graph 5.5).

14

11

8
Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.6**
% Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector
28 Private Banks - By Type of Depositor

26

24

22

20

18

16

14

12 Private Individuals
10 Other Companies

Financial Services
8
Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA

On the other hand, when analyzing interest rates by type of depositor, an increase was observed in rates paid to companies and rates paid to families remained stable. The average of interest rates paid to companies was located at 12.9%, 0.5 p.p. above the average recorded in March. Meanwhile, the average of interest rates paid to families remained at a level of 12.7% (see Graph 5.6).

**Active Interest Rates 1**

In general terms, interest rates applied to loans to the private sector remained stable or recorded decreases in April. However, in some short-term lines there were slight increases.

Within commercial loans, in the most traded segment, corresponding to advances granted under agreement to companies for amounts greater than $10 million, in Capital and GBA, the interest rate reached an average level of 17.2%. For its part, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of documents at sole signature rose 1 p.p., reaching an average of 20.7% (see Graph 5.7).

**Graph 5.7**
TNA, % Documents
28 (Interest rate monthly average weighted by amount)

26

24

22

20

18
16 Interest rates on personal loans registered
 a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the previous month, reach-
14 ing an average value of 34.1%. This decline was par-

 12 tially explained by operations associated with
 Apr-08 Jun-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09
Source: BCRA ANSES. For its part, interest rates on credit card
 financing corresponding to

5 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information request SISCEN 08 which presents information
until February, the values for March and April were estimated from the daily request SISCEN 18, with daily data
on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 8 Figure 6.1 February remained stable, at an average value

 International Reserves of the BCRA of 29.5%.
 thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time placements)
 millions of US$
 55
 Finally, interest rates on mortgage loans
 50 reached a monthly average of 15.7%, with a

 45 slight reduction of 0.2 p.p., compared to the level observed

 40 in March. It should be noted that this interest rate is

 35 referred only to operations agreed at fixed interest
 rate or renegotiable and does not include those agreed
 30 at variable rate. On the other hand, the interest rate

 25 corresponding to financing with chattel mortgage guarantee

 20 stood at 21.4%, with a monthly decline of
 2.7 p.p..
 15
 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09
 Source: BCRA
 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market6

Figure 6.2 The stock of international reserves reached at the end

 Foreign Exchange Market of April US$ 46,368 million (see Figure 6.1), resulting
 $/US$
 4.00 (US dollar quotation) 0.3% lower than in March. The practically
 
 3.90 +1.1% null variation of the month was the result of a decrease in

 3.80 Daily Quotation foreign currency associated with the payment of obligations in foreign
 Monthly Average currency by the public sector, through the sale

 3.70 of foreign currency by the Central Bank to the General Treasury of the

 3.60 Nation. Additionally, it should be noted that the

 3.50 Central Bank became a net buyer of foreign currency in

 3.40 the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

 3.30

 3.20 With respect to the quotation of the local currency in
 3.10 the foreign exchange market, it should be noted that the peso
 3.00 depreciated against the US Dollar, the Real and the
 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Euro (1.1%, 6.1% and 2.3%, respectively). The
 average quotations were 3.69 $/US$ (see Figure
 6.2) for the case of the US Dollar, 1.67 $/Real and
 4.87 $/Euro.

 Figure 7.1 7. Capital Market
 Performance of World Stock Indices
 135

 125 Stocks

 115

 105 During April the performance of the main stock indices

 95 of the world, grouped by region, according to MSCI was positive and in three of five indices surveyed
 85
 75 MSCI World increases of two digits were registered.

 MSCI Europe Moreover, April was the second consecutive month with positive
 65
 MSCI Japan results, which had not been verified since mid-

 55 MSCI Latam 2007. Specifically, in the month the MSCI of Latin

 S&P 500
 45 America increased 16.4%, Europe 14.8%, the

 35 Global 10.9% and Japan 9.6%. Meanwhile, the S&P 500
 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data North American also yielded a positive result of
 8.6% (see Figure 7.1).

6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 9
The MERVAL index of Argentina was not the exception to the recovery of stock indices, and measured in pesos, it rose 13.3%, ending the month at 1,275 points. In this way, the MERVAL reduced the loss of the last twelve months to 39%, while in what has been accumulated so far in 2009 it has a gain of 18.1%.

**Graph 7.2**
**Traded Volume of Shares**
**millions of $**

**Daily Average Traded**
**First Four-Month Period**
**In millions of pesos**

2003: 24
2004: 61
2005: 71
2006: 78
2007: 68
2008: 105
2009: 35

Regarding the volatility of equity markets, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) was on average 38.1, that is 6.7 points less than during March, and also the lowest value since September of last year. The local stock exchange also registered lower volatility. Specifically, the volatility of the MERVAL, 18 sessions, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 41% during April, 8.2 percentage points less than in March.

The average daily volume traded at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $38 million, a level similar to that of March. However, it was $89 million lower than that recorded in the same month of the previous year. Part of this decline can still be attributed to a price effect, although it was also due to a lower number of operations. The daily average traded in this market in the first four-month period is the lowest since 2003 (see Graph 7.2).

## Public Securities

**Graph 7.3**
**EMBI of Argentina and the Region**
**spreads in basis points**

**EMBI Argentina**
**EMBI Latin America (right axis)**

Just as in March, during April the best performance of the stock markets had its correlation in a public securities market with positive results. Specifically, the EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole decreased by 107 basis points. The spread of Latin American external debt decreased by 106 basis points, that of Argentina by 128 basis points, and that of Brazil by 70 basis points (see Graph 7.3). When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts—which in recent months had a very illiquid market—it was observed that the spread of Argentina's 5-year contracts decreased by 554 basis points.

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) remained at reduced levels, although with an increase compared to March of $57 million, placing it at $593 million. As in the case of shares, there was a decline in the volume traded compared to the same month of the previous year, which in the case of public securities was $1,400 million less.

**Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 10**

## Private Securities

**Graph 7.4**
**Heritage of Common Investment Funds in Pesos**
**thousands of millions of pesos / millions of $**

**(Variation April 09 vs. March 09)**

Fixed income: 8,700,000 / 375 / 14%
Mixed income: 340
Variable income: 305
Money Market: 140 / 270 / 235 / 200 / 165 / 131 / 130 / 95 / 60 / 85 / 25 / -5 / -10

In the private debt market, in April an issuance of negotiable bonds (ON) at a fixed rate by the company Emgasud took place. The placement totaled u$s 13.7 million, at a cut price of 100% of its nominal value and matures in December 2011. The interests of 14% will be paid semi-annually as well as the amortization (20% of the nominal value in each payment).

On the other hand, there was also a placement of short-term debt representative of value in the form of ON by Central Piedra Buena. The total amount reached a nominal value of $21.75 million at a rate of Private Banks BADLAR plus a margin of 4.25%. It will be amortized in three periods, the first of 25% and the remaining 37.5% of the debt capital. This security matures after 240 calendar days from issuance.

Source: BCRA based on Buenos Aires Stock Exchange / Own elaboration based on CAFCI data
Finally, it is worth noting that Transportadora de Gas del Norte reported in the current month a debt restructuring offer to its creditors, providing them with two options. One of them is to offer a new bond at par for up to an amount equal to pending debt. Said obligation will mature in 2021 and is characterized by not being convertible, having an increasing interest rate (between 2% and 6% annually) and paying amortizations and interest semi-annually. The other exchange option is through a cash payment of up to US$ 30 million. In this case, for each dollar of pending debt, US$0.25 in cash will be delivered.

**Chart 7.5 Mutual Investment Funds**

**Amount and Quantity of Placements in millions $**

The equity of mutual investment funds (FCI) issued amount again registered an increase during April, accumulating four months of growth (see Chart 7.4). The increase was observed both in the local and foreign currency segment and was related to the good performance of capital markets, by concentrating in those that invest their funds in fixed income and variable assets.

The FCI in pesos increased 3% reaching an equity exceeding $12,400 million and slightly surpassed the level recorded in September of the previous year. When considering the different types of funds, an increase in the equity of money market was observed, which ended at $8,960 million. Its monthly increase ($85 million) was explained both by an increase in prices and in the quantities of quotashares. On the other hand, the largest increases of the month were evidenced in variable and fixed income funds. Both showed growth of more than 9% compared to the previous month, ending April at $1,560 million and $1,670 million respectively. In the variable income segment, the greater equity was explained by the strong increase in the price of quotashares (11% higher than March), while in the fixed income segment it was due to the increase in quantities.

Meanwhile, FCI in foreign currency again registered an increase (6.6% compared to March). However, they still have not recovered from the decline suffered at the end of the previous year, when the modification of the regulations governing AFJP investments reduced the proportion of the portfolio they could maintain in MERCOSUR funds. During the current month, the only segment that decreased slightly (0.3%) was the fixed-rate dollar term, while mixed and fixed income showed increases of 3.5% and 2% respectively. Variable income FCI in dollars experienced a considerable increase (greater than 11%) in April explained by the higher prices of their quotashares.

**Financial Trusts**

The issues of financial trusts totaled $621 million (see Chart 7.5), 61% less compared to March, the month in which the placed amount had reached a historically high value due to the important placement of a trust linked to the energy sector (MBT). If this particular issue were excluded, a 17% increase in the total securitized would be observed
% April, noting a modest recovery from the
35 Cut-Off Rates of the FF
 (Series A Titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) strong contraction in February. For its part, the quantity

30 of placements increased after several months of

 Fixed rate successive reductions, recording a total of 21 ope-

25 Variable rate rations, 8 more than the previous month.
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks

20 Unlike March, where a certain diversifi-
 cation was observed in the securitized assets, in April the

15 consumer financings constituted practically the to-
 tality of securitized assets, (99% of the total), standing

10 out personal loans over credit card coupons. Together, these assets
 5
 Apr-06 Aug-06 Dec-06 Apr-07 Aug-07 Dec-07 Apr-08 Aug-08 Dec-08 Apr-09 underlying recorded an increase in the amount

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others securitized of 26% compared to the previous month (see Graph
 7.6).

 In line with the growth of FF securitizations
 with consumer financings as underlying assets, the
 mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank issuers of credit cards and retail merchants had an

7 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.
8 It should be recalled that said placement constituted almost 70% of the total placed in March.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 12 important participation (40% and 34% of the total in one and
the other case), as in April 2008. For its part, financial
entities participated with 25% of the total, with a decrease
in the securitized amount of 16% compared to the
previous month.

The cut-off interest rates (weighted average by
amount) of senior titles registered a decline
with respect to March, of lesser magnitude in the case of
titles awarded at variable rate (modality under which the
great majority of operations were agreed). In effect, the
yield of this type of titles was located
at 20.5% (see Graph 7.7), declining only 0.3
p.p. with respect to March, while that of the
fixed rate titles decreased 2.1 p.p., reaching 18%. For its
part, the duration (weighted average by amount) of
the titles with the highest rating was located at 4.9 months.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Principal monetary and financial system variables Apr-09 Monthly Last 12 months Mar-09 Dec-08 Apr-08
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 99,835 101,348 106,439 98,040 -1.5% -2.0% 1.8% -3.8%
 Monetary circulation 76,423 77,190 80,247 72,003 -1.0% -1.5% 6.1% 0.2%
 In the hands of the public 67,784 69,045 70,897 65,645 -1.8% -2.3% 3.3% -2.5%
 In financial entities 8,639 8,144 9,350 6,359 6.1% 5.6% 35.9% 28.3%
 Current account at the BCRA 23,412 24,158 26,192 26,036 -3.1% -3.6% -10.1% -15.1%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 15,178 16,476 10,187 7,703 -7.9% -8.3% 97.0% 86.1%
 Assets 129 568 2,302 0

 Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 11,893 9,592 11,771 32,581 24.0% 23.4% -63.5% -65.5%

 NOBAC 23,365 25,845 28,389 24,547 -9.6% -10.0% -4.8% -10.1%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 46,268 46,934 46,198 50,327 -1.4% -8.1%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 196,222 197,695 197,276 191,876 -0.7% -1.2% 2.3% -3.4%
 Current account (2) 61,108 61,697 64,946 50,132 -1.0% -1.4% 21.9% 15.1%
 Savings account 37,254 36,690 37,358 36,671 1.5% 1.0% 1.6% -4.1%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 86,833 88,574 82,623 91,420 -2.0% -2.5% -5.0% -10.3%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 140 160 322 1,390 -12.2% -12.6% -89.9% -90.5%
 Other deposits (3) 10,885 10,573 12,028 12,264 2.9% 2.4% -11.2% -16.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 137,032 137,245 135,454 139,711 -0.2% -0.7% -1.9% -7.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 59,190 60,449 61,822 52,165 -2.1% -2.6% 13.5% 7.1%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11,154 10,554 9,346 7,920 5.7% 40.8%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 118,970 117,995 119,039 107,797 0.8% 0.3% 10.4% 4.2%

Loans to the private sector 109,385 108,610 108,135 96,611 0.7% 0.2% 13.2% 6.9%
Advances 16,733 16,664 15,735 15,427 0.4% -0.1% 8.5% 2.4%
Documents 19,518 19,141 19,516 18,990 2.0% 1.5% 2.8% -2.9%
Mortgage loans 18,130 18,162 17,931 15,102 -0.2% -0.7% 20.1% 13.4%
Secured loans 7,121 7,204 7,609 6,389 -1.2% -1.6% 11.5% 5.2%
Personal loans 27,869 27,653 27,668 24,085 0.8% 0.3% 15.7% 9.3%
Credit cards 14,916 14,686 14,712 12,224 1.6% 1.1% 22.0% 15.2%
Others 5,098 5,100 4,964 4,395 0.0% -0.5% 16.0% 9.5%

Loans to the public sector 9,585 9,385 10,904 11,186 2.1% 1.6% -14.3% -19.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,934 6,066 5,973 5,505 -2.2% 7.8%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 128,892 130,743 135,843 115,776 -1.4% -1.9% 11.3% 5.1%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 166,147 167,433 173,200 152,447 -0.8% -1.3% 9.0% 2.9%
M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 264,006 266,740 268,173 257,520 -1.0% -1.5% 2.5% -3.2%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 305,189 305,303 300,187 282,599 0.0% -0.5% 8.0% 2.0%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (currency in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 106,338 106,802 109,263 104,156 -0.4% -0.9% 2.1% -3.6%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 140,031 140,260 143,005 137,669 -0.2% -0.7% 1.7% -4.0%
M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 204,816 206,290 206,351 205,356 -0.7% -1.2% -0.3% -5.8%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 238,656 238,392 233,507 227,423 0.1% -0.4% 4.9% -0.9%

Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 14 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -1,512 -1.5% -5,286 -5.3% -6,604 -6.6% 1,795 1.8%
Financial sector 947 0.9% -1,758 -1.8% -7,020 -7.0% -7,198 -7.2%
Public sector -15 0.0% -3,096 -3.1% -4,822 -4.8% -10,592 -10.6%
Private external sector -3,649 -3.7% -6,852 -6.9% -3,437 -3.4% -16,709 -16.7%
BCRA Securities 681 0.7% 4,553 4.6% 6,550 6.6% 26,224 26.3%
Others 524 0.5% 1,867 1.9% 2,125 2.1% 10,071 10.1%

International reserves -665 -1.4% -521 -1.1% 70 0.2% -4,059 -8.8%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -988 -2.1% -1,862 -4.0% -868 -1.9% -4,930 -10.7%
Payment to international organizations -53 -0.1% -269 -0.6% -236 -0.5% -541 -1.2%
Other public sector operations 296 0.6% 1,205 2.6% 218 0.5% 625 1.4%
Minimum cash 277 0.6% 233 0.5% 468 1.0% 638 1.4%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 43 0.1% 412 0.9% 728 1.6% 388 0.8%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN recorded.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 15 Interest rates in percentage per annum nominal and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 11.11 10.72 10.89 14.04 7.98
Amount traded 530 410 419 574 820

Fixed-term deposits
In pesos
30 days 11.84 11.66 11.69 15.76 8.12
60 days or more 12.94 12.96 12.48 17.41 9.07
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.05 11.71 11.54 16.59 8.10
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.75 12.26 11.98 19.07 8.71
In dollars
 30 days 1.23 1.38 1.46 1.68 1.22
 60 days or more 1.81 2.17 2.24 2.48 2.04
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.21 1.48 1.65 1.50 1.68
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.97 2.27 2.38 2.86 2.89

 Active Interest Rates Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

 Prime in pesos at 30 days 20.26 20.42 21.99 27.76 11.59

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.29 12.66 11.45 15.75 8.04
 Amount traded (total terms) 133 120 191 122 135

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 22.75 22.63 24.03 27.72 18.07
 Unsecured notes 20.67 19.65 21.79 25.94 14.59
 Mortgages 15.74 15.88 15.28 16.23 11.65
 Collateralized loans 21.36 24.09 22.61 21.07 15.23
 Personal loans 34.09 35.06 36.66 35.45 28.65
 Credit cards n/a 29.44 29.52 29.04 26.15

 International Interest Rates Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.45 0.53 0.46 1.02 2.79
 6 months 1.65 1.83 1.76 2.14 2.85

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.91 0.92 0.96 0.81 2.04
 10 years 2.90 2.81 2.86 2.38 3.65

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.24

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.14 11.75 12.75 13.75 11.49

 (1) Data through February correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for March and April are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.00
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 8.25
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 10.25

Total REPO trading session rates
 1 day 10.58 10.52 10.51 10.53 7.89
 7 days 11.12 11.15 11.21 12.56 8.31

Amount traded in REPO trading session (daily average) 8,934 7,687 7,662 5,580 4,376

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 12.48 n/o
 2 months 13.95 n/o 12.75 12.18 n/o
 3 months 14.13 13.91 12.89 12.50 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.19
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.47

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.31 1.24 1.27 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.60 1.40 n/o 1.75 0.98
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.80 n/o n/o n/o 2.44
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 143 134 86 130 521

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.69 3.65 3.52 3.42 3.17
 BCRA Reference 3.69 3.65 3.51 3.42 3.17

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.75 3.75 3.60 3.60 3.18
 ROFEX 1 month 3.70 3.66 3.52 3.44 3.17
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 711 831 537 458 751

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.67 1.58 1.51 1.43 1.88

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.87 4.76 4.50 4.64 4.99

 Capital Market Apr-09 Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Apr-08

MERVAL
 Index 1,218 1,045 1,075 1,055 2,138
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 48 46 42 42 152

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 54.67 54.00 57.91 52.32 86.72
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 29.67 29.13 35.35 34.97 84.78
 BODEN 2014 ($) 29.15 27.28 26.98 23.83 69.25
 DISCOUNT ($) 26.50 24.92 32.10 29.72 63.57

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 4,681 4,594 3,730 3,439 897
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 578 656 669 713 291

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 17 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AFJP: Administrators of Pension and Retirement Funds.
ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds.
FGS: Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S.A.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | April 2009 | BCRA | 18
