# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2009 Monthly Monetary Report
May 2009

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 6 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 6 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repo Market
Page 7 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 8 | Active Interest Rates
Page 9 | Interest Rate Swaps

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Shares
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closure of this report was on May 11, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary 1
• Monetary aggregates experienced increases again in May. The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $168,840 million, registering a monthly increase of 1.5%, while the broad aggregate in pesos (M3) showed an increase of 1.5%, one of the highest values in the last twelve months.

• The greater dynamism observed in the demand for money was verified in both the private sector and public sector aggregates. Circulating currency in the hands of the public increased 1.3% and, in a month of strong tax payment deadlines where companies typically reduce their investments in order to meet their tax obligations, private deposits showed an increase of 0.5%, while those belonging to the public sector grew 4.1%.

• The Central Bank injected liquid resources into the market to consolidate its normal functioning, using for this purpose the arsenal of counter-cyclical instruments that it had been developing in recent years. In May, the monetary expansion carried out by the BCRA was close to $3,000 million, with its main components being the only partial renewal at maturity of LEBACs and NOBACs and other open market operations, together with net foreign currency purchases made during the month.

• Banking liquidity remained high during May, at levels similar to the previous month. The liquidity ratio measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current accounts of entities at the BCRA and repos (net) with the BCRA in terms of peso deposits remained on average at 23%, and considering, in addition, the holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs by financial entities, the ratio reached 36.5%.

• In this context, passive interest rates remained stable. The monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000, remained at 12%, while the monthly average of interest rates paid by private banks in the wholesale segment up to 35 days maturity (BADLAR) was at 12.8%, with no variations compared to the April average. However, short-term active interest rates did register declines again, which has allowed a gradual but persistent reduction in banking spreads.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a monthly average growth in May of 0.8% ($860 million), driven by advances in current accounts, personal loans and credit card financing, observing greater dynamism of private banking compared to previous months (they represented around 65% of the increase in total balance).

• In order to provide hedging instruments to preserve credit dynamics, the Central Bank conducted the second auction of fixed-for-variable interest rate swaps (BADLAR private banks) for terms of 3 to 5 years. On this occasion, the proposals received ($280 million notional) practically doubled the total amount auctioned ($150 million notional), and $50 million were awarded. This instrument helps minimize risks from movements in interest rates, by allowing banks to grant loans at fixed rates and for terms longer than those currently observed in the market. At the same time, it acts as a reference for the temporal structure of long-term nominal interest rates.

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates
In May, the monetary aggregates showed increases again. The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $168,840 million, increasing 1.5% during the month (see Graph 2.1) and registering a 9% increase on an annual basis. Said growth was driven by advances in both currency in the hands of the public (1.3%) and sight deposits (1.7%).

Graph 2.1
Monetary Aggregates
(average monthly variation - May 2009)

Foreign Currency Deposits
Other Deposits
Public Sector M3*
Private Sector 2%
Time Deposits
M3
1.5%
Sight Deposits M2
1.5%
Bills and Coins

011223
thousands of millions of $

Source: BCRA

The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered a growth of 1.5% in May, one of the highest values in the last 12 months. In the same sense, private M2 showed an increase of 1%, while private M3 evidenced an advance of 0.8%.

In the context of greater dynamism in money demand, the BCRA injected liquid resources into the market to consolidate its normal functioning, using for this purpose the arsenal of counter-cyclical instruments that it had been developing in recent years. In May, the monetary expansion carried out by the BCRA was close to $3,000 million, its main components being the only partial renewal at maturity of LEBAC and NOBAC and other open market operations, together with the net foreign currency purchases made during the month.

With respect to total deposits, they advanced 1.6% in May. In a month of strong tax payment deadlines where companies usually reduce their placements in order to meet their tax obligations, private deposits showed an increase of only 0.5%, while those belonging to the public sector grew 4.1%.

In the sight deposit segment, public sector deposits grew 4.5%. Meanwhile, those corresponding to the private sector showed an advance of 0.7%.

Time deposits advanced 1.2% in May, driven by deposits corresponding to the public sector that grew 3.6%. For its part, private sector placements remained at levels similar to those in April, showing reductions in the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) that were offset by expansions in the wholesale segment (see Graph 2.2), despite being, as mentioned previously, a month of strong tax payment deadlines where they usually decline.

Graph 2.2
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos
(daily value and average monthly value)

thousands of millions of $ / thousands of millions of $

More than $1 million
Less than $1 million (right axis)

Jan-09  Feb-09  Mar-09  Apr-09  May-09

Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, the total deposits increased 3.9% in May, driven by both the private and public sectors. With respect to the public sector, at the end of May the establishment of a time deposit of u$s100 million by ANSES was registered, intended to finance the granting of housing credits. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in the hands of the public and the total deposits in pesos and foreign currency, advanced 2% in May showing an expansion of 9.7% in the last year.

**3. Bank Liquidity¹**

Graph 3.1
Bank Liquidity in Pesos

% of deposits / % of deposits

Cash + CC BCRA                    36.5
Cash + CC BCRA + Net Repos
Cash + CC BCRA + Net Repos + Lebac     23.0
                                 15.9

The liquidity of the entities remained elevated during
15 28 May, at similar levels compared to the previous month. The li-
 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09
 Source: BCRA quidity ratio measured as the sum of cash in banks,
 current accounts of entities at the BCRA and repos
 Chart 3.2 (net) with the BCRA in terms of minimum cash
 % of Position cash deposits in pesos remained, on average, at 23%

 deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position (see Chart 3.1). Incorporating the holdings of LEBAC

 3.0
 Quarterly Position and NOBAC by entities, liquidity increased
 2.5
 slightly (0.2 p.p.), representing 36.5% of deposits in
 2.0 pesos.

 1.5

 1.0 The minimum cash position had more stable behavior

 0.5 throughout May in relation to other months, ending with

 0.0 a surplus of 0.5% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart

 -0.5 3.2). Both private and public banks registered a surplus

 -1.0 of 0.7% and 0.3% of deposits respectively.

 -1.5
 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09

 Source: BCRA

 For its part, in a context of increased foreign currency
 deposits, the minimum cash surplus in foreign currency
Chart 4.1 in May was 1 p.p. higher than that recorded in April,
 representing 44% of dollar deposits.
 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 1,000 (var. of monthly averages) 24

 800 May-09 20 4. Loans

 y.o.y. var. (%) - right axis 12

 600 16
 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in May a

 400 10 12 growth in its monthly average of 0.8% ($860 million),
 driven by overdrafts in current accounts, personal loans
 200 8
 and credit card financing (see Chart 4.1), with greater

 0 4 dynamism observed in private banking compared to
 previous months (they represented around 65% of the
 -200 0 increase in total balance).

 Commercial Real Guarantee Consumption
 Source: BCRA (y.o.y. 4%) (y.o.y. 14.2%) (y.o.y. 14.1%)

 2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 5 Credits destined mainly for commercial purposes advanced 1.3% ($530 million), with year-over-year expansion of 4%. Financing instruments with documents decreased 0.7% ($150 million), following the strong dynamism observed in the previous quarter. Meanwhile, overdrafts in current accounts increased 4.2% ($700 million), evolving in line with their seasonal pattern associated with the period of tax payment deadlines (see Chart 4.2).

Chart 4.2

millions of $ Overdrafts in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 1,000 (var. monthly average and y.o.y.) 50 4. On the other hand, credits destined mainly for

 800 45 consumption presented in May an increase of 1% ($440
 million), showing in year-over-year terms a growth of
 600 40 14.1%. Credit card financing expanded 1.4% ($200
 million), continuing with the dynamism of the previous
 400 35
 two months. Meanwhile, personal loans increased 0.8%
 200 30 ($240 million), growth mainly explained by the positive
 0 25 statistical carryover from April (see Chart 4.3). It is
 -200 20 worth noting that the fund auctions carried out by ANSES
 -400 15 destined for this type of loan were a determining factor
 Monthly Var. 10 in the evolution of this line.
 -600
 Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) 5 Loans with real guarantee presented in the period a
 -800
 decline close to 0.5% ($120 million), although they
 -1,000 0
 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 registered growth in the last 12 months of

Chart 4.3

thousands of Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector millions of $ (daily value and monthly average)
 28.6
28.4 Daily value 14.2%. Pledge loans fell back 1.2% ($90

28.2 Monthly average million), while mortgage loans contracted

28.0 0.2% ($30 million). With respect to the latter, it is

27.8 expected that the new housing credit line from the

27.6 Mortgage Bank, financed with ANSES funds, will grant

27.4 renewed dynamism to these financings.

27.2

27.0 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private

01-Jan 16-Jan 31-Jan 15-Feb 02-Mar 17-Mar 01-Apr 16-Apr 01-May 16-May 31-May sector recorded in May an increase of 2.1%

Source: BCRA (u$s120 million) associated with the greater dynamism shown by

Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates
Interest Rate of the Primary Market and Margins over Badlar

% LEBAC - TNA % NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR
16.6 3.5
Titles issued by the BCRA3
16.2 3.0

15.8
2.5 During May, the interest rates in the primary market

15.4 of LEBAC and NOBAC registered a slight increase

15 2.0 compared to the previous month, while the amounts

14.6 1.5 placed were lower in both cases (see Graph 5.1). On

14.2 the other hand, the average terms for said instruments

1.0
13.8 19/05/2009 19/05/2009 were higher in comparison with April. It is worth noting

21/04/2009 0.5 21/04/2009 that letters with maturity of 1 year were placed again, a

13.4 fact that had not occurred since September 2008.

13 0.0
60 120 180 240 300150 350 550 750 950
Source: BCRA

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 6 Contrary to what happened in April, the total placed
of these instruments was lower than the amount of
maturities, resulting in an expansive monetary effect.

In the secondary market the BCRA continued to carry out
sales operations, resulting in a contractive effect of
$60 million.

As a consequence of the above described, the stock of
titles issued by the BCRA decreased slightly (0.2%),
ending May at VN$35,710 million. As in previous
months, LEBAC continues to gain participation, reaching
Graphic 5.2 38% of the total titles issued by this Central Bank (2 p.p.

Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder above the April percentage).

thousands of
millions $ Taking into account the breakdown by holder, it is

30 Stock May vs April observed that banks slightly increased their holdings

(data as of May 29) millions $ compared to the previous month, exceeding VN$27.9
350
25 thousand million pesos (see Graph 5.2). With respect
BANKS 250 to the rest of the holders (Insurance Companies, ANSES,
REMAINDER 27.9 150 FCIs, Foreign Investors, among the most important), a
27.7 245
15 50 decrease in their stock of nearly 4% was recorded
compared to the previous month.
-50
10
-150 -313 Interfinancial Markets

5 8.1 7.8 Market for Overnight Deposits (Pases)1

-250
0 -350
Source: BCRAApr-09 May-09 In May there was an increase in the average stock of
net overnight deposits (liabilities-assets) for the BCRA, with
an increase in the stock of passive overnight deposits and
a decrease in active overnight deposits. In this way, the
stock of net overnight deposits continued at elevated
levels, consistent with the context of ample banking
Graph 5.3 liquidity. The average balance of passive overnight

millions of $ Call Operations % deposits increased $1,100 million and its average

1,600 (monthly averages) 35 monthly value reached a level of $16,300 million,

Monto op. at other terms (up to 15 running days) equivalent to 8% of total deposits in pesos. For its

1,400 Monto op. at 7 running days 30 part, the average stock of active overnight deposits

Monto op. at 1 business day registered a decrease of $90 million, being its average

1,200 Interest rate of op. at 7 days 25 level $37 million.
Interest rate of op. at 1 day

1,000
20

800
15 The interest rates for fixed-rate repos remained at the same levels observed since October 2008, both for active and passive operations. The interest rates for passive repos remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates for active repos of 1 and 7 days were positioned at 12.5% and 13%, respectively.

Interbank Market 1

In May, the interest rates of the interbank market remained relatively stable, with an average level of 11%. The average of said rate for operations at 1 business day decreased, although by a small margin, closing May at 10.8%, 0.14 p.p. less than during April (see Graph 5.3).

The amounts traded in this market continued at historically low levels ($532.8 million), almost without changes with respect to the previous month. For its part, the deviation of the interest rate for interbank operations at 1 business day remained elevated, at 3.2%, although without changes with respect to April (see Graph 5.4).

With regard to the distribution of the interbank market by type of entity, during May non-banking financial entities (EFNB) continued being the main net providers of funding. Public entities continued being net providers, although again by a reduced amount with respect to what they habitually lend in this market. Finally, foreign banking and domestic private banking were, in that order, the main demanders of market funding.

Passive Interest Rates 1

During May, the passive interest rates also remained stable. The monthly average of the interest rates paid by private banks to retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000 remained at 12%. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rates paid by private banks in the wholesale tier up to 35 days maturity (BADLAR) was positioned at 12.8%, without registering changes with respect to the April average (see Graph 5.5).

On the other hand, the analysis of interest rates by type of depositor shows that, although they remained stable, those paid to natural persons were positioned slightly below those paid to legal entities. The average of the interest rates paid to companies was positioned at 12.9%. Meanwhile, the average of the interest rates paid to families remained at a level of 12.6% (see Graph 5.6).

Active Interest Rates 1 4

The active interest rates presented disparate behavior in May. The interest rates for short-term loans to the private sector registered decreases, while most of the active interest rates

---

4 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until March, the values of April and May were estimated based on the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.
Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 8 medium and long-term paths presented slight increases.

Within commercial loans, in the most traded segment, corresponding to advances granted to companies for amounts exceeding $10 million, in Capital and GBA, the interest rate reached an average level of 16.3%, 0.5 percentage points below the average of the previous month. In the same direction, the interest rate of the most traded segment of discounted documents corresponding to companies, for a term of up to 90 days, also in Capital and GBA, fell 0.6 percentage points, standing at an average of 17.1%.

The recent evolution of interest rates has allowed for a gradual but persistent reduction in bank spreads. During the last stress episode, a transitory increase in interest rates has been evidenced. However, when analyzing the relative dynamics of the main lines, both active and passive, it can be seen that although interest rates have been reduced with respect to the maximum reached, the decrease in passive interest rates occurred at a faster rate than in active ones, initially raising the spreads between them. However, once passive rates stabilized, active rates continued to decline slowly, gradually reducing spreads (see Graph 5.7).

Interest rates on personal loans registered an increase of 0.7 percentage points compared to the previous month, reaching an average value of 34.4%. However, it is noted that this increase is more related to the relatively low level of April rates, influenced by operations with ANSES funds. For its part, the interest rates on financing with credit cards corresponding to March increased slightly, reaching an average value of 29.6%.

Finally, the interest rates on mortgage loans reached a monthly average of 15.9%, with a slight increase of 0.2 percentage points compared to the level observed in April. It should be mentioned that this interest rate refers only to operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable interest rates and does not include those agreed at variable rates. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financing with pledge guarantee stood at 23%, with a monthly decline of 0.3 percentage points.

## Interest Rate Swaps

In order to promote the development of a liquid and deep interest rate swap market, aimed at providing hedging instruments to preserve credit dynamics, the Central Bank conducted the second auction of fixed-for-variable interest rate swaps (BADLAR private banks) for terms of 3 to 5 years.

On this occasion, the proposals received ($280 million notional) practically doubled the total amount auctioned ($150 million notional), with $50 million being awarded (see Graph 5.8). The volume of auctions since operations began reached $150 million notional.

Unlike the first auction, where the total awarded was concentrated in the longer terms (4 and 5
35 years), this time allocations were made in all the 
 bidding tranches. In effect, $20 million was allocated at
 30 3 years at a fixed rate of 15%, $15 million at 4 years at
 25 a rate of 15.75% and the remaining $15 million at 5 years

 20 at 16.5%. These last two allocations were made

 15 with rates higher than those in April, by 1.25 p.p. and 1.5 p.p.,
 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09respectively.
 Source: BCRA

 Likewise, in the Electronic Open Market (MAE), $95
 million in notional amounts were traded in May
 between private parties, although with a shorter term than the BCRA
 auctions (1 year), compared to $30 million the previous month.
 The fixed rate (weighted average by amount) agreed in
 May reached 16.7%, 0.3 p.p. above the
Chart 6.2 average in April.

 Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotations) 6. International Reserves and
 $/Euro
 $/Real $/u$s
 5.2 2.3 3.9
 5.1 $/Euro 2.2 Foreign Exchange Market5
 $/u$s (Reference)
 5.0 $/Real, right axis 2.1 3.7

 4.9 2.0 3.6
 4.8 1.9 3.5
 4.7 1.8 3.4 The stock of international reserves reached at the end of
 4.6 1.7 3.3 May u$s46,545 million (see Chart 6.1), resulting in

 4.5 1.6 3.2 u$s178 million higher than the previous month. Among the

 4.4 1.5 3.1 main explanatory factors can be mentioned the
 4.3 1.4 3.0 role of the BCRA in the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange
 4.2 1.3 2.9 Market (MULC), which generated an increase in the stock of

 4.1 1.2 2.8 reserves, having acted as a net buyer of

 4.0 1.1 2.7 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09foreign exchange, while the cancellation of obligations in
 Source: BCRA foreign currency by the public sector and the fall
 in minimum cash accounts neutralized part
 of the aforementioned increase, acting as contractionary
 factors.

 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated 0.8%
 against the U.S. Dollar (see Chart 6.2).
 It also devalued, although to a greater extent, against
 the Real and the Euro (4.6% and 8% respectively). The

 5 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 10 average quotations were for these currencies 3.72
 $/u$s, 1.81 $/Real and 5.09 $/€.
 7. Capital Markets

 Equities

 In May the performance of the main stock indices
 Chart 7.1 of the world, grouped by region according to the
 MSCI, was positive and again in three of five relevant
 indices surveyed there were increases of two
 digits; with special emphasis on the improvement of the Latin America index. Specifically, during May the MSCI
 of Latin America increased 20.4%, that of Europe

 10.2%, that of Japan also 10.2%, that of the World 8.6%,
 while the North American S&P 500 also showed
 a positive result of 1.9% (see Chart 7.1).

 MSCI World
 MSCI Europe
 MSCI Japan In this context, another indicator that would be showing
 MSCI Latam the lower stress in international capital
 S&P 500 markets, specifically in the U.S. interbank
 market, is the spread between LIBOR (for dollar loans at
 1 month) and the OIS rate (overnight index

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. swap). This spread is a measure of risk expectations, both counterparty
 and liquidity, which
 began to increase in August 2007 with the beginning of
 the subprime crisis and reached a peak in October 2008.
 At the end of May the one-month differential between these rates
 was 0.13 p.p., the lowest since January 2008 (see Chart
 7.2).

 Chart 7.2 Within the stock indices of the world, Argentina's
 MERVAL index was one of those with the greatest recovery,

 Indicator of stress in the U.S. interbank market rising 24.5% measured in pesos, ending
# Translation to English

## Libor - OIS Spread ending the month at 1.587 points. In this way, the MER-VAL reduced the loss of the last twelve months to

**Libor in US$ at 1 month OIS**

28%, while in what has accumulated so far in 2009 is close to 50% gain.

Regarding the volatility of stock markets, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) was on average in May of 32%, this is 6.1 p.p. less than during April, being again the lowest value since September of last year. The volatility of the local stock exchange was also reduced. Specifically, the historical volatility of the MERVAL, 18 trading days, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 37.6% during May, 3.4 p.p. less than in April.

At the local level, the volume traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange during May was $54 million, which represents an increase of $16 million compared to April. However, it continues being lower than a year ago by $36 million (see Chart 7.3).

## Public Securities

As in March and April, the better performance of the stock markets also had its counterpart in the public securities market during May. Specifically, in this month the EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole was reduced by 70 b.p.. The spread of external debt in Latin America was reduced by 63 b.p., that of Argentina by 475 b.p., and that of Brazil by 61 b.p. (see Chart 7.4). When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts - which in recent months had a very illiquid market - it was observed that the spread of Argentina's 5-year contracts decreased by 626 b.p. and the spread of Brazil's CDS at the same term did the same by 82 b.p..

It should be noted that the good performance of local public debt securities was influenced, not only by the better performance of financial assets at the international level, but also by an improvement in the perception of payment capacity and expectations for the bidding for the early payment of the next service of the BODEN 2012.

The volume of public securities traded (on a daily average basis) remained at reduced levels, although with an increase compared to April of $119 million when it stood at $730 million. As in the case of shares, there was a fall in the volume traded compared to the same month of the previous year, which in the case of public securities said fall was of $1,253 million.

## Private Securities

Regarding the private debt market, three issues of negotiable obligations (ON) were registered. One of them corresponds to Mercedes-Benz Financial Company, which placed an amount of $90.9 million with a term of one year. Interest will be paid quarterly and the agreed rate is the BADLAR of Private Banks plus a margin of 5.5%.

A second ON placement, carried out by Edenor, was for a total of $75.7 million with a four-year term. It will pay quarterly interest at a Private BADLAR rate plus a margin of 6.75%. Amortizations will be made through 13 payments until the maturity date of the ON.

Finally, Ovoport Internacional S.A. has placed an ON Pyme in May for an amount of US$1.8 million at a fixed rate of 17% and with maturity within 3 [months/years - text appears cut off]
# Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 12 years. Interest will be paid semi-annually and amortizations will be made in four periods (18, 24, 30 and 36 months).

## Mutual Investment Funds

During May, the net worth of mutual investment funds (FCI) registered a decrease of 4.6% concentrated in the local currency segment.

The FCI in pesos ended the month at $11,660 million, reducing its net worth by 6.2% compared to the previous month. The only segment that showed a marked decrease was the money market. These ended the month with an amount of $7,796 million, 13% lower than April. The decline began in the last days of the month and is explained, in part, by the withdrawal of ANSES resources. Thus, these funds suffered a loss of more than 5 p.p. of representation in the total of FCI in pesos. It is worth noting that although the net worth of money market funds is at the lowest level so far in 2009, it is still higher than that recorded in May 2008.

**Chart 7.5**
*Net worth of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos (Variation May 09 vs. April 09)*
[Chart showing thousands of millions of $ with categories: Fixed income, Mixed income, Variable income, Money Market]

The rest of the segments of FCI in pesos experienced significant increases although they were unable to reverse the total decline. On one hand, those of variable income, thanks to higher prices, ended the month with a net worth of $1,762 million (13% higher than April). These funds gained 2.6 p.p. of participation, explaining 15% of the total funds in local currency. A similar behavior was shown by fixed income funds, closing their net worth at $1,822 million (9% higher than April) and coming to represent 15.6% of FCI in pesos. In this latter case, although higher price levels were observed, the increase was mainly due to larger quantities of fund shares. Finally, the mixed income segment registered an increase of 13.7%, ending with an amount of $281 million at the end of May.

With respect to FCI in foreign currency, a considerable increase (11%) was evident compared to April. However, they have still not recovered from the decline suffered at the end of the previous year, standing at a value markedly lower than that obtained in May 2008 (73% drop in net worth). Analyzing the structure by type of fund, it is observed that the segments of variable income, fixed and mixed in dollars showed increases in their net worth of 14%, 8% and 7% respectively. For the case of fixed income, the increase is explained mainly by larger quantities of fund shares, while in the other cases the increase in the price of the same takes priority.

Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 13

## Financial Trusts

**Chart 7.6**
*Financial Trusts*
*millions $ (amount issued and year-on-year variation) %*
[Chart showing issued amount and year-on-year variation with annual average amount]

The placements of financial trusts (FF) experienced a sharp contraction in May, showing, so far this year, great disparity in the monthly evolution of the amounts placed, in contrast to what was observed during the first five months of 2008. FF were placed for an amount of $196 million through 5 placements (see Chart 7.6), being the lowest amount of the last four years, with a decline of 68% compared to the previous month and 72% compared to the same month of the previous year.
0 -100% However, this decline would be transitory and would be
 Jan-06 Jun-06 Nov-06 Apr-07 Sep-07 Feb-08 Jul-08 Dec-08 May-09
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others mainly related to a greater requirement by
 the CNV when authorizing the issuance of FF in
 public offering, following what happened with Bonesi last
 Chart 7.7 month7. This fact was formalized towards the end of the month with the
 adoption of a new regulation aimed at protecting
 Underlying Assets of FF investors, through which the requirements are tightened for
 (amounts issued)
 which FF contracts must comply. On the other
 April May hand, it is possible that the Bonesi case has affected
 Commercial Credits investor confidence in the instrument, although it will
 1% Credit Card Coupons be necessary to wait to assess its true impact.
 Credit Card Coupons
 13% 16%

 Similarly to the previous month, during May the
 only securitized assets were those linked to
 consumption, of which 84% corresponded to personal
 loans and 16% to credit card coupons (see
 Personal Loans
 Personal Loans 84% Chart 7.7), with a decline in securitized amounts
 86%
 of 69% and 61% with respect to April, in each case. In
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others
 comparison with the same month of the previous year,
 securitizations of credit card coupons doubled, while
 those of personal loans fell 71%.
 Chart 7.8 The decline in total issued during the month was
millones $ Fiduciaries explained, mainly, by lower
 (amounts issued) securitizations by mutual associations, cooperatives
 and non-bank credit card issuers and retail
 800 Unregulated Financial Institution commerce, which reduced the amount of assets
 600 Retail Commerce securitized with respect to April by 87% and 71%,
 Financial Entities respectively (see Chart 7.8). For their part, financial
 400 entities recorded a decline of smaller magnitude
 (-33% with respect to the previous month), thus
 200 concentrating more than half of the amount placed in
 the month. Meanwhile, retail commerce was responsible
 0 -33% for 31% of the issuances, and mutual associations,
 cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers for 16%
-200 -71% of the remainder.
 -400 -87%
 April May Variation
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

6 Only financial trusts in public offering are considered.
7 It should be noted that the Bonesi home appliance company filed for creditor protection in mid-April, at the same time
that it diverted resources from the collection of credits underlying the FF.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 14 Chart 7.9 The cut-off interest rates (weighted average by
 amount) of the senior securities were located at levels
35 % FF Cut-Off Rates lower than those of April. In the case of securities
 (Class A Securities in pesos - monthly weighted averages by amount) agreed at fixed rate, the decrease with respect to the
 previous month was 0.6 p.p. while that of those
30 Fixed rate awarded at variable rate was 3 p.p., reaching
 17.3% and 17.5%, respectively (see Chart 7.9). In
25 Variable rate turn, the BADLAR rate for private banks remained
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks practically stable, with the spread with respect to
 said rate around 4.5 p.p. For their part, the duration -
20 weighted average by amount- of the senior securities
 issued during the month was located at 4.9 months.
15

10

 5
 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system variables May-09 Monthly Last 12 months Apr-09 Dec-08 May-08
 Nominal Real Nominal Real
# MONETARY REPORT - MAY 2009 - CENTRAL BANK OF ARGENTINA

Monetary base 100.741 99.835 106.439 98.787 0.9% 0.6% 2.0% -3.5%
 Monetary circulation 76.859 76.423 80.247 72.722 0.6% 0.2% 5.7% 0.0%
 In the hands of the public 68.645 67.777 70.897 66.152 1.3% 0.9% 3.8% -1.8%
 In financial entities 8.214 8.646 9.350 6.571 -5.0% -5.3% 25.0% 18.3%
 Current account at the BCRA 23.881 23.412 26.192 26.065 2.0% 1.7% -8.4% -13.3%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 16.262 15.178 10.187 6.242 7.1% 6.8% 160.5% 146.6%
 Assets 37 129 2.302 119

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 13.116 11.893 11.771 32.773 10.3% 9.9% -60.0% -62.1%

 NOBAC 22.437 23.365 28.389 22.331 -4.0% -4.3% 0.5% -4.9%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 46.556 46.268 46.198 49.422 0.6% -5.8%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 199.469 196.310 197.274 192.287 1.6% 1.3% 3.7% -1.8%
 Current account (2) 62.751 61.237 64.944 52.602 2.5% 2.1% 19.3% 12.9%
 Savings account 37.440 37.261 37.358 36.177 0.5% 0.1% 3.5% -2.1%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 87.973 86.875 82.623 89.992 1.3% 0.9% -2.2% -7.5%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 120 141 322 1.137 -14.6% -14.9% -89.4% -90.0%
 Other deposits (3) 11.185 10.797 12.028 12.378 3.6% 3.3% -9.6% -14.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 137.644 136.942 135.455 137.926 0.5% 0.2% -0.2% -5.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 61.825 59.368 61.819 54.361 4.1% 3.8% 13.7% 7.6%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11.586 11.155 9.346 8.064 3.9% 43.7%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 120.744 118.955 119.040 111.172 1.5% 1.2% 8.6% 2.8%

 Loans to the private sector 110.113 109.378 108.136 100.052 0.7% 0.3% 10.1% 4.2%
 Advances 17.429 16.733 15.735 16.195 4.2% 3.8% 7.6% 1.9%
 Documents 19.377 19.520 19.517 19.515 -0.7% -1.1% -0.7% -6.0%
 Mortgage loans 18.101 18.130 17.931 15.386 -0.2% -0.5% 17.6% 11.3%
 Pledge loans 7.032 7.122 7.610 6.625 -1.3% -1.6% 6.1% 0.5%
 Personal loans 27.984 27.867 27.668 25.142 0.4% 0.1% 11.3% 5.3%
 Credit cards 15.121 14.916 14.712 12.628 1.4% 1.0% 19.7% 13.3%
 Others 5.068 5.090 4.963 4.560 -0.4% -0.8% 11.1% 5.2%

 Loans to the public sector 10.631 9.576 10.904 11.121 11.0% 10.7% -4.4% -9.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.057 5.934 5.973 5.674 2.1% 6.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 131.396 129.014 135.841 118.754 1.8% 1.5% 10.6% 4.7%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 168.836 166.275 173.198 154.931 1.5% 1.2% 9.0% 3.1%
 M3 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 268.114 264.088 268.171 258.439 1.5% 1.2% 3.7% -1.8%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 311.293 305.274 300.185 283.857 2.0% 1.6% 9.7% 3.8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 107.798 106.222 109.263 104.954 1.5% 1.1% 2.7% -2.8%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 141.296 139.922 143.005 137.657 1.0% 0.6% 2.6% -2.9%
 M3 (currency in circulation in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 206.289 204.719 206.352 204.078 0.8% 0.4% 1.1% -4.3%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 241.155 238.550 233.507 226.554 1.1% 0.8% 6.4% 0.7%

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 905 0.9% -1.999 -2.0% -5.698 -5.7% 1.954 1.9%
 Financial sector -1.105 -1.1% -1.575 -1.6% -8.125 -8.1% -9.874 -9.8%
 Public sector -815 -0.8% -1.551 -1.5% -5.637 -5.6% -11.047 -11.0%
 Private external sector 2.442 2.4% -4.740 -4.7% -995 -1.0% -11.138 -11.1%
 BCRA securities 147 0.1% 4.189 4.2% 6.697 6.6% 23.947 23.8%
 Others 237 0.2% 1.678 1.7% 2.362 2.3% 10.065 10.0%
International reserves 288 0.6% -502 -1.1% 358 0.8% -2,866 -6.2%
 Foreign exchange market intervention 598 1.3% -1,361 -2.9% -270 -0.6% -3,347 -7.2%
 Payment to international organizations -49 -0.1% -256 -0.5% -285 -0.6% -470 -1.0%
 Other public sector operations -117 -0.3% 1,029 2.2% 101 0.2% 149 0.3%
 Minimum cash -232 -0.5% -43 -0.1% 237 0.5% 575 1.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -12 0.0% 270 0.6% 716 1.5% 342 0.7%

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month regarding which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 11.01 11.10 10.72 14.05 10.06
 Amount traded 533 533 411 573 1,223

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11.80 11.84 11.66 15.76 10.06
 60 days or more 13.49 12.94 12.96 17.41 11.38
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.05 12.05 11.71 16.59 10.82
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.82 12.75 12.26 19.07 13.22

 In dollars
 30 days 1.00 1.23 1.38 1.68 1.37
 60 days or more 1.61 1.81 2.17 2.48 2.03
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.09 1.21 1.48 1.50 1.55
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.49 1.97 2.27 2.86 2.87

 Active Interest Rates May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08

Prime in pesos at 30 days 20.23 20.26 20.42 27.76 15.88

Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.84 12.29 12.66 15.75 10.98
 Amount traded (total terms) 235 133 120 122 143

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 23.28 23.74 24.18 27.72 20.41
 Documents with sole signature 21.63 21.79 20.83 25.94 17.30
 Mortgage loans 15.92 15.63 15.84 16.23 11.97
 Secured loans 23.04 23.29 25.43 21.07 15.72
 Personal loans 34.42 33.70 35.03 35.45 28.65
 Credit cards n/d 29.55 29.44 29.04 26.23

 International Interest Rates May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.34 0.45 0.53 1.02 2.50
 6 months 1.36 1.65 1.83 2.14 2.85

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.92 0.91 0.92 0.81 2.43
 10 years 3.30 2.90 2.81 2.38 3.88

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.25 11.14 11.75 13.75 11.75

(1) Data up to March corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for April and May are estimations made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.54
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 8.79
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 11.00

Total trading floor repo rates
 1 day 10.51 10.58 10.52 10.53 9.00
 7 days 11.10 11.12 11.15 12.56 9.74

Amount traded in repos trading floor REPO (daily average) 9,261 8,934 7,687 5,580 4,729

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 12.48 n/o
 2 months n/o 13.95 n/o 12.18 n/o
 3 months 14.50 14.13 13.91 12.50 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.19
 12 months 16.25 n/o n/o n/o 11.60

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.20 1.31 1.24 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.65 1.60 1.40 1.75 1.25
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.25 1.80 n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 177 143 134 130 408

 Foreign Exchange Market May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08
## Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.73 3.69 3.65 3.42 3.16
 BCRA Reference 3.72 3.69 3.65 3.42 3.15

## Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.78 3.75 3.75 3.60 3.18
 ROFEX 1 month 3.73 3.70 3.66 3.44 3.15
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 652 711 831 458 631

## Real (Pesos x Real) 1.81 1.67 1.58 1.43 1.90

## Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.09 4.87 4.76 4.64 4.91

 Capital Market May-09 Apr-09 Mar-09 Dec-08 May-08

## MERVAL
 Index 1,498 1,218 1,045 1,055 2,165
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 69 48 46 42 104

## Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 61.70 54.67 54.00 52.32 88.42
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 38.62 29.67 29.13 34.97 84.15
 BODEN 2014 ($) 30.00 29.15 27.28 23.83 63.55
 DISCOUNT ($) 29.98 26.50 24.92 29.72 56.89

## Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 3,879 4,681 4,594 3,439 786
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 509 578 656 713 267

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 19. Glossary

**AFJP:** Pension and Retirement Fund Administrators.
**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration
**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
**BODEN:** National State Bond.
**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**USA:** United States of America.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash.
**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
**FCI:** Common Investment Funds.
**FGS:** Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
**FED:** Federal Reserve of the USA.
**FF:** Financial Trusts.
**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.
**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.
**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.
**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.
**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.
**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.
**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.
**OCT:** Term Negotiated Operations.
**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.
**PG:** Guaranteed Loans.
**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.
**PM:** Monetary Program.
**SMEs:** Small and Medium Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.
**SELIC:** Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
**SIPA:** Argentine Integrated Pension System.
**SISCEN:** Centralized Information Requirements System.
**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.
**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.
**VIX:** Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
**VN:** Nominal Value.

 Monetary Report | May 2009 | BCRA | 20
