# Monthly Monetary Report
February of 2009 Monthly Monetary Report
February of 2009

Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 11 | Securities
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monthly Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on March 11, 2009. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | February of 2009 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $171,700 million in February, showing a decline driven basically by the behavior of public deposits, since private M2 evolved according to its seasonal pattern.

• The demand for money from the private sector continued showing good performance. Currency in circulation held by the public increased 0.1% in seasonally adjusted terms. For its part, private deposits in pesos increased 1.8%. Among these placements, fixed-term deposits stood out, which accumulated an increase of 4.8%, with advances in both the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) and the wholesale segment.

• Banks continued maintaining high levels of liquid resources. The ratio of the most immediate liquidity in pesos (which includes cash, the current account at the BCRA and net repurchase agreements at this Institution, as a percentage of total deposits) stood at 22.1%, 0.4 percentage points above that recorded in January. Meanwhile, when considering LEBAC and NOBAC holdings by entities, the ratio was also higher than the previous month (37.1%). The quarterly minimum cash position in pesos ended with a surplus of 0.6% of total deposits.

• The minimum cash position in foreign currency ended the month with a surplus of 42% of deposits in dollars. With the objective of facilitating the allocation of these surplus resources toward credit destined for the export sector, at the beginning of March the BCRA approved a new operational procedure, by which it will begin to conduct auctions for access to repurchase agreements in foreign currency. The banks that are awarded in the auctions, against payment of the premium resulting from each auction, will have the right ("option") to receive from the BCRA a repurchase agreement in dollars with a prefixed rate (the same will be set at the time of each auction), insofar as they have increased their loans in foreign currency and registered declines in dollar deposits.

• Within the framework of the ample liquidity that continued to prevail, passive interest rates continued to decline. The BADLAR rate for private banks was reduced 1.2 percentage points, reaching a value of 11.8% at the end of February. Meanwhile, the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements, amounts less than $100,000, reached a level of 12.1%, with a decrease of 1.3 percentage points compared to the last data from January.
• Active interest rates also showed a decrease, in particular, in the shorter-term lines. The interest rate charged for overdrafts in current accounts fell 3.5 p.p. in the month, standing at an average monthly level of 22.6%. In the most traded segment, corresponding to advances granted by agreement to companies for amounts exceeding ten million pesos, in Capital and GBA, reached an average level of 17.5%, with a decline compared to January of 3 p.p. On the other hand, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents fell 3 p.p., standing at an average of 20.7%. Meanwhile, the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector remained practically stable during the month.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates

Monetary Aggregates
(average monthly variation - February 2009)

The average balance of total means of payment (M2)

Deposits in US$ Public Sector

Private Sector showed a decline greater than expected in February,

Other Deposits driven by the behavior of public sector deposits

M3* (see Chart 2.1). In effect, the M2 averaged

-0.1% $171,700 million decreasing 3.7% while

Time Deposits the decline of private M2 was only 1.2%. Currency in

M3 circulation followed its seasonal pattern and

-0.6% increased 0.1% in seasonally adjusted terms.

Sight Deposits

M2 Among the main factors that explained the

-3.6% monthly contraction of M2 are the operations of the

Banknotes and Coins public sector, highlighting within these the increase

in their time placements and foreign currency

-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 purchases. Likewise, another factor that contributed
thousand million $ to the decline in means of payment was the increase

Source: BCRA in time deposits of the private sector. These contractionary effects were partially offset by net foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank and the decrease in the stock of

Chart 2.2 LEBACs and NOBACs of the non-financial private sector (see

thousand Factors Explaining M2 Chart 2.2).

million $
(February 2009, in average)
2
Regarding the rest of the monetary aggregates, in
1 February, M3, which includes currency in circulation

0 and peso deposits of the public and private sectors,

-1 registered a contraction of 0.6%, while private M3

-2 registered a growth of 0.5%.

-3

-4

-5 With regard to the total of deposits, those belonging

-6 to the private sector advanced 1.8%, while those

-7 corresponding to the public sector presented a

Net Foreign Sector LEBAC and Time Dep. Other M2
Currency* Public NOBAC Deposits and Others
Purchases Sector Private Excl.
Banks NOBAC decrease of 4.3%.

*Includes Central Bank intervention and Treasury purchases

Source: BCRA In the segment of sight placements, deposits of the

public sector showed a decline of 15.2%, related, in

part, to the purchase of foreign currency to meet its

future payments in foreign currency. Meanwhile, sight

deposits belonging to the private sector remained

practically stable in the period presenting a decrease

Chart 2.3 of 0.5%.

thousand Deposits at Fixed Term of the Private Sector in Pesos thousand

million $ million $

33 39 For their part, time deposits advanced 6.2%, with

32 38 increases in both sectors. Private placements

31 37 expanded 4.8%, with growth in both the retail

30 36 segment (placements of up to $1 million) and the

29 35 wholesale segment (see Chart 2.3). For their part, time

28 34 deposits of the public sector grew 9%.

27 33

26 32 Again, it is important to note that during the last—
25 More than $1 million (adjusted by AFJP) 31 This month ANSES continued with its process of periodic increases in fixed-term deposits using resources from the

24 Less than $1 million (right axis) 30 Sustainability Guarantee Fund of the Integrated Argentine

23 29 Social Security System (FGS). It should be recalled that

Jun-08 Jul-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 the objective of said auctions is to provide funding to entities for the granting of loans. During the month, a new fixed-term bid was held for $150 million.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 4

Graph 3.1 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits increased in February by 2.7%, explained mainly by deposits from the private sector. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in the hands of the public and the total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, remained stable, showing in year-on-year terms a growth of 10.2%.

% of Banking Liquidity in Pesos % of deposits deposits

30 43

27 37.1 40 Taking into account its possible impact on the future evolution of fixed-term deposits, it should be mentioned that within the framework of Law 26,476, which among other points deals with capital repatriation, the BCRA issued

24 37

21 34 two communications, A 4,916 and A 4,917, which regulate

22.1 the mechanism for the entry of funds from said operation. In this sense, it established the obligation to constitute a fixed-term deposit for a period of two years with the funds entered. Said fixed-term deposit may be prepaid provided that the destination of the resources is the subscription of public securities issued by the national State, the purchase in the country of new homes, as well as the construction of new real estate, completion of works in progress, financing of infrastructure works, real estate, agricultural and livestock, industrial, tourism or service investments. Additionally, it provided that transfers from abroad must correspond to holdings as of December 31, 2007 of: external assets in banking entities, financial or others under the supervision of Central Banks and/or Securities Commissions, or of other assets acquired before the established date whose sale would have given rise to holdings of external assets in any of the aforementioned entities.

18 31

15 28

Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09

Daily series (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos/Dep)
Monthly average (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos/Dep)
Daily series (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos+Lebacs/Dep) - right axis

Source: BCRA Monthly average (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos+Lebacs/Dep) - right axis

3. Banking Liquidity¹

Graph 3.2

Minimum Cash Position

% of The liquidity ratio of financial entities remained elevated during February. - the sum of cash in banks, the current accounts of banks at the BCRA and repos (net) represented on average 22.1% of deposits in pesos in February (see Graph 3.1), 0.4 p.p. above that recorded in January. Meanwhile, when considering holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, the ratio was also higher than in the previous month (37.1% compared to 36.6% in January).

deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position

3.0

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5 0.6

0.0

-0.5

-1.0

-1.5

Bimonthly Position Quarterly Position

Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09

Source: BCRA The quarterly position of minimum cash for December 2008 - February 2009 ended with a surplus of 0.6% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2). Both private and public banks exhibited a surplus of 0.9% and 0.3% of deposits, respectively.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 5
The position of minimum cash in foreign currency concluded the month with a surplus of 42% of dollar deposits², a level similar to that of the previous month. This result occurred with an increase in the granting of loans in this currency that did not exceed the increase in deposits in this denomination. It is worth noting that at the beginning of March, the Central Bank enabled an instrument designed mainly to promote credits to the export sector in the context of high surplus of foreign exchange liquidity mentioned (see Loans Section).

## 4. Loans¹³

Partially influenced by seasonal factors related to summer recess, loans in pesos to the private sector remained practically stable in February, registering a variation in their monthly average of -0.1% ($140 million), presenting in year-on-year terms a growth of 17.2% (see Graph 4.1). Despite factors associated with the calendar, the depth of the international crisis and its inevitable impact on the domestic economy generate increasing uncertainty among local economic agents, motivating prudential behaviors that would be reflected in a decrease in both the supply and demand for credit.

Loans with predominantly commercial purposes showed an advance of 0.1% ($70 million) in the month, presenting dissimilar behaviors among their lines. Financings instrumented with documents fell back 2.1% ($390 million), as did the remaining commercial financings that fell 1.3% ($60 million). Meanwhile, current account advances advanced 3.3% ($520 million), continuing with the dynamism displayed since the beginning of the year (see Graph 4.2).

For their part, financings intended mainly for consumption decreased 0.4% ($180 million) in February. Credits with credit cards presented a reduction of 2.3% ($350 million), while personal loans increased 0.6% ($170 million).

Loans with real guarantee presented a slight fall of 0.1% ($20 million). Pledge credits fell back 0.9% ($70 million), with the constitution of a financial trust being registered at the end of February for an amount of $100 million. Meanwhile, mortgage loans rose 0.3% ($50 million).

As mentioned in Section 2., during February ANSES held a new auction of fixed-term deposits, within the framework of the series of auctions it has been conducting aimed at providing funding to financial entities for the granting of loans. On this occasion, funds were granted in local currency whose purpose is to finance consumption.

For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private sector reversed its behavior of recent months

---

**Footnotes:**

² The position of minimum cash in dollars includes the default of application of the lending capacity in foreign currency that financial entities verify in a given period, which increases the minimum cash requirement of that period.

³ Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
-150 months, registering an advance of 2.4% (US$140 million). This increase was explained fundamentally by financings with documents (see Chart 4.3), which advanced 1.9% in the month (US$90 million).

It is worth noting that at the beginning of March, the BCRA approved a new operating procedure, through which it will begin to conduct auctions for access to repos in foreign currency. Through this measure, it seeks to direct the high excess dollar resources (see Section 3) in banks towards loans to the export sector. Banks that are awarded in the auctions, against payment of the premium that results from each auction, will have the right ("option") to receive from the BCRA a repo in dollars with fixed rate (which will be set at the time of each auction), to the extent that the requesting entity has increased its loans in foreign currency and registers a drop in dollar deposits.

5. Interest Rates

Securities Issued by the BCRA⁴

Margin over BADLAR

During February, the rates in the primary market of LEBAC were slightly higher with respect to the previous month. As in January, there were allocations for two and three month terms, with placements being added during February at four and seven months. In turn, the amounts allocated were higher in comparison to the previous month.

With respect to NOBAC, the placements made in the month were carried out mainly at nine months of term and with an average margin of 1.3 points over the BADLAR rate of private banks (see Chart 5.1).

Contrary to what happened the previous month, the total placed was lower than the matured amount, yielding an expansionary monetary effect.

February 27 vs. January 30

On the other hand, the BCRA continued conducting purchases and sales in the secondary market. Repurchases were for a smaller amount than the previous month and were payable in pesos. In this month, the sales carried out were higher than the value purchased, although they had only a net contractionary effect of $10 million.

As a consequence of what was described, the stock of securities issued by the BCRA reversed the increase experienced in January, placing itself at VN $36,500 million. Of this value, 76.4% was made up of Notes, which decreased their share in the total securities by 2.2 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

When analyzing the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by type of holder, it is observed that banks registered a decline in their portfolio but continued explaining more than 75% of the outstanding stock. These holders had approximately 60% of the total BCRA notes. The rest of the holders (Insurance Companies, FCI, Foreign Investors, among the most important) did not present significant variations during the month, declining together only 2% (see Chart 5.2).

Interfinancial Markets

Repo Market¹

Call Market

In February, the context of ample banking liquidity generated an increase in the stock of net repos (liabilities-assets) for the BCRA, with an increase in the stock of passive repos and a reduction in the stock of active repos.
Rate at 1 d. (right axis) 25
 2,500 In effect, the average balance of passive repos showed
 Rate at 7 d. (right axis)
 2,000 20 a slight increase of $200 million and its monthly average
 1,500 value reached a level of $15,995 million 5. For its
 15 part, the average stock of active repos registered a
 1,000
 10 decline of $1,070 million.
 500
 0 5 The interest rates of fixed-rate repos remained at
 May-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Dec-08the same levels as in January, both for active and
 Source: BCRA
 passive operations. In this way, the interest rates of
 passive repos remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1 and 7
 days, respectively, while the interest rates of
 
 5 This amount was distributed among all the modalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO round, overnight operations and investment funds).

 Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.4 active repos at 1 and 7 days were placed at 12.5% and 13%,
 respectively.
 Interbank Market
 % (Participation of Public Banking and amount granted) millions of $
 45 Amount Granted Public Bank - right 600
 Interbank Market 1
 40 axis
 Participation of Public Bank in total 500
 35 The interest rates in the interbank market continued
 operated
 30 400 the downward trend that had begun
 
 25 since December, according to the abundant liquidity that
 300
 20 continued to prevail in the local market. The average in-
 
 15 200 terest rate for interbank loans was 10.9% in February,
 10 1.2 p.p. less than in January, with the amounts operated
 100 that continued at historically low levels -$471 million
 5
 average in February-.
 0 0
 01-Jul 13-Aug 25-Sep 10-Nov 23-Dec 05-Feb
 In particular, the average interest rate for interbank
 loans for operations at 1 business day was reduced by
 0.5 p.p. with respect to January, closing at 10.4%.
 For its part, although it is a little significant market -
 in terms of the amount operated- the rate for interbank
 operations at 7 days was reduced by 5 p.p. (see Chart 5.3).

 Chart 5.5
 TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days For its part, after having reached at the end of 2008 the
29 (Capital and GBA - Daily Data) maximum of the last five years, the dispersion of the in-
26 terest rate of interbank operations continued decreas-
 Retail private banks ing in February. In this regard, the deviation of interest
23 BADLAR private banks rates was reduced in this month to 2.3%.
20
 In turn, for the second consecutive month, non-bank
17 financial entities (NBFE) were not only net providers of
14 funds in the interbank market, which is unusual, but for
 the first time since January 2006 they were the main
11 providers, above public banking. Although public enti-
 8 ties, as is customary, continued to be net providers, they
 Jun-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 did so by a significantly reduced amount, which is
Source: BCRA reflected in their participation in this market (see Chart 5.4).

 Passive Interest Rates 1

 Chart 5.6

 Spread between Short-Term Passive Interest Rates During February the passive interest rates continued
 with the downward trend that began at the beginning of
 51 business days 25 business days 33 business days the year, within a comfortable position of minimum cash
TNA,% 11 Jan-22 Mar 18 Jan - 2 Mar 15 Jan- of entities, and of greater placements at fixed terms.
27 2009 However, the decline observed during the month was
24 -4.8 p.p. significantly less than that recorded during January.
21 BADLAR < FT h.$100,000 2008 The BADLAR private banks rate was reduced by 1.2 p.p.,
18 BADLAR -4.6 reaching a value of 11.8% at the end of the month, while
15 FT h.$100,000 the decline recorded in January had reached 6.8 p.p.
12 2007 -2.2 (see Chart 5.5). For its part, a decrease was also
9 2006 -1.3 observed
6 2005 -0.9
3 a decline in the interest rates paid by private banks for retail placements, amounts less than $100,000. In this last segment, interest rates reached a level of 12.1%, with a decrease of 1.3 percentage points compared to the last data from January. It should be noted that during the entire month, the spread between the interest rates of the wholesale and retail segments was negative, reaching values of up to 1 percentage point. This phenomenon would be associated with the comfortable liquidity situation of the entities, which would have a certain seasonal character (see

Graph 5.7)

TNA, % Commercial Loans
(Interest rate average monthly weighted by amount)

30
28
26
24
22
20
18
Advances
16 Documents
14
12

Feb-08 Apr-08 Jun-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09
Source: BCRA

By finally analyzing interest rates by type of depositor, a decline was observed both in natural persons and legal entities, highlighting the one recorded for interest rates paid to the former, which were located at 12.6%, 1.3 percentage points below the level recorded at the end of January. Meanwhile, interest rates paid to legal entities fell 0.5 percentage points reaching a value of 12.5%.

Active Interest Rates 1 6

During February, active interest rates registered declines, highlighting those experienced by strata of short-term placements, in line with the reduction shown by passive interest rates since last month. In turn, declines in interest rates for medium and long-term lines were also observed.

Graph 6.1

International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of (gold, foreign currency and
millions of US$ term placements)
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08
Source: BCRA

The interest rate for advances in current account fell 3.5 percentage points in the month, placing itself at an average monthly level of 22.6% (see Graph 5.7). In the most operated segment corresponding to advances granted by agreement to companies for amounts exceeding ten million pesos, in Capital and GBA, reached an average level of 17.5%, with a decrease from January of 3 percentage points. For its part, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents fell 3 percentage points placing itself at an average of 20.7%.

Interest rates on loans related to consumption remained relatively stable. In this sense, the one corresponding to personal loans did not register changes compared to the previous month, maintaining an average value of 36.6%, while interest rates for credit card financing corresponding to January increased 0.4 percentage points, reaching an average value of 29.4%.

Finally, interest rates on mortgage loans reached a monthly average of 14%, with a reduction of 2.5 percentage points compared to the level observed in Janu-

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information until November 2008, the values of December 2008 and January 2009 were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 10 ary. It should be mentioned that this interest rate refers only to operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable interest rates and does not include those agreed at variable rates. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to financing with pledge guarantee was located at 21.2%, with a monthly decrease of 1.7 percentage points.

Graph 6.2

Foreign Exchange Market
(average quotations)
$/Euro
$/Real $/US$
5.0 2.4 3.8
4.9 2.3 3.7
$/Euro $/US$ (Reference)
4.8 2.2 3.6
$/Real, right axis
4.7 2.1 3.5

6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market7
4,6 2,0 | 3,4 The stock of international reserves reached u$s47.025
4,5 1,9 | 3,3 million at the end of February, remaining stable
4,4 1,8 | 3,2 compared to the previous month (see Chart 6.1). Among the
4,3 1,7 | 3,1 factors that affected international reserves
4,2 1,6 | 3,0 the role of the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange
4,1 1,5 | 2,9 Market (MULC) can be mentioned, which was a net seller,
4,0 1,4 | 2,8 although for a reduced amount. Additionally,
Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 minimum cash accounts in foreign currency
Source: BCRA contracted, while public sector operations involved
 inflows of reserves.

 In the foreign exchange market, during February the peso
 continued to depreciate against the US dollar and against
 the real (1.4% and 0.9%, respectively). The average
 quotations were 3.51 $/u$s (see Chart 6.2) for the US
 Dollar and 1.51 $/real for the Real. On the contrary, with
 respect to the Euro the peso appreciated 1.9%, with the
 average quotation being 4.5 $/Euro.

 7. Capital Market

 Chart 7.1 Equities

 Volatility (%) Volatility of Equity Markets Volatility (%) Throughout February the historical volatility of the majority
 22 days 22 days
 MERVAL (Argentina) of stock market indices decreased slightly (Chart 7.1).
 115 IPC (Mexico) 92
 105 BOVESPA (Brazil) Specifically, the expected volatility of the main American
 Shanghai Index (China) 82 market index -the S&P- increased slightly, especially in
 95 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis)
 85 72 the last days of February and its monthly average was 45.6%,
 75 62 continuing at historically high levels. As for the local stock
 65 52
 55 exchange, a scenario with lower volatility was also
 42 registered. Specifically, the volatility of the MERVAL -
 45
 32 18 18-day wheels- in annualized terms and measured in dollars
 35
 25 22 was 37% in February, 8 p.p. less than in January.
 15 12
 5 2
 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. Stock indices by region according to MSCI continued
 with negative performance in February. The MSCI global
 lost 10.5%, Japan's 12.4%, Europe's 11.8%, and Latin
 America's 5.2% (Chart 7.2).
 The last twelve months showed the following result:

7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 11 the MSCI for Europe lost 56.9%, followed by Latin
 America (56.1%), the global (48.4%), and Japan (41%).
 It should be noted that in the same period the North
 American S&P 500 also showed a loss, which amounted to
 44.8%.

 Chart 7.2 In Argentina, during February, the MERVAL index –
 Performance of Stock Indices of the World measured in pesos– resumed the negative trend after having
135
 remained almost unchanged in January. Specifically, it
125 lost 5.4% closing at 1,019 points. In the last twelve
115 months the MERVAL accumulated a loss of 53%, while so
105 far in 2009 the accumulated decline is 5.6%.
 95

 85 The average volume traded daily on the Buenos Aires
 75 MSCI World Stock Exchange during February was
 65 MSCI Europe $34 million, slightly above January. However, it should be
 MSCI Japan noted the sharp decline in the traded amount when
 55 MSCI Latam
 S&P 500 compared to February 2008, when it had been $75 million
 45
 higher.
 35
 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. Public Securities
In the public securities market, the high risk aversion that has been observed since September continued. Specifically, the EMBI+ which measures the spreads of emerging countries increased by 17 basis points. In particular, the spread of Latin America's external debt decreased by 3 basis points and Argentina's increased by 232 basis points (Chart 7.3). Meanwhile, the spread of Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts increased by 310 basis points.

Chart 7.3 It should be noted that at the end of the month the "international tranche" of the Guaranteed Loans (PG) swap closed

EMBI of Argentina and the Region with foreign holders. This operation allowed the

spreads exchange of PG for a bond or promissory note with maturity in the

in basis points year 2014 with full amortization at maturity (January

1900 2014). Like the securities delivered in the

1600 EMBI Argentina local tranche, interest will be payable quarter-

EMBI Latin America (right axis) ly, at a rate equivalent to BADLAR plus 275 basis points,

1300 except for services that mature in the first year

1000 whose interest rate will be 15.4%.

700

400 The volume of public securities traded (on average

daily) in February continued at the reduced values that

100 have been observed during recent months, although with a

Jun-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 slight increase compared to January, of $40 million, being the daily average traded of $457 million. Like in the case of shares, compared to a year earlier the amount traded decreased significantly.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 12 Chart 7.4 Private Securities

thousands of Assets of Investment Funds Common in Pesos

millions $ With respect to the private debt market, in February

20 Millions of $ a bond issuance was recorded. It corresponded to Em-

18 Fixed income 250 (variation February 09 vs. January 09) gasud SA, which

16 Mixed income placed a security for a total amount of u$s 101.6 million

14 Variable income 180 at a cut price of 100% of par value. The fixed rate

12 Money Market 120 is 14% nominal annual and its maturity is in December

10 110 2011. It will amortize in 5 consecutive equal semi-annual

8 40 83 installments (20% of its par value) and will pay interest

6 semi-annually.

4 -30 -64

2

0

Jan-04 Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 -100 Investment Funds Common

Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data

During February, the assets of investment funds common (FCI) experienced slight growth compared to the previous month. The increase was explained by the growth of the pesos segment, which ended the month with a total of $11,425 million, 1.3% higher compared to January.

Chart 7.5 With respect to the structure by type of fund in local

Millions Assets of Investment Funds Common in Dollars currency, the greatest decrease (4.8%) was presented in the

1,800 variable income segment. This fact was due solely

1,600 Money Market to lower share prices, which showed, like last month, a

1,400 Fixed Income negative return of 5%. Thus, they ended February at

1,200 Mixed Income $1,250 million, losing 0.7 percentage points of representation

Variable Income in the total of FCI in pesos. In this way, they accumu-

1,000 lated a decrease of 10% so far in 2009, placing themselves

- 81% at one of their lowest values in recent years.

800

600

400

200

0

Feb-03 Aug-03 Feb-04 Aug-04 Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 On the other hand, the money market segment increased 1% compared to January, reaching an amount of $8,400 million. Despite the increase, caused both by the higher level of prices and by the number of share units, this segment lost participation (0.2 percentage points) in the total of FCI in pesos, representing 73.6%.
Finally, the mixed and fixed income segments also experienced increases. The most notable was the fixed income segment with a rise of 8.5% compared to last month, ending February at $1,530 million. This fact caused an increase in the representation of this segment in the total of FCIs in pesos (See Chart 7.4).

Regarding FCIs in foreign currency, which represent only 9% of the total FCIs, they registered a decline of 3%, reaching an approximate amount of $1,200 million at the end of February. The decrease was observed in all types of funds, with variable and mixed income funds suffering the largest declines (8% and 4% respectively). In the first segment mentioned, the decline was recorded due to lower quantities of shares and a sharp fall in their prices. In contrast, in the second type of fund, the decline was explained solely by the fall in prices.

The funds in dollars registered in February 2009 the lowest value in recent years, accumulating a decline of 81% from its maximum level reached in February 2008 (see Chart 7.5).

Financial trust fund emissions totaled $448 million in February (see Chart 7.6), showing a sharp decline both compared to the previous month and to the same month of last year (-40% and -37%, respectively). However, this decline was not related to the lower quantity of placements but to the subscription of trust fund securities with relatively low nominal values. In this sense, a total of 19 emissions were registered in the month, only 2 fewer than the previous month and 6 more than in February 2008. As a consequence of the above, the average amount per placement decreased compared to the previous month, standing at $24 million.

During February, greater variety of securitized assets was noted. In effect, those linked to consumption (credit card coupons and personal loans) represented 67% of the total (see Chart 7.7), losing relevance both in relation to the previous month and to the same month of last year. This was due to the greater participation of other types of assets, especially pledge loans, which constituted 26% of the assets held in trust. The remainder corresponded to commercial loans (4%) and future cash flows (3%), both related to agricultural activity.

Financial entities had a prominent participation in the role of trust fund settlors despite having registered a decline in the securitized amount of 10%, being responsible for 35% of the placements (see Chart 7.8). For their part, mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and retail merchants represented 29% and 28% of the securitizations, respectively. It should be noted that, if
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others. Although all types of securitizers showed a decline in securitized amounts, retail trade registered the largest decline (-63% compared to January), thus being the only ones that lost participation compared to the previous month.

8 Only financial trusts of public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 14 Chart 7.9 Following the sharp downward adjustment of last month, the interest rates of the senior titles continued to decline, in line with the behavior of interest rates in the money market (see Chart 7.9).

35 % Cut-off Rates of the FF
 (Titles A in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) declining, in line with the behavior of the

30 interest rates in the money market (see Chart 7.9).
 Fixed rate In effect, the cut-off rate of the senior titles
25 Variable rate
 BADLAR Rate Private Banks (average weighted by amount) arranged at variable rate
20 was located at 19.9%, 1.4 p.p. below the average of last month, while that of the titles
15 awarded at fixed rate reached 18.5%, decreasing 2.7
10 p.p. compared to January. For its part, the weighted
average duration of senior titles was located at 5.1 months,
 5 1.6 months below that of the previous month.
 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others

The holdings of titles issued by FF by financial entities ended February at $5,900 million, which represented only 1.8% of the total assets of the financial system9, the same as in January. Said amount resulted slightly higher compared to that of the previous month, despite the decrease in the amount placed of FF that took place this month.

9 Corresponding to the total assets netted based on the latest balance sheet information of financial entities, dated January 2009.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Feb-09 Monthly Last 12 MonthsJan-09Dec-08Feb-08
 NominalRealNominalReal

 Monetary Base 102,740 105,121 106,439 95,281 -2.3% -2.7% 7.8% 1.0%
 Money Circulation 79,053 80,919 80,247 70,976 -2.3% -2.7% 11.4% 4.3%
 In public hands 70,929 72,302 70,897 64,753 -1.9% -2.3% 9.5% 2.6%
 In financial entities 8,124 8,617 9,350 6,223 -5.7% -6.1% 30.5% 22.3%
 Current account at the BCRA 23,687 24,202 26,192 24,305 -2.1% -2.5% -2.5% -8.7%

 Stock of Repo Operations
 Liabilities 15,995 15,795 10,187 10,424 1.3% 0.8% 53.4% 43.7%
 Assets 1,552 2,621 2,302 10

 Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repo operations)
 In pesos 8,161 9,291 11,771 25,746 -12.2% -12.5% -68.3% -70.3%

 NOBAC 30,189 29,269 28,389 28,943 3.1% 2.7% 4.3% -2.3%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) 47,058 46,789 46,198 48,407 0.6% -2.8%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 199,047 199,306 197,281 187,859 -0.1% -0.6% 6.0% -0.8%
 Current account (2) 63,247 68,116 64,949 49,682 -7.1% -7.5% 27.3% 19.2%
 Savings account 37,529 37,936 37,358 37,464 -1.1% -1.5% 0.2% -6.2%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 87,446 82,274 82,626 87,368 6.3% 5.8% 0.1% -6.3%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 147 237 320 1,644 -38.0% -38.3% -91.1% -91.6%
 Other deposits (3) 10,679 10,743 12,028 11,700 -0.6% -1.0% -8.7% -14.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 139,299 136,866 135,460 136,007 1.8% 1.3% 2.4% -4.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 59,748 62,440 61,821 51,852 -4.3% -4.7% 15.2% 7.9%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9,900 9,643 9,346 7,558 2.7% 31.0%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 117,391 119,125 119,038 103,394 -1.5% -1.9% 13.5% 6.3%
Loans to the private sector 107.865 108.173 108.134 92.016 -0.3% -0.7% 17.2% 9.8%
 Advances 16.372 15.855 15.735 14.710 3.3% 2.8% 11.3% 4.2%
 Documents 18.479 18.871 19.516 17.966 -2.1% -2.5% 2.9% -3.7%
 Mortgage loans 18.159 18.112 17.931 14.563 0.3% -0.2% 24.7% 16.8%
 Pledge loans 7.401 7.474 7.609 6.114 -1.0% -1.4% 21.1% 13.4%
 Personal loans 27.624 27.609 27.669 22.604 0.1% -0.4% 22.2% 14.5%
 Credit cards 14.839 15.197 14.711 11.752 -2.4% -2.8% 26.3% 18.3%
 Others 4.992 5.056 4.964 4.308 -1.3% -1.7% 15.9% 8.5%

 Loans to the public sector 9.526 10.952 10.904 11.377 -13.0% -13.4% -16.3% -21.6%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5.994 5.855 5.973 5.500 2.4% 9.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 134.177 140.418 135.846 114.435 -4.4% -4.9% 17.3% 9.8%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 171.705 178.354 173.204 151.899 -3.7% -4.1% 13.0% 5.9%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 269.977 271.608 268.178 252.612 -0.6% -1.0% 6.9% 0.1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 304.738 305.003 300.192 276.480 -0.1% -0.5% 10.2% 3.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 109.866 111.433 109.267 101.310 -1.4% -1.8% 8.4% 1.6%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 144.402 146.149 143.009 135.668 -1.2% -1.6% 6.4% -0.3%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 210.228 209.168 206.357 200.760 0.5% 0.1% 4.7% -1.9%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 239.296 237.039 233.513 222.376 1.0% 0.5% 7.6% 0.8%

 Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base -2.381 -2.3% 1.594 1.6% -3.699 -3.6% 7.458 7.3%
 Financial sector -1.287 -1.3% -5.367 -5.2% -6.549 -6.4% -4.002 -3.9%
 Public sector -2.360 -2.3% -7.084 -6.9% -4.086 -4.0% -10.049 -9.8%
 Private external sector 329 0.3% 4.781 4.7% 3.745 3.6% -7.881 -7.7%
 BCRA securities 510 0.5% 8.055 7.8% 2.508 2.4% 20.705 20.2%
 Others 427 0.4% 1.209 1.2% 684 0.7% 8.686 8.5%

 International reserves 269 0.6% 1.395 3.0% 860 1.8% -1.349 -2.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 97 0.2% 1.401 3.0% 1.091 2.3% -2.446 -5.2%
 Payment to international organizations -62 -0.1% -46 -0.1% -29 -0.1% -808 -1.7%
 Other public sector operations 59 0.1% -1.677 -3.6% -928 -2.0% 517 1.1%
 Minimum cash 44 0.1% 460 1.0% 280 0.6% 731 1.6%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) 130 0.3% 1.256 2.7% 446 0.9% 657 1.4%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified fund utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN recorded.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 17 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 10.89 12.09 14.04 14.04 7.30
 Amount traded 419 379 574 574 791

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11.69 14.26 15.76 15.76 8.16
 60 days or more 12.48 14.00 17.41 17.41 8.62
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.54 14.21 16.59 16.59 7.94
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.98 15.60 19.07 19.07 8.32

 In dollars
 30 days 1.46 1.64 1.68 1.68 1.22
 60 days or more 2.24 2.27 2.48 2.48 2.12
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.65 1.70 1.50 1.50 1.27
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.38 2.59 2.86 2.86 3.03

 Active Interest Rates Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08
Prime in pesos at 30 days 21.99 25.99 27.76 27.76 12.13

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.45 13.98 15.75 15.75 7.30
Amount traded (total terms) 191 114 122 122 117

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Overdrafts on current accounts 22.60 26.10 27.72 27.72 17.35
Documents on sole signature 20.66 23.70 25.94 25.94 14.92
Mortgage loans 13.98 16.46 16.23 16.23 11.41
Pledge loans 21.24 22.92 21.07 21.07 14.95
Personal loans 36.64 36.65 35.45 35.45 28.19
Credit cards n/a n/a 29.04 29.04 25.95

International Interest Rates Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08

LIBOR
1 month 0.46 0.38 1.02 1.02 3.14
6 months 1.76 1.62 2.14 2.14 3.00

US Treasury Bond
2 years 0.96 0.79 0.81 0.81 1.96
10 years 2.86 2.47 2.38 2.38 3.73

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.61 0.61 3.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.75 13.37 13.75 13.75 11.25

(1) The data up to December correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from January and February are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.00
Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 8.25
Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 10.25

Total REPO Floor Repurchase Agreement Rates
1 day 10.51 10.52 10.53 10.53 7.63
7 days 11.21 11.84 12.56 12.56 8.25

Amount traded in REPO floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 7,662 8,272 5,580 5,580 5,381

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month n/o n/o 12.48 12.48 n/o
2 months 12.75 11.00 12.18 12.18 n/o
3 months 12.89 12.27 12.50 12.50 10.84
9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.10
12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.27 1.43 n/o n/o n/o
1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o 1.87 1.75 1.75 n/o
2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.30
3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 86 123 130 130 549

Foreign Exchange Market Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.52 3.46 3.42 3.42 3.17
BCRA Reference 3.51 3.46 3.42 3.42 3.16

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.60 3.56 3.60 3.60 3.17
ROFEX 1 month 3.52 3.48 3.44 3.44 3.16
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 537 503 458 458 310

Real (Pesos per Real) 1.51 1.50 1.43 1.43 1.83

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.50 4.59 4.64 4.64 4.66

Capital Market Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Dec-08 Feb-08

MERVAL
Index 1,075 1,112 1,055 1,055 2,074
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 42 41 42 42 122

Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 57.91 56.53 52.32 52.32 89.40
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 35.35 35.84 34.97 34.97 91.69
BODEN 2014 ($) 26.98 26.73 23.83 23.83 75.87
DISCOUNT ($) 32.10 33.75 29.72 29.72 72.65

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 3,730 3,511 3,439 3,439 666
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 669 667 713 713 297

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for periods of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds.
FGS: Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total peso deposits from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Agreed Forward Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Settlement and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | February 2009 | BCRA | 20
