# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2009 | Monthly Monetary Report
March 2009

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10 | 7. Capital Markets

Page 10 | Equities
Page 11 | Public Securities
Page 11 | Private Securities
Page 12 | Investment Funds
Page 13 | Financial Trusts

Page 15 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on April 13, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject
to revision

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary 1

• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $167,400 million in the month
of March, registering a year-on-year growth of 11.7%. In this way, the total M2 was positioned
within the limits established in the Monetary Program for the first quarter of the year. Similarly,
with a monthly average of $140,200, the private M2 was situated within the range foreseen by
the estimates contained in the Monetary Program.

• The normalization in financial markets was driven by the full utilization of the stabilization
mechanisms developed by the central bank in recent years, to prevent abrupt movements that
could affect expectations. In this way, a limited impact was observed on monetary variables.

• The average balance of total fixed-term deposits showed an increase of 1.1% with respect to
the February average, behavior which, while being led by public sector deposits, was also mani-
fested in those belonging to the private sector.

• In the foreign currency segment, total deposits increased 6.6%, mainly through placements by
the private sector. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circu-
lation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, presented an
advance of 0.2% monthly.

• The liquid assets of banks continued to represent an important proportion of deposits. The
banking liquidity ratio – defined as the sum of cash in banks, current accounts of banks at the
BCRA, repurchase agreements (net) at the BCRA and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC as a per-
centage of deposits – was positioned at 36.9%, a level similar to that of the previous month.

• Passive interest rates registered a slight increase in March. The BADLAR rate of private banks
increased 0.6 percentage points throughout the month, reaching 12.4% by the end of it. On the
other hand, the interest rates in the interbank loan market remained stable. In particular, the aver-
age of interest rates for operations at 1 business day – the most traded period – remained un-
changed with respect to February, positioning itself at 10.5%.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a monthly growth of 1% ($1,080 million), essen-
tially driven by commercial financing, which after the summer recess showed greater dynamism
and presented a monthly advance of 2.7% ($1,070 million). The growth of this segment was gener-
alized across all of its lines: financing instruments with documents increased 3.6% ($660 million),
current account advances advanced 1.8% ($300 million), while the remaining commercial financ-
ing increased 2.1% ($110 million).
• Active interest rates continued to decline. While reductions in short-term brackets were notable, decreases were also observed in interest rates for medium and long-term lines. The interest rate for current account advances fell 2.2 p.p. compared to the previous month, as did the interest rate for loans granted in the form of promissory notes. Meanwhile, interest rates for personal loans registered a decline of 2.1 p.p. compared to February.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision

 Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

 The average balance of total means of payment (M2)
 reached $167,400 million, registering year-on-year
 growth of 11.7%. In this way, the total M2 was located
Graph 2.1 within the limits established in the Monetary Program
 for this quarter (see Graph 2.1). Similarly, with a monthly
 thousands of M2 - Goals 2009 average of $140,200, private M2 was located within the
 millions of $ range provided for by the estimates contained in the Monetary
 Program 2009 (15.3% y.o.y.)
 210
 204.0
 Monetary
 200 Program
 190 189.3 188.2
 (13.6% y.o.y) (8.7% y.o.y.)In March, the Central Bank acted in the foreign exchange
 183.8 (14.6% y.o.y) market using the stabilizing mechanisms developed in
 180 176.7 175.9 (8.1% y.o.y)
 (15% y.o.y.) 171.6 recent years to prevent sharp movements that could affect
 (9.9% y.o.y.)
 170 expectations. As a result, the main monetary variables
 165.6 reflected limited impact. Indeed, although a reduction
 (10.5% y.o.y.)
 160 was observed in the average balance of means of payment,
 the average balance of fixed-term deposits registered an
 150 increase. Meanwhile, the most relevant interest rates
 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 practically did not register changes.
 Source: BCRA

 Among the main factors explaining the monthly decline
 in M2 of 2.5%, are net foreign currency purchases by the
 private sector and operations of the public sector. Among
 the latter, the increase in fixed-term deposits and foreign
 currency purchases made by the Treasury with its de-
Graph 2.2 mand deposits stand out. In the same way, the growth
 of fixed-term deposits of the private sector contributed,
 Monetary Aggregates although to a lesser extent, to the decline in total means
 (monthly average variation - February 2009) of payment. These contractionary effects were partially
 offset by the expansion generated by the increase in credit
 US$ Deposits to the private sector.

 Other Public Sector Deposits
 Private Sector Among the components of total M2, in the last month
 M3* both currency in circulation and demand deposits
 Fixed-Term Deposits 0.1%
 showed reductions of 2.6% and 2.4% respectively. For
 M3 its part, the broader aggregate in pesos, M3, registered
 -1.2% a contraction of 1.2%. Similarly, the aggregates of the
 Demand Deposits private sector also showed decreases, private M2 of
 M2 2.9%, while private M3 of 1.9% (see Graph 2.2).
 -2.5%
 Bills and Coins
 Regarding total deposits, those belonging to the private
 -3-2-1012345 sector declined 1.6%, while public ones advanced 1.2%.
 billions of $
 Source: BCRA

 In the sight deposits segment, public sector deposits
 remained practically stable in the period, presenting a
 slight decrease of 0.3%, while those corresponding to the
 private sector showed a decline of 3.2%.
Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 4 Meanwhile, time deposits advanced 1.1% during the month, with increases in both the public and private sectors. Private placements expanded 0.3%, with reductions in the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) and expansions in the wholesale segment. For its part, time deposits from the public sector grew 2.8%.

Chart 3.1
Liquidity Ratio
% of deposits
(monthly average)
38

Cash + CCBCRA + Net Repos + LEBACs

36

34

32

30
Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09

Source: BCRA

Just as in previous months, ANSES continued with its periodic auction process of fixed-term deposits with resources from the Sustainability Guarantee Fund of the Integrated Argentine Social Security System (FGS-SIPA). On this occasion, it allocated $100 million to fund entities for the granting of loans at reduced rates.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits increased 6.6%, mainly through placements by the private sector. Since early February, private deposits in foreign currency have shown growing dynamism evidenced by the significant increase in time deposits and savings accounts of the private sector, which in March increased 6.3% and 6% respectively. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency, showed a monthly advance of 0.2%.

Chart 3.2
% of Minimum Cash Position Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position
of deposits
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5 0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
-1.5
Bimonthly Position Quarterly Position
Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09
Source: BCRA

3. Bank Liquidity¹

In March, the liquidity ratio of financial entities increased 0.8 p.p. and, in this way, the sum of cash in banks, the checking accounts of banks at the BCRA and repos (net) at the BCRA represented on average 23.3% of deposits in pesos. However, given the substitution of LEBAC and NOBAC for repos at the BCRA carried out by entities in aggregate terms, the broader liquidity ratio, which arises from incorporating the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC of the entities, was similar to that of the previous month (36.9% of deposits - see Chart 3.1).

The minimum cash position in March ended with a surplus of 0.5% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2). Both private and public entities presented a surplus of 0.9% and 0.2% of deposits, respectively.

For its part, the minimum cash position in foreign currency in March ended with a surplus of 40% of deposits in dollars, a level lower by 2 p.p. compared to the previous month. The reduction in the foreign currency surplus was the counterpart of the use of part of the increase in dollar deposits to increase loans in this currency and cancel lines with the exterior and negotiable obligations.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 5

Chart 4.1
millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
%
(var. of monthly averages)
1,200 18
16 4. Loans¹ 2
1,000 Mar-09 16

800 var. y.o.y. Total Loans (%) - right axis¹⁴ Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a monthly 
600 12 growth of 1% ($1,080 million), driven essentially by 
400 10 commercial financing which after the summer recess 
200 8 showed great dynamism (see Chart 4.1). With that 
0 6 monthly increase, the rate of expansion compared to the 
-200 4 same month of the previous year was reduced to 16%.

Source: BCRA

Credits with predominantly commercial destination showed an advance of 2.7% ($1,070 million), registering generalized growth in all its lines. Financing instruments with documents increased 3.6% ($660 million), driven fundamentally by

Chart 4.2
thousands of [entities] by documents with single signature (see Graph 4.2).

Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector thousands of
billions of $ (daily balance and average days elapsed last month) billions of $ For its part, advances in current account advanced
14.2 8.7
1.8% ($300 million), while the remaining commer-

13.7 Documents with single signature 8.2 cial financing increased 2.1% ($110 mil-

13.2 Other documents (right axis) 7.7 lion).

12.7 7.2
For its part, credits destined mainly for con-
12.2 6.7 sumption presented in March an increase of 0.2%

($110 million). Credit card financing was reduced
11.7 6.2 approximately 0.7% ($110 million).

11.2 5.7 Meanwhile, personal loans increased by

01-Oct 15-Oct 29-Oct 12-Nov 26-Nov 10-Dec 24-Dec 07-Jan 21-Jan 04-Feb 18-Feb 04-Mar 18-Mar month 0.7% ($220 million), showing in the last days of the

Source: BCRA

a renewed dynamism (see Graph 4.3).

Loans with real guarantees presented in the period
a decline close to 0.4% ($100 million). This decrease
Graph 4.3 was explained entirely by pawn loans which declined
thousands of Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 1.3% ($100 million), while mortgage loans remained
millions of $ (daily stock and monthly average)
28.0 stable in the period.

27.8 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private
sector registered in March an advance of 1.2%.
27.6

27.4 During March, ANSES conducted a new auction
of fixed-term deposits, within the framework of the series
27.2 Stock daily of auctions it has been carrying out with the objective of

Monthly average providing funding to financial entities for the granting

27.0 of loans at reduced rates. On this occasion, funds
were granted for $100 million intended to finance
26.8 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09
renovation and expansion of homes and offices.
Source: BCRA

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers
of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 6 5. Interest Rates

Securities Issued by the BCRA3

Graph 5.1 In March, slight increases were recorded in primary
market rates, around 1 p.p. The largest amounts

% Interest Rates and Margins on BADLAR of the Primary Market% LEBAC
awarded were placed at 3 and 4 months maturity.
2.0 NOBAC 15.0
(9 MONTHS)
On the other hand, the NOBAC awarded, which

2 Months corresponded mostly to 9 months maturity, did
14.0
3 Months
1.5 not present significant variations in the margin paid
4 Months
over the BADLAR rate compared to the previous month
13.0
(see Graph 5.1).
1.0
12.0
0.5 Margin on BADLAR Like the previous month, the total placed in March
11.0
in the primary market was lower than the amount that
0.0 10.0 matured, resulting in an expansive monetary effect.
Aug-08 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Aug-08 Sep-08 Oct-08 Nov-08 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 On the other hand, the BCRA continued carrying out
operations in the secondary market, and in March
carried out net sales of $150 million.

As a consequence of what was described, the stock of
securities issued by the BCRA decreased, placing itself at
NV $34,200 million at month-end. Of this value, 70%
was comprised of Notes, which decreased their
participation in the total securities by 6.4 p.p. compared
to the previous month.

When analyzing the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by
type of holder, it is observed that banks registered a
Graph 5.2 decrease, but continue holding more than 75% of the
stock in circulation. The set of the rest of the
thousands of Distribution of Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC by Holder
millions $ millions $ March 27 vs February 27
30 Stock holders (Insurance Companies, FCIs, Foreign Investors, among the most important) practically showed no
0
BANKS REST variations during the month. (see Graph 5.2)

25 -450

20 -900

28.2 25.9 Interfinancial Markets
-2,286
15 -1,350
Repurchase Agreement Market¹

10 -1,800

5 8.3 8.3 -2,250 In March, in the context of ample bank liquidity, there
-18
was an increase in the average stock of net repurchase
0 -2,700
Source: BCRA Feb-09 Mar-09 agreements (liabilities-assets) for the BCRA, with an increase in
the stock of liability repurchase agreements and a reduction in the stock of
asset repurchase agreements. Indeed, the average balance of liability
repurchase agreements showed an increase of $480 million and its
monthly average value reached a level of $16,500
million⁴. For its part, the average stock of asset
repurchase agreements registered a decrease of $980 million.

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
4 Said amount was distributed among all the modalities in which the BCRA operates (REPO round, overnight operations and investment funds).

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 7 The interest rates of fixed-rate repurchase agreements
Graph 5.3 remained at the same levels observed since

Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations October 2008, both for active operations
% and for passive operations. Thus, the interest rates

17 Monthly average of liability repurchase agreements remained at 10.5% and 11% for 1

Average ± 1 Std Deviation and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates
15 of asset repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days were

13 located at

11 12.5% and 13%, respectively.
10.5

9 Interbank Market¹

7 During March the average interest rates of the inter-

5 bank market remained stable. The average interest

Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 rate for interbank loans was
Source: BCRA located at 10.7%, 0.2 percentage points below the level recorded
during February. In particular, the average of the rates
for 1 business day operations remained unchanged with
Gráfico 5.4 respect to February, being at 10.5% (see Graph
5.3). The standard deviation of the interest rate for inter-
bank operations at 1 business day also remained
millions of $ Interbank Loan Market and Liquidity practically unchanged with respect to February, being
1,700 (monthly averages) 24 located at 2.2%

23
1,500
22 In keeping with the levels of bank liquidity
1,300 21 observed, the amounts traded continued at historically

1,100 20 low levels although with a slight increase

19 with respect to February. Specifically, during March the
900 18 average amount traded was $430 million (see Graph
700 17 5.4).

Amount traded in pesos 16
500
Liquidity with net repurchase agreements (% of peso deposits)* 15 In turn, for the third consecutive month the
300 14 non-bank financial entities (EFNB) not only were
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 net providers of funding in the interbank market,
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and net repurchase agreements for the BCRA
Source: BCRA which is unusual, but also continued being for
the second month the main providers, above
public banking, which had not been observed since January
2006. The high participation of the EFNB partially explained
why volatility remained at relatively high levels. Meanwhile, the public entities,
as is customary, continued being net providers
although for a reduced amount. Finally, private national
Gráfico 5.5 banking had a slightly borrowing position,
while foreign banking, as is customary, was
Interbank Call Market
millions of $ the main demander of funding in this market (see
(Net position monthly average by group of entities) Graph 5.5).

600

400

200

0

Passive Interest Rates¹
During March, passive interest rates registered a slight increase, in a context of lower growth of fixed-term placements, although movements were limited by the high liquidity that entities continued to maintain. In particular, the BADLAR rate of private banks increased 0.6 p.p. between the end of February and March, reaching 12.4% at the end of March (see Chart 5.6). For its part, the interest rates paid by private banks on retail placements, for amounts less than $100,000, remained stable, ending the month at 12.2%. In this way, the spread between wholesale and retail interest rates became positive again, after two months of being in negative values, as had occurred during the same months of previous years.

On the other hand, when analyzing interest rates by type of depositor, an increase was observed both in those paid to legal entities and to individuals. Particularly, the growth registered in interest rates paid to companies stood out, which were located at 12.6% at the end of March, 0.8 p.p. above the level recorded at the end of February. Meanwhile, interest rates paid to individuals rose 0.3 p.p., reaching a value of 12.8%.

**Active Interest Rates 5**

In March, active interest rates continued to fall. This behavior was generalized, with decreases in the short-term brackets standing out, although decreases were also observed in the interest rates of medium and long-term lines.

The interest rate on current account advances fell 2.2 p.p. during the month, standing at an average monthly level of 20.6% (see Chart 5.7). In the most operated segment, corresponding to advances granted in accordance with companies for amounts exceeding ten million pesos, in Capital and GBA, reached an average level of 17.3%. For its part, the interest rate for loans granted in the form of documents on sole signature fell 2.2 p.p., standing at an average of 19.2%.

The interest rates on personal loans registered a decrease of 2.1 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching an average value of 35.2%, while the interest rates on credit card financing corresponding to February remained stable, at an average value of 29.5%.

Finally, the interest rates on mortgage loans reached a monthly average of 15.9%, with a slight reduction of 0.2 p.p. compared to the level observed in February. It should be noted that this interest rate refers only to operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable interest rates and does not include the [text cuts off]

---

**Footnote 5:** The information for preparing this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08 which presents information up to January, the values of February and March were estimated from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.
International Reserves of the BCRA at variable rate. On the other hand, the interest rate
thousands of (gold, foreign currency and time placements)
millions of US$ corresponding to financing with pledge
55 guarantee was located at 22.2%, with a monthly increase of 1.5

50 p.p..

45

40 6. International Reserves and

35
Foreign Exchange Market6
30

25 At the end of March the stock of international reserves

20 reached u$s46,509 million, after declining 1.1% in the

15 month (see Chart 6.1). During the period under

Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 analysis, the Central Bank intervened in the exchange
Source: BCRA
market to prevent abrupt movements that could
affect expectations, in the face of increased demand
for foreign currency from the private sector. Indeed, the net
sales that this Institution made was the factor that
explained to a greater extent the monthly decrease in the
Chart 6.2
balance of international reserves. On the other hand, its
effect was partially offset by operations of the public
Foreign Exchange Market sector and the increase in cash accounts at
(average quotations)
$/Euro minimum, in counterpart to the increase in dollar
$/Real $/US$
5.0 2.0 3.8 deposits.
4.9 $/Euro 3.7
1.9 With regard to the quotation of the local currency, the
4.8 $/Real, right axis 3.6 $/US$ (Reference)

4.7 3.5 Peso depreciated with respect to the US Dollar, the
1.8
4.6 3.4 Real and the Euro (4.1%, 4.2% and 5.8% respectively).

4.5 1.7 3.3 The average quotations were 3.65 $/u$s, 1.58
4.4 3.2 $/Real and 4.76 $/Euro (see Chart 6.2).

1.6
4.3 3.1

4.2 3.0 7. Capital Market
1.5
4.1 2.9 Stocks

4.0 1.4 2.8 During March the volatility of the different stock market
Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09
indices had disparate behavior (see Chart 7.1). The expected
Source: BCRA
volatility of the main index of the American market -the
Chart 7.1 S&P- (measured by the VIX), remained relatively stable,
Volatility (%) Stock Market Volatility Volatility (%) beyond the peak it presented at the beginning of March.
22 days 22 days
The VIX averaged 44.8 in March, remaining at historically
115 MERVAL (Argentina) 92
105 IPC (Mexico) high levels. In contrast, in the local stock exchange a
95 BOVESPA (Brazil) 82
Shangai Index (China) scenario with greater volatility was registered. Specifically,
85 S&P 500 (USA) (Right axis) 72
75 62 the volatility of the MERVAL, 18 trading days, in
65 52 annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 49% during
55 42
March, 11.9 p.p. more than in February.
45 32
35
25 22

15 12

5 2
Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. The evolution of stock market indices by region according
to the MSCI had in March one of the best results in

6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 10 recent months, with gains in both the global index
(7.2%), as well as in that of Latin America (10.6%), Europe
(8.6%) and the MSCI of Japan (1.2%). Meanwhile, the
S&P 500 American index also showed a positive result,
Chart 7.2 of 8.5% (see Chart 7.2).
Performance of World Stock Market Indices

135 The MERVAL index of Argentina was no exception to

125 the recovery of stock market indices and measured in
115 pesos rose 10.5%, ending the month at 1,126 points. In
105 the last twelve months the MERVAL had a loss of 47%,
95 while so far in 2009 it accumulates a gain of 4.3%.

85

75 MSCI World

65 MSCI Europe The volume traded daily on average at the Buenos Aires
55 MSCI Japan Stock Exchange during March was $36 million, a level
MSCI Latam
45 S&P 500 similar to that of February. However,
35 was $54 million lower than that recorded in March 2008.
 Jul-07 Sep-07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-08 May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 Part of this decline can be attributed to a price effect,
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
 although it was also due to a lower number of opera-
 tions.
 Public Securities

 The better performance of the stock markets had its cor-
 relate in a more stable public securities market. Specifi-
 cally, during March the EMBI+ which measures the
 spreads of emerging countries as a whole was reduced
 by 13 b.p.. However, the spread of Latin America's ex-
 ternal debt increased by 9 b.p. and that of Argen-
 Chart 7.3 tina increased 167 b.p. (see Chart 7.3). When conside-
 ring Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts -which in
 EMBI of Argentina and the Region recent months had a very illiquid market- it was obser-

spreads ved that those of Argentina, at 5 years, increased
in b.p.
 454 b.p..
1900

1600 EMBI Argentina The volume of public securities traded (on average
 EMBI Latin America (right daily basis) continued at reduced levels, although with an in-
1300 axis)
 crease compared to February, of $105 million, placing
1000 itself at $567 million. As in the case of stocks, a de-
 cline was recorded (of $1,100 million) compared to the
700 same month of the previous year.

400

100
 Jun-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 Private Securities

 During March, two placements of short-term debt va-
 lue (VCP) were recorded in the private debt market.
 The first was issued by Banco Finansur SA and was for
 $25.7 million. The maturity date of this security is in
 September 2009 and the rate it will pay is the sum of
 the BADLAR of private banks and a margin of 450 ba-
 sic points. Interest will be paid monthly, while amorti-
 zation will be in two stages, the first at 120 days for
 
 Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 11 30% of the capital and the second at 180 days from the
 issuance date for the remaining 70%. The other issuance
 was by Atlantis Sociedad Inversora SA, for a value of
 $4 million and will mature in March 2010. The interest
 rate it accrues is variable, defined as the BAIBOR for
 365-day terms plus a margin of 200 basic points. In this
 case, interest will be paid together with the capital at
 maturity.
 Investment Funds
Chart 7.4 Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos

 thousands of (Variation March 09 vs. February 09)
 millions $ Fixed income 700 In March, the equity of investment funds (FCI) experi-
 18 8700000 enced an increase once again, which was distributed
 227
 16 Mixed income 600 both in the peso segment and in the foreign currency
 14 Variable income 170 segment.
 500
 Money Market
 12

 10 400 On one hand, the equity of FCIs in pesos ended the
 8 300 month at $12,100 million, 5.8% above the previous
 6 461
 200 month, although it was below the same month of the
 4
 2 100 previous year (see Chart 7.4).

 0 Jan-04 Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 0
 Source: Own elaboration based on CAFCI data
 
 When considering the different types of funds, it was
 observed that the largest increase (13.6%) was present
 in the variable income segment, which ended the month
 with an equity of $1,400 million. The increase was ex-
 plained mainly by the increase in prices (13% higher
 than February) of the fund shares.

 On the other hand, in the money market segment the
 increase recorded in equity was 5.5% and was due espe-
 cially to the greater number of fund shares. At the end
 of March, the equity of money market FCIs was located
 at $8,900 million and represented more than 70% of the
 total FCIs in pesos.
Chart 7.5 Financial Trusts Issuances

 millions $ March: $1,600 M
 13 placements Lastly, the mixed income and fixed income segments
1600 also showed increases in their equity. The most notable
# Translation to English

1400 highlighted was that of mixed income, with an increase of 9.6%,
 MBT Trust
1200 $1,096 M thanks to higher levels in the prices of the quota
1000 shares. Meanwhile, the assets of the fixed income FCI,
 which lost 0.7% participation in the total FCI in local
 800 currency, reached $1,540 million.
 600
 400 For its part, the FCI in foreign currency, which represent
 200 less than 10% of total FCI, registered
 0 an increase in assets of 3%, reaching an approximate
 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 amount of $1,200 million at the end of March. The
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others
 main increase was presented in the variable income
 segment, thanks to higher prices recorded. However,
 the rise in variable income FCI in dollars this month
 does not compensate for the sharp decline in recent
 periods, accumulating a decline of almost 90% with
 respect to March 2008.

 Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 12 Financial Trusts7

 The issuance of financial trusts totaled approximately
 $1,600 million (see Chart 7.5) in the third month of the
 year, experiencing significant growth compared to the
 previous month. In effect, the securitized amount
 practically quadrupled compared to February, reaching
 the highest value since the December 2006 peak. This
 increase was explained by the issuance of a FF related
 Chart 7.6 to the electrical sector (MBT), whose amount constituted
 almost 70% of the total placed in the month. Meanwhile,
 millions $ the number of issuances was lower both compared to
 Trust Grantors the previous month (6 fewer) and compared to the same
1,600 (amounts issued)
1,400 Unregulated Financial Institution month of the previous year (8 fewer), registering a total
 Retail Businesses of 13 placements.
1,200 Financial Entities
 Others Regarding the composition by type of underlying
1,000 asset, future cash flows had a predominant participation
 800 due to the significant placement of the MBT trust,
 +49% concentrating 69% of the trust assets. Consumer loans
 Trust Grantors recorded an increase in the securitized amount of 62%
 600 of the Energy compared to February. If the MBT trust were not considered,
 Sector +15% this type of financing would have constituted almost all
 400 of the trust assets (97% of the total).
 200
 As a consequence of the particular placement related
 0 to the electrical sector, the main trust grantors of the
 February March month were included in the "others" category, under
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others which were found the trusts Manuel Belgrano
 Thermoelectric Power Plant and Timbúes Thermoelectric
 Power Plant (see Chart 7.6). However, it should be noted
 that retail businesses increased the securitized amount
 Chart 7.7 by 49% compared to the previous month, thus
 % achieving a partial reversal of the sharp contraction in
 35 FF Cut Rates February. Likewise, financial entities recorded an
 (Titles A in pesos - weighted monthly averages by amount) increase in total securitized of 15% compared to February.
 30 Fixed rate Meanwhile, the volume of assets securitized by mutuals,
 Variable rate cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
 25 BADLAR Rate Private Banks remained stable compared to the previous month.
 20 The cut-off interest rates of the senior titles were
 15 positioned at levels higher than those of February. In
 10
 5
 Jan-06 May-06 Sep-06 Jan-07 May-07 Sep-07 Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other effects, the cut-off rate of senior securities (amount-weighted average) agreed at variable rate was 20.8% (see Chart 7.7), increasing 0.9 p.p. compared to last month, while that of securities awarded at fixed rate reached 20.1%, with an increase of 1.6 p.p. compared to February. For its part, the duration - amount-weighted average - of senior securities rose significantly as a consequence of the appearance of longer-term assets as underlying assets, standing at 19.7 months, 14.6 p.p. above that of the previous month. However, when excluding the FF MBT, the duration was placed at 4.9 months, a level similar to February.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 14 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-09 Feb-09 Dec-08 Mar-08 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 101,348 102,740 106,439 97,880 -1.4% -1.9% 3.5% -2.5%
Monetary circulation 77,190 79,053 80,247 72,141 -2.4% -2.9% 7.0% 0.7%
In hands of the public 69,059 70,918 70,897 65,162 -2.6% -3.2% 6.0% -0.2%
In financial entities 8,130 8,135 9,350 6,979 -0.1% -0.7% 16.5% 9.7%
Current account in the BCRA 24,158 23,687 26,192 25,739 2.0% 1.4% -6.1% -11.6%

Stock of Passes
Liabilities 16,476 15,995 10,187 8,348 3.0% 2.4% 97.4% 85.8%
Assets 568 1,552 2,302 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for passes)
In pesos 9,592 8,161 11,771 30,275 17.5% 16.8% -68.3% -70.2%

NOBAC 25,845 30,189 28,389 26,731 -14.4% -14.9% -3.3% -9.0%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) 46,934 47,058 46,198 50,039 -0.3% -6.2%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 197,503 198,967 197,279 189,801 -0.7% -1.3% 4.1% -2.0%
Current account (2) 61,662 63,247 64,948 48,171 -2.5% -3.1% 28.0% 20.5%
Savings account 36,684 37,530 37,358 36,488 -2.3% -2.8% 0.5% -5.3%
Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 88,417 87,375 82,624 91,384 1.2% 0.6% -3.2% -8.9%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 160 217 322 1,524 -26.2% -26.6% -89.5% -90.1%
Other deposits (3) 10,580 10,598 12,028 12,235 -0.2% -0.8% -13.5% -18.6%

Deposits of private sector 137,075 139,248 135,458 137,954 -1.6% -2.1% -0.6% -6.4%

Deposits of public sector 60,428 59,719 61,821 51,848 1.2% 0.6% 16.5% 9.7%

Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) 10,555 9,899 9,346 7,637 6.6% 38.2%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 118,008 117,329 119,039 105,015 0.6% 0.0% 12.4% 5.8%

Loans to private sector 108,620 107,869 108,135 93,725 0.7% 0.1% 15.9% 9.1%
Advances 16,667 16,365 15,735 14,717 1.8% 1.2% 13.2% 6.6%
Documents 19,140 18,478 19,516 18,414 3.6% 3.0% 3.9% -2.1%
Mortgages 18,162 18,160 17,931 14,863 0.0% -0.6% 22.2% 15.1%
Pledged 7,207 7,401 7,609 6,253 -2.6% -3.2% 15.3% 8.5%
Personal 27,662 27,619 27,668 23,312 0.2% -0.4% 18.7% 11.7%
Credit cards 14,680 14,853 14,712 11,869 -1.2% -1.8% 23.7% 16.5%
Others 5,101 4,995 4,964 4,298 2.1% 1.5% 18.7% 11.7%

Loans to public sector 9,388 9,459 10,904 11,290 -0.8% -1.3% -16.8% -21.7%

Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) 6,065 5,995 5,973 5,420 1.2% 11.9%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (cash in hands of the public + current account in pesos) 130,722 134,166 135,845 113,333 -2.6% -3.1% 15.3% 8.6%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 167,406 171,696 173,202 149,821 -2.5% -3.1% 11.7% 5.2%
M3 (cash in hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 266,562 269,885 268,176 254,964 -1.2% -1.8% 4.5% -1.6%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 305,128 304,643 300,190 279,057 0.2% -0.4% 9.3% 2.9%
## Private Monetary Aggregates

M1 (cash in circulation with the public + private current accounts in pesos) 106.760 109.875 109.265 102.635 -2.8% -3.4% 4.0% -2.1%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 140.210 144.417 143.006 136.286 -2.9% -3.5% 2.9% -3.1%
M3 (cash in circulation with the public + total private deposits in pesos) 206.135 210.166 206.354 203.116 -1.9% -2.5% 1.5% -4.4%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 238.241 239.235 233.510 224.928 -0.4% -1.0% 5.9% -0.3%

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations

Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2009 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base -1.392 -1.4% -5.091 -5.0% -5.091 -5.0% 3.467 3.4%
Financial sector -1.418 -1.4% -7.967 -7.9% -7.967 -7.9% -7.504 -7.4%
Public sector -721 -0.7% -4.806 -4.7% -4.806 -4.7% -10.937 -10.8%
Private external sector -3.533 -3.5% 212 0.2% 212 0.2% -13.507 -13.3%
BCRA Securities 3.362 3.3% 5.870 5.8% 5.870 5.8% 25.823 25.5%
Others 916 0.9% 1.600 1.6% 1.600 1.6% 9.591 9.5%

International reserves -125 -0.3% 735 1.6% 735 1.6% -3.106 -6.6%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -971 -2.1% 120 0.3% 120 0.3% -4.081 -8.7%
Payments to international organizations -153 -0.3% -183 -0.4% -183 -0.4% -654 -1.4%
Other public sector operations 850 1.8% -78 -0.2% -78 -0.2% 778 1.7%
Minimum cash -88 -0.2% 192 0.4% 192 0.4% 493 1.1%
Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) 239 0.5% 685 1.5% 685 1.5% 358 0.8%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates | Mar-09 | Feb-09 | Jan-09 | Dec-08 | Mar-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 10.72 10.89 12.10 14.04 7.85
Amount traded 430 419 380 574 644

Fixed Term
In pesos
30 days 11.66 11.69 14.26 15.76 8.10
60 days or more 12.96 12.48 14.00 17.41 9.03
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.71 11.54 14.21 16.59 8.02
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.26 11.98 15.60 19.07 8.50

In dollars
30 days 1.38 1.46 1.64 1.68 1.25
60 days or more 2.17 2.24 2.27 2.48 2.13
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.48 1.65 1.70 1.50 1.33
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.27 2.38 2.59 2.86 2.80

## Active Interest Rates | Mar-09 | Feb-09 | Jan-09 | Dec-08 | Mar-08

Prime in pesos at 30 days 20.42 21.99 25.99 27.76 11.55

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.66 11.45 13.98 15.75 7.50
Amount traded (total terms) 120 191 114 122 124

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Current account advances 20.63 22.80 25.66 27.72 17.86
Single signature documents 19.19 21.36 24.22 25.94 14.64
Mortgage 15.88 16.10 16.24 16.23 11.23
Pledge 22.15 20.61 23.35 21.07 15.25
Personal 35.15 37.28 37.27 35.45 28.79
Credit cards n/d n/d n/d 29.04 25.70

## International Interest Rates | Mar-09 | Feb-09 | Jan-09 | Dec-08 | Mar-08

LIBOR
1 month 0.53 0.46 0.38 1.02 2.82
6 months 1.83 1.76 1.62 2.14 2.69

US Treasury Bond
2 years 0.92 0.96 0.79 0.81 1.59
10 years 2.81 2.86 2.47 2.38 3.50

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.71

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.75 12.75 13.37 13.75 11.25

(1) Data through January correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while those for February and March are estimates made based on the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES Mar-09 Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Mar-08

## BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.50 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.00
 Liabilities 7 days 11.00 11.00 11.00 11.00 8.25
 Assets 7 days 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 10.25

## Total Daily REPO Repo Rates
 1 day 10.52 10.51 10.52 10.53 7.88
 7 days 11.15 11.21 11.84 12.56 8.25

## Amount Traded in REPO Daily Round (daily average) 7,687 7,662 8,272 5,580 4,360

## LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 12.48 n/o
 2 months n/o 12.75 11.00 12.18 n/o
 3 months 13.91 12.89 12.27 12.50 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.20
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.40

## NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.24 1.27 1.43 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.40 n/o 1.87 1.75 1.34
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.21
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.51

## Amount Traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 134 86 123 130 576

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Mar-09 Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Mar-08

## Dollar Spot
 Exchange Houses 3.65 3.52 3.46 3.42 3.16
 BCRA Reference 3.65 3.51 3.46 3.42 3.16

## Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.75 3.60 3.56 3.60 3.16
 ROFEX 1 month 3.66 3.52 3.48 3.44 3.16
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 831 537 503 458 413

## Real (Pesos per Real) 1.58 1.51 1.50 1.43 1.85

## Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.76 4.50 4.59 4.64 4.91

# CAPITAL MARKET Mar-09 Feb-09 Jan-09 Dec-08 Mar-08

## MERVAL
 Index 1,045 1,075 1,112 1,055 2,110
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 46 42 41 42 100

## Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 54.00 57.91 56.53 52.32 87.72
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 29.13 35.35 35.84 34.97 88.90
 BODEN 2014 ($) 27.28 26.98 26.73 23.83 72.67
 DISCOUNT ($) 24.92 32.10 33.75 29.72 67.96

## Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 4,594 3,730 3,511 3,439 804
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 656 669 667 713 317

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the tenders held each month.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 189. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Mutual Funds.
FGS: Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
FED: Federal Reserve of the U.S.A.
FF: Financial Trusts.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
PyMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special Liquidation and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard & Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | March 2009 | BCRA | 19
