# Monthly Monetary Report
July of 2009Monthly Monetary Report
July of 2009

Contents

Page 3  |  1. Summary

Page 4  |  2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5  |  3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6  |  4. Loans

Page 7  |  5. Interest Rates
Page 7  |  Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8  |  Interfinancial Markets
Page 8  |  Repo Market
Page 8  |  Interbank Market
Page 9  |  Passive Interest Rates
Page 10  |  Active Interest Rates

Page 11  |  6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11  |  7. Capital Markets

Page 11  |  Shares
Page 11  |  Public Securities
Page 12  |  Private Securities
Page 12  |  Common Investment Funds
Page 13  |  Financial Trusts

Page 15  |  8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19  |  9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on August 12, 2009. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision

Monetary Report | July of 2009 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• The average balance of total means of payment (M2) reached $176,070 million in July, increasing 0.5% during the month and showing an increase of 9.2% in the last year. In a context of gradual recovery in demand for money in the broad sense, this month showed an increase in preference for time deposits. In this way, the institution's commitment to the first pillar of monetary policy is corroborated: to guarantee convergence between supply and demand for money.

• In this sense, during the month of July, particularly in the second half, greater dynamism was recorded in time placements which, driven by both retail and wholesale placements, showed significant growth. In effect, between the last day of July and the last day of the previous month, they increased by $1,500 million.

• The better performance of the local money market, driven by the prudential measures that the Central Bank has been adopting, allowed this Institution to continue with its countercyclical monetary policy. In particular, and to encourage more efficient use of the liquid resources of financial entities, at the beginning of July it reduced 50 b.p. the interest rates on 1 and 7-day repo operations. It should be noted that in August, the BCRA reduced by an additional 50 b.p. said interest rates.

• Liquidity in pesos of financial entities (cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and net repos with the BCRA) was maintained at high levels, resulting in 20.9% of total deposits in July. Said level was 1.8 p.p. below that recorded in the previous month, in part, due to the dynamism that peso loans continued to show. Meanwhile, incorporating holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, the liquidity ratio rose to 34.4% of deposits in pesos, 2 p.p. below the level recorded in June.

• In this context, short-term interest rates in the money market remained practically unchanged compared to June. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail time deposits, for amounts less than $100,000, remained at 12%; while the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 13%. Meanwhile, in the interbank loan market, where the amounts operated remained at historically reduced levels, the monthly average interest rate for 1 business day operations was located at 10.2%, barely 0.2 p.p. below the value recorded in June.

• Stability was also observed in the interest rates charged by loans granted to the private sector. Among the most relevant, in terms of amounts operated, the interest rate charged for overdrafts in current account with agreement to companies, for up to 7 days term for amounts greater than $10 million, which was located at 16.1%, accumulating a reduction of 7.2 p.p. in the last six months. Meanwhile, the average interest rate on discounted documents, the most operated line among financing granted through documents, with 50% of total operations, was located at 16.6%.

• Loan lines with mainly commercial purposes were those that drove the monthly increase experienced by credits in pesos to the private sector ($1,250 million). Financing implemented with documents grew 2.8% ($550 million) while overdrafts in current account grew 2.1% ($380 million). For its part, the remaining commercial financing increased 6.2% ($350 million).
1  Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision

 Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

 The average balance of total means of payment
 (M2) reached $176,070 million in July, increasing
 by 0.5% during the month and showing growth of
 9.2% over the last year. During the month, the growth
 observed in currency in circulation held by the public
 (4.1%) more than offset the decrease recorded
 in demand deposits (1.9%), essentially explained
 by the behavior of deposits belonging to the public
 sector.

 Among the main explanatory factors of the monthly
 variation in M2, the expansive effects of lending
 operations stood out, both to the public sector and
 to the private sector. It is important to highlight the
 change in the behavior of lending to the private
 sector, which, after the slowdown experienced since
 late last year, showed in July, for the second consecutive
 month, growth exceeding $1,000 million (see
 Chart 2.1).

 The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, remained
 stable at levels similar to those observed in June
 ($271,770 million). Meanwhile, private M2 registered
 an increase of 2.4%, while private M3 showed an
 advance of 1.5%.

 The total deposits showed a contraction of
 1.4%, with different behaviors between sectors.
 While those belonging to the public sector showed
 a decrease of 4.8%, private ones continued growing
 and advanced 0.2%.

 Regarding the evolution by type of deposit, throughout
 the month a certain change was observed in the
 prudential behavior that economic agents had been
 showing, which had motivated a preference for
 more liquid assets. In this sense, during the second
 half of July greater dynamism was recorded in time
 deposits, to the detriment of those on demand.
 In this way, the entity's commitment to the first pillar
 of monetary policy is corroborated: to guarantee the
 convergence between supply and demand for money.

 In fact, in the segment of demand deposits,
 public sector deposits decreased 8.6%.
 Meanwhile, those corresponding to the private sector
 showed an advance of 0.7%, with increases in savings
 accounts that more than offset decreases in current
 accounts.

 Regarding time deposits, although they fell
 0.7% in July, this behavior was mainly explained
 by public sector placements, which fell 1.4%. For its
 part, when comparing average levels, private time
 deposits showed a slight decrease as a result of the
 statistical drag from the previous month (see Chart
 2.2). Nevertheless and as was mentioned, if the evolution
 throughout the month is observed, the notable
 dynamism shown by this type of deposits is remarkable
deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position during the second half of the month. In effect, when calculating the

3.5 variation of the placements at term of the private sec‐

3.0
 tor between the end of the month, it is observed that they presented
 2.5
 2.0 an increase of $1,500 million, an increase that occurred

1.5 both in deposits of amounts exceeding one million

1.0 pesos, as well as in those of amounts lower than that

0.5 0.5 sum.

0.0

-0.5 As for the segment in foreign currency, total de‐

-1.0 posits increased 1.4%. Public placements maintained

-1.5 their stable level. Meanwhile, those of the private sec‐
 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09
 Source: BCRA tor showed an advance and also registered significant
 dynamism in the term segment during the second half
 of the month. In this way, the broadest aggregate,
 M3*, which includes cash in the hands of the public
 and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign cur‐
 rency, increased 0.4% in July.

 3. Banking Liquidity1

 The most restricted definition of liquidity in pesos of
 financial entities, which includes cash in banks, cur‐
 rent accounts at the BCRA and net repos with the
 BCRA, was equivalent to 20.9% of total deposits. This
 level was 1.8 p.p. below that registered in the previous
 month, in part due to the dynamism that loans in
 pesos continued to show. The ratio for public banks
 was located at 19.8%, while for private ones at 21.6%.
 In both groups a decline in the net repo position with
 the BCRA was evidenced compared to the previous
 month (see Graph 3.1). Meanwhile, incorporating the
 LEBAC and NOBAC holdings of the entities, the liq‐
 uidity ratio was equivalent to 34.4% of deposits in
 pesos (2 p.p. below the value of June). In this case, the
 broad liquidity ratio was 38.7% for private banks,
 and 29% for public entities.

 CC BCRA Cash Net Repos Lebac and Nobac

 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09
Source: BCRA In line with the comfortable liquidity situation of the
 entities, the minimum cash position of July ended
 with a surplus of 0.5% of total deposits in pesos (see
 Graph 3.2). The surplus of private banks was 0.7%,
 while that of public ones was 0.2%.

Graph 4.1 Meanwhile, the minimum cash position in foreign

millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 1,400 24 currency resulted in surplus in 46% of dollar de‐
 (var. of monthly averages)
 1,200 21 posits, 3 p.p. above the surplus of the previous
 Jul-09
 1,000 var i.a. (%) - right axis 18 month. This increase was associated with the in‐

800 15 crease in the stock of deposits in foreign currency

600 10.4 12 and, as mentioned in the Loans section, with a de‐

400 9 crease in the balance of loans in foreign currency.

200 6

0 3

-200 0 4. Loans 1 2

 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in July a
 Commercial Real Estate Consumption growth in its monthly average of 1.1%
Source: BCRA (i.a. 11.4%) (i.a. 8.3%) (i.a. 10.7%) ($1,250 million), registering an interannual expansion
 of 10.4% (see Graph 4.1). The growth in the period
 was explained essentially by the financings with des‐
Graph 4.2 tination mainly commercial, while the remaining

millions of $ Loans with Real Estate Guarantee lines maintained their relatively stable levels.

600 70

500 60
400 50 Credits with predominantly commercial destination
 advanced in July 3% ($1,280 million), presenting
 300 40
 in the last 12 months an increase of 11.4%.
 200 30 Financings instrumented with documents
 grew 2.8% ($550 million), favored by the
 100 20 significant positive statistical carryover that left
 0 10 June. For its part, advances in current account
 Var. Monthly Mortgage
 grew 2.1% ($380 million), while the remaining
-100 Var. Monthly Pledge 0
 Var. i.a. Mortgage (right axis) commercial financings increased
-200 Var. i.a. Pledge (right axis) -10 6.2% ($350 million).
 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09

 Source: BCRA Loans with real guarantees presented in the
 period a decline close to 0.3% ($70 million),
Chart 4.3 showing an interannual variation of 8.3%. Pledge
 millions of $ Consumer Loans credits, although they fell back 0.6% ($40
 % (average monthly variation) 60 million), continued softening their rate of decline,
 accompanying the trend in automobile sales. Mean‐
 600 50 while, mortgage loans contracted in the period 0.1%
 ($30 million), also softening their rate of decline (see
 400 40 Chart 4.2).

 For its part, credits destined mainly for consumption
 200 30 exhibited in July a slight increase of 0.1% ($30 million),
 presenting in interannual terms a growth of 10.7%.
 0 20 This increase was explained by credit card financings,
 which advanced in a month where a setback in the
-200 Monthly variation 10 stock is usually registered as a result of the cancellation
 Var. i.a. (right axis) of credit card balances upon receipt of half the annual
-400 0 complementary salary (see Chart 4.3).
 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09

Source: BCRA

 2 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally
 caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 6 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 registered a contraction of 2.9% (US$ 260 million) in July.

Chart 5.1  Interest Rates for Lebac and Nobac
   5. Interest Rates %NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR%LEBAC - Annual Rate
 2.0 16.6
 16.2
 1.6
 15.8 Securities issued by the BCRA3
 1.2 15.4
 During July, in the primary market for LEBAC, interest
 0.8 15 rates remained relatively stable compared to the
 previous month. Although a larger amount was placed
 14.6 than in June, the terms awarded were shorter than
 0.4 28/07/09 14.2 28/07/09 those recorded in the previous month.
 30/06/09 30/06/09
 0.0 days 13.8 days Meanwhile, in the case of NOBAC, smaller amounts
 Source: BCRA150 250 350 450 55060 120 180 240 300 360 were placed compared to the previous month, but at
 higher average terms. For comparable terms, the margins
 paid over BADLAR were slightly higher than those
 recorded in June (see Chart 5.1).

 Unlike what happened the previous month, the total
 amount of securities placed in the primary market was
 higher than the amount that matured. In turn, the BCRA
 continued carrying out operations in the secondary
 market, where it was also a net seller of securities.

Chart 5.2
thousands of Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder As a consequence of the aforementioned, the stock of se‐
millions $ curities issued by the BCRA increased 2%, ending the
30 Stock July vs June month at NV $33,870 million. LEBACs increased
(data as of July 31)
900 millions $ their participation in the total, reaching 43% of
25
BANKS the securities in circulation (8 p.p. above the per‐
20 REST 650
centage of the previous month).
26.8 27.6
15 400 826
When analyzing the distribution of BCRA securities
150
10 stock by holder, it is observed that banks continued
5 6.4 6.3
concentrating the largest portion of the securities
-79 0 -100
in circulation. The entities registered a 3% increase
Source: BCRA Jun-09 Jul-09
in their holdings compared to the previous month, with
an amount of $27,600 million at the end of July. On the
other hand, the rest of the holders (Insurance Companies,
Mutual Investment Funds, Foreign Investors, among
the most important) slightly decreased their stock (1%)
compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.2).

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 7 Interfinancial Markets

Repurchase Agreement Market1

Since the beginning of volatility episodes in interna‐
tional markets, the BCRA has been adopting a series
of prudential measures that made it possible to guar‐
antee the soundness of the local monetary market.
Within this framework, and continuing with its coun‐
Chart 5.3 tercyclical monetary policy, it decided to readjust the
system of active and passive repurchase agreements
Call Interest Rate that it offers to financial entities. In that sense, during
% July it implemented a reduction of 50 basis points in
17
the rates of passive and active repurchase agreements,
16 and eliminated operation terms of 14, 21 and 28 days,
15 which had been established temporarily in the past
year, in the face of the deepening of the international
14 Call at 1 business day (Total of Entities)
Call private banks at 1 business day volatility scenario. This measure had the objective
13 to encourage more efficient use of the liquid resources
12 of financial entities. In this way, the interest rates of
passive repurchase agreements were set at 10% and
11
10.5%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest
10 rates of active repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days
9 moved to 12% and 12.5%, respectively. It should be
30/09/08 09/11/08 19/12/08 28/01/09 09/03/09 18/04/09 28/05/09 07/07/09 noted that, at the beginning of August, an additional
reduction of 50 b.p. was implemented for said interest
rates.

The average stock of net repurchase agreements (passive‐
active) for the Central Bank decreased compared to June,
with lower balances in the stock of passive repurchase
agreements ($3,000 million), and reached a monthly
average of $11,800 million, equivalent to 6% of total
deposits in pesos. For its part, the average stock of active
repurchase agreements remained unchanged, at approxi‐
mately $40 million.

Chart 5.4

% Interest Rate for Call Operations at 1 business day Interbank Market 1

Daily maximum
28 Daily minimum In general terms, the interest rates in the interbank
Maximum monthly average lending market did not present major changes
23 Minimum monthly average compared to June, in a similar manner to the rest of
17.1 the short-term interest rates in the local monetary
18 19.3 market. In particular, the monthly average of the
18.8 interest rate for operations of up to 15 days was
8.9
13 5.8 located at 10.4%, barely 0.2 b.p. below the level
8 registered in June. A similar reduction was presented
by the interest rate in the segment
3 most traded, at 1 business day, whose monthly average
Ene-07 Abr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Ene-08 Abr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Ene-09 Abr-09 Jul-09 was located at 10.2% (see Graph 5.3).

The amounts traded in this market have already been
for a year at historically low levels, having

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 8 remained almost unchanged in July compared to June.
Specifically, the average amount traded was
$546 million in July, $32 million lower than the
previous month.

Regarding the distribution of the amount
traded in the interbank market by type of
entity, during July the pattern of the
last six months was repeated, with non-
Graph 5.5 banking financial entities (EFNB) leading as net
providers of funding, with a daily average contribution of
funds of 30-35 days of $200 million. Meanwhile, public
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos entities continued to be net providers by $30
20 Capital and GBA - Daily Data

19 million, although again by an amount

18 Retail private banks reduced compared to what they usually lent

17 Retail Private Banks in this market. Finally, foreign banking and
16 private national banks were, in that order, the main
15 funding demanders of the market, by $144 and $85

14 million, respectively.

13

12 For its part, the deviation of the interest rate of the

11 interbank operations at 1 business day had for a

10 second consecutive month a significant reduction. The

Source: BCRA Ene-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 average deviation in July was 0.8%, half of that
observed in the previous month, and a quarter of what was
registered in May. This reduction in dispersion
is also observed when calculating the difference between the
monthly average of the maximum and
minimum interest rate agreed each day. In effect, this difference
was 5.8 p.p., the lowest since September 2008 (see
Graph 5.4).

Passive Interest Rates¹

During July, passive interest rates
continued stable. The monthly average of the interest rate
paid by private banks to retail placements,
for amounts less than $100,000, remained at 12%.
For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by
private banks in the wholesale segment and for
deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at
13%, unchanged from the average registered in
June (see Graph 5.5).

On the other hand, the analysis of interest rates by
type of depositor also shows stability
among the rates offered for different account holders.
The average of the interest rates paid to
companies was located at 13.1%. Meanwhile, the average
of the interest rates paid to individuals
remained at 12.6%.

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 9 Active Interest Rates¹⁴

Just as passive interest rates, active
rates remained stable during July. In particular,
in the most traded segments, they continued
Graph 5.6 remaining at levels similar to those they have

%, TNA Active Commercial Interest Rates presented since the end of the first quarter of
35 Capital and GBA - Monthly Average - Private Banks
2009.

29.5 Ene-09 Jun-09 Jul-09
30
26.1 Within commercial loans granted by
24.6
25 23.0 23.3 private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate
22.1 23.0
20.1 19.8 for advances on current account was located at
20 22.1%, with a slight decrease from the average
16.3 16.9 16.1 16.6
15 of June. Within operations with prior agreement,
which represent 88% of total operations,
10 the average interest rate of the most
traded segment, corresponding to advances to companies

5
0 to up to 7 days maturity for amounts exceeding
Advances Total Adv. w/ Agreement +$10M aDoc. Discounted Doc. Sole Signature
Source: BCRA companies $10 million, was located at 16.1% with a very slight
decline compared to that observed in June, although
with a fall of 7.2 percentage points compared to the average level
at the beginning of the year.

For its part, the interest rates of the three modalities
of financing through documents
(discounted, sole signature and purchased) registered
a similar evolution, without significant changes with
respect to June. The average interest rate of the
discounted documents, the most operated line with a
Chart 6.1 50% of total operations, was located at 16.6%. For
its part, the average of the interest rate of sole
International Reserves and GDP signature documents was located at 19.8% (see Chart 5.6).
thousands of
millions of US$ %
55 Reserves/GDP s.o.(right axis) 20
50 International Reserves 18 The interest rates of personal loans

45 16 granted in Capital and GBA by private banks re‐

40 14 gistered an increase of 0.5 percentage points compared to the previous month,

35 12 reaching an average value of 39.2%.

30 10

25
20 8 Finally, also considering the operations

15 6 agreed upon by private banks in Capital and GBA, the

10 4 interest rates of mortgage loans remained

5 2 stable at a level close to 17.4%. It is worth

0 0 mentioning that this interest rate is referred only
Jan-96 Jul-97 Jan-99 Jul-00 Jan-02 Jul-03 Jan-05 Jul-06 Jan-08 Jul-09 to operations agreed at fixed interest rate
Source: Own elaboration based on BCRA and INDEC data. or renegotiable and that does not include those
agreed at variable rate. On the other hand, the interest rate
corresponding to financings with
pledged guarantee was located at 24.1%, below the
average of June (0.7 percentage points).

4 The information to elaborate this section comes from the monthly information requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data
of loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 10 6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market5

Chart 6.2 The stock of international reserves continued at
high levels both in absolute terms and in
Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate relation to Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In effect, the
10% balance at the end of July (u$s 46,047 million) proved

5% similar to that registered at the end of June. In turn, the
balance of international reserves represented

0% approximately 16% of GDP in July (see Chart
6.1).

-5%
The quotes of the currencies of the main
-10% $/U$S $/Euro $/Real commercial partners with respect to the peso show that the
local currency slowed its depreciation in relation

-15% to what occurred in recent months. In effect, the average quote for the United States Dollar was
Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 3.81 $/u$s, while for the Real it was located at
* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. 1.98 $/Real and for the Euro, at 5.37 $/Euro. This im‐
Source: BCRA plied that the monthly depreciation of the peso with respect
to the mentioned currencies was 1.1%, 2.7%, and
1.5%, respectively (see Chart 6.2).

7. Capital Markets

Shares

During July, stock markets in the world
had, in general, a recovery after the negative per‐
Chart 7.1 formance of June. The MSCI global increased
by 8.4% Meanwhile, the MSCI index (measured in
Performance of World Stock Indices dollars in all cases) had an increase of
(base index 02/07/07 =100) 10.6% for European stock exchanges, the MSCI of Latinoa‐

155
America grew 8.7% and Japan 4.2%. In contrast, the U.S. S&P 500 showed a negative result of 1.4% (see Chart 7.1).

In Argentina's MERVAL index, a very good performance was observed during July, ending the month at 1,720 points, which implied an increase of 8.3% in the month, measured in pesos. In this way, the MERVAL considerably reduced the loss of the last twelve months to 10%, while in what has accumulated so far in 2009 it has accumulated a gain close to 60%.

With regard to the volatility of the stock markets, it should be noted that, in general, it has been reduced since March. The last month was no exception for the local stock exchange. Specifically, the historical volatility of the MERVAL, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 32.2% during July, 5.2 p.p. less than during the previous month (see Chart 7.2).

On the other hand, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) averaged 26.2% in July, that is 3 p.p. less than during June, reaching the lowest value since August of last year.

At the local level, the volume traded daily in the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange during July averaged $36 million, which represents a reduction in the amount traded of $9 million compared to June and 50% less than the previous year.

## Public Securities

During July, the EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, was reduced by 35 p.b.. Meanwhile, the spread of debt in foreign currency of Latin America was reduced by 39 p.b., Argentina's by 100 p.b., and Brazil's by 19 p.b.. When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, it was observed that the spread of Argentina's 5-year contracts (the most traded segment) decreased by 270 p.b., while the spread of Brazil's CDS did the same by 44 p.b. (see Chart 7.3).

The volume traded in public securities (on a daily average) continued at reduced levels and, after having increased in June, it decreased again in July, standing at $680 million, $315 million less than the previous month and $1,690 million less compared to July 2008.

## Private Securities

In the private debt market, no negotiable bond issuances were recorded in the month of July.

## Mutual Investment Funds

The mutual investment funds (FCI) in July experienced a monthly increase of 5.6%, ending with a patrimony of more than $14,700 million. The increase was recorded both in the local and foreign currency segments.
On one hand, FCIs in pesos reached a net worth of $13,060 million, 5% higher than that registered at the end of June. The largest increase (18.6%) was recorded in the fixed income segment, which ended the month of July with a net worth of $2,165 million. This fact was explained mainly by the increase in the quantities of fund shares, and caused that segment to gain participation in the total of the funds (2 percentage points more with respect to June).

On the other hand, the mixed income and variable segments also experienced increases of 13% and 8%, respectively. These increases were related to a strong increase in the prices of their fund shares.

Lastly, the money market segment presented a slight rise in its net worth during July, which exceeded $8,600 million. Its participation in the total was reduced by 2.5 percentage points with respect to June, coming to represent 66% of the FCIs in pesos.

With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, their net worth showed an increase of 11%. The most notable increases were experienced by the mixed income and variable segments given the improvement reflected in the prices of their fund shares.

## Financial Trusts

During July, FF emissions totaled $427 million (see Graph 7.5). Given that last month a historical maximum had been reached, thanks to an important placement by the public sector, this month showed a 77% decline in the total issued with respect to the previous month. However, the total issued also decreased 59% with respect to the same month of last year. In July, a total of 12 placements were registered, barely 2 fewer than in June, although less than half of those in July 2008.

On the other hand, when analyzing FF emissions excluding those intended to finance infrastructure projects (given that these are sporadic placements of large magnitude), it was found that the total placed so far in the year amounts to $3,327 million (see Graph 7.6), an amount significantly lower than that registered in the same period of the last two years and similar to that of 2006. Nevertheless, since the sharp contraction in May, a modest recovery has been noted, with a 19% increase in the last month.

As for underlying assets, consumer financing once again constituted almost the totality of securitized assets in the month, concentrating 90% of the total (see Graph 7.6). Within this type of underlying asset, personal loans (66% of the total) registered an increase in securitized amounts of 39% with respect to the previous month, while credit card coupons (24% of the total) decreased slightly (-10%). The remaining 10% corresponded to future cash flows, which in June had had a dominant participation.
# July 2009

## Credit Card Coupons

**Future Fund Flows**
**Personal Loans 10%**
**66%**

**Consumption=90%**

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others.

---

Among the settlors, retail trade stood out by concentrating close to half of the securitized assets in the month (49% of the total), which had not occurred since the beginning of the year. For their part, financial entities were settlors of 27% of the total issued, followed by mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers, which represented 24% of the total. Regarding the securitized amounts, both retail trade and financial entities registered a significant increase compared to the previous month, of 72% and 55% respectively. Meanwhile, mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers reduced their securitizations by 17% compared to June.

---

## Chart 7.7

**Cut-off Rate of Securities with Variable Interest**
**% (Class A Securities in pesos - by type of settlor)**

The cut-off interest rates of senior securities showed disparate behavior depending on whether they were fixed or variable rate securities. In this sense, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of securities auctioned at fixed rate registered a slight decline compared to the previous month (0.2 p.p.), standing at 17.1%. Meanwhile, that corresponding to securities awarded at variable rate accumulated an increase of 2.6 p.p. in the month, reaching 19.7%. The highest rates were recorded in the first fortnight of July (see Chart 7.7) and corresponded to FF that had as settlors retail trade and mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers, who explained most of the increase. In effect, the cut-off rate of this type of FF increased by 3.6 p.p., while that of securities issued by financial entities registered an increase of lesser magnitude (1 p.p.), standing at 17.3%. For its part, the duration—weighted average by amount—of senior securities was again positioned at a level similar to that of May (4.5 months) following the increase that took place last month.

---

## Chart 7.8

**Financial Assets in Portfolio of Financial Entities**
**millions of $ | Balances of VDF and CP at the close of each month | % Year-over-year Variation**

Regarding the securities issued by FF in the portfolio of financial entities, they ended the month at $6,141 million (see Chart 7.8), declining 2.4% ($204 million) compared to last month. Meanwhile, the variation compared to the same month of the previous year was 9% in July, with a decline in the year-over-year growth rate evident in the last three months.

---

## Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 148. Monetary and Financial Indicators

**Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.**

| **Principal monetary and financial system variables** | **Jul-09** | **Jun-09** | **Dec-08** | **Jul-08** | **Monthly percentage variations** | **Average percentage variations Last 12 months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| Monetary base | 105,960 | 103,652 | 106,439 | 100,676 | 2.2% | 1.8% | 5.2% | -0.2% |
| Monetary circulation | 82,999 | 79,526 | 80,247 | 75,142 | 4.4% | 3.9% | 10.5% | 4.8% |
| In the hands of the public | 73,916 | 70,989 | 70,897 | 68,127 | 4.1% | 3.7% | 8.5% | 2.9% |
| In financial entities | 9,083 | 8,537 | 9,350 | 7,015 | 6.4% | 5.9% | 29.5% | 22.8% |
| Current account in the BCRA | 22,961 | 24,126 | 26,192 | 25,534 | -4.8% | -5.2% | -10.1% | -14.7% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 11,835 | 14,886 | 10,187 | 9,710 | -20.5% | -20.8% | 21.9% | 15.6% |
| Assets | 37 | 39 | 2,302 | 70 | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
# LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 13.051 12.496 11.771 27.419 4.4% 4.0% -52.4% -54.8%

NOBAC 20.408 21.640 28.389 22.319 -5.7% -6.1% -8.6% -13.3%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) 45.993 46.385 46.198 47.600 -0.8% -3.4%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 197.850 200.610 197.274 196.228 -1.4% -1.8% 0.8% -4.3%
Current account (2) 61.709 65.353 64.944 55.567 -5.6% -6.0% 11.1% 5.4%
Savings account 40.442 38.811 37.358 37.527 4.2% 3.8% 7.8% 2.2%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 84.589 85.143 82.623 91.818 -0.6% -1.1% -7.9% -12.6%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 108 113 322 707 -4.1% -4.5% -84.7% -85.5%
Other deposits (3) 11.001 11.190 12.028 10.609 -1.7% -2.1% 3.7% -1.6%

Private sector deposits 138.824 138.588 135.455 139.750 0.2% -0.3% -0.7% -5.8%

Public sector deposits 59.026 62.021 61.819 56.478 -4.8% -5.2% 4.5% -0.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11.767 11.602 9.346 8.221 1.4% 43.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 124.963 122.454 119.040 112.912 2.0% 1.6% 10.7% 5.0%

Loans to the private sector 112.443 111.322 108.136 101.838 1.0% 0.6% 10.4% 4.7%
Advances 18.423 18.040 15.735 16.166 2.1% 1.7% 14.0% 8.1%
Documents 20.090 19.539 19.517 18.907 2.8% 2.4% 6.3% 0.8%
Mortgage 18.035 18.060 17.931 16.082 -0.1% -0.6% 12.1% 6.4%
Pledged assets 6.928 6.970 7.610 6.975 -0.6% -1.0% -0.7% -5.8%
Personal 27.835 27.945 27.668 26.046 -0.4% -0.8% 6.9% 1.4%
Credit cards 15.185 15.168 14.712 12.819 0.1% -0.3% 18.5% 12.4%
Others 5.947 5.600 4.963 4.842 6.2% 5.7% 22.8% 16.5%

Loans to the public sector 12.520 11.132 10.904 11.074 12.5% 12.0% 13.1% 7.3%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.766 6.024 5.973 5.994 -4.3% -3.8%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 135.625 136.342 135.841 123.694 -0.5% -0.9% 9.6% 4.0%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 176.068 175.154 173.198 161.221 0.5% 0.1% 9.2% 3.6%
M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 271.766 271.599 268.171 264.355 0.1% -0.4% 2.8% -2.5%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 316.586 315.321 300.185 289.200 0.4% 0.0% 9.5% 3.9%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 112.347 110.958 109.263 104.770 1.3% 0.8% 7.2% 1.7%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 149.092 145.644 143.005 139.324 2.4% 1.9% 7.0% 1.5%
M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 212.740 209.578 206.352 207.877 1.5% 1.1% 2.3% -2.9%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 249.247 245.144 233.507 229.632 1.7% 1.2% 8.5% 3.0%

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.308 2.2% 6.125 5.8% -479 -0.5% 5.283 5.0%
Financial sector 3.061 2.9% 3.352 3.2% -3.667 -3.5% -1.925 -1.8%
Public sector 331 0.3% -549 -0.5% -5.371 -5.1% -10.841 -10.2%
Private external sector -2.444 -2.3% -443 -0.4% -3.880 -3.7% -10.561 -10.0%
BCRA titles 1.098 1.0% 2.982 2.8% 9.533 9.0% 20.735 19.6%
Others 262 0.2% 782 0.7% 2.907 2.7% 7.876 7.4%

International reserves -392 -0.9% -275 -0.6% -205 -0.4% -1.607 -3.5%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -645 -1.4% -160 -0.3% -1.028 -2.2% -3.005 -6.5%
Payment to international organizations 152 0.3% 206 0.4% -30 -0.1% -210 -0.5%
Other public sector operations -420 -0.9% -628 -1.4% -410 -0.9% -326 -0.7%
Minimum cash 315 0.7% -107 -0.2% 362 0.8% 942 2.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 206 0.4% 314 0.7% 1.042 2.3% 1.132 2.5%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

 Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 16 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 10.38 10.54 11.01 14.05 9.23
 Amount operated 546 577 533 573 720

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 11.95 11.84 11.80 15.76 12.41
 60 days or more 12.94 13.33 13.49 17.41 13.14
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.34 12.26 12.05 16.59 12.84
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.04 12.94 12.82 19.07 14.65

 In dollars
 30 days 0.90 0.90 1.00 1.68 1.45
 60 days or more 1.32 1.53 1.61 2.48 2.15
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.12 0.99 1.09 1.50 1.58
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.28 1.29 1.49 2.86 2.67

 Active Interest Rates Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

Prime in pesos at 30 days 20.09 20.15 20.23 27.76 22.47

Collateral in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.01 14.04 12.84 15.75 12.28
 Amount operated (total terms) 267 146 235 122 142

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21.75 22.46 23.34 27.72 22.34
 Documents on sole signature 19.25 18.73 20.53 25.94 20.93
 Mortgages 16.80 16.32 16.01 16.23 12.24
 Pledged assets 21.92 22.32 23.20 21.07 18.66
 Personal 33.52 32.74 33.88 35.45 31.84
 Credit cards n/a n/a 29.87 29.04 28.81

 International Interest Rates Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.29 0.32 0.34 1.02 2.46
 6 months 0.98 1.18 1.36 2.14 3.12

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.00 1.16 0.92 0.81 2.56
 10 years 3.55 3.70 3.30 2.38 3.98

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 2.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 9.06 9.58 10.25 13.75 12.45

(1) Data through May correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for June and July are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 10.10 10.50 10.50 10.50 8.75
 Liabilities 7 days 10.60 11.00 11.00 11.00 9.00
 Assets 7 days 12.60 13.00 13.00 13.00 11.00

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 10.13 10.52 10.51 10.53 8.57
 7 days 10.82 11.26 11.10 12.56 9.10

Amount operated of REPO round repos (daily average) 7,458 7,446 9,261 5,580 7,083

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 12.48 n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 12.18 n/a
 3 months 14.50 14.49 14.50 12.50 11.05
 9 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 12 months 16.24 16.25 16.25 n/a 11.94

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.37 1.35 1.20 n/a 1.00
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.79 1.80 1.65 1.75 1.41
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a 3.25 3.25 n/a 1.60
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 114 174 177 130 449

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.81 3.77 3.73 3.42 3.02
 BCRA Reference 3.81 3.77 3.72 3.42 3.02

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.87 3.83 3.78 3.60 3.05
 ROFEX 1 month 3.83 3.78 3.73 3.44 3.02
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 972 950 652 458 465

Real (Pesos x Real) 1.98 1.92 1.81 1.43 1.90

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.37 5.29 5.09 4.64 4.76

 Capital Market Jul-09 Jun-09 May-09 Dec-08 Jul-08

MERVAL
 Index 1,617 1,598 1,498 1,055 1,944
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 43 49 69 42 93
# Government Bonds (at par)

BODEN 2012 (US$) 65.99 64.44 61.70 52.32 87.83
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 54.84 49.71 38.62 34.97 86.84
BODEN 2014 ($) 51.29 41.40 30.00 23.83 64.65
DISCOUNT ($) 44.60 35.30 29.98 29.72 62.06

# Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 2,433 2,666 3,879 3,439 882
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 428 467 509 713 297

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

AFJP: Administrators of Retirement and Pension Funds.
ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts greater than one million pesos and with terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock Index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Funds.
FGS: Sustainability Guarantee Fund.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus the total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System of Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
FV: Face Value.

Monetary Report | July 2009 | BCRA | 19
