# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2009

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 6 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 6 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repo Market
Page 7 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates
Page 9 | Interest Rate Swap Operations

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 10 | Stocks
Page 11 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Common Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on December 11, 2009. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The BCRA's policies continue generating a context of stability and confidence that is reflected in the continuous expansion of demand for domestic currency. Thus, in November the monetary aggregates continued along the growth path initiated in mid-year. Private means of payment registered a monthly increase of 2.1%, showing growth of 13% over the last twelve months. For its part, total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $180,930 million (13.4% y.o.y.), registering a monthly increase of 1%.

• The increase in demand for local currency was reflected in the total deposits in pesos which increased 1.5% in the period, driven essentially by placements belonging to the private sector, which showed an increase of 3.3%, with an acceleration of its growth compared to that recorded during previous months. The evolution of time deposits stands out, which after the monthly increase in November (4%), completed a rise of $7,600 million (13.2%) over the last 4 months.

• Liquidity –which includes current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks, net repos agreed with the Central Bank and LEBACs and NOBACs– of financial entities was placed at 37% of total deposits in pesos (0.6 p.p. above the October level). In turn, financial entities as a whole ended November with a surplus in the Minimum Cash position in national currency equivalent to 0.5% of deposits in pesos.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued showing growing dynamism. In November, the total of loans presented an average monthly increase of 1.2% ($1,440 million), registering the largest expansion of the last 12 months. Although all lines showed increases, credits destined mainly for consumption continued showing greater dynamism by exhibiting an increase of 2% ($940 million). Meanwhile, credits mainly for commercial purposes showed an increase of 0.9% ($380 million), while balances of loans with real guarantees grew 0.5% ($120 million).

• The main short-term passive interest rates decreased during the month. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was placed at 10.7%, with a monthly decrease of 1.2 p.p. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements, for the same term, decreased 0.8 p.p., placing itself at 10.3%.
• Active interest rates also decreased during November. The average interest rate for overdrafts in current accounts with prior agreement granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, granted to companies, for terms of up to 7 days and for amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 11.4% with a decrease of 1 percentage point compared to the average observed in October.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

Chart 2.1
Monetary Aggregates During November, the monetary aggregates continued
(November 2009, on average) along the growth path initiated in mid-year. In a context of persistent stability
and strong confidence generated by BCRA policies,
US$ Deposits which is reflected in the continuous expansion of domestic
demand, private means of payment experienced an
Other Deposits increase of 2.1%, accumulating growth of 13% year-over-
Public Sector M3* year. For their part, total means of payment (M2)
reached an average of $180,930 million (13.4% year-over-
Private Sector 1% year), registering an increase of 1% in the month. This
Time Deposits M3 growth was driven both by sight deposits from the private
1.5% sector and by currency in circulation held by the public
Sight Deposits (see Chart 2.1).
M2
1%
Bills and Coins The change in private sector preferences, now oriented
toward pesification of their portfolio, was reflected in
-4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 the factors that allowed for the monthly expansion of M2.
thousands of millions of $ In effect, in November, together with the increase in
Source: BCRA loans to the private sector, purchases of foreign currency
stood out, factors that also contributed to the increase in
Chart 2.2 time deposits and the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by
the non-financial private sector (see Chart 2.2).
Factors Explaining the Variation of M2

thousands of (November 2009, on average) The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered a
millions of $ monthly increase of 1.5%, again highlighting the import-
6 ant contribution of term placements of the private sector.
5 For their part, private M3 grew 2.7%.
4
3 The total of deposits in domestic currency increased 1.5%
2 in the period, driven essentially by placements belonging
1 to the private sector, which showed an increase of 3.3%,
0 which determined an acceleration of its growth compared
-1 to that recorded during previous months (see Chart 2.3).
-2 Meanwhile, deposits corresponding to the public sector
-3 decreased 2.6%, presenting declines in both sight place-
-4 ments and time deposit impositions.
Foreign Currency Sector Public* LEBAC and Loans to Dep. to Time Other M2
Purchases Excluded NOBAC Sector and Other Private
*Includes time deposits and others, loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

The increase in total private deposits was explained both
by the growth of time deposit placements and by sight
Chart 2.3 deposits. Regarding the latter, significant increases were
registered in both current accounts and savings accounts.
thousands of Total Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector For their part, time deposits continued to grow strongly
millions $ in November (4%), completing in the last 4 months an
156 increase of $7,600 million (13.2%). In the month, growth
153 Monthly Average was driven both by retail segment placements (placements
150 Daily Value of up to $1 million)

147

144

141

138

135

132
Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09
Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 4

**Graph 3.1** as well as wholesale. With respect to this latter amount tier, it is expected that in the coming weeks its expansion rate will moderate, as a consequence of the greater seasonal liquidity demand from companies, linked among other factors to the payment of the half-yearly complementary salary.

Finally, in line with the greater demand for peso-denominated assets, deposits in the foreign currency segment decreased 1.6%, with reductions in both private and public placements. In any case, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, advanced 1% in November.

## % of Bank Liquidity
deposits
- 50 Private Banks Public Banks
- 40
- 30
- 20
- 10
- 0
- -10

CC BCRA Cash Net Repurchase Agreements LEBAC and NOBAC
Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09

Source: BCRA

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Graph 3.2**

Minimum Cash Position In November, the liquidity of financial entities increased
% of again. The broad liquidity ratio² reached 37% (0.6 p.p.
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position above the October level).
- 2.5
- 2.0 This increase was driven by the behavior of private banks,
- 1.5 mainly due to the increase in their holdings of LEBAC and
- 1.0 NOBAC (see Graph 3.1). Meanwhile, for public banks,
- 0.5 0.5 the broad liquidity ratio decreased slightly, with a re-
- 0.0 duction in their net repurchase agreement position with
- -0.5 the BCRA, and in LEBAC and NOBAC.
- -1.0
- -1.5

Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 The integration of the Minimum Cash requirement
(current account at the BCRA and cash in banks) in
Source: BCRA pesos was 16% of deposits, 0.5 p.p. higher than the
requirement³ (see Graph 3.2). For its part, the Mini-
mum Cash position in the foreign currency segment
**Graph 4.1** decreased again by 1 p.p. compared to the previous
month, as a result of a slight decrease in integration.
Loans in Pesos to the Non-Financial Private Sector
thousands of
% (monthly variation) millions of $

- 2.0 2.0

Amount (right axis) ## 4. Loans¹⁴
- 1.5 Monthly Variation 1.5

- 1.0 1.0 Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to show

- 0.5 0.5 growing dynamism. In November, total loans showed an
increase in their monthly average of 1.2% ($1,440 million),
- 0.0 0.0 recording the largest expansion of the last 12 months.
(see Graph 4.1).
- -0.5 -0.5

Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09

Source: BCRA

² The sum of cash in banks, deposits in current account at the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC in terms of total deposits in pesos.

³ For greater detail on the integration and requirement of minimum cash, a new annex table was added at the end of the document.

⁴ Monthly loan variations are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

---

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 5

0.9% ($380 million). Current account advances fell 1.1% ($190 million), affected in part by the negative statistical carryover from October (see Graph 4.2), while financing structured with documents increased 1.7% ($360 million). Meanwhile, the remaining commercial financing increased 3.5% ($210 million), driven by the granting of credits destined for infrastructure works.

**Graph 4.2**

thousands of
millions of $ Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
(daily value and monthly average)
- 22
- 21
- 20
- 19
- 18
- 17

The balances of loans with real guarantee increased
16 Advances - Daily Value 0.5% ($120 million), showing an expansion rate
 Advances - Monthly Average
15 Documents - Daily Value similar to that of the previous months (see Chart 4.3). Pawn
 Documents - Monthly Average loans increased 0.6% ($40 million),
14
 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09accompanying the evolution of automobile sales.

 Source: BCRA Meanwhile, mortgage loans showed an
 increase of 0.4% ($80 million), driven again
 Chart 4.3 by housing credits and SMEs.

 millions of $ Loans with Real Guarantee On the other hand, credits destined mainly for
 (monthly average var. and year-over-year) % consumption exhibited in November an increase of 2%
 600 70 ($940 million), continuing with the dynamism of the
 500 60 recent months. Credit card financing increased
 400 50 2.1% ($350 million), softening its increase after
 300 40 the October acceleration linked to Mother's Day
 200 30 spending. Meanwhile, personal loans grew 1.9%
 100 20 ($590 million).

 0 10 For their part, loans in foreign currency to the
 Monthly Var. Mortgages private sector maintained their monthly average
 Monthly Var. Pawn Loans 0 balance at levels similar to those of October.
-100 Y-o-Y Var. Mortgages (Right Axis)
-200 Y-o-Y Var. Pawn Loans (Right Axis) -10

 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-095. Interest Rates

Source: BCRA
 Titles Issued by the BCRA5

 Chart 5.1 In the LEBAC primary market, during November
 larger amounts were awarded, and at average
 terms longer than those of October. As occurred in the
 % LEBAC Interest Rate previous months, interest rates decreased gradually,
 (primary market) especially for titles with longer terms (see
 18% Chart 5.1).

 17%
 In the case of NOBAC, although similar amounts

 16% were placed compared to the previous month, the
 15% awards were concentrated in the first two auctions of
 25-Aug November. The margins paid on the BADLAR of
 14% 29-Sep private banks for comparable terms were slightly
 13% 27-Oct lower with respect to October.

 24-Nov
 12% As in the previous months, the total placed in the
 50 150 250 350 450 550 650 750 primary market was higher than the amount that
 Source: BCRA matured, producing a contractionary monetary effect
 through these instruments. On the other hand, the Central
5 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated. Bank continued conducting operations in the secondary
 market, being a net buyer of titles, although for a
 Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 6 reduced amount.

 Chart 5.2
 thousands of
 millions $ Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder As a consequence of the above, the stock of titles
 45 (data as of the last Friday of each month) issued by the Central Bank increased 8% with respect to
 39.6
 40 Banks Other October, ending November at $47,813 million.
 36.7
 34.4
 35 30.7 30.7 Given that LEBAC were awarded mainly, such
 30 28.2 27.7 27.9 26.8 27.6
 titles reached 71% of the total in circulation, 6 p.p.
 25.9
 25 more than in October.

 20

 15

 10 8.5 8.3 8.3 8.1 7.8When considering the distribution of the stock in
 6.4 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.7 8.3 circulation by type of holder, it is observed that banks
 5 registered another month of increase. Financial entities
 - ended November with a holding of approximately $40
 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09
 Source: BCRA billion, 8% more than in October. Meanwhile, the
 remainder of the title holders (Insurance Companies
 and FCIs, among the most important) closed November
 with holdings of $8 billion, 7.4% above the
 previous month (see Chart 5.2).
 Interfinancial Markets

 Repurchase Agreements Market1
In November, there was a decline in the average stock of net repos (liabilities minus assets) for the Central Bank, with a lower stock of passive repos, while the stock of active repos remained unchanged. The average balance of passive repos was reduced by $870 million and its average monthly value reached a level of $10,100 million. For its part, the average stock of active repos remained at $390 million.

The interest rates of all repo modalities remained at the same levels as October. The passive repo rates were placed at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates of active repos of 1 and 7 days were at 11% and 11.50%, respectively.

## Interbank Market¹

The average interest rate of the interbank market stood at 8.9%, decreasing 0.2 percentage points with respect to October. The average interest rate for operations at 1 business day also showed a slight monthly decrease (0.1 p.p.), standing at 8.8% in November. The amounts traded in this market remained at reduced levels and the daily average negotiated in November stood at $605 million (see Chart 5.3).

The distribution of the amount traded in the interbank market by type of entity repeated the pattern of recent months, with non-banking financial entities (EFNB) leading net funding providers, with a daily average funding contribution of $216 million. Meanwhile, public entities continued to be net providers, but by a minor amount, $7 million. Finally, foreign banking and national private banking were, in that order, the main funding demanders of the market for $128 and $95 million respectively (see Chart 5.4).

The stability of the average interest rates was accompanied by a low dispersion of yields traded. In fact, the average deviation was 0.74%, practically unchanged compared to October.

## Passive Interest Rates¹

The main short-term passive interest rates decreased significantly during the month. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 10.7%, with a decrease of 1.2 percentage points compared to the average recorded in October (see Chart 5.5). For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements, for the same period, decreased 0.8 p.p., standing at 10.3%.

On the other hand, in the interest rate futures market, an increase (7%) was observed in the quantity of BADLAR futures contracts closed in November. In this market, a reduction in interest rates was also observed. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in contracts with maturity on December 31 stood at 10.3% with a decrease of 1.2 p.p. in the month, while the rate corresponding to the contract with maturity at the close of the first quarter of 2010 was 11.3%, 1 p.p. below the rate it had at the end of October.

## Active Interest Rates¹

Similarly to the short-term passive interest rates,
Dec-08 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 active rates were reduced during November.
Source: BCRA

Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and Greater Buenos Aires, the average interest rate for current account advances with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 11.4%

6 The information to prepare this section comes from the daily requirement SISCEN 18, with daily data on loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 8 with a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the average observed in October (see Graph 5.5). Meanwhile, the interest rate for current account advances for the total of terms would have declined 0.7 p.p. compared to the average for October.

For its part, the interest rates for the three modalities of financing through documents (discounted, on signature alone, and purchased) registered a similar evolution, with a decline compared to October. In particular, the average rate for documents on signature alone would have decreased 1.3 p.p. compared to the October average.

Meanwhile, according to preliminary information for Capital and Greater Buenos Aires, the interest rates for personal loans would have registered a decline of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month. For its part, the interest rates for mortgage loans to households would have been reduced Graph 5.6 slightly compared to the October level, while the interest rate corresponding to financing with chattel mortgage guarantee would have declined 0.9 p.p. compared to the October average.

Interest Rate Swap Operations Fixed for Variable Rate

In keeping with the actions adopted to preserve credit dynamics, in November the fourth auction of fixed for variable interest rate swaps (BADLAR private banks) was carried out for terms of 3 to 5 years, for $150 million notional. The proposals received totaled $85 million, of which $15 million were awarded. Unlike the previous auction, in which awards were made in all the auctioned tranches, this time the total offer was validated for the longest term, of 5 years, at a rate of 15%, 1.5 p.p. lower than the one agreed in the previous auction for the same tranche (see Graph 5.6).

Additionally, in the Electronic Open Market (MAE), $35 million notional were traded in November between private parties, an amount similar to that of the previous month. The contracts were agreed for 1 and 2 year terms, with a fixed rate (weighted average by amount) of 12.6% and 13.8%, respectively. After the close of the month, the BCRA modified the terms under which it will operate through the transfer function in the interest rate swap market, while also extending the deadline (see Com A 4776), which will contribute to providing greater dynamism to the market in the coming months.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 9 Graph 6.1

International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of excluding 2009 SDR allocations
millions of u$s
55 6. International Reserves and

50
45 Foreign Exchange Market7

40
thousands of Variation Factors
35 millions u$s The stock of international reserves excluding Special Drawing Right (SDR) allocations 2009 reached
1.2
30 1.0 u$s 47,072 million (see Graph 6.1), after increasing by u$s 795 million in the month. Foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank (approximately u$s 1,000 million) were the main explanatory factor for the increase
0.8
25 0.6
0.4 u$s 47,072 million (see Graph 6.1), after increasing by u$s 795 million in the month. The purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank (approximately u$s 1,000 million) were the main explanatory factor for the increase
20 0.2
0.0 Int. Res. excl. Purchase of Int. Orgs. Other Op. of Eff. Min.
15 -0.2
-0.4 assign. SDRs Divisas S. Pub.
10
5 2009
0 to monthly of international reserves. Meanwhile, the minimum cash accounts were reduced as a result of the decrease in dollar deposits, due to the appreciation of the exchange rate observed, and the presence of expectations of lower depreciation for the coming months.

**Graph 6.2**

**Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate** In the foreign exchange market, the quotations of the currencies of the main trading partners remained stable. In particular, the US dollar quoted 3.81 $/u$s, on average, in November, registering for the second consecutive month an appreciation of the exchange rate (0.4%, see Graph 6.2). Meanwhile, the quotation of the Real showed no variations in monthly terms (2.2 $/Real), while that of the Euro was 5.69 $/Euro (an increase of 0.3% monthly). For its part, in the forward market (ROFEX), the amount traded remained high ($920 million), while the contracts entered into continued to reflect expectations of a lower rate of depreciation for the coming year.

* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
Source: BCRA

**7. Capital Market**

**Graph 7.1**

**Performance of Stock Market Indices in the World** **Stocks**

(base index 02/07/07 =100)

During November, stock markets in the world generally had good performance until the fourth week of the month, when they were affected by the Dubai credit event8. Despite this event, in November the global MSCI increased 3.5%. Regarding regional evolution, the MSCI index of Japan was the only one that suffered a loss, with a decrease of 1%. Meanwhile, the MSCI of Latin America grew 8.5% and that of European stock exchanges increased 3.1%. For its part, the American S&P 500 increased 6.7% between the end of October and November (see Graph 7.1).

7 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.
8 The real estate developer Dubai World postponed the payment of debt maturities in December.
9 Measured in dollars in all cases.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 10 Argentina's MERVAL index also showed good performance during November, ending the month at almost 2,150 points, with a monthly increase of 1.5%, measured in pesos. Like the stock markets in the rest of the world, the intra-monthly evolution of the MERVAL was also affected by the Dubai episode: previously, the local index had reached 2,300 points, a value it had not registered since November 2007. Compared to a year ago, the local stock exchange accumulated an increase of 116%, while so far in 2009 it has accumulated a gain of 99%.

**Graph 7.2**

**Volatility (%)** **Volatility of Stock Markets** 22 days
MERVAL (Argentina)
IPC (Mexico)
BOVESPA (Brazil)
S&P 500 (USA)
Shanghai Index (China)

Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a positive variation of 1.7% in November. Among the rest of the main Latin American markets, the gain of the IPC (Mexico) stood out, which reached 10.3%. They were followed by the BOVESPA (Brazil), with an increase of 9.7%, the IGPA (Chile), which registered a growth of 5.4% and, almost unchanged, the IGBVL (Peru), with a variation of 0.3%.

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
The historical volatility of the MERVAL - 22 trading sessions - in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 33.7% during November, 2.4 p.p. more than during the previous month. On the other hand, the expected volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) averaged 23.8% in November, this is 0.6 p.p. less than during October, the lowest value since September of last year (see Chart 7.2).

The volume traded daily, on average, on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $70 million, which represents a reduction of $28 million with respect to October, and 36% with respect to the same period of the previous year.

**Sovereign Risk Indicators**

During November the sovereign risk indicators remained practically unchanged. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole remained close to 300 b.p.. Meanwhile, the spread of debt in foreign currency of Latin America ended November at 360 b.p., that of Brazil at 227 b.p. and that of Argentina at 737 b.p.. When considering Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, it is observed that the spread of Argentina's contracts at 5 years (the most traded segment) decreased 21 b.p., while the spread of Brazil's CDS at the same term also decreased slightly (see Chart 7.3).

On the other hand, in the yield curve of public securities in pesos there were also few changes reflected in November, with the exception of PRE8 whose yield has greater volatility due to being close to maturity (see Chart 7.4).

The volume traded in public securities (on a daily average basis) continued at reduced levels, standing at $904 million, unchanged with respect to the previous month.

**Private Securities**

In the private debt market, 4 negotiable obligations (ON) were placed in November. Series were issued in local currency for a total of $151.3 million and in foreign currency for an amount of u$s31.6 million.

On one hand, INVAP SE placed an ON in two series, for a total amount of u$s25 million. The first series was carried out for u$s5 million and will mature in November 2011. Interest payment will be quarterly and amortization at maturity. With respect to the second issue, u$s20 million was placed and long-term. It will mature in November 2019, will pay semi-annual interest and will also amortize semi-annually, but starting in May 2013. The base rate applicable for both series will be LIBOR, plus a margin of 300 b.p. for the first and 600 b.p. for the longer-term one.

On the other hand, Alto Palermo SA also placed an ON in two series. The first of these was carried out for an amount of $55.8 million at BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 300 b.p.. The other series, in foreign currency, was for u$s6.6 million, at a fixed interest rate of 6.75% per annum. Both will mature after 18 months, in May 2011. Interest will be paid quarterly and amortization will be made on the maturity date.

For its part, Toyota Compañía Financiera de Argentina SA placed negotiable obligations for $65.5 million at BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 250 b.p. nominal per annum. The capital will be paid in full at maturity, in May 2011, while interest will be paid on a quarterly basis.
Finally, Garbarino SA placed short-term negotiable obligations for $30 million. The reference rate is BADLAR plus a margin of 294 b.p.. Interest and amortizations will be paid monthly from June 2010 until maturity in August 2010. The amortization payment dates coincide with interest payments and 25% of the capital will be paid in the first installment, 35% in the second and the remaining 40% at maturity.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 12 Mutual Investment Funds

Unlike what occurred during the previous months, the Graphic 7.5 assets of mutual investment funds (FCI) registered a slight monthly decline, ending November in pesos in $16,110 million.

Participation FCI in pesos Assets of FCI in pesos (November 09)
24.0 Fixed Income
13.8% 3.0% Mixed Income
21.0 Variable Income The decline was reflected in the local currency segment,
Money market 18.0 57.7% 25.5% which closed the month with assets of $14,028 million,
3.3% lower than at the end of October. The assets of the
15.0
variable income segment showed the largest monthly
12.0 decline (8.8%), standing at $1,931 million on the last
9.0 day of November. The decline was due exclusively to a
6.0 sharp drop in the quantity of share units, while the prices
3.0 of the same showed a monthly increase of 3%.

0.0
Nov-04 May-05 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09

The assets of FCI money market funds in pesos decreased 8%, closing November with $8,101 million. Despite its loss of representativeness in the total of FCI in pesos, they still account for more than 57% of the same. Like the variable income segment, the decline was explained by the decrease in the quantity of share units.

With regard to the rest of the funds in pesos, both fixed income and mixed funds increased by 12%. The former, which account for 25.5% of the total FCI in pesos, ended November with assets of $3,575 million. The increase occurred thanks to the increase in the quantity of share units in said funds. Meanwhile, in the mixed income segment, the growth was due to the increase Graphic 7.6 in the prices of share units (see graphic 7.5).

millions $ 2000 Financial Trust Issuances 50 Issuances intended to finance infrastructure
Number of operations (right axis) 1800 45 Finally, funds in foreign currency showed a monthly
1600 40 increase of 4.6%, reaching the maximum value of 2009.
1400 35 As a result of increases reflected in almost all lines, said
1200 30 funds ended November with assets of $2,082 million.
1000 25
800 20 Financial Trusts10
600 15
400 10 In November, FF issuances totaled $736 million (see
200 5 Graphic 7.6), registering an increase of 18% ($112 mil-
0 0 lion) compared to the previous month. Said increase was

Jan-06 Jun-06 Nov-06 Apr-07 Sep-07 Feb-08 Jul-08 Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 explained by a new placement from the public sector,
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others which amounted to $300 million, and which is intended
for the financing of road infrastructure projects. This is
series II of the debt representative securities of the Global Issuance Program "Trust created by decree 976/01", whose previous series had been placed in June. If said placement were excluded, a 30% decline would be observed in relation to the previous month. For its part, the number of operations reached a total of 17 in the month, 2 fewer compared to the previous month and 6 fewer compared to the same month of 2008.

Graphic 7.7 Among the underlying assets, the flows stood out
**Amounts securitized by type of fiduciary future funds, product of the important placement**

millions $ millions $

800 Mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers 1.800 of the public sector, which constituted 40% of the total. For
 Financial Entities
 Retail Businesses 1.600 its part, consumer financing (personal loans and credit
700 Others (right axis)
 Total (right axis) card installments) concentrated half of the securitized
600 1.400
 assets in the month, registering a decline in the securitized
 1.200 amount of 22% compared to October. Said reduction was
500

 1.000 explained exclusively by the decrease in securitizations of
400
 800 personal loans (37% less than in October). Meanwhile,

300 securitizations of credit card financing, which last month
 600
200 were not very significant, increased substantially (87%
 400 more than in October), although without recovering Sep-

100 200 tember values. For its part, commercial credits (corres-

 0 0 ponding to dollar loans intended to finance agricultural
 Nov-08 Ene-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 activities) represented 6% of the total, while leasing contracts,
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others.
 which had not been observed since January, represented
 the remaining 3%.

Regarding the fiduciaries, the National State stood out again
in the role of fiduciary, as it did in June. For its part, mutuals,
cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers more than
doubled the amount issued the previous month (+$122 mil-
lion), while retail businesses and financial entities reduced
their securitizations compared to October, by 55% (-$152
million) and 76% (-$176 million), respectively (see Graph
7.7). In this way, if the participation of the public sector
were not considered, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank
credit card issuers would concentrate close to half of the
total issued in the month.

**Graph 7.8**

35 %
 Cut-off Rates of FF
 (senior titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount)
 
30 In November, a decrease in the cut-off interest rates of
fiduciary debt securities was evident, which were awarded
 Fixed Rate entirely at variable rate. In effect, the cut-off rate
25 Variable Rate
 BADLAR Private Banks - weighted average by amount - of the senior titles was
 positioned at 13.6%, 0.3 p.p. below that of last month
20 (see Graph 7.8). It should be noted that the public sector
 titles were placed at a rate above the average, given its
15 greater duration, for which reason, if they are excluded, a
 decrease of greater magnitude is observed in the weighted
10 average rate by amount (1.3 p.p., reaching 12.6%), in line
 with the decrease experienced by the money market interest
5 rates in the last month.

Oct-05 Abr-06 Oct-06 Abr-07 Oct-07 Abr-08 Oct-08 Abr-09 Oct-09
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others

---

**Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 14 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators**

**Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.**

| **Principal monetary variables and financial system** | **Nov-09** | **Oct-09** | **Dec-08** | **Nov-08** | **Monthly percentage variations** | **Last 12 months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| Monetary Base | 109.548 | 107.280 | 106.439 | 101.146 | 2.1% | 1.3% | 8.3% | 1.2% |
| Monetary Circulation | 84.136 | 82.777 | 80.247 | 74.437 | 1.6% | 0.8% | 13.0% | 5.6% |
| In the hands of the public | 75.065 | 73.991 | 70.897 | 66.922 | 1.5% | 0.6% | 12.2% | 4.8% |
| In financial entities | 9.070 | 8.786 | 9.350 | 7.514 | 3.2% | 2.4% | 20.7% | 12.7% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 25.413 | 24.503 | 26.192 | 26.709 | 3.7% | 2.9% | -4.9% | -11.1% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 10.096 | 10.964 | 10.187 | 9.086 | -7.9% | -8.7% | 11.1% | 3.8% |
| Assets | 393 | 398 | 2.302 | 33 | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)** | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 31.490 | 26.271 | 11.771 | 16.752 | 19.9% | 18.9% | 88.0% | 75.6% |
NOBAC 14.841 15.999 28.389 28.572 -7.2% -8.0% -48.1% -51.5%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations 46.805 45.733 46.198 45.664 2.3% 2.5%

2009 SDR allocation (5) 2.541 2.695 0 0

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 211.685 208.534 197.274 200.964 1.5% 0.7% 5.3% -1.6%
 Current account (2) 65.919 65.673 64.944 56.892 0.4% -0.5% 15.9% 8.2%
 Savings account 39.954 39.483 37.358 35.670 1.2% 0.4% 12.0% 4.6%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 95.092 92.957 82.623 97.216 2.3% 1.5% -2.2% -8.6%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 21 23 322 383 -6.5% -7.3% -94.5% -94.8%
 Other deposits (3) 10.700 10.398 12.028 10.802 2.9% 2.1% -1.0% -7.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 150.023 145.198 135.455 138.529 3.3% 2.5% 8.3% 1.2%

 Deposits of the public sector 61.663 63.336 61.819 62.435 -2.6% -3.4% -1.2% -7.8%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 11.598 11.784 9.346 9.129 -1.6% 27.0%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 133.738 131.552 119.040 118.578 1.7% 0.8% 12.8% 5.3%

 Loans to the private sector 116.313 114.918 108.136 107.682 1.2% 0.4% 8.0% 0.9%
 Advances 17.122 17.319 15.735 15.866 -1.1% -2.0% 7.9% 0.8%
 Documents 21.444 21.081 19.517 19.994 1.7% 0.9% 7.3% 0.2%
 Mortgage 17.758 17.683 17.931 17.463 0.4% -0.4% 1.7% -5.0%
 Pawn 7.008 6.956 7.610 7.570 0.7% -0.1% -7.4% -13.5%
 Personal 29.604 29.079 27.668 27.617 1.8% 1.0% 7.2% 0.1%
 Credit cards 16.943 16.583 14.712 14.293 2.2% 1.3% 18.5% 10.7%
 Others 6.434 6.218 4.963 4.880 3.5% 2.6% 31.9% 23.2%

 Loans to the public sector 17.425 16.634 10.904 10.896 4.8% 3.9% 59.9% 49.4%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 5.164 5.182 5.973 6.121 -0.4% -15.6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 140.984 139.664 135.841 123.814 0.9% 0.1% 13.9% 6.4%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 180.938 179.147 173.198 159.485 1.0% 0.2% 13.5% 6.0%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 286.750 282.524 268.171 267.886 1.5% 0.7% 7.0% 0.0%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 330.955 327.620 300.185 298.305 1.0% 0.2% 10.9% 3.6%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 116.763 114.393 109.263 104.319 2.1% 1.2% 11.9% 4.5%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 153.718 150.534 143.005 136.047 2.1% 1.3% 13.0% 5.5%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 225.088 219.189 206.352 205.451 2.7% 1.8% 9.6% 2.3%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 263.249 257.960 233.507 232.410 2.1% 1.2% 13.3% 5.8%

 Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.268 2.1% 4.256 3.9% 3.109 2.8% 8.402 7.7%
 Financial sector 829 0.8% 2.700 2.5% -1.760 -1.6% -577 -0.5%
 Public sector -190 -0.2% -236 -0.2% -4.607 -4.2% -7.605 -6.9%
 Private external sector 4.762 4.3% 10.829 9.9% 7.600 6.9% 8.637 7.9%
 BCRA securities -2.860 -2.6% -8.057 -7.4% -19 0.0% 5.528 5.0%
 Others -273 -0.2% -980 -0.9% 1.895 1.7% 2.420 2.2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding 2009 SDR allocations 1.071 2.3% 1.954 4.2% 606 1.3% 1.141 2.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.247 2.7% 2.831 6.0% 2.035 4.3% 2.344 5.0%
 Payment to international organizations 292 0.6% 564 1.2% 441 0.9% 425 0.9%
 Other operations of the public sector -198 -0.4% -714 -1.5% -4.107 -8.8% -4.856 -10.4%
 Minimum cash -296 -0.6% -771 -1.6% 947 2.0% 1.127 2.4%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 26 0.1% 43 0.1% 1.291 2.8% 2.101 4.5%

2009 SDR allocations -155 2.224 2.541 2.541
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09
 (1)
 Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.5 15.3 15.3
 Integration 16.0 15.7 15.7
 Position (2) 0.6 0.4 0.4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 54.0 54.2 53.7
 30 to 59 days 23.0 18.5 17.8
 60 to 89 days 10.0 10.7 8.3
 90 to 179 days 7.0 9.7 12.3
 more than 180 days 6.0 6.9 7.8
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.9 20.9 21.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 70.3 70.8 71.5
 Position (2) 49.4 50.0 50.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 61.0 61.0 62.3
 30 to 59 days 22.0 21.4 20.6
 60 to 89 days 9.0 8.6 8.7
 90 to 179 days 7.0 7.1 6.5
 180 to 365 days 2.0 1.5 1.8
 more than 365 days 0.0 0.0 0.1
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position= Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 16 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.90 9.08 9.33 14.04 15.21
 Amount traded 605 569 567 574 693

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 10.37 11.09 11.32 15.76 16.89
 60 days or more 11.55 12.36 12.68 17.41 18.04
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.46 11.31 11.51 16.59 18.24
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.67 11.79 12.23 19.07 21.22

 In dollars
 30 days 0.53 0.58 0.66 1.68 1.67
 60 days or more 0.89 0.95 1.08 2.48 2.38
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.68 0.73 0.85 1.50 1.88
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.69 0.77 0.93 2.86 3.00

 Active Interest Rates Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.49 11.24 12.56 15.75 11.68
 Amount traded (total terms) 162 158 159 122 110

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 20.71 21.42 22.12 27.72 28.10
 Documents on signature alone 16.86 18.17 18.72 25.94 25.19
 Mortgage loans 12.72 12.87 12.87 16.23 16.03
 Secured loans 16.85 17.80 18.69 21.07 20.62
 Personal loans 32.70 32.97 33.89 35.36 34.35
 Credit cards n/a n/a 30.98 29.04 28.92

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.44 12.48 13.89 n/d n/d

 International Interest Rates Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.24 0.25 1.02 1.61
 6 months 0.52 0.59 0.68 2.14 2.66

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.79 0.93 0.94 0.81 1.19
 10 years 3.38 3.36 3.39 2.38 3.47

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 1.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.75 8.75 8.75 13.75 13.75

(1) Data through September correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for October and November are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 17 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.15 9.41 10.50 10.50
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.65 9.91 11.00 11.00
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.65 11.91 13.00 13.00

Total trading REPO repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.03 9.24 9.45 10.53 10.79
 7 days 9.84 10.11 10.60 12.56 13.97
Amount operated in REPO round passes (daily average) 6.640 6.646 5.607 5.580 7.457

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

1 month n/o n/o n/o 12.48 12.50
2 months n/o n/o n/o 12.18 12.87
3 months n/o 13.39 n/o 12.50 n/o
9 months 14.56 15.00 15.35 n/o n/o
12 months 15.11 15.60 15.91 n/o n/o

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)

9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o 0.90 n/o n/o 1.17
1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o 0.95 1.75 1.56
2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 167 175 152 130 138

Foreign Exchange Market Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.81 3.83 3.84 3.42 3.33
BCRA Reference 3.81 3.83 3.84 3.42 3.33

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.83 3.85 3.88 3.60 3.66
ROFEX 1 month 3.83 3.84 3.85 3.44 3.35
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 924 952 874 458 411

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.20 2.20 2.11 1.43 1.47

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.69 5.67 5.60 4.64 4.24

Capital Market Nov-09 Oct-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Nov-08

MERVAL
Index 2.232 2.181 1.933 1.055 994
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 53 80 61 42 69

Government Bonds (in parity)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 85.07 82.01 77.49 52.32 45.77
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 71.66 71.73 66.80 34.97 38.01
BODEN 2014 ($) 76.13 71.69 62.61 23.83 23.76
DISCOUNT ($) 57.21 53.25 50.68 29.72 25.51

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.160 1.140 1.471 3.439 4.522
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 338 334 357 713 658

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 18

9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
IMF: International Monetary Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash held by the public plus demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash held by the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash held by the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Term Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Futures Market.
SELIC: Special Liquidity and Custody System (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Social Security System.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: S&P Expected Volatility Index.
VN: Face Value.

Monetary Report | November 2009 | BCRA | 19
