# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2009

Monthly Monetary Report
December 2009

## Contents

Page 3  |  1. Summary

Page 4  |  2. Monetary Aggregates
Page 5  |  2010 Monetary Program

Page 5  |  3. Bank Liquidity

Page 6  |  4. Loans

Page 7  |  5. Interest Rates
Page 7  |  Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8  |  Interfinancial Markets
Page 8  |  Repo Market
Page 8  |  Interbank Market
Page 9  |  Passive Interest Rates
Page 9  |  Active Interest Rates

Page 10  |  6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11  |  7. Capital Markets
Page 11  |  Equities
Page 11  |  Public Securities
Page 12  |  Private Securities
Page 13  |  Common Investment Funds
Page 14  |  Financial Trusts

Page 16  |  8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20  |  9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on January 13, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In December, total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $196,870 million (13.7% year-on-year), placing itself again within the range established in the Monetary Program. M2 registered a monthly increase of 8.8%, associated fundamentally with the seasonal increase in demand for transactional money at the end of each year. In the same sense, private means of payment (private M2) were also found within the stipulations of the Monetary Program, registering an average balance of $165,740 million (15.9% year-on-year) and monthly growth of 7.8%.

• In 2010 the Central Bank will continue generating conditions of stability in the local monetary and financial market, through a policy based on the construction of liquidity networks in local and foreign currency and strict control of the expansion of monetary aggregates. In this way, the 2010 Monetary Program maintains the scheme used in 2009 of quarterly targets for the monetary aggregate M2 (and annual target for private M2), and quarterly estimates for private M2. The targets of the 2010 Monetary Program forecast annual growth for the M2 aggregate in the range of 11.9%-18.9%, and an annual expansion rate for private M2 in the range of 12.1%-19.1%.

• The total deposits in local currency increased 2.4% in the period, due to the increase in placements corresponding to the private sector that accumulated growth of 3.7%. As is expected, given the strong demand for seasonal liquidity by families and businesses observed in December, the increase in total private deposits was explained by the rise in sight deposits, which increased 6.8%. For its part, fixed-term deposits decreased in December (0.7%), due to the reduction of balances in the wholesale segment, while fixed-term deposits in the retail segment (placements of up to $1 million) continued to increase.

• The broad liquidity in pesos of financial entities (defined as the sum of current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) ended December at an average of 37.2% of total deposits in pesos. A reduction in the net repo position of entities was verified, at the same time that bank reserves increased, as is customary in the first month of the quarterly minimum cash position December-February.
• Loans in pesos to the private sector once again accelerated their expansion rate, with a generalized increase across all its lines. In this context, total loans showed an increase in their monthly average of 2.5% ($2,950 million), with growth of 10% in year-over-year terms.

• The averages of the main short-term passive interest rates decreased compared to the average values of the previous month. However, it should be noted that this reduction, especially in the wholesale placement segment, was mainly associated with the behavior of interest rates toward the end of November, since during most of December they remained relatively stable. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 9.8%, with a decline of 0.9 p.p. compared to the average recorded in November.

• Active interest rates maintained a downward trend during December. Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate for overdrafts in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days and for amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 10.7% with a decline of 0.8 p.p. compared to the average observed in November. Meanwhile, the interest rates for the three financing modalities through documents (discounted, on signature alone, and purchased) registered a similar evolution. In particular, the average rate for discounted documents would have decreased 1 p.p. compared to the November average.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

**Chart 2.1** In December, total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $196,870 million (13.7% y.o.y.), placing itself once again within the range established in the Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1). M2 registered a monthly increase of 8.8%, partially associated with the seasonal increase in demand for transactional money at the end of each year. In the same sense, private means of payment (M2 private) were also within what was stipulated in the Monetary Program, showing an average balance of $165,740 million (15.9% y.o.y.) and monthly growth of 7.8%.

Among the main factors that explained the monthly expansion of M2, the Central Bank's purchases of foreign currency in the market stand out. Indeed, the actions that this Institution has been carrying out to reduce excessive exchange rate volatility in the short term and provide greater predictability led to the non-financial private sector being again, since August, a net supplier of foreign currency. Another factor that contributed to the growth of means of payment (M2) was the behavior of loans to the private sector, which continued to increase, with generalized growth across all financing lines. On the other hand, public sector operations associated with the greater liquidity demand it faces during this period...
2 of the year (such as, for example, the non-renewal of
 0
 their fixed-term deposits) also had an
 -2
 Purchases of LEBAC Sector Loans to Fixed-Term Other M2 important expansionary effect on the means of payment
 Foreign Currency Public* NOBAC Sector Deposits and Other
 excluded Private Sector Private Banks in December (see Chart 2.2).

 *Includes fixed-term deposits and others, loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
 Source: BCRA For its part, the broader aggregate in pesos, M3,
 recorded a monthly increase of 4%, while
 the private M3 showed growth of 5.4%.

 Total deposits in local currency increased 2.4%
 in the period, explained essentially by the
 placements corresponding to the private sector, which
 
 Chart 2.3 showed an increase of 3.7%. Meanwhile, those
 belonging to the public sector decreased 0.9%,
 Total Deposits in Pesos to the Private Sector with increases in sight deposits and declines in
 thousands of
 millions of $ (variation of monthly averages) fixed-term deposits.
 6
 Fixed-term and other
 5 Sight
 4
 Unlike the previous months, the increase in the
 3
 total of private deposits was explained by the
 2
 growth of sight deposits (see Chart
 1
 2.3). In effect, in a month characterized by greater
 0
 seasonal demand for liquidity by companies, linked
 -1
 among other factors to the payment of the mid-year
 -2
 complementary salary, sight deposits in‐
 -3

 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 4 creased 6.8%. This increase was explained in
Table 1  similar magnitudes by deposits in current
 Monetary Program 2010 - Current Targets accounts and savings accounts. For its part, fixed‐
 y.o.y. var., in % Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10term deposits decreased in December
 Upper 21.2 19.4 20.0 18.9(0.7%), due to the reduction in balances in the
 M2 total Base 16.9 14.9 15.3 14.3
 Lower 14.3 12.4 13.0 11.9 wholesale market, while fixed-term deposits of the

 Upper 19.1 retail segment (placements of up to $1 million)
 M2 private Base 14.0 continued to increase.
 Lower 12.1

 balances, in millions Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits
 Upper 202.918 209.132 214.409 234.075increased 1.7% in the month, with increases
 M2 total Base 195.790 201.269 205.931 225.010in public placements, while those of the
 Lower 191.366 196.871 201.902 220.295private sector remained at levels similar to
 Upper 197.400 those of November. In this way, the broader
 M2 private Base 188.971aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in the hands
 Lower 185.798of the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in
 The Monetary Program establishes growth rates. Balances are subject to changes upon revision of available foreign currency, grew 3.7% in December.
 information.

 Monetary Program 2010
In 2010 the Central Bank will continue generating conditions of stability in the local monetary and financial market, through a policy based on the construction of liquidity networks in local and foreign currency and strict control of the expansion of monetary aggregates, through the sterilization of the supply of pesos that exceeds demand. Likewise, managed flotation will continue to be one of the pillars of monetary policy aimed at diminishing excessive volatility of the exchange rate, and consequently, contribute to strengthening the demand for money.

Table 2
Monetary Program 2010 - Estimations and var i.a., in % Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10
Upper 22.6 21.4 22.1
M2 private Base 18.4 16.9 17.4
Lower 15.8 14.4 15.1
balances, in millions Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10
Upper 171,951 176,811 181,696
M2 private Base 166,055 170,244 174,673
Lower 162,414 166,616 171,280

The Monetary Program establishes growth rates. The balances are subject to changes in the face of revision of available information.

Thus, targets have been set for the Monetary Program 2010 based on a base scenario that implies an average growth for M2 and Private M2 of 14.3% and 14.0% year-on-year in December, respectively. This base scenario implies a slight recovery in monetization, which was affected by the successive shocks faced by the economy in the last two years. Likewise, the Monetary Program establishes bands for its compliance that imply a year-on-year variation for total M2 between 11.9% and 18.9% and for private M2 between 12.1% and 19.1% for December 2010 (see Table 1). Furthermore, in Table 2 quarterly estimates for private M2 are attached.

3. Bank Liquidity¹

The broad liquidity of financial entities (defined as the sum of current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs) ended the year at elevated levels, reaching in December an average of 37.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1). Said level implied an increase of 0.2 p.p. with respect to the previous month, continuing with the gradual recomposition of liquidity levels that characterized the last five months of the year. In particular, in December a reduction in the position of net repos of entities was verified, while bank reserves increased. It should be noted that December constitutes the first month of the Minimum Cash Position trimestral position December-February. In this sense, the integration of the Minimum Cash requirement (current account at the Central Bank and cash in banks) considering exclusively the month of December accumulated, on average, 16.8% of deposits, 1.1 p.p. more than the requirement (see Graph 3.2).

For its part, the surplus of the Minimum Cash position in the foreign currency segment increased 2 p.p. with respect to the previous month, in part, as a consequence of the increase in deposits in foreign currency.

Graph 3.1
% of Liquidity Bank % of
deposits (monthly average) deposits
28 39
27 38
26 37
25 36
24 35
23 34
22 33
21 32
20 (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos)/Dep 31
19 (Ef+CCBCRA+Net Repos+Lebacs)/Dep (right axis) 30
18 29
Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 5

Graph 3.2
Minimum Cash Position
% of
deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0 1.1
0.5
0.0
-0.5 Trimestral Position
-1.0
Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.1
millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
3,000 (var. of monthly averages) 14
2,500 Dec-09 12
10 var i.a. (%) - right axis
10
2,000 4
2

4. Loans¹
8
 1,500
 6 In line with the trend evidenced in the second

 1,000 part of 2009, loans in pesos to the private
 4

 500 2 sector accelerated once again their expansion rate,
 with a generalized increase in all their lines. In
 0 0
 this context, total loans showed an
 increase in their monthly average of $2,950 mil‐

 Source: BCRA lion (2.5%, equivalent to an annualized rate in
 the order of 32%). The comparison with December
 of the previous year yields a growth of 10% in
 year-on-year terms (see Graph 4.1).

 Graph 4.2  The credits destined to finance mainly

 millions of $ Commercial Loans %
 1,000 (monthly average var. and year-on-year) 90 commercial activities registered an increase of
 3.5% ($1,560 million) in the month, observing an
 750 70
 increase both in current account advances and in
 500 50
 financings instrumented with documents (see
 250 30 Graph 4.2). Advances grew 2.8% ($480 million)
 driven by greater seasonal liquidity demand from
 0 10
 companies, linked among other factors to the pay‐
 -250 -10
 ment of the half-year complementary salary. Mean‐
 -500 Var. Monthly Advances -30
 Var. Monthly Documents while, documents grew 3.9% ($830 million), favored
 -750 Var. y.o.y. Advances (right axis) by the positive statistical carryover from November.
 -1,000 -50 Likewise, the remaining commercial financings
 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09
 Var. y.o.y. Documents (right axis) increased 4.1% ($250 million), with an important
 Source: BCRA financing operation to the productive sector regis‐
 tered in recent days, which would leave a significant
2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, mainly positive statistical carryover.
 caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 6 Graph 4.3

 Loans in millions of $ Consumer Loans
 (monthly average var.) % Real estate secured loans maintained their
 1,400 90
 Personals 80 positive growth path of recent months as they in‐
 1,200
 Credit Cards creased 0.5% ($140 million). Pledge loans grew
 1,000 Var. y.o.y. Personals (right axis) 70
 0.7% ($50 million), accompanying the evolution of
 Var. y.o.y. Cards (right axis)
 800 60 automobile sales. Meanwhile, mortgage loans evi‐
 denced an increase of 0.5% ($90 million), driven
 600 50
 once again by housing credits and SME loans.
 400 40

 200 30 For their part, credits destined mainly to con‐
 sumption behaved as expected for this part of the
 0 20 year, exhibiting an increase of 2.6% ($1,250 mil‐
 -200 10 lion, see Graph 4.3). Financing with credit cards
 -400 0 increased 4.1% ($710 million), motivated by end-
 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09
 of-year purchases, while personal loans grew 1.7%
 Source: BCRA
 ($540 million).

 For its part, after several months of decreases,
 Graph 5.1
 loans in foreign currency to the private sector regis‐
 LEBAC Interest Rate
 tered in December an increase in their monthly
 %
 16% (primary market)
 average of US$70 million.

 15%
 5. Interest Rates

 24-Nov

 14%

 13% 29-Dec
12% Securities issued by the BCRA3
 50 150 250 350 450 550 650 750
 Source: BCRA
 In a manner consistent with the greater demand for li‐
 quidity typical of December, in the primary market
 for LEBAC a placement significantly smaller was
 registered with respect to November. The average
 term of the placements was lower than that of the
 previous month, while the interest rates for the pe‐
 riods greater than 190 days in term were lower
 
 Chart 5.2
 thousands of Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder than those awarded in the last auction of
 millions $
 45 (data as of the last Friday of each month)
 November. The fall in interest rates was verified
 39.6
 40 Banks Other 38.3 in the first auction of the month, remaining relativa‐
 36.7
 34.4
 35 tely stable during the rest of December (see
 30.7 30.7
 30 28.2 28.2 27.7 27.9 26.8 27.6Chart 5.1). Meanwhile, no new placements
 25.9
 25 of NOBAC were carried out in December.

 20

 15
 The stock of securities issued by the Central Bank
 10 8.5 8.5 8.3 8.3 8.1 7.8
 6.4 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.7 8.3 8.5decreased slightly in relation to the previous month
 5
 and accumulated growth of 28% in 2009. In this way,
 -
 Dec-08 Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09the total balance at the last day of the year was
 Source: BCRA $46,828 million, of which 74% was comprised by
 Letters.

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 7 When analyzing the distribution of stock by holder, it
 was observed that the banks, unlike the last
 months, registered a monthly decrease in their
 holdings of 3.2%, associated with the increase of other
 immediate liquidity assets, as is expected in
 December. It is worth noting that financial entities
 closed the year with a holding of LEBAC and
 Chart 5.3
 NOBAC of $38.3 billion. Meanwhile, the re‐
 
 millions of $ Interbank Loan Market % st of the holders (Insurance Companies, Investment
2,000 (monthly averages) 100 Funds, among the most important) ended December
 Amount traded in pesos
1,800 90 with holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC of $8.5 billion,
 Interest rate of operations in pesos
1,600 80 3.2% above the previous month (see Chart 5.2).

1,400 70

1,200 60 Interfinancial Markets

1,000 50

 800 40 Repo Market1

 600 30

 400 20 In December, the interest rates of all repo
 200 10 modalities remained at the same levels as
 0 0 November. Passive repo rates were
 Jan-93 Jan-95 Jan-97 Jan-99 Jan-01 Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09
Source: BCRA located at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days,
 respectively, while the active repo interest rates
 of 1 and 7 days were at 11% and 11.50%,
 respectively.

 On the other hand, the average stock of net repos
 (passive minus active) for the Central Bank
 registered a decline, with a lower stock of both
 passive repos and active repos. The monthly average
 of passive repos reached a level of $7,000
 million. As mentioned in the Section Banking
 Chart 5.4
 Liquidity, said reduction was related to the
 increase of eligible assets to meet reserve
 % Interest Rate for Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
23 Daily Data requirements, within the framework of the beginning
 of the quarterly position. On the other hand, the average
21
 stock of active repos was reduced to $34 million.
 Up to $100,000 Private Banks
19
 BADLAR Private Banks
 Interbank Market 1
17

15 The interest rates of interbank loans
 remained stable during the course of Decem‐
 ber. For the total of operations, the interest rate
11 average stood at 9%, while the average interest rate for 1-day operations on business days was 8.9% (see Graph 5.3).

Source: BCRA

The amounts traded in this market remained at historically low levels, although the daily average negotiated in December was $80 million higher compared to the value negotiated in November, standing at $685 million. The distribution of the amount traded in the interbank market by type of entity repeated the pattern of recent months, with non-bank financial entities (EFNB) leading as net fund providers and foreign banks as net demanders.

Passive Interest Rates¹

The averages of the main short-term passive interest rates decreased compared to the average values of the previous month. However, it should be noted that this reduction, especially in the wholesale placement segment, was mainly associated with the behavior of interest rates towards the end of November, since throughout most of December they remained relatively stable. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in Capital and GBA in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 9.8%, with a decline of 0.9 p.p. compared to the average recorded in November (see Graph 5.4). On the other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements, for the same term, also decreased 0.9 p.p., standing at 9.4%.

On the other hand, in the interest rate futures market, a reduction in interest rates was also observed. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in contracts with maturity at the end of the first quarter of 2010 was 10.4%, 0.9 p.p. below the rate recorded at the end of November. It should be noted that in this market a slight increase (2%) was verified in the number of BADLAR futures contracts closed in December.

Active Interest Rates¹⁴

The interest rates charged for loans continued to maintain a downward trend during December.

Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate for overdrafts in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for terms of up to 7 days and for amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 10.7% with a decline of 0.8 p.p. compared to the average observed in November (see Graph 5.5). Meanwhile, the interest rate for overdrafts in current account for the total terms would have decreased 0.6 p.p. compared to the November average.

On the other hand, the interest rates for the three financing modalities through documents (discounted, on signature alone and purchased) recorded a similar evolution, with a decline compared to November. In particular, the average rate for discounted documents would have decreased 1 p.p.

---

**Graph 6.1**

**International Reserves of the BCRA**
thousands of millions of u$s excluding SDR allocations 2009

55

50

[continuing with scale marks down to lower values]

Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09

Source: BCRA
45
 with respect to the November average.
 40 thousands of Variation Factors 2009
 millions u$s
 35 4.0
 30 3.0 Meanwhile, according to preliminary information for
 2.0
 25 1.0 Capital and GBA, the interest rates on personal loans
 0.0
 20 -1.0 would have registered a decline of 0.7 p.p. with res‐
 -2.0
 15 -3.0 pect to the previous month. For its part, the interest
 -4.0
 10 Res.Int. excl.Purchase of Public Sector Ef. Min. Other rates on mortgage loans to families in 2009 would
 5 assignments DEGs Foreign Currency
 have been reduced slightly with respect to the Novem‐
 2009
 ber level, while the interest rate corresponding to
 0
 Nov-05 Jun-06 Ene-07 Ago-07 Mar-08 Oct-08 May-09 Dec-09financings with collateral guarantee would have de‐
 Source: BCRA
 clined 0.6 p.p. with respect to the November average.

 Chart 6.2

 Foreign Exchange Market 6. International Reserves and
 (average quotations)

 $/Euro $/Real $/US$ Foreign Exchange Market5
 5.8 2.8 4.0

 5.6 $/Euro 2.6 3.9 $/US$ (Reference)

 $/Real, right axis 3.8 The stock of international reserves excluding DEG
 5.4 2.4 3.7
 allocations 2009 continued to increase in December
 5.2 2.2 3.6
 and reached u$s47,967 million at the end of 2009
 3.5
 5.0 2.0 (see Chart 6.1). The monthly variation of internation‐
 3.4
 4.8 1.8 al reserves reached u$s895 million, while in 2009
 3.3
 4.6 1.6 they accumulated a growth of u$s1,582 million. Both
 3.2
 4.4 1.4 3.1 in the last month and in the year, the purchases of
 3.0
 4.2 1.2 foreign currency by the Central Bank were the main
 2.9
 4.0 1.0 2.8 factor explaining the variation of international reser‐
 Dec-07 Apr-08 Aug-08 Dec-08 Apr-09 Aug-09 Dec-09Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09ves, attesting to the normalization of the financial
 Source: BCRA
 conditions of the local market. In particular, in De‐
 cember, part of the net inflow of foreign currency
 generated through the result of the Central Bank's
 Chart 7.1 operations in the foreign exchange market was com‐

 Performance of World Stock Indices pensated by the fall in foreign currency associated
 (base index 02/07/07 = 100) with public sector operations.

 135
 In the foreign exchange market, an appreciation of
 115 the peso was verified with respect to the real and the
 euro, while in relation to the United States dollar
 95 the peso remained relatively stable, near 3.81 $/u$s.
 In this way, the average peso/dollar quotation for
 75
 MSCI World December was 11% higher than that recorded a year
 MSCI Europe ago (see Chart 6.2).
 55
 MSCI Japan
 MSCI Latam
 S&P 500

 35
 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

5 In this section the figures correspond to month-end data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 10 7. Capital Market

 Stocks

 During December, stock markets worldwide generally
 had positive performance. Specifically, the global MSCI
 increased 1.7%. Meanwhile, when considering regional
 evolution, all indices also had positive results. While
 the MSCI of Latin America grew 1.6%, that of Euro‐
 pean stock exchanges increased 0.9%, and that of
 Japan rose 0.7%. For its part, the North American
 S&P 500 advanced 2.5% between the end of November
 and December (see Chart 7.1).

 The MERVAL index of Argentina also showed good
 performance during December, ending the month at
 2,321 points, with a monthly increase, measured in
 Chart 7.2 Sovereign Risk Indicators pesos, of 8.1%. Consequently, the MERVAL accumu‐

 spread spread lated in 2009 a gain of 115%, the most favorable
 in p.b. CDS 5 years spread annual result since 2003.
 in p.b. in p.b. EMBI
5,000 Argentina 700 1,950 EMBI Argentina
Brazil (axis 6001.650
4.000 right) Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited a positive variation
 500 EMBI Latin
 1.350 America of 8.4% in December. Among the rest of the
3.000 400

 1.050 main Latin American markets, the IGPA (Chile) gain stood out,
 2.000 300
 750 which reached 5.9%. They were followed by
 200
1.000 IPC (México) with a positive result of
 100 450
 3.6%, the BOVESPA (Brazil), with an increase of 3.1%
 0 0 150
 Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09and, with losses, the IGBVL (Peru), which accumulated a

Source: Bloomberg drop of 1%.

 The historical volatility of the MERVAL - 22 trading sessions - in
 annualized terms and measured in dollars, was
 23.2% during December, 10.1 p.p. less than du‐
 ring the previous month. On the other hand, the expected
 volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) avera‐
 ged 21% in December, this is 2.7 p.p. less than du‐
 ring November.

 The volume traded daily, on average, at the
 Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $41 million,
 similar to November, and with an increase of
 1.2% compared to the same period of the previous year.
 Public Securities

 During December the sovereign risk indicators
 showed better performance than the previous
 month. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging
 countries as a whole, closed at 274 b.p.. Meanwhile,
 the spread of foreign currency debt of Latin
 America ended December at 328 b.p., that of Brazil
 at 192 b.p. and that of Argentina at 660 b.p., which
 implied reductions of 36 b.p., of 34 b.p. and of 103 b.p.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 11 respectively. The Credit Default
 Swaps (CDS) contracts also showed improvements compared to
 November. The spread of Argentina's 5-
 year contracts (the most traded segment) decreased 110
 b.p., while the spread of Brazil's CDS at
 the same term also fell, although more slightly
 (see Chart 7.2).

 The volume traded of public securities (on average
 daily) continued at reduced levels, at $923
 million, almost unchanged compared to the previous
 month.

 Private Securities

 During December, larger amounts were placed in
 the private debt market in relation to the previous
 month. 5 new negotiable bonds
 Chart 7.3 (NB) and a short-term debt security (STS) were issued. On

 Assets of FCIs in pesos one hand, the series in local currency totaled $316

 thousands Participation of FCIs in pesos
 of millions $(December 09) million, more than doubling what was placed in pesos
24.0 Money marketEquity
 12.4% 2.9% in November. Most of these issuances were

21.0 Mixed IncomFixed Income carried out at variable interest rate, which take as

 24.3%
18.0 60.4% reference the BADLAR. On the other hand, the series in

 23.3%
15.0 foreign currency reached u$s28 million,
 11.6% less than in November.
12.0

 9.0
 At the beginning of the month, Caterpillar Financial Services

 6.0 Argentina SA announced the placement of 2 series of

 3.0 securities for a total amount of $103 million. The first

 0.0 series was for $41 million and was placed at a

 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09fixed interest rate of 13.5%. Amortization will take
Source: BCRA and CAFCI
 place at maturity, in June 2010, at which time
 interest will also be paid. The second
 series for the remaining $62 million will mature in De‐
 cember 2011. This NB will pay an interest rate
 equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus
 250 basis points. Interest and amortization
 payments will be made on a semi-annual basis, beginning
 in June 2010 for the former and in De‐
 cember 2010 for capital payments.
On the other hand, Gas Natural BAN SA placed an ON for $100 million, at a BADLAR rate of private banks plus 360 basis points. The interest payments on this security will be quarterly and its amortization will be carried out at maturity, in June 2011.

The last ON in pesos in December was carried out by Rombo Compañía Financiera SA for a term of 2 years. The amount placed was $50 million, at a BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 295 basis points. Interest will be paid quarterly, while amortizations will be made semiannually from December 2010.

Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 12 With respect to series in dollars, 2 ONs were placed during the month. One of them, carried out by Tarjetas Cuyanas SA, for u$s20 million, at a price of 93.88% and for a one-year term. Said obligation will amortize at maturity. For its part, the poultry company Avex SA placed the other ON in dollars, for u$s8 million, at a fixed rate of 12.5% and for a longer term, maturing in June 2014. Interest will be paid quarterly, while amortizations will be done semiannually.

Finally, short-term debt value was registered by Banco Supervielle. Said entity placed $62.70 million at a variable rate equivalent to the private BADLAR plus 2.25% margin. It will pay interest quarterly and the principal at maturity in September 2010.

Mutual Investment Funds

Chart 7.4 In December, the assets of mutual investment funds (FCI) registered a considerable monthly increase. In this way, it closed the year at $16,912 million, the maximum value recorded in 2009 (see Chart 7.3).

Millions $ Fund Placements throughout the year
12,000 The largest increase was evidenced in the local currency segment, which ended December at $14,826 million, 5.7% above the previous month. Analyzing the evolution by fund type, a strong increase in money market funds stood out. With a 10.6% monthly increase, they closed the year with assets of $8,956 million. The increase was explained mainly by the larger quantities of fund shares, and led to these funds representing more than 60% of total FCI in pesos (2.7 p.p. more than November).

10,000
8,000 3,067
-33%
6,000 9,853
4,000 Trusts intended to 6,624 On the other hand, fixed income funds registered a monthly increase of 0.8%, explained by both an increase in quantities and in the prices of fund shares. In this way, these funds ended the month with assets of $3,603 million. Meanwhile, mixed income funds also showed a slight increase, ending December at $424 million.

2,000 finance infrastructure
0 Other projects
2008 2009

Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and others

Finally, variable income funds concluded the month at $1,843 million, showing a decline of 4.6% compared to November. Despite better price levels of fund shares, the decline in quantities predominated in December.

With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, a slight increase of 0.2% was evident, explained mainly by the recovery of the variable income sector in dollars.

Financial Trusts6

Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 13
Financial Trusts (FF) emissions totaled $1,094 million in December, registering an increase of almost 50% compared to the previous month, driven by two operations with relatively high amounts, corresponding to series XI of Argentine Mortgage Bonds (CHA) and a FF intended to finance energy infrastructure works (Albanesi Gas I). Meanwhile, the amount securitized during December was similar to that of the same month of the previous year, although the number of emissions was significantly lower, having registered a total of 21 operations in December 2009, compared to 31 in December 2008. On the other hand, throughout the year the placements of FF accumulated around $9,700 million (see Chart 7.4), an amount similar to that of 2008. However, if FF intended to finance infrastructure projects are excluded, said amount is reduced to approximately $6,600 million (33% less compared to the previous year).

Regarding underlying assets, personal loans and credit card vouchers increased, jointly, 60% compared to November (see Chart 7.5) thus concentrating more than half of the securitized assets in the month. For its part, mortgage loans (20% of the total) once again had presence, with the placement of the third series of the year of Argentine Mortgage Bonds. Likewise, future flows of funds represented 16% of the total, thanks to the placement intended to finance infrastructure works linked to the expansion of gas transport capacity, with a decrease of 43% in the amount securitized compared to the previous month. The remainder corresponded to commercial loans (9% of the total) and leasing contracts (2% of the total).

In line with the increase in consumer financing, retail stores more than doubled the amount of securitized assets ($205 million more than the previous month), being fiduciants of 30% of the total. Likewise, financial entities increased their securitizations significantly ($315 million more than in November) driven by the important placement of Banco Hipotecario, thus becoming the main fiduciants of the month with 34% of the total, the same participation as in December 2008. Meanwhile, mutual funds, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers reduced the securitized amounts 39% compared to November, participating in just 12% of the total.

The cut-off interest rates of senior securities continued to decline, in line with the behavior of money market interest rates. In effect, the cut-off rate—weighted average by amount—of securities adjudicated at variable rate
millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF was located at 11.6%, 2 p.p. below that of the previous month (see Chart 7.6), while the cut-off rate
 (detail by type of fiduciary) Exchange of
18.000 Financial Entities PGs of fixed-rate securities reached 11.2%, falling back
 Mutual Associations, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers
16.000 Retail Shops 2.3 p.p. with respect to October, since the previous

14.000 Others month no fixed-rate operations were agreed. For its

12.000 part, the duration (weighted average by amount)
 of senior securities remained practically unchanged
10.000
 with respect to last month, standing at 17.3
8.000
 months.
6.000

4.000 According to the latest balance sheet information

2.000 corresponding to September 2009, the stock of as‐
 0 sets of FF amounted to around $13,600 million
 2005-III 2006-I 2006-III 2007-I 2007-III 2008-I 2008-III 2009-I 2009-III (see Chart 7.7), 9% less with respect to June,
Source: own preparation based on CNV data in line with the decrease in FF emissions.
 On the other hand, year-on-year variation was af‐
fected by the exchange of guaranteed loans (PGs) at
 the beginning of the year, which caused the early
 cancellation of a large part of fiduciary debt secu‐
 rities backed by this type of underlying asset. In
 this way, a decrease of 17% was evident in rela‐
 tion to the same quarter of last year, although ex‐
 cluding FF with PGs as underlying assets, an in‐
 crease of 13% is observed.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary and Financial System Variables Dec-09 Monthly Last 12 monthsNov-09Dec-08Dec-08
 NominalRealNominalReal

 Monetary Base 118.661 109.548 106.439 106.439 8.3% 7.5% 11.5% 3.7%
 Monetary Circulation 92.793 84.136 80.247 80.247 10.3% 9.4% 15.6% 7.5%
 In the hands of the public 81.683 75.058 70.897 70.897 8.8% 8.0% 15.2% 7.1%
 In financial entities 11.110 9.077 9.350 9.350 22.4% 21.4% 18.8% 10.5%
 Current account in the BCRA 25.868 25.413 26.192 26.192 1.8% 1.0% -1.2% -8.2%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 6.959 10.096 10.187 10.187 -31.1% -31.6% -31.7% -36.5%
 Assets 34 393 2.302 2.302

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 34.743 31.490 11.771 11.771 10.3% 9.5% 195.2% 174.4%

 NOBAC 12.616 14.841 28.389 28.389 -15.0% -15.7% -55.6% -58.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations 47.717 46.805 46.198 46.198 1.9% 3.3%

 2009 SDR Allocation (5) 1.241 2.541 0 0

 Deposits of private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 216.696 211.712 197.274 197.274 2.4% 1.5% 9.8% 2.1%
 Current account (2) 71.844 65.922 64.944 64.944 9.0% 8.1% 10.6% 2.9%
 Savings account 43.347 39.970 37.358 37.358 8.4% 7.6% 16.0% 7.9%
 Fixed-term deposit non-adjustable by CER 90.055 95.095 82.623 82.623 -5.3% -6.1% 9.0% 1.3%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 18 21 322 322 -14.3% -15.0% -94.3% -94.7%
 Other deposits (3) 11.433 10.704 12.028 12.028 6.8% 6.0% -4.9% -11.6%

 Deposits of private sector 155.558 150.046 135.455 135.455 3.7% 2.9% 14.8% 6.8%

 Deposits of public sector 61.138 61.666 61.819 61.819 -0.9% -1.6% -1.1% -8.0%

 Deposits of private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11.793 11.599 9.346 9.346 1.7% 26.2%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 136.429 133.756 119.040 119.040 2.0% 1.2% 14.6% 6.6%
Loans to the private sector 119.089 116.345 108.136 108.136 2.4% 1.5% 10.1% 2.4%
 Advances 17.593 17.117 15.735 15.735 2.8% 2.0% 11.8% 3.9%
 Documents 22.287 21.454 19.517 19.517 3.9% 3.1% 14.2% 6.2%
 Mortgage loans 17.740 17.754 17.931 17.931 -0.1% -0.9% -1.1% -8.0%
 Pledge loans 7.061 7.008 7.610 7.610 0.8% 0.0% -7.2% -13.7%
 Personal loans 30.059 29.604 27.668 27.668 1.5% 0.7% 8.6% 1.0%
 Credit cards 17.666 16.978 14.712 14.712 4.1% 3.2% 20.1% 11.6%
 Others 6.684 6.430 4.963 4.963 3.9% 3.1% 34.7% 25.2%

 Loans to the public sector 17.340 17.410 10.904 10.904 -0.4% -1.2% 59.0% 47.9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.236 5.165 5.973 5.973 1.4% -12.3%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current accounts in pesos) 153.526 140.980 135.841 135.841 8.9% 8.0% 13.0% 5.1%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 196.873 180.950 173.198 173.198 8.8% 7.9% 13.7% 5.7%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 298.379 286.770 268.171 268.171 4.0% 3.2% 11.3% 3.4%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 343.264 330.978 300.185 300.185 3.7% 2.9% 14.4% 6.3%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current accounts in pesos) 125.999 116.757 109.263 109.263 7.9% 7.1% 15.3% 7.2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 165.742 153.730 143.005 143.005 7.8% 7.0% 15.9% 7.8%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 237.241 225.104 206.352 206.352 5.4% 4.6% 15.0% 6.9%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 275.326 263.269 233.507 233.507 4.6% 3.7% 17.9% 9.6%

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2009 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 9.112 7.7% 12.393 10.4% 12.222 10.3% 12.222 10.3%
 Financial sector 2.717 2.3% 3.271 2.8% 957 0.8% 957 0.8%
 Public sector 2.445 2.1% 1.947 1.6% -2.162 -1.8% -2.162 -1.8%
 Private external sector 4.095 3.5% 12.995 11.0% 11.695 9.9% 11.695 9.9%
 BCRA securities -149 -0.1% -4.930 -4.2% -168 -0.1% -168 -0.1%
 Others 5 0.0% -890 -0.8% 1.900 1.6% 1.900 1.6%

 BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 912 1.9% 2.524 5.3% 1.518 3.2% 1.518 3.2%
 Foreign exchange market intervention 1.076 2.3% 3.404 7.1% 3.111 6.5% 3.111 6.5%
 Payment to international organizations 1.701 3.6% 2.008 4.2% 2.142 4.5% 2.142 4.5%
 Other public sector operations -1.683 -3.5% -1.886 -4.0% -5.789 -12.1% -5.789 -12.1%
 Minimum cash -310 -0.6% -1.093 -2.3% 637 1.3% 637 1.3%
 Remaining (incl. exchange rate valuation) 127 0.3% 90 0.2% 1.418 3.0% 1.418 3.0%

 SDR allocations 2009 -1.300 -1.389 1.241 1.241

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.7 15.5 15.3
 Integration 16.8 16.0 15.7
 Position (2) 1.1 0.5 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 54.3 54.2
 30 to 59 days 20.8 22.5 18.5
 60 to 89 days 7.1 9.8 10.7
 90 to 179 days 8.0 7.3 9.7
 more than 180 days 5.5 6.0 6.9
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.9 20.8 20.9
 Integration (includes application of resources default) 72.1 70.2 70.8
 Position (2) 51.2 49.4 50.0
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 61.4 60.8 54.2
 30 to 59 days 21.3 22.0 18.5
 60 to 89 days 8.3 8.6 10.7
 90 to 179 days 7.2 6.8 9.7
 180 to 365 days 1.5 1.5 6.9
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.4 0.0
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRARates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.01 8.90 9.08 14.04 14.04
 Amount traded 685 576 569 574 574

Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 9.44 10.37 11.09 15.76 15.76
 60 days or more 10.49 11.55 12.36 17.41 17.41
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.63 10.46 11.31 16.59 16.59
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.82 10.67 11.79 19.07 19.07

 In dollars
 30 days 0.37 0.53 0.58 1.68 1.68
 60 days or more 0.75 0.89 0.95 2.48 2.48
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.68 0.73 1.50 1.50
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.50 0.69 0.77 2.86 2.86

 Active Interest Rates Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.0 10.49 11.24 15.75 15.75
 Amount traded (total maturities) 182 162 158 122 122

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 20.35 21.01 21.72 27.72 27.72
 Documents on signature alone 15.95 16.57 17.88 25.94 25.94
 Mortgages 13.64 13.33 13.26 16.23 16.23
 Pledged assets 17.24 18.15 19.21 21.07 21.07
 Personal 31.57 32.67 32.99 35.36 35.36
 Credit cards n/a n/a 31.60 29.04 29.04

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.70 11.44 12.48 n/d n/d

 International Interest Rates Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08

LIBOR
 1 month 0.23 0.24 0.24 1.02 1.02
 6 months 0.45 0.52 0.59 2.14 2.14

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.86 0.79 0.93 0.81 0.81
 10 years 3.59 3.38 3.36 2.38 2.38

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.61 0.61

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.75 8.75 8.75 13.75 13.75

(1) Data up to October correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while those of November and December are estimations made based on the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 18 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.15 10.50 10.50
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.65 11.00 11.00
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.65 13.00 13.00

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.06 9.03 9.24 10.53 10.53
 7 days 9.61 9.84 10.11 12.56 12.56

Amount traded of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 4,490 6,640 6,646 5,580 5,580

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 12.48 12.48
 2 months n/a n/a n/a 12.18 12.18
 3 months 12.75 n/a 13.39 12.50 12.50
 9 months n/a 14.56 15.00 n/a n/a
 12 months 14.40 15.11 15.60 n/a n/a

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a 0.90 n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a 1.75 1.75
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 165 167 175 130 130

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08
## Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 3.80 3.81 3.83 3.42 3.42
 BCRA Reference 3.81 3.81 3.83 3.42 3.42

## Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.84 3.83 3.85 3.60 3.60
 ROFEX 1 month 3.84 3.83 3.84 3.44 3.44
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1142 920 952 458 458

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.17 2.20 2.20 1.43 1.43

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.55 5.69 5.67 4.64 4.64

 Capital Market Dec-09 Nov-09 Oct-09 Dec-08 Dec-08

MERVAL
 Index 2,229 2,232 2,181 1,055 1,055
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 49 53 80 42 42

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 88.12 85.07 82.01 52.32 52.32
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 73.99 71.66 71.73 34.97 34.97
 BODEN 2014 ($) 77.20 76.13 71.69 23.83 23.83
 DISCOUNT ($) 59.83 57.21 53.25 29.72 29.72

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 824 1,001 1,140 3,439 3,439
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 335 338 334 713 713

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 199. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate for time deposits in amounts greater than one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National State Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the Stock Exchange of São Paulo (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBS: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
IMF: International Monetary Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System of Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Argentine Integrated Pension System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
FV: Face Value.

 Monetary Report | December 2009 | BCRA | 20
