# Monthly Monetary Report
March of 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
March of 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Stocks
Page 10 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Mutual Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on April 14, 2010. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision

Monetary Report | March of 2010 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In March, total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $197,620 million, registering growth of 18% year-over-year, and positioning itself near the midpoint of the range established in the Monetary Program for the first quarter of 2010. In the same sense, private means of payment (private M2) were found within the (indicative) estimates of the Monetary Program (15.8% year-over-year - 22.6% year-over-year), showing an average balance of $168,370 million (20% year-over-year) and a monthly reduction of 0.4%.

• The total of private deposits registered growth of 0.8%, driven essentially by fixed-term deposits (2%). Regarding the latter, the increase was evident in the wholesale segment (more than $1 million). Nevertheless, although fixed-term deposits of the retail segment remained at levels similar to those of February, during the second half of March they again showed a slight positive trend.

• In March a change was observed in the composition of the liquidity of financial entities toward assets of longer maturity: LEBACs and NOBACs. On the other hand, and as a consequence of the completion of the quarterly calculation period of minimum cash, there was an increase in holdings of those assets with which reserve requirements are met (current accounts at the Central Bank and cash). In counterpart, a decrease was recorded in the liquidity maintained in repos with the Central Bank.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their expansion rate, showing generalized increase across all its lines. The average balance was positioned at around $122,200 million, 1.2% ($1,540 million) above the average of the previous month, registering a year-over-year variation of 12.5%. Credits destined mainly to consumption experienced a monthly increase of 1.4% ($740 million), with a recovery of financing through credit cards, which accompanied the growth of personal loans. Meanwhile, credits destined to finance mainly commercial activities increased 1.2% ($555 million) in the month, driven mainly by those implemented through documents.

• The most relevant short-term interest rates in the monetary market remained relatively stable in March. The monthly average of the interbank lending interest rate was positioned at 8.6%, while the BADLAR of private banks averaged 9.4% for the month. Meanwhile, in the segment of placements for terms of up to $100 thousand, up to 35 days, private banks paid an average interest rate of 8.9%.
• Interest rates charged for loans to the private sector registered slight decreases in almost all lines. Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate for advances in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for amounts exceeding $10 million, stood at 10.2% with a slight decrease (0.1 p.p.), compared to the average observed in February. The average rate of discounted documents (the most operated modality) would have decreased 0.4 p.p. compared to February, reaching a level close to 13.3%. Meanwhile, interest rates on personal loans continued to decline (0.3 p.p.) and reached a level around 30.8%, while the monthly average of January, last available information, of credit card financing throughout the country was located at 31%, with a decrease of 0.5 p.p. compared to December.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1
Graph 2.1

thousands of M2 - 2010 Targets
In March, total means of payment (M2) reached
millions of $
240 234.1 an average of $197,620 million, registering growth
Monthly average (18.9% a.a.) of 18% a.a., and positioning itself within the range
230 Monetary Program Range established in the Monetary Program for the first
214.4
220 209.1 (20.0% a.a.) quarter of 2010 (see Graph 2.1). In the same manner,
(19.4% a.a.) 220.3 private means of payment (private M2) were found
210 202.9 (11.9% a.a.) within the (indicative) estimates of the Monetary
(21.2% a.a.)
200 197.6 201.9 Program (15.8% a.a.-22.6% a.a.), showing an aver-
(18.0% a.a.) 196.9 age balance of $168,370 million (20% a.a.) and a
196.9 (13.0% a.a.)
190 191.4 (12.4% a.a.) monthly reduction of 0.4%.
(14.3% a.a.)
180
Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 The main factor that contributed to explaining the
Source: BCRA monthly decline in M2 was the growth of fixed-term
deposits. This effect was counteracted, only in part,
by the growth in loans from the private sector and
the purchases of foreign currency carried out by the
Central Bank in the foreign exchange market (see
Graph 2.2).

Graph 2.2 Regarding the creation of primary money, the
Factors Explaining the Variation in M2 average monetary base in March increased $960
(March 2010, on average) thousands of million (see Graph 2.3). Following the conclusion of the
millions of $ quarterly period for the measurement of reserve
4 requirements, financial entities decreased the bal-
2 ances they maintained in repurchase operations
0 with the Central Bank (see Banking Liquidity Section).
-2 The reduction of passive repurchase balances for
-4 the Central Bank was the main factor of expansion
-6 of the monetary base in the month, whose effect
-8 was partially offset by the placement of LEBAC and
Purchases of Sector LEBAC and Prést. al Dep. at Term Otros M2 NOBAC, and operations of the public sector.
Currencies Public* NOBAC Sector Others excluded
Sector Private Banks
*Includes loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered during
March an increase of 0.7%, while private M3 also
presented growth, of 0.3%.

Graph 2.3 The total deposits in domestic currency increased
Factors Explaining the BM 1.2% in the period, showing increases of similar
(March 2009, on average) magnitude in placements belonging to the public
thousands of sector and to the private sector. Those correspond-
millions of $ ing to the public sector presented an increase of 2%,
4 with increases in time deposits and decreases in
3 sight deposits.
2

1
0 For its part, the total of private deposits registered a

-1 growth of 0.8%, driven essentially by fixed-term

-2 deposits (2%). With respect to the latter, the increase was evidenced, basically, in the
-3
 Public Sector Purchases LEBAC and Passes Other BM wholesale segment (more than $1 million), partially favored
 Foreign Exchange* NOBAC by the positive statistical carry-over from February (see Graph
 2.4). Nevertheless, although fixed-term placements in
 *Includes Central Bank intervention
 Source: BCRA the retail segment remained at levels similar to those of

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 4 Graph 2.4 February, during the second half of March they showed a

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos thousands of slight upward trend. For its part, sight deposits of the pri-

 millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $ vate sector registered practically no changes, showing

 30 41 decreases in savings account placements and increases in
 More than $1 million
 29 40 current account deposits.
 Less than $1 million (right axis)
 28 39

 27 38 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits grew
 26 37 3.2%, with increases in public placements and, to a lesser
 thousands of thousands of
 25 extent, in private ones. In this way, the broadest aggre-
 millons of $ millons of $36
 30 41 gate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held
 24 29 40 35
 by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in
 28 39
 23 27 38 34 foreign currency, advanced 1% in March.

 22 26 37 33
 25 36
 21 01-Jan 15-Jan 29-Jan 12-Feb 26-Feb 12-Mar 26-Mar32 3. Bank Liquidity1

 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10
 Source: BCRA Graph 3.1 In March, a change was observed in the composition of
 the liquidity of financial entities, which reflected the shift
 % of
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos % of of resources toward longer-term assets: mainly toward
 deposits deposits
 LEBACs and NOBACs and away from passes at the
 26 39
 Central Bank. On the other hand, and as a consequence
 25 38
 of the conclusion of the quarterly computation period
 24 37
 for minimum cash, which covered from December 2009
 23 36
 to February of this year, an increase was recorded in the
 22 35
 holdings of those assets with which reserve requirements
 21 34 are integrated (current accounts at the Central Bank and
 20 33 cash).
 Cash + CC BCRA + Net Passes
 19 32 Cash + CC BCRA + Net Passes + Lebac (right axis) The broad liquidity ratio in pesos (integration of reserve
 18 31 requirements, passes with the Central Bank and LEBAC
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10
Source: BCRA and NOBACs, as a percentage of deposits) remained stable
 compared to the previous month, and reached on average
 38.9% (see Graph 3.1). Bank reserves in pesos averaged
 16.1% of deposits in the same currency in March (see
 Graph 3.2), which represented an increase of 0.5 p.p.
 compared to the previous month. With this, the Minimum
 Cash position in pesos for March concluded with a sur-
 Graph 3.2 plus of 0.2% of total deposits in local currency. Mean-
 while, liquidity with net passes (the sum of bank re-
 % of Minimum Cash Position serves and net passes) was reduced by 0.8 p.p., showing
 deposits
 Accumulated Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration the reduction of net passes with the BCRA and the in-
 18 crease in the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by the

 entities (see Section Securities issued by the BCRA).
 17

 16 16.1 For its part, the surplus of the Minimum Cash position
 15.8 in the foreign currency segment continued its downward
 Quarterly Position trend (1 p.p. compared to the previous month). This oc-
 15 curred as a consequence of the greater application of re-
 sources in that segment through the increase in the grant-
 14
 ing of loans to the private sector in foreign currency
 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10
 Source: BCRA (see Section Loans).
# Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 5

## 4. Loans

**Chart 4.1 Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their**

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
(monthly average variation)

Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their expansion rate in March, showing a generalized increase across all its lines, although driven mainly by consumer financing and documents. In this way, the average balance stood at around $122,200 million, 1.2% ($1,540 million) above the average of the previous month, registering a year-on-year variation of 12.5% (see Chart 4.1).

Consumer credit experienced an increase of 1.4% ($740 million) in the month. Credit card financings showed signs of recovery following last month's contraction, increasing 1.3% ($240 million; see Chart 4.2) compared to February, while personal loans continued with the momentum they have been showing since August 2009, and registered an increase of 1.5% ($500 million) in the month.

Credits intended primarily to finance commercial activities increased 1.2% ($555 million) in the month, driven mainly by documents, which after the summer break resumed growth, registering an increase of 1.9% ($440 million) in their monthly average. Meanwhile, current account overdrafts remained practically unchanged, increasing 0.1% ($25 million) after two months of successive reductions, and the remaining commercial financing registered an increase of 1.3% ($90 million).

Loans with real guarantees increased 0.9% ($245 million) in the month. Mortgage credits accelerated their expansion rate, increasing 0.9% ($175 million) compared to February. Likewise, chattel mortgage credits continued with the momentum of previous months, presenting a monthly variation of 1% ($70 million).

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered in March an important increase (u$s165 million; see Chart 4.3), explained mainly by the increase in financing implemented through documents.

---

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolios of entities to financial trusts.

---

# Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 6

## 5. Interest Rates

**Securities issued by the BCRA³**

In the primary market for LEBACs, as in the previous month, a gradual decrease in interest rates was evident throughout the entire yield curve. On the other hand, greater amounts were placed and at an average term superior to that of the previous month (see Chart 5.1).

Meanwhile, in the secondary market, a larger amount operated in these instruments was observed at rates similar to those registered in the primary market. It should be noted that more than 90% of secondary market operations were concentrated in LEBACs.
10.5 23-Feb - Primary Market For NOBACs, no placements were registered

10 31-Mar-09 - Primary Market in the primary market in March, while the

9.5 Last week of March - Secondary Market amounts traded in the secondary market were reduced, and

9 they are among the minimum amounts operated in this market in

8.5 Days
5 60 115 170 225 280 335 390 445 500 555 recent years (see Graph 5.2).

Source: BCRA

As in February, the amount matured from Central Bank securities was lower than what was placed during the month, resulting in a contractionary monetary effect close to $2,500 million. As a consequence, the stock of securities issued by the Central Bank increased by 7%, positioning itself at $50,695 million at the end of March, of which 92% was comprised of LEBACs.

Graph 5.2
Monthly Average Traded in the Secondary Market Mid-month, through communication A 5050,
million $
(daily data) the Central Bank relaxed the requirements for

600 domestic LEBAC and NOBAC holdings, authorizing

500 mutual funds (FCI), whose shareholders are residents in
NOBAC
the country, to participate in the auctions. It should be
400 LEBAC
recalled that at the end of 2007, this class of investors
had been excluded, along with non-residents and local
300 companies, from the list of authorized agents to buy
LEBACs and NOBACs in the primary market, in order to
200
reduce the volatility of interest rates of these instruments
100 in the face of short-term capital movements, and to
strengthen their use as a monetary regulation instrument.
- For this reason, their reincorporation was carried out by
Source: BCRA Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 restricting participation to FCIs whose shareholders are
residents and setting limits on their holdings.

3 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 7 Interfinancial Markets

Repo Market1

In March, the interest rates for all modalities of repos remained at the same levels as February. Passive repo rates were positioned at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while Graph 5.3 the interest rates for active repos of 1 and 7 days were at

million $ % 11% and 11.50%, respectively.

3,000 25
On the other hand, the average stock of net repos (passive Traded amount between private entities 20
minus active) for the Central Bank, including all

Traded amount rest modalities of operations in which this Institution
Interest rate op. for 1 business day (right axis)
2,000 participates, was reduced as part of the completion of the
15
quarterly computation period for reserve requirements
1,500
(see Banking Liquidity Section). The average monthly
10
balance of passive repos for the Central Bank was posi-
1,000
tioned at a level close to $13,500 million while there
5 were no active repos in force.

500

0 0 Interbank Market1
Jan-07 Oct-07 Jul-08 Apr-09 Jan-10

During March, the interest rates for interbank loans remained relatively stable. For the total of peso operations, the average interest rate was positioned at 8.6% (0.1 p.p.), identical to the level corresponding to the interest rate for 1 business day operations, the segment that concentrates most of the transactions in this market.

Regarding the amounts traded in this market, the daily
Graph 5.4 average negotiated during March was $785 million,
$123 million more than the amount negotiated in

% Interest Rate for Call Operations for 1 business day February, being the largest amount traded since June

34 Daily Maximum 2008 (see Graph 5.3). The increase in the amount
30 Daily Minimum traded in March was explained by greater net demand
26 Monthly Average Maximum for funds from private domestic entities
Minimum avg. monthly nationals, which was partially compensated by a lower net demand for funds from foreign entities and, supplied by a greater net provision of public entities and Non-Banking Financial Entities.

For its part, the average deviation of interest rates in this market was 0.7% in March, with a slight reduction compared to February. Meanwhile, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum interest rate and the minimum agreed upon daily was the lowest since April 2008, at 2.7 p.p., 0.8 p.p. below that observed in February (see Chart 5.4).

Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 8 Passive Interest Rates¹

Short-term passive interest rates remained relatively stable with respect to the previous month's values. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and above) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 9.4%, with a decline of 0.1 p.p. compared to the average recorded in February (see Chart 5.5). For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements (up to $100 thousand), for the same period, also decreased 0.1 p.p., reaching 8.9%.

On the other hand, interest rates negotiated in the BADLAR futures market also declined. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in contracts maturing at the end of the second quarter of 2010 was 10.5%, 0.4 p.p. below that recorded at the end of February. For its part, interest rates for contracts maturing at the end of the third quarter decreased 0.6 p.p., and moved to 13%. It should be noted that during March the negotiated amounts of interest rate futures recorded a record since the instrument's launch in September 2009, reaching a volume exceeding $1,600 million.

Active Interest Rates¹

Commercial Loans Interest rates charged for loans recorded slight declines in almost all lines compared to the average observed in February.

Advances Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate for advances in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for amounts exceeding $10 million (which represented one-fifth of total advances in current account with agreement), was located at 10.2% with a slight decline (0.1 p.p.), compared to the average observed in February. Meanwhile, the interest rate for advances in current account considering the total of operations was reduced 0.2 p.p. compared to the February average, at a level close to 20.5% (see Chart 5.6).

For its part, interest rates for the three financing modalities through documents (discounted, at sole signature, and purchased) recorded slight declines compared to the levels negotiated in February. In particular,

---

¹ This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country through January. The values for February and March 2010 were estimated based on data from loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.
Equities

Of the group of stock markets analyzed, the majority had positive results in March, with the exception of the S&P 500. Stock market indices in general, but particularly those in Europe, were favored by lower uncertainty about the fiscal situation and sovereign debt in Greece. Within this framework, the MSCI global increased 5.9%; while the MSCI of Latin America increased 6.9%, in the same percentage as that of Europe. Meanwhile, that of Japan had a positive result of 4.2%. These gains occurred mainly in the first twenty days of the month pari passu with the news of a possible IMF and European Union support for

---

Graph 7.1

Performance of World Stock Indices
(base index 02/07/07 = 100)

180                    180
75      120
160      115      160
70      110
140      65      105      140
        100
120      60                  95      120
55 90 Greece. For its part, the American S&P 500
 100 31-Dec-09 21-Jan-10 11-Feb-10 04-Mar-10 25-Mar-10
 100 fell 0.7% between the end of February and March (see Chart
 80 7.1).

 60 MSCI World 80
 MSCI Europe
 40 MSCI Japan 60 Among the main Latin American markets, measured
 S&P 500
 20 MSCI Latam (right axis) 40 in dollars, with the exception of Chile, all had
 
 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 widely positive results. The gain of the IPC (Mexico)
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. stood out, of 8.6%, of which 3.5 p.p. correspond to an appreciation of its currency with respect to the dollar. Following Mexico's index was the IGBVL (Peru), which increased 8.2%, the BOVESPA (Brazil), which rose 7.4%, and the MERVAL which had a gain of 6.3%. In contrast, the IGPA (Chile) contracted 0.8%. The decoupling of the IGPA's evolution with respect to the rest of the stock market indices in the region can be attributed, in part, to uncertainty regarding the evolution of

 Chart 7.2 the Chilean economy following the earthquake in late February.

 Sovereign Risk Indicators

 spread spread The Argentina MERVAL index ended March at
 in b.p. 5-year CDS in b.p. EMBI spread
 in b.p. 2,374 points, with an increase in the month of 6.9% with
 5,000 Argentina 700
 EMBI Argentina 1,950 respect to the end of February. The increase in the MERVAL
 Brazil (right
 4,000 axis) 600 index concentrated in the first three weeks of the month, and
 EMBI Latin
 1,650 America like the evolution of public debt quotations (see following section),
 3,000 400
 1,350 the increase was associated with positive news regarding the
 2,000 300
 1,050 upcoming debt swap with holdouts. Meanwhile, in the last
 200 750 twelve months the local index accumulated a gain of
 1,000
 100 450 110.8%, and year-to-date of 2.3%.
 
 0 0 150
 Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Sep-09 Dec-08 Mar-08 Jul-07

 Source: Bloomberg The historical volatility of the MERVAL - 22 trading sessions - in
 annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 13.1%
 during March, 13.4 p.p. lower compared to the previous month.
 The daily average trading volume at the Buenos Aires
 Stock Exchange was approximately $42 million, slightly lower
 than in February, and with an increase of more than $5 million
 compared to the same period of the previous year.

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 11 Public Securities

 The evolution of the fixed income market was influenced
 at the local level by progress with respect to the upcoming
 debt swap held by holdouts, and at the international level
 by lower tension in the Greek sovereign debt market. In the
 first case, the authority that regulates public offerings in the
 U.S. authorized the debt swap, while the Argentine govern-
 ment initiated proceedings for approval of the swap in Italy
 and Japan.

 Chart 7.3
 Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos In this framework, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging
 Annual real yield (%)18.0
 economies decreased slightly compared to the previous month.
 16.0 PR 13 The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging
 Bogar 18
 14.0 countries as a whole, closed at 251 b.p. (-44 b.p.).
 Boden 14 DISC $
 12.0 PRO 12 Meanwhile, the spread of foreign currency debt in Latin
 PAR $
 10.0 America ended March at 302 b.p., that of Brazil at 185 b.p.
 PRE 09
 8.0 and that of Argentina at 646 b.p., which imply variations of
 6.0 26-Feb -44 b.p., -30 b.p. and -160 b.p., respectively. Meanwhile,
 PR 11
 31-Mar
 4.0 the spread of the 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts
 0 3 5 8 10 13 15 (the most traded segment of this instrument) of Argentina
 Duration (years) decreased 248 b.p. compared to February (see Chart 7.2).
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute
The quotation of bonds improved along the entire curve, both in securities denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, observing a downward shift of the same, especially in securities of the medium-term segment (see Graphs 7.3 and 7.4).

**Graph 7.4 Public Securities Yield Curves in Dollars**

The volume of public securities traded (on average daily) in the local market was one of the highest in recent months, in part due to the dynamism that the upcoming debt swap with holdouts brought to the market. During March the volume was $916 million, $270 million more than in February, and $350 million more than in March 2009.

During March, in the private debt market there were placements of negotiable obligations (ON) in pesos and in dollars. The series placed in pesos totaled $178 million, while the ON in dollars amounted to u$s85 million. In both segments the placements were concentrated in two issuers. The issuances in local currency continued to be carried out with the commitment to pay an interest rate equivalent to BADLAR plus a margin, while those made in foreign currency continued to be placed at fixed interest rates.

At the beginning of the month, YPF SA made the largest placements of the month, through two series. One of them was in pesos for $143 million, at 18 months maturity. The quarterly interests will pay the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin of 2% per annum. The other series was issued in dollars for an amount of u$s70 million and for 3 years maturity. In this case, interests will be paid semi-annually at a fixed rate equivalent to 4% nominal annual. In both cases, principal payment will be made at the maturity of each series.

On the other hand, Quickfood S.A. registered a placement of ON for u$s15 million, at a fixed annual rate of 7.75%. It will pay interests semi-annually and will amortize the capital at its maturity, in September 2011.

Finally, Banco Saenz placed a short-term debt security for $35 million, at 269 days maturity. The interests will be paid monthly starting from 210 days after issuance at the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin of 3.4%. Likewise, there will be three principal payments starting from 210 days, with the first two installments of 30% and the remaining 40%.

## Mutual Investment Funds

In March, mutual investment funds (FCI) presented a net asset value close to $17,500 million, showing a monthly increase of 15.6%.

On one hand, the FCI in pesos showed an increase of 16.8% compared to the previous month, ending March with a net asset value of $15,450 million. As mentioned in the Section Securities issued by the BCRA, the FCI whose quota holders are residents in the country, were incorporated to the list of authorized holders to invest in LEBAC and NOBAC. The types of funds that can hold these securities are money market and fixed income funds in pesos, with limits of 20% and 40% of their portfolios respectively.
600 15 Driven mainly by larger quantities of

 400 10 fund shares, the money market segment in pesos reflected

 200 5 an increase of over 21% compared to February. These

 0 0 funds, with assets of $8,930 million, represent
 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others 57.8% of the total of FCI in pesos. For their part,
 fixed income funds were located at $4,250 million
 in March, which is equivalent to a monthly increase of
 14%. In turn, they represent 27.5% of the total of FCI
 in pesos. Variable income funds continued to lose weight
 in the FCI, reaching 11% of the total in the month of
 March, 2 p.p. below February. The assets of this type of
 fund were at $1,704 million, barely 0.5% lower than
 the previous month. The decline was explained by the
 lower quantities of fund shares, while prices showed a

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 13 positive yield of 7.6% in the month. Finally, the assets
 of mixed income funds showed an increase of 30%
 monthly, reaching a value of $565 million in March.
 (see Graph 7.5)

 With respect to FCI in foreign currency, an increase of
 6.6% in assets was observed, driven mainly by the
Graph 7.7 improvement in the prices of fund shares in the variable,
 mixed and fixed income segments.

 millions $ Securitized Amounts by type of Fiduciary
 700 Retail Businesses (excluding the National State)
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers Financial Trusts5
 Financial Entities
 600 Others
 During March, FF emissions totaled $545
 500 -19%
 308 million through 13 operations (see Graph 7.6),

 400 249 evidencing a decrease both with respect to the previous
 month and to the same month of the previous year
 300 +65% (around 65% less in each case), given that in those
 74 121 periods there had been significant placements linked to
 200
 infrastructure works financing. In effect, if these are
 143 +13% excluded, a decrease of 10% is noted with respect to
 100 162 February and an increase of similar magnitude with
 79
 0 12 respect to March 2009.
 Feb-10 Mar-10
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

 The underlying assets linked to consumption (personal
 loans and credit card installments) constituted practically
 all of the securitized assets in the month (98% of the
 total), having securitized an amount similar to that of
 the previous month. However, within this type of under-
 lying asset, financing with credit cards that had recorded
Graph 7.8 one of the lowest amounts in February, recovered the
 Cutting Rates of FF values from January. Meanwhile, securitizations of
 % (Class A Titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) personal loans decreased 27% compared to the previous
 35
 Variable Yield month. The remainder corresponded to commercial
 35
 Less than 14 months Fixed Yield credits, with an amount similar to that of the previous
 30 Between 14 and 30 months
 Greater than 30 months 30 month (around $10 million).
 BADLAR Private Banks Duration less than 14 months
 25 BADLAR Private Banks Among the fiduciaries, retail businesses stood out by
 25 being responsible for around half of the securitizations
 20 20 of the month (46% of the total), although they registered
 a decrease of 19% in the volume of securitized assets
 15 15
 with respect to February (see Graph 7.7). Meanwhile,
 10 10 financial entities were fiduciaries of 30% of the total,
 emitting 13% more than in the previous month. For their
 5 5
 Mar-Sep- Mar-Sep-Mar- Sep-Mar- Sep-Mar-Mar- Sep- Mar-Sep- Mar- Sep-Mar- Sep- Mar- part, mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking credit
 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 06 06 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 card issuers registered a significant [text appears to be cut off]
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

nificant increase in the securitized amount (65% more than in February), participating in 22% of the total placed during the month.

The cut-off rates of senior securities remained relatively stable compared to the previous month. In this sense, the cut-off rate (weighted average by cur-

5 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 14 rency) of securities with variable yield, whose duration does not exceed 14 months, was located at 11.9%, decreasing 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month, in line with the behavior of money market interest rates. For its part, the cut-off rate of securities with fixed yield (for the same duration bracket) was located at 11.1%, the same as in February (see Chart 7.8). On the other hand, the duration (weighted average by amount) of senior securities declined to 5.1 months, a level similar to January, due to the securitization of mostly short-term assets linked to consumption, after having reached an average of 40 months in February,

Chart 7.9 due to the impact of trusts for financing
millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF infrastructure works.
Exchange of Financial Entities (detail by type of settlor) PGs
Mutual Societies, Cooperatives and Non-banking Credit Card Issuers
16.000 Retail Commerce According to the latest balance sheet information cor-
14.000 Others responding to December 2009, the stock of FF assets
12.000 amounted to approximately $13,860 million (see Chart 7.9), an amount similar to that of the previous month. Meanwhile, a 19% decrease was registered in year-on-year terms, although it is worth recalling that it is
2.000 affected by the exchange of guaranteed loans (PGs)
0 from early 2009, which caused the early cancellation
2005-IV 2006-II 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV 2008-II 2008-IV 2009-II 2009-IV of much of the trust debt securities backed by this type of underlying asset. In effect, if FFs with PGs as underlyings are excluded, an increase of 7.5% is observed compared to the same period of 2009. The main settlors of the stock in circulation were, once again, financial entities (37% of the total), followed by settlors belonging to the energy sector and public sector (linked to infrastructure FFs), which represented 27% of the total, a percentage similar to that of the previous quarter. Regarding underlying assets, those of greatest relevance continued to be those linked to consumption, although they decreased their participation compared to the previous quarter, from 38% to 35% of the total.

Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-10 Monthly Last 12 months Feb-10 Dec-09 Mar-09
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 120,224 119,268 118,661 101,348 0.8% -0.2% 18.6% 8.3%
Monetary circulation 93,297 93,942 92,793 77,190 -0.7% -1.7% 20.9% 10.4%
In the hands of the public 83,112 83,710 81,691 69,038 -0.7% -1.7% 20.4% 9.9%
In financial entities 10,185 10,232 11,102 8,152 -0.5% -1.4% 24.9% 14.1%
Current account at the BCRA 26,927 25,325 25,868 24,158 6.3% 5.3% 11.5% 1.8%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 13,535 17,024 6,959 16,476 -20.5% -21.3% -17.9% -25.0%
Assets 0 0 34 568

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 43,202 39,163 34,743 9,592 10.3% 9.2% 350.4% 311.3%

NOBAC 6,089 7,419 12,616 25,845 -17.9% -18.7% -76.4% -78.5%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 47,682 47,959 47,717 46,934 -0.6% 1.6%

SDR allocation 2009 (5) 0 0 1,241 0
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 226.928 224.316 216.731 197.681 1.2% 0.2% 14.8% 4.8%
 Current account (2) 70.323 75.266 71.850 61.695 -6.6% -7.5% 14.0% 4.1%
 Savings account 44.186 44.358 43.355 36.691 -0.4% -1.4% 20.4% 10.0%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 101.192 93.536 90.057 88.575 8.2% 7.1% 14.2% 4.3%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 18 18 18 160 0.0% -1.0% -88.7% -89.7%
 Other deposits (3) 11.208 11.138 11.450 10.560 0.6% -0.4% 6.1% -3.1%

 Deposits from the private sector 160.061 158.774 155.595 137.243 0.8% -0.2% 16.6% 6.5%

 Deposits from the public sector 66.867 65.542 61.136 60.438 2.0% 1.0% 10.6% 1.0%

Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11.795 11.430 11.793 10.555 3.2% 11.8%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 140.837 139.225 136.465 117.973 1.2% 0.2% 19.4% 9.0%

 Loans to the private sector 122.206 120.745 119.128 108.594 1.2% 0.2% 12.5% 2.8%
 Advances 16.432 16.409 17.591 16.657 0.1% -0.8% -1.3% -9.9%
 Documents 23.196 22.755 22.289 19.140 1.9% 0.9% 21.2% 10.7%
 Mortgage loans 18.015 17.840 17.741 18.160 1.0% 0.0% -0.8% -9.4%
 Pledged loans 7.251 7.179 7.061 7.205 1.0% 0.0% 0.6% -8.1%
 Personal loans 31.314 30.894 30.055 27.659 1.4% 0.4% 13.2% 3.4%
 Credit cards 18.851 18.610 17.705 14.682 1.3% 0.3% 28.4% 17.3%
 Other 7.147 7.059 6.687 5.091 1.2% 0.2% 40.4% 28.2%

 Loans to the public sector 18.631 18.480 17.338 9.379 0.8% -0.2% 98.6% 81.4%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.636 5.451 5.236 6.065 3.4% -7.1%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 153.435 158.976 153.541 130.733 -3.5% -4.4% 17.4% 7.2%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 197.621 203.335 196.895 167.424 -2.8% -3.8% 18.0% 7.8%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 310.040 308.026 298.421 266.719 0.7% -0.3% 16.2% 6.2%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 355.603 352.053 343.306 305.285 1.0% 0.0% 16.5% 6.4%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 128.887 128.970 126.006 106.795 -0.1% -1.1% 20.7% 10.2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 168.374 169.103 165.747 140.254 -0.4% -1.4% 20.0% 9.6%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 243.173 242.484 237.285 206.281 0.3% -0.7% 17.9% 7.7%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 282.369 281.109 275.369 238.385 0.4% -0.5% 18.5% 8.2%

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 956 0.8% 1.563 1.3% 1.563 1.3% 18.876 15.7%
 Financial sector 3.597 3.0% -6.353 -5.3% -6.353 -5.3% 2.571 2.1%
 Public sector -715 -0.6% 2.017 1.7% 2.017 1.7% 4.661 3.9%
 Private external sector 388 0.3% 6.889 5.7% 6.889 5.7% 18.373 15.3%
 BCRA securities -2.159 -1.8% -426 -0.4% -426 -0.4% -6.464 -5.4%
 Other -156 -0.1% -564 -0.5% -564 -0.5% -264 -0.2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding 2009 SDR allocations -277 -0.6% -35 -0.1% -35 -0.1% 748 1.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 101 0.2% 1.813 3.8% 1.813 3.8% 4.804 10.1%
 Payment to international organizations -60 -0.1% 1.197 2.5% 1.197 2.5% 3.522 7.4%
 Other public sector operations 4.156 8.7% 2.867 6.0% 2.867 6.0% -2.844 -6.0%
 Minimum cash -178 -0.4% -1.683 -3.5% -1.683 -3.5% -1.238 -2.6%
 Balance (incl. exchange rate valuation) -4.296 -9.0% -4.229 -8.9% -4.229 -8.9% -3.496 -7.3%

2009 SDR allocations 0 -1.241 -1.241 0

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund usage.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to exchange rate valuation changes
Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10
 (1) (1) (2)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.8 15.9 15.6
 Integration 16.1 16.2 16.5
 Position (3) 0.2 0.3 0.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.8 58.6 58.6
 30 to 59 days 20.2 20.8 20.8
 60 to 89 days 7.7 7.1 7.1
 90 to 179 days 8.4 8.0 8.0
 more than 180 days 4.9 5.5 5.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.4 20.5 20.4
 Integration (includes resource application default) 68.0 69.4 72.3
 Position (2) 47.6 48.9 51.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (4)
 Up to 29 days 61.3 58.6 58.0
 30 to 59 days 22.5 23.4 22.3
 60 to 89 days 8.1 9.9 10.9
 90 to 179 days 6.5 6.6 7.1
 180 to 365 days 1.4 1.3 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.2 0.2
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos.

(3) Position = Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.58 8.46 8.84 9.03 10.71
 Amount traded 785 662 606 710 435

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.01 9.18 9.35 9.45 11.66
 60 days or more 10.15 10.22 10.41 10.49 12.96
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.16 9.38 9.66 9.63 11.71
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.43 9.54 9.86 9.82 12.26

 In dollars
 30 days 0.32 0.35 0.38 0.37 1.38
 60 days or more 0.68 0.72 0.64 0.75 2.17
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.46 0.41 0.42 0.42 1.48
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.60 0.53 0.56 0.50 2.27

 Active Interest Rates Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.04 9.74 9.02 11.06 12.66
 Amount traded (total terms) 178 158 148 194 120

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 20.55 20.77 20.70 21.31 24.38
 Single-signature documents 14.79 15.40 15.95 16.08 20.83
 Mortgage loans 13.23 13.05 13.19 13.42 14.72
 Pledge loans 17.30 17.93 17.64 18.34 25.86
 Personal loans 30.82 31.17 32.50 32.49 33.72
 Credit cards s/o 30.12 30.96 31.45 31.45 29.21

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.20 10.34 10.87 10.70 18.10

 International Interest Rates Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.53
 6 months 0.41 0.39 0.40 0.45 1.83

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.94 0.84 0.91 0.86 0.92
 10 years 3.71 3.68 3.71 3.59 2.81

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.75 8.75 8.75 8.75 11.75

(1) Data through January corresponds to the monthly reporting requirement SISCEN 08, while February and March data are estimates made based on the daily reporting requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.50
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 11.00
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 13.00

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.01 9.00 9.05 9.06 10.52
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.52 9.61 11.15
Amount traded in REPO round passes (daily average) 7.276 9.122 8.567 4.490 7.687

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 12.20 n/a n/a 12.75 13.91
 9 months 13.73 13.80 13.95 n/a n/a
 12 months 13.87 13.96 n/a 14.40 n/a

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.24
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.40
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 214 158 200 165 134

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.86 3.85 3.80 3.80 3.65
 BCRA Reference 3.86 3.85 3.80 3.81 3.65

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.88 3.87 3.84 3.84 3.74
 ROFEX 1 month 3.88 3.86 3.83 3.84 3.66
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 871 820 888 1153 830

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.16 2.09 2.14 2.17 1.58

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.25 5.27 5.43 5.55 4.76

 Capital Market Mar-10 Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Mar-09

MERVAL
 Index 2.355 2.277 2.344 2.229 1.045
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 52 56 54 49 46

Government Bonds (at par value)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 90.26 87.41 87.75 88.12 54.00
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Jurisdiction) 73.09 67.73 73.45 73.99 29.13
 BODEN 2014 ($) 74.29 69.95 76.32 77.20 27.28
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.60 46.41 55.12 59.83 24.92

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 878 1.123 915 824 4.594
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 298 339 318 335 656

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of each month's auctions.

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Funds.
FF: Financial Trusts.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IGBVL: General index of the Lima Stock Exchange
IGPA: General index of stock prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable obligations.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis points.
P.P.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and medium-sized enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-term debt value
VN: Nominal Value.

 Monetary Report | March 2010 | BCRA | 20
