# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2010 | Monthly Monetary Report
January 2010

## Contents

Page 3  |  1. Summary

Page 4  |  2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5  |  3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5  |  4. Loans

Page 6  |  5. Interest Rates
Page 6  |  Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7  |  Interfinancial Markets
Page 7  |  Repo Market
Page 7  |  Interbank Market
Page 7  |  Passive Interest Rates
Page 8  |  Active Interest Rates

Page 9  |  6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 9  |  7. Capital Markets
Page 9  |  Shares
Page 10  |  Public Securities
Page 10  |  Private Securities
Page 11  |  Investment Funds
Page 11  |  Financial Trusts

Page 13  |  8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 17  |  9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA. The statistical closing of this report was on February 10, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• Total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $204,200 million (14.5% y.o.y.) in January, registering an increase of 3.7% in the last month. This increase was driven by the statistical carryover evidenced by the components of means of payment, associated with the strong increase in demand for transactional money at year-end. In particular, means of payment from the private sector registered monthly growth of 3.5%. The main factor of monthly M2 expansion was the purchase of foreign currency by the Central Bank, in a context of exchange rate stability, in which the non-financial private sector continued to be a net supplier of foreign currency.

• The total of deposits in domestic currency increased 2.1% in the month, with similar proportional increases in both private and public sectors. The growth in total private deposits was driven by increases in both sight deposits (3%) and fixed-term deposits (1.8%). With respect to the latter, while those corresponding to the retail segment (up to $1 million) continued with their growth trajectory initiated in mid-2009, those belonging to the wholesale segment recovered throughout January from the seasonal decline evidenced in December as a result of greater liquidity demand by companies.

• The broad liquidity of financial entities (defined as the sum of the current account at the Central Bank, cash in banks, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) remained relatively stable in January and reached 37.3% of total deposits in pesos, with a change in composition, in favor of net repos with the Central Bank.

• Driven mainly by financing intended predominantly for consumption, the average balance of loans in pesos to the private sector increased in the month by 1.5% ($1,830 million), and accumulated year-over-year growth of 11.5%. Credits intended to finance predominantly commercial activities and those granted with real collateral also registered increases compared to the previous month.
• Short-term interest rates in the monetary market remained relatively stable in January, and still showed declines in some segments. In particular, among passive interest rates, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 9.9%. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements, for an identical term, decreased 0.3 p.p., reaching 9.1%. Meanwhile, the interest rates on interbank loans decreased slightly. For the total of operations, the average interest rate was located at 8.8% (-0.2 p.p.).

• Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rate for overdrafts in current accounts (considering the total of operations) decreased 0.5 p.p. compared to the December average, reaching a level of 20.4%. In particular, the average interest rate for overdrafts in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days of term and for amounts greater than $10 million, was located at 10.9%. The interest rates for the remaining loan lines remained relatively stable, with levels around 13.7% for document discount operations, 32% for personal loans, and 13.8% and 16.6% for financing with mortgage and pledge guarantee respectively.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates

Total means of payment (M2) reached an average of $204,200 million (14.5% y.o.y.) in January, registering an increase of 3.7% in the last month. This increase was driven by the statistical carryover evidenced by the components of the means of payment, associated with the strong increase in demand for transactional money at year-end. In particular, the means of payment of the private sector registered a monthly growth of 3.5%.

The main factor that explained the monthly expansion of M2 were the purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the market and, secondly, the increase in loans to the private sector. Meanwhile, term deposits of the private sector, which resumed their growth path following their seasonal decline at year-end, acted as an absorption factor for explaining M2 growth (see Graph 2.1).

The broader aggregate in pesos, M3, registered during January an increase of 2.6%, while the private M3 presented a growth of 2.8%.

The total of deposits in domestic currency increased 2.1% in the period, with increases of similar proportion both in those belonging to the private sector and in those of the public sector. The growth of public sector placements was explained essentially by the increase in sight deposits. Meanwhile, the average balance of public term deposits decreased, although...

Graph 2.1
Explanatory Factors of M2
(January 2010, in average thousands of millions of $)

[Shows scale from -2.0 to 8.0]

Categories shown: Purchases of Foreign Currency | Public Sector | LEBAC and NOBAC Excluding Government Titles | Net Purchase of Private Sector Loans | Term Deposits of Private Sector and Others | Other | M2

*Includes fixed-term deposits and other deposits, loans and other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base
Source: BCRA

Graph 2.2
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits from the Private Sector in Pesos thousands of do during the period of important expenditures characteristic
millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $
28 39 of year-end, these placements showed a
 27 38 strong increase throughout the month of January.
More than $1 million

26 Less than $1 million (right axis) 37
 For its part, the increase in total private
25 36 deposits was driven by both increases in
 sight deposits (3%) and those in fixed-
24 35
 term (1.8%). With respect to the latter, while
23 34 those corresponding to the retail segment
 (up to $1 million) continued with their growing
22 33 trend, initiated in mid-2009, those belonging
 to the wholesale segment recovered throughout Jan‐
21 32
Jan-09 Feb-09 Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 uary the decline evidenced in December as a conse‐
 Source: BCRA quence of the greater seasonal liquidity demand
 from companies (see Graph 2.3). Regarding sight
 deposits from the private sector, they showed in‐
 creases in savings accounts and in current ac‐
 counts.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 4 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, total
 Graph 3.1 deposits fell 0.5%, with decreases in public place‐
 ments and a slight increase in private ones. In this
 Banking Liquidity in Pesos* way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes
 % of
 deposits circulating currency in the hands of the public and
 44 the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign curren‐
 cy, grew in January by 2.2%.
 42

 40
 3. Banking Liquidity1
 38
 37.3

 36 The broad liquidity of the entities (defined as the
 sum of the current account at the Central Bank, cash
 34 in banks, net repos with the Central Bank and hold‐
 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 ings of LEBACs and NOBACs) remained relatively
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of Lebacs and Nobacs. stable in January and reached 37.3% of total
 Source: BCRA deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1). Nevertheless, in the
 month a modification in the composition of liquidity
 Graph 3.2 was verified, since both the participation of bank
 reserves and that of the banks' LEBAC and NOBAC
 % of Minimum Cash Position Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position holdings decreased, while that of net repos at the Cen‐
 deposits 3.5 tral Bank increased.

 3.0
 With regard to the minimum cash position, it should be
 2.5 recalled that January was the second month of the tri‐
 2.0 mestral measurement period for reserve require‐
 1.5 ments. The accumulated surplus at the end of the
 1.0 0.9 month was equivalent to 0.9% of total deposits in
 0.5 pesos (see Graph 3.2). Said surplus was verified both
 0.0 in public and private banks.
 -0.5 Tri-monthly Position
 -1.0 For its part, the surplus of the Minimum Cash posi‐
 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 tion in the foreign currency segment increased by 1
 Source: BCRA p.p. with respect to the previous month due to the di‐
 minishment of the requirement due to the change in
 composition, in favor of those with lower reserve
 Graph 4.1 requirements, of deposits denominated in dollars, which
 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % was not accompanied by a reduction in integration2.
2,000 (var. of monthly averages) 12
 11.5

1,500 Jan-10 10

 var y.o.y. (%) - right axis 4. Loans 1 3

1,000 8

 500 6 Influenced by seasonal factors related to the summer
 recess, loans in pesos to the private sector softened
 0 4 their expansion rate in January. Driven mainly by financ‐
 -500 2 ings
-1,000 0 allocated mainly to consumption, the average balance reached $123,670 million, increasing in the month 1.5% ($1,830 million) and presenting in

Source: BCRA

2 The foreign currency requirement does not include the default of resource application.
3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 5 year-on-year terms a growth of 11.5% (see Chart 4.2 Chart 4.1).

thousands of Credits intended to finance mainly Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) commercial activities registered an increase of

24 0.2% ($110 million), presenting dissimilar beha‐
23 viors between its lines. After the greatest seasonal
22 liquidity demand from companies in the first half of
21 December, and influenced by the negative statistical
20 carryover from the last days of that month, advances
19 in current account decreased 4.6% ($815 million, see
18 Chart 4.2). For its part, documents grew 2.1%
17 Advances - Daily Value ($460 million), while the remaining commercial finan‐
16 Advances - Monthly Average
15 Documents - Daily Value ciations increased 7.1% ($465 million), in both cases
Documents - Monthly Average favored by the positive statistical carryover from the
14
Jan- Feb- Mar- Apr- May- Jun- Jul- Aug- Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan- previous month.

09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 10
Source: BCRA Loans with real guarantee maintained the growth trend of
 recent months, increasing 0.6% ($160 million). Pawn
Chart 4.3 credits grew 0.5% ($40 million), while mortgage
 loans showed an increase of 0.7% ($120 million).

u$s millions Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector
7,000 daily balance and monthly average For its part, credits intended mainly for consumption
 Daily stock continued with the dynamism of previous months,
6,500 Monthly average exhibiting an increase of 3.1% ($1,560 million).
6,000 Credit card financings increased 5.5% ($1,000 million),
 u$s millions while personal loans grew 1.8% ($560 million).
5,500 5,500
5,400
5,000 5,300 For its part, foreign currency loans to the private
5,200 sector continued with the recovery initiated during
5,100
4,500 December (see Chart 4.3). Driven by financings with
5,000
Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 documents associated with the export sector, they
4,000 registered an average monthly increase of u$s50
May-08 Jul-08 Sep-08 Nov-08 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 million.

Source:

Chart 5.1 5. Interest Rates

Lebac Interest Rate Securities issued by the BCRA4
% (primary market)
14.5

14 During January, in the primary market of LEBAC the
13.5 average term of placements was lower than in the
 previous month, while interest rates remained rela‐
13 tively stable (see Chart 5.1). As in the previous
 26-Jan 29-Dec month, no new NOBAC placements were made. The
12.5 matured amount of securities issued by the Central
 Bank was higher than placed during January, pro‐
12 Days ducing a monetary effect‐
90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360

Source: BCRA

4 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
# Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 6

...tary expansive in the month. On the other hand, the Central Bank continued conducting purchase operations in the secondary market. In this way, the stock of issued securities decreased slightly, standing at the end of the month at VN $45,726 million, of which 82% was comprised of Notes.

Analyzing the distribution of the stock of securities by type of holder, a decrease in bank holdings is observed. They ended the month with VN $37,687 million, 1.6% less than in December 2009. Meanwhile, in the rest of the holders, a decrease (at nominal values) of 5.6% in their holdings was observed (see Chart 5.2).

**Chart 5.2**
*Distribution of LEBAC and NOBAC Stock by Holder*
*Thousands of Stock January vs. December*
*millions $* *(data as of January 29)*
*millions $*
- Interfinancial Markets

- Repo Market¹

BANKS
REST
-200
In January, the interest rates of all types of repo operations remained at the same levels as December. Passive repo rates stood at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates of active repos for 1 and 7 days were 11% and 11.50%, respectively.

On the other hand, the average stock of net repos (passive minus active) for the Central Bank registered a considerable increase within the framework of the comfortable quarterly minimum cash position of financial entities (see Banking Liquidity Section). The monthly average of passive repos reached a level of $11,560 million, while the average stock of active repos was reduced to $30 million.

**Interbank Market**

**Chart 5.3**
*Call Interest Rate*
*%*

During January, the interest rates of interbank loans decreased slightly. For the total of operations, the average interest rate stood at 8.8% (-0.2 p.p.), the same as the average of the interest rate for operations at 1 business day (see Chart 5.3).

Call at 1 Business Day (Total of Entities)
Call Rate

The amounts operated in this market remained at historically low levels. The daily average negotiated in January was $640 million, $50 million less than the amount negotiated in December. The distribution of the amount operated in the interbank market by type of entity repeated the pattern of recent months, with non-bank financial entities (EFNB) leading net fund providers and foreign banking to net demanders.

# Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 7

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

In January, the average short-term passive interest rate for the retail placement segment decreased with respect to the average values of the previous month, while the one corresponding to wholesale placements remained relatively stable. In this sense, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 9.9% (see Chart 5.4). For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks to retail placements, for identical term, decreased 0.3 p.p., standing at 9.1%.

**Chart 5.4**
*TNA, %*
*Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days*
*(Capital and GBA - Daily Data)*
22
20
18 Retail private banks
16 BADLAR private banks
14
12
10

On the other hand, the interest rates negotiated in the futures market remained stable. At the close of the month, the rate implicit in contracts with
8 maturity at the end of the first quarter of 2010
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10
 Source: BCRA was 10.4%, unchanged compared to that recorded at
 the end of December. For its part, the interest
 rates of contracts with maturity at the end
 of the second quarter were located at 11.75%.

Chart 5.5 Active Interest Rates1 5

 Active Interest Rates
 TNA% Private Banks of Capital and GBA
 The interest rates charged on loans
 30
 28 Total Current Account Advances remained stable compared to the average ob‐
 25 Current Account Advances w/agreement 7d served in December.
 23 Adv 7d +10M

 20
 18 Among commercial loans granted by pri‐
 15 vate banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rate of
 13 current account advances (considering the total
 10
 8 of operations) declined 0.5 p.p. compared to the De‐
 5 cember average and reached a level close to
 3 20.4%. Meanwhile, the average interest rate of cur‐
 0 rent account advances with prior agreement, grant‐
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10
 Source: ed to companies, for up to 7 days of term and for
 amounts exceeding $10 million, was located at 10.9%
 with a slight increase, 0.2 p.p., compared to the average
 observed in December (see Chart 5.5).

 For its part, the interest rates of the three modali‐
 ties of financing through documents
 (discounted, single signature and purchased) registered
 scarce movements compared to the levels negotiat‐
 ed in December. In particular, the average of the rate

5 This section was prepared with information on interest rates on loans for the entire country through November
2009. The values of December 2009 and January 2010 were estimated based on data of loans granted to
the private sector in Capital Federal and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 8 of discounted documents would have decreased
 0.1 p.p. compared to the December average, reaching
 a level close to 13.7%.

 Meanwhile, according to preliminary information for
 Capital and GBA, the interest rates of personal loans
 Chart 6.1 reached a level of around
 32% with an increase of 0.5 p.p. compared to the previ‐
 BCRA International Reserves ous month. For its part, the interest rates of home
 thousands of excluding SDR allocations 2009 loans to families would have remained at
 millions of u$s
 55 13.8%, unchanged compared to the December level,
 50 while the interest rate corresponding to financings
 45 with chattel mortgage guarantee would have de‐
 40 thousands of Variation Factors January 2010 creased 1.3 p.p. compared to the December average,
 millions u$s reaching a level close to 16.6%.
 35 1.0
 30 0.8
 0.6
 25 0.4
 20 0.2

 0.0
 15 -0.2 6. International Reserves and
 10 -0.4
 Int.Res. excl.Purchase of Public Sector Min. Ef. Others
 asign. SDGs Foreign Exchange Market6
 5 2009
 0
 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08 Oct-08 Mar-09 Aug-09 Jan-10
 Source: BCRA
 
 The stock of international reserves increased
 slightly in January, reaching u$s48,129 million
 at the end of the month (see Chart 6.1). The variation
 compared to the previous month was u$s162 million and
 was driven mainly by foreign currency purchases
 by the Central Bank. Meanwhile, the increase
 generated by the aforementioned foreign currency
 Chart 6.2 purchases was partially offset by the reduction
 of foreign currency current accounts
 of banks at the Central Bank.

 Variation in the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
 In the foreign exchange market, and in line with the situation
 8% of monetary and financial stability, the average
 6% quotation for the month of the peso with respect to the
 US dollar remained practically unchanged,
 4%
 2%
0% placing itself at 3.80 $/u$s (see Graph 6.2). Meanwhile,
 with respect to the Real and the Euro, there was a decrease

 -2%
 in the average quotation of 1.7% and 2.1% respec‐
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real tively. The average quotations of such cur‐
 -4%
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10rencies were 2.14 $/Real and 5.43 $/Euro. For its

 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. part, in the forward market (ROFEX), the amount
 Source: BCRA
 traded of the United States dollar in futures was
 $888 million, which meant a decrease of 20%
 with respect to the previous month, due to the decline in the
 number of contracts executed.

6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 9

7. Capital Markets

 Stocks

 In January the evolution of stock markets in
 almost all regions had a negative performance
 for the first time in several months. Specifically, the
 MSCI global decreased 4.2%. Also when considering
 Graph 7.1 the regional evolution, except in the case of Japan, all
 the indices had a negative result. In parti‐
 Performance of World Stock Market Indices cular, the MSCI of Latin America decreased by 8.9% and
 (base index 02/07/07 = 100)
135
 that of European stock exchanges fell 7.7%. In contrast, that of
 Japan rose 1.9%. For its part, the North American S&P 500
115
 decreased 1.7% between the end of December and
 95
 January (see Graph 7.1).
 75
 MSCI World The MERVAL index of Argentina also showed a
 MSCI Europe regular performance during January, ending the month
 55 MSCI Japan
 MSCI Latam at 2,298 points, with a monthly decline, between end of month
 S&P 500 and measured in pesos, of 1%. Meanwhile, in the last
 35
 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09twelve months the MERVAL accumulated a gain

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. of 113.4%. Measured in dollars, the MERVAL exhibited

 a decrease of 1.7% in January.

 Among the rest of the main markets of Latin
 America, the gain of the IGBVL (Peru) stood out,
 which reached 4.1%, followed by the IGPA (Chile) which
 increased 2.3%. The rest of the region's indices had
 negative results in dollars. Specifically, the BOVESPA (Brazil) fell 12.4% and the IPC
 (Mexico) decreased by 6.9%.

 The historical volatility of the MERVAL - 22 trading sessions - in
 annualized terms and measured in dollars, was
 22% during January, 1.3 p.p. less than during the
 previous month. On the other hand, the expected
 volatility for the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) averaged January
 at 21%, unchanged from December 2009.

 The volume traded daily, on average, on the
 Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was approximately
 $50 million, slightly higher than that of De‐
 cember, and with an increase of more than $15 million
 with respect to the same period of the previous year.

 Public Securities

 During January the sovereign risk indicators
 rose slightly with respect to the previous month. The EM‐
 BI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries
 as a whole closed at 308 b.p.. Meanwhile, the spread of
 debt in foreign currency of Latin America fi‐
 nalized January at 362 b.p., that of Brazil at 234 b.p. and that
 of Argentina at 753 b.p., which implies increases
# Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 10 of 34 p.b., of 42 p.b. and of 93 p.b., respectively.

For its part, in Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts, increases in spreads were also recorded compared to December. The spread of Argentina's 5-year contracts (the most traded segment) increased 114 p.b., while the spread of Brazil's 5-year CDS also increased, by 22 p.b. (see Graph 7.2).

**Graph 7.2**
**Sovereign Risk Indicators**
spread EMBI spread in p.b. CDS in p.b. CDS in p.b.
5,000 Argentina 700 EMBI Argentina 1,950
4,000 Brazil (right axis) 600 1,650
EMBI Latin America 500 1,350
3,000 400 1,050
2,000 300 750
1,000 200 450
0 100 150
Jul-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09

Source: Bloomberg

The traded volume of public securities (on a daily average basis) continued at reduced levels, placing itself at $797 million, $130 million less than compared to the previous month, although $400 million more than in January 2009.

## Private Securities

During January, in the private debt market only one company issued negotiable obligations (ON). It was Ribeiro SA, which issued two series of ON. The first series was placed in pesos, for $10 million, at a Private BADLAR rate plus a margin of 5%. The second series was for an amount of u$s2 million at a fixed rate of 7% per annum. The maturity of both series will be in June 2014.

## Investment Common Funds

**Graph 7.3**
**Patrimony of the FCI in pesos**
thousands of millions $

The patrimony of the investment common funds (FCI) registered a monthly decline of 9.6%, placing itself at $15,287 million at the end of January. The decrease was reflected both in the local currency segment and in the foreign currency segment.

On one hand, the FCI in pesos ended the month with a patrimony of $13,270 million, 10.5% lower compared to December. A considerable decrease (16.8%) was reflected in the money market segment, which registered a patrimony of $7,448 million at the end of the month. The sharp decline was due to the lower number of share units registered and caused a loss of representativeness of 4% of the money market in the total FCI in pesos. Meanwhile, the variable income funds evidenced a decline of 6%, ending the month of January with a patrimony of $1,730 million. This decline was explained mainly by a decrease of 4.9% monthly in the prices of share units. On the other hand, fixed income funds recorded a patrimony of $3,671 million, which implied a monthly increase of 2%.

With regard to FCI in foreign currency, a slight decline of 3% was evidenced, explained mainly by the variable income and fixed income segments.

## Financial Trusts

**Graph 7.4**
**Emissions of Financial Trusts**
millions $ Amount issued in the month / Quantity of operations (right axis) / Average annual amount

During the first month of the year, FF emissions totaled $530 million (see Graph 7.4), approximately half of the securitized amount the previous month, when two FF were registered for relatively high amounts (CHA XI and Albanesi Gas I). In any case, if these placements are excluded, a decline of 25% is observed compared to December 2009. Likewise, a decrease of 29% was evidenced in the year-on-year comparison. As for the quantity of
Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 placements, a total of 13 were registered throughout
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others
 the month, 8 fewer both compared to the previous month
 as to the same month of the previous year.

Graph 7.5  Unlike the wide variety of securitized assets
 Fiduciaries last month, in January a high concentration was
 millions $ observed in those linked to consumption. In fact,
 1.200 Retail Stores personal loans and credit card installments, together,
 Mutual Societies, Cooperatives and Non-bank credit card issuers represented 93% of the total, a percentage similar to that of
 Financial Entities the same month in 2009. The remainder corresponded to
 Other Participation by fiduciary commercial credits (4% of the total) and pledged loans
 1.000 (January 2010) (3% of the total). Regarding the amounts securitized by
 48% type of underlying asset, in all cases they were reduced,
 330 both compared to the previous month and to the same
 800 31% month last year.
 127 -23% 17%

 600 The main fiduciaries were retail stores, concentrating
 -31% close to half of the securitized assets in the month (48%
 372 of the total; see Graph 7.5), with a decrease of 23% in
 -55% the amount of assets securitized compared to last month.
 400 254 For their part, financial entities maintained a participation
 in the total similar to that of the previous month (31% of
 200 88 the total), although they substantially reduced their securi-
 265 165 tizations (55% less than in the last month). Meanwhile,
 0 22 mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit card
 Dec-09 Jan-10 issuers were fiduciaries of 17% of the total, registering a
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others decrease of 31% in the volume of securitized assets. The
 remainder corresponded to small and medium-sized enter-
 prises in the agricultural sector.

Graph 7.6

 37 % Cut-off Rates of the FF The interest rates on senior titles increased in January,
 (A-class titles in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount) observing an alignment of the fixed and variable interest
 35 rates. In fact, the rate (weighted average by amount) of
 33 Fixed rate the titles with variable returns was located at 12.7%, 1
 31 Variable rate p.p. above the average of last month (see Graph 7.6).
 29 BADLAR rate Private Banks Meanwhile, the cut-off rate of the titles awarded at fixed
 27 rate reached 12.8%, registering an increase of 1.6 p.p.
 25 compared to the previous month. For its part, the duration
 23 (weighted average by amount) of the senior titles decreased
 21 significantly compared to last month (11.4 months), being
 19 located at 5.9 months due to the securitization of assets
 17 mainly linked to consumption.
 15
 13

 11

 9

 7

 5
 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others

7 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 121

 12.7%, 1 p.p. above the average of last month (see Graph
 7.6). Meanwhile, the cut-off rate of the titles awarded at
 fixed rate reached 12.8%, registering an increase of 1.6
 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the
 duration (weighted average by amount) of the senior titles
 decreased significantly compared to last month (11.4
 months), being located at 5.9 months due to the majority
 securitization of assets linked to consumption.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 138. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main monetary variables and financial system variables Jan-10 Monthly Last 12 months
 Dec-09 Nov-09 Jan-09
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 121,668 118,661 109,548 105,121 2.5% 1.6% 15.7% 7.1%
 Monetary circulation 95,667 92,793 84,136 80,919 3.1% 2.2% 18.2% 9.4%
 In the hands of the public 84,968 81,693 75,058 72,301 4.0% 3.1% 17.5% 8.7%
 In financial entities 10,699 11,100 9,077 8,618 -3.6% -4.5% 24.1% 14.9%
 Current account at BCRA 26,001 25,868 25,413 24,202 0.5% -0.4% 7.4% -0.6%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 11,460 6,959 10,096 15,795 64.7% 63.2% -27.4% -32.9%
 Assets 30 34 393 2,621
# Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

**LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)**
In pesos: 36,702 | 34,743 | 31,490 | 9,291 | 5.6% | 4.7% | 295.0% | 265.5%

**NOBAC:** 9,857 | 12,616 | 14,841 | 29,269 | -21.9% | -22.6% | -66.3% | -68.8%

**BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations:** 48,116 | 47,717 | 46,805 | 46,789 | 0.8% | 2.8%

**2009 SDR Allocation (5):** 0 | 1,241 | 0 | 0

**Deposits from private sector and public sector in pesos (1):** 221,216 | 216,730 | 211,712 | 199,405 | 2.1% | 1.2% | 10.9% | 2.6%

**Current account (2):** 74,987 | 71,850 | 65,922 | 68,104 | 4.4% | 3.4% | 10.1% | 1.9%

**Savings account:** 44,248 | 43,355 | 39,970 | 37,940 | 2.1% | 1.2% | 16.6% | 7.9%

**Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER:** 90,833 | 90,057 | 95,095 | 82,310 | 0.9% | 0.0% | 10.4% | 2.1%

**Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER:** 16 | 18 | 21 | 306 | -10.8% | -11.6% | -94.7% | -95.1%

**Other deposits (3):** 11,132 | 11,450 | 10,704 | 10,745 | -2.8% | -3.7% | 3.6% | -4.2%

**Deposits from private sector:** 159,027 | 155,595 | 150,046 | 136,965 | 2.2% | 1.3% | 16.1% | 7.4%

**Deposits from public sector:** 62,189 | 61,136 | 61,666 | 62,440 | 1.7% | 0.8% | -0.4% | -7.9%

**Deposits from private sector and public sector in dollars (1):** 11,732 | 11,793 | 11,599 | 9,647 | -0.5% | 21.6%

**Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1):** 138,119 | 136,468 | 133,784 | 119,128 | 1.2% | 0.3% | 15.9% | 7.3%

**Loans to private sector:** 120,644 | 119,130 | 116,374 | 108,177 | 1.3% | 0.4% | 11.5% | 3.2%

**Advances:** 16,776 | 17,591 | 17,117 | 15,851 | -4.6% | -5.5% | 5.8% | -2.1%

**Documents:** 22,750 | 22,289 | 21,483 | 18,872 | 2.1% | 1.2% | 20.6% | 11.5%

**Mortgage loans:** 17,756 | 17,741 | 17,754 | 18,112 | 0.1% | -0.8% | -2.0% | -9.3%

**Pledge loans:** 7,091 | 7,061 | 7,008 | 7,476 | 0.4% | -0.5% | -5.2% | -12.3%

**Personal loans:** 30,451 | 30,056 | 29,604 | 27,610 | 1.3% | 0.4% | 10.3% | 2.0%

**Credit cards:** 18,669 | 17,706 | 16,978 | 15,200 | 5.4% | 4.5% | 22.8% | 13.6%

**Others:** 7,151 | 6,687 | 6,430 | 5,056 | 6.9% | 6.0% | 41.4% | 30.8%

**Loans to public sector:** 17,475 | 17,338 | 17,410 | 10,950 | 0.8% | -0.1% | 59.6% | 47.6%

**Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1):** 5,284 | 5,236 | 5,165 | 5,855 | 0.9% | -9.7%

## Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

**M1 (cash in circulation held by public + current account in pesos):** 159,955 | 153,542 | 140,980 | 140,406 | 4.2% | 3.2% | 13.9% | 5.4%

**M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos):** 204,203 | 196,897 | 180,950 | 178,345 | 3.7% | 2.8% | 14.5% | 5.9%

**M3 (cash in circulation held by public + total deposits in pesos):** 306,184 | 298,423 | 286,770 | 271,706 | 2.6% | 1.7% | 12.7% | 4.3%

**M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars):** 350,819 | 343,307 | 330,978 | 305,115 | 2.2% | 1.3% | 15.0% | 6.4%

## Private Monetary Aggregates

**M1 (cash in circulation held by public + private current account in pesos):** 130,729 | 126,008 | 116,757 | 111,419 | 3.7% | 2.8% | 17.3% | 8.5%

**M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos):** 171,551 | 165,749 | 153,731 | 146,139 | 3.5% | 2.6% | 17.4% | 8.6%

**M3 (cash in circulation held by public + total private deposits in pesos):** 243,995 | 237,287 | 225,104 | 209,266 | 2.8% | 1.9% | 16.6% | 7.9%

**M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars):** 282,371 | 275,371 | 263,270 | 237,153 | 2.5% | 1.6% | 19.1% | 10.2%

---

**Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 14** **Average Variations**

| **Variation Factors** | **Monthly** |  | **Quarterly** |  | **Year-to-date 2010** |  | **Last 12 months** |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary base** | 3,007 | 2.5% | 14,388 | 11.8% | 3,007 | 2.5% | 16,547 | 13.6% |
| **Financial sector** | -4,451 | -3.7% | -905 | -0.7% | -4,451 | -3.7% | 1,768 | 1.5% |
| **Public sector** | 1,492 | 1.2% | 3,747 | 3.1% | 1,492 | 1.2% | 1,056 | 0.9% |
| **Private external sector** | 4,966 | 4.1% | 13,823 | 11.4% | 4,966 | 4.1% | 13,247 | 10.9% |
| **BCRA Securities** | 1,336 | 1.1% | -1,673 | -1.4% | 1,336 | 1.1% | -830 | -0.7% |
| **Others** | -336 | -0.3% | -604 | -0.5% | -336 | -0.3% | 1,307 | 1.1% |

**BCRA International Reserves excluding 2009 SDR allocations:** 400 | 0.8% | 2,383 | 5.0% | 400 | 0.8% | 1,327 | 2.8%

**Intervention in foreign exchange market:** 1,308 | 2.7% | 3,631 | 7.5% | 1,308 | 2.7% | 3,425 | 7.1%

**Payments to international organizations:** 1,309 | 2.7% | 3,303 | 6.9% | 1,309 | 2.7% | 3,419 | 7.1%

**Other public sector operations:** -2,070 | -4.3% | -3,951 | -8.2% | -2,070 | -4.3% | -6,873 | -14.3%

**Minimum cash:** -374 | -0.8% | -980 | -2.0% | -374 | -0.8% | 27 | 0.1%

**Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation):** 227 | 0.5% | 380 | 0.8% | 227 | 0.5% | 1,330 | 2.8%

**2009 SDR Allocations:** -1,241 |  | -2,695 |  | -1,241 |  | 0 |
# FOOTNOTES AND SOURCES

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jan-09 Dec-09 Nov-09
 (1) (2)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.7 15.5
 Integration 16.5 16.8 16.0
 Position (3) 0.9 1.1 0.5
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 58.6 54.3
 30 to 59 days 20.8 20.8 22.5
 60 to 89 days 7.1 7.1 9.8
 90 to 179 days 8.0 8.0 7.3
 more than 180 days 5.5 5.5 6.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.3 20.6 20.8
 Integration (includes resource application default) 72.6 71.8 70.2
 Position (2) 52.2 51.1 49.4
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.0 61.4 60.8
 30 to 59 days 22.3 21.3 22.0
 60 to 89 days 10.9 8.3 8.6
 90 to 179 days 7.1 7.2 6.8
 180 to 365 days 1.5 1.5 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.2 0.4
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos.

(3) Position = Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 15 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.84 9.03 8.89 9.03 12.09
 Amount traded 637 710 579 710 399

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.35 9.45 10.37 9.45 14.26
 60 days or more 10.41 10.49 11.55 10.49 14.00
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.66 9.63 10.46 9.63 14.21
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.86 9.82 10.67 9.82 15.60

 In dollars
 30 days 0.38 0.37 0.53 0.37 1.64
 60 days or more 0.64 0.75 0.89 0.75 2.27
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.42 0.68 0.42 1.70
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.56 0.50 0.69 0.50 2.59

# Active Interest Rates Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 9.02 11.06 10.49 11.06 13.98
 Amount traded (total terms) 148 194 162 194 114

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 20.37 20.87 21.38 20.87 26.62
 Signature only documents 16.21 16.15 17.24 16.15 24.45
 Mortgage 13.79 13.65 13.33 13.65 14.64
 Pledge 16.59 17.86 18.38 17.86 26.33
 Personal 31.96 31.43 32.56 31.43 37.43
 Credit cards n/a n/a 31.59 n/a 28.88

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.87 10.70 11.44 n/d n/d

# International Interest Rates Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

LIBOR
 1 month 0.23 0.23 0.24 0.23 0.38
 6 months 0.40 0.45 0.52 0.45 1.62

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.91 0.86 0.79 0.86 0.79
 10 years 3.71 3.59 3.38 3.59 2.47

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.75 8.75 8.75 8.75 13.37

(1) Data through November correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while December and January are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Reference Interest Rates Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

BCRA repurchase rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.50
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 11.00
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 13.00

Total REPO trading floor repurchase rates
 1 day 9.05 9.06 9.03 9.06 10.52
 7 days 9.52 9.61 9.84 9.61 11.84
Amount traded in REPO overnight passes (daily average) 8,567 4,490 6,640 4,490 8,272

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a 11.00
 3 months n/a 12.75 n/a 12.75 12.27
 9 months 13.95 n/a 14.56 n/a n/a
 12 months n/a 14.40 15.11 14.40 n/a

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.43
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.87
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 204 165 167 165 123

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.80 3.80 3.81 3.80 3.46
 BCRA Reference 3.80 3.81 3.81 3.81 3.46

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.84 3.84 3.83 3.84 3.56
 ROFEX 1 month 3.83 3.84 3.83 3.84 3.48
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 888 1,153 924 1,153 503

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.14 2.17 2.20 2.17 1.50

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.43 5.55 5.69 5.55 4.59

 Capital Market Jan-10 Dec-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-09

MERVAL
 Index 2,344 2,229 2,232 2,229 1,112
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 54 49 53 49 41

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 87.75 88.12 85.07 88.12 56.53
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 73.45 73.99 71.66 73.99 35.84
 BODEN 2014 ($) 76.32 77.20 76.13 77.20 26.73
 DISCOUNT ($) 55.12 59.83 57.21 59.83 33.75

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 915 824 1,001 824 3,511
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 318 335 338 335 667

(1) These correspond to averages of the results from each month's auctions.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 179. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos with 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
BODEN: National Government Bond.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Mutual Investment Funds.
FED: Federal Reserve of the USA.
FF: Financial Trusts.
IMF: International Monetary Fund.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus total peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Term Arranged Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
PG: Guaranteed Loans.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SELIC: Special System for Settlement and Custody (reference interest rate of the Central Bank of Brazil).
SIPA: Integrated Argentine Social Security System.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
VIX: Expected Volatility Index of the S&P
FV: Face Value.

 Monetary Report | January 2010 | BCRA | 18
