# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
April 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Equities
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 14 | Common Investment Funds
Page 15 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on May 12, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary¹

• During April, total payment means (M2) reached an average balance of $199,350 million, showing an increase in the month of 0.9% ($1,730 million) and registering a year-over-year variation of 19.9%. The broader aggregate in pesos, M3, registered an increase of 1.9% during the month (19.6% y.o.y.), while private M3 showed growth of 1.4% (20.4% y.o.y.).

• The total of private deposits in pesos registered growth of 2.5% in the month. Sight placements increased 2.8%. Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits continued growing at a similar rate to that registered since the beginning of the year (2% monthly), increasing mainly in the wholesale segment (more than $1 million).

• The increase in peso deposits translated into an increase in both loans granted to the private sector and the assets that make up broad liquidity (sum of cash in banks, current account at the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs). The broad liquidity ratio was 39.8% of total deposits in pesos, 0.9 p.p. above March, an increase that took place mainly through the growth of bank holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed great dynamism in April, highlighting commercial lines and consumer financing. In this way, the monthly average balance stood at $125,610 million, showing an increase of 2.8% ($3,445 million) compared to the previous month. Likewise, in year-over-year terms, they registered growth of 14.8%. Among commercial credits, the performance of current account advances stood out, which registered an increase of 5.2% ($850 million), while those instrumented through documents advanced 2.8% in the month ($650 million). In the segment intended to finance consumption, credit card financing registered growth of 4.1% ($780 million), while personal loans advanced 2.3% ($750 million) in the month.

• In a context of sustained growth of private sector time placements, passive interest rates continued with the slight downward bias observed since the beginning of the year. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale bracket (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 9.25%, with a decline of 0.2 p.p. compared to the average recorded in March. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements (up to $100 thousand), for the same period, also fell 0.2 p.p., standing at 8.7%.
• Interest rates charged for business loans declined again, reaching single-digit average values in some segments. Meanwhile, those destined for household consumption also registered declines, although their levels continued to be elevated compared to the cost of funds. According to preliminary information for Capital and GBA, interest rates on personal loans declined 0.6 p.p. and reached a level around 31.1%. On the other hand, the average monthly rate for February, the latest available information, for credit card financing nationwide was 31.2%, with a decline of 0.9 p.p. compared to January.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates
(April 2010, on average) During April, total means of payment (M2) reached
an average balance of $199,350 million, presenting
Other Deposits an increase in the month of 0.9% ($1,730 million, see
Public Sector Chart 2.1) and registering an annual variation of 19.9%.
Private Sector Meanwhile, private means of payment (M2 private)
Time Deposits presented monthly growth of 1.1% ($1,770 million),
M3 growing in the last twelve months 21.6%.
1.9%
Sight Deposits
M2 Among the factors that explained the M2 variation, pri-
0.9% vate sector loans stood out, which during April showed
Bills and Coins an acceleration in their growth rate (see Loans section).
In the same direction, purchases of foreign currency by
-4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 the Central Bank in the market also had an expansionary
thousands of millions of $ effect and, to a lesser extent, public sector operations.
Source: BCRA The expansionary effect of said operations on the M2
balance was partially offset by the increase shown by
fixed-term placements (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.2

thousands of Factors Explaining M2 Variation Regarding primary money creation, the monetary base
millions of $ (April 2010, on average) recorded an average of $120,500 million, increasing in
5 April by approximately $270 million. The purchases of
4 foreign currency by the Central Bank and public sector
3 operations mentioned above were the expansion factors
2 of the monetary base in April. These effects were almost
1 entirely offset by the increase recorded in the balances
0 of passive repos in LEBAC and NOBAC and by the place-
-1 ment of LEBAC and NOBAC, allocated mainly to fi-
-2 nancial institutions (see Chart 2.3 and Liquidity Section
-3 Bancaria [Banking Liquidity]).
-4
-5 The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered during
Foreign Currency Sector LEBAC and Loans to Time the month an increase of 1.9% (19.6% y.o.y), while pri-
Purchases Public* NOBAC Sector Deposits vate M3 presented growth of 1.4% (20.4% y.o.y.).
and Others Central Bank
excluding and Banks The total deposits in domestic currency increased 2.8%
Passive Repos in the period (18.8% y.o.y.), with increases in both pub-
*Includes loans and other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base. lic sector and private sector deposits. Those belonging to
Source: BCRA the public sector showed growth of 3.6% (16.6% y.o.y.),
driven essentially by time deposits.

Chart 2.3

Factors Explaining the Monetary Base Meanwhile, total private deposits registered growth of
thousands of (April 2010, on average) 2.5% (19.8% y.o.y.). Sight placements increased 2.8%,
millions of $ advancing both the current account and savings ac-
3 count. While, the time deposits...
-3 Fixed-term deposits continued growing at a rate similar to that registered since the beginning of the year (2% monthly, see Graph 2.4), increasing mainly in the wholesale segment (more than $ 1 million). With respect to this last segment, it is expected that companies will unwind part of their fixed-term deposits to face the upcoming tax payments, which could generate a seasonal decrease in the growth rate of fixed-term deposits in May.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed strong growth that was explained fundamentally by the behavior of public sector placements. Indeed, at the end of March the Treasury carried out the transfer of resources in foreign currency from its accounts at the Central Bank towards deposits in commercial banks. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency, showed an increase of 5.6%.

Given its possible impact on the composition of the portfolio of agents in the private non-financial sector and its correlation in the allocation of funds among the different definitions of money, it is important to point out that, through Communication "A" 5068, the Central Bank arranged that, as of May 1st, 2010, interest may not be recognized on the balances of deposits in bank current accounts, in special current accounts for legal entities and in sight accounts opened in cooperative credit boxes. This regulation is part of a series of measures adopted by the monetary authority since the beginning of 2006, which aim to avoid circumventing the minimum term established for fixed-term deposits and to balance incentives among the different financial instruments. Additionally, it should be remembered that special current accounts for legal entities, without check use and with remuneration, were admitted on an extraordinary basis during the course of the crisis in 2001.

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

In April, the increase in deposits in pesos resulted in a significant increase in the stock of loans granted to the private sector (see Loans Section) and in an increase in the assets that make up broad liquidity (sum of cash in banks, current account at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs). The broad liquidity ratio was 39.8% of total deposits in pesos, which implied an increase of 0.9 p.p. with respect to March, which took place mainly through the growth of bank holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC.

Regarding the position of Minimum Cash in pesos for April, the excess integration ended at 0.3% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2), despite the fact that throughout the month the accumulated surplus was somewhat higher than in the previous months. This was related, in part, to the Easter holidays that altered the payment schemes and accumulation of numerals by the entities. By group of banks, the integration of private banks was 0.5% of deposits
2.0 concluded the position for the month in balance (0.1% of
 
1.5 deposits in pesos).

1.0

0.5 For its part, in the foreign currency segment there was

0.2 differentiated behavior between entities in the public
0.0 sector and those in the private sector, which is why it is
-0.5 more appropriate to mention the behavior of both
-1.0 groups separately. On one hand, the surplus decre-
 Quarterly position ased by 1 percentage point compared to the previous
-1.5 month for private banks (being 41.8% of total deposits
Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10
Source: BCRA in foreign currency), as a result of greater application of
 resources to the granting of dollar loans to the private
 sector. Meanwhile, as a result of the transfer of funds
 from the Central Bank to commercial banks in the public
 sector by the Treasury, an increase in the integration of
 reserve requirements was verified for this group of en-
 tities. This implied that the surplus of the accumulated
 Minimum Cash position for April for public banks was
 67.3% of deposits in dollars, increasing by 12.1 percen-
 tage points compared to March.

 4. Loans 1 2

 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed great dyna-
 mism in April, highlighting commercial lines and con-
Chart 4.1 sumer financing. In this way, the average monthly ba-

millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % lance was placed at $125,610 million, showing an
3,500 (variation of monthly averages) 21
 increase of 2.8% ($3,445 million) compared to the
3,000 18
 previous month. Likewise, in year-on-year terms, it
 registered growth of 14.8% (see Chart 4.1).
2,500 15 14.8 Apr-10
 var. % y-o-y (right axis)
2,000 12

1,500 9 Credits aimed primarily at financing commercial ac-

1,000 6 tivities increased by 3.5% ($1,640 million) in the
 500 3 month. Although generalized increases were observed
 in all lines that make up this type of financing, the beha-
 0 0 vior of overdrafts in current accounts stood out (see
 Chart 4.2), which after several months of showing little
Source: BCRA dynamism, registered an increase of 5.2% ($850 mil-
 lion) in its monthly average. For its part, loans instru-
 mented through documents advanced 2.8% in the
 month ($650 million). Finally, the remaining commer-
 cial financings registered an increase of 2% ($140 mil-
2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to
 financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 6 lion) during the period.

Chart 4.2

 millions of $ Commercial Loans %
 1,000 (variation of monthly and year-on-year avg.) 90
 For its part, credits aimed primarily at consumption
 750 70
 accelerated their expansion rate, registering in the
 500 month an increase of 2.9% ($1,530 million; see
 50 Chart 4.3), which would be associated in part with
 250 30 various promotions for the purchase of electronic ar-
 0 ticles. Financing with credit cards registered growth
 10 of 4.1% ($780 million) compared to March, while
 -250 personal loans advanced 2.3% ($750 million) in the
 -10 month.
 -500 Overdrafts (monthly var.)
 -750 Documents (monthly var.) -30 Loans with real collateral continued showing relatively
 Overdrafts (y-o-y var.; right axis)
Documents (y-o-y var.; right axis) high growth rates compared to those recorded through-
-1,000 -50
 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10
Source: BCRA out last year, increasing by 1% ($275 million) in the
 month. Pawn credits accelerated their expansion rate,
 presenting a monthly variation of 2.1% ($130 million).
 Meanwhile, mortgage credits grew at a rate similar to
 that of the previous month, increasing by 0.8% ($145

Chart 4.3

 Consumer Loans
millions of $ (avg. monthly var.) Apr-
Credit Cards millions) in the month.
1.800 Personal 08=100180

1.600 Supermarket Sales - Electronics and household items 160

1.400 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
140 continued showing significant
1.200
1.000 120 dynamism by registering an increase of US$225 million,

800 100 explained mainly by financing

600 80 implemented through documents, a segment in which

400 60 operations associated with foreign trade are
concentrated.
200 40

0
-200 20

-400 0 5. Interest Rates
Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10
Source: BCRA
Titles Issued by the BCRA3

In the primary market of LEBACs there was a slight
Chart 5.1 decrease in interest rates, especially in the shorter-
LEBAC Interest Rate term securities (see Chart 5.1). The average term of the
placed securities turned out to be higher than in March,

% (primary and secondary market) favored by the awards of NOBACs at terms greater than
15.0 10 months. In the secondary market the interest rates
14.5 of LEBACs were located at levels similar to the previous
14.0 month for the shorter terms, and lower for the longer-
13.5 term securities. Among the titles issued by the Central
13.0 Bank, LEBACs continued being the most traded, consti-
12.5 tuting 97% of the total operations carried out. In this
12.0 market, the average monthly amount traded registered
11.5 27-Mar - Primary Market an increase of 40% compared to March. While LEBACs
11.0 27-Apr - Primary Market reached a maximum in the average amount operated
10.5 Last week Apr - Secondary Market during April, NOBACs registered a minimum since
Last week Mar - Secondary Market February 2006 (see Chart 5.2).
10.0
9.5
9.0
Days
5 60 115 170 225 280 335 390 445 500 555
Source: BCRA

3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 7 As in the previous months, a contractionary monetary effect
was recorded through the use of this tool (the placed
amount was superior to the maturities). Consequently,
Chart 5.2 the stock of titles issued by the Central Bank registered
an increase of 5% monthly, reaching $53,074 million at
Average Monthly Traded in the Secondary Market the end of April. It should be noted that 94.7% of the
millions of $ (daily data) titles in circulation are LEBACs, while the remaining
600 average monthly variation 5.3% are notes at variable rate, because in April the only
millions of $ (April vs March) fixed-rate note that was in circulation matured.
105 LEBAC NOBAC 90
500 75
60
102 45
400 30

15
0 Regarding the distribution by holder, there was a new

1 increase in bank holdings. Banks accumulated 84% of
300 -9
-15 the total titles at the end of April, with a balance of
$44,670 million, 3.4% higher than the previous month.
200 Meanwhile, the rest of the holders together increased
their holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs by 12% (see
100 Chart 5.3).

-0
Feb-06 Jul-06 Dec-06 May-07 Oct-07 Mar-08 Aug-08 Jan-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Apr-10
Source: BCRA
Interfinancial Markets

Repo Market1

The interest rates of all modalities of Central Bank repos
remained at the same levels as March. Passive repo rates
remained at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively,
while the interest rates of active repos of 1 and 7 days,
remained at 11% and 11.50%, respectively.
In April, the average stock of net repos (liabilities minus assets) for the Central Bank, including all types of operations in which this Institution participates, increased $1,230 million and was located at a level close to $14,800 million, of which the portion that was counterparty to operations with financial entities amounted to 5% of deposits in pesos (see Banking Liquidity Section). It should be noted that there were no active repos in effect.

**Graph 5.3**
**Interbank Market Interest Rate**
- Operations at 1 business day
- Repos between financial entities
- Call (total of banks)
- Call of financial entities that can carry out passive repos with the BCRA
- BCRA Passive Repo Rates Interbank Market¹

During April, the average of the interest rates in the interbank market (call), both at 1 business day, as well as for the total of operations, remained practically unchanged with respect to March, with both segments closing at 8.5%.

The daily average of the amount traded during the month was $780 million, almost the same value as last month, and one of the largest amounts in the last two years.

The dispersion measures of the interest rates of interbank loans remained stable. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed each day remained at 2.6 p.p.. Said value continues to be the lowest since April 2008.

Although at first glance it seems unreasonable that some financial entities would be willing to make loans in the call market with an interest rate of 8.5%, lower than what they could obtain through a repo with the Central Bank. This situation is explained because not all entities can operate in the repo market with the BCRA (only those that meet the requirements to be MAE agents can do so). The average call rate at 1 business day for the group of entities that can carry out passive repo operations with the BCRA⁴ was 9.35%. For this market segment the BCRA's passive repo rate at 1 business day functions effectively as a floor for the call rate (see Graph 5.3).

**Graph 5.4**
**Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days**
Capital and GBA - Daily Data

- Retail private banks
- Retail Private Banks
**Passive Interest Rates¹**

On the other hand, during April the average interest rate in the repo market between financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.28%, slightly below the rate in effect in the call market (among banks that can operate in both markets), reflecting the presence of guarantees in the repo market and, above the repo market with the Central Bank, indicating different counterparty risks.

In a context of sustained growth in private sector term placements, passive interest rates continued with the slight downward bias observed since the beginning of the year. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 9.25%, with a decline of 0.2 p.p. compared to the average recorded in March. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements (up to $100 thousand), for the same term, also decreased 0.2 p.p., standing at 8.7% (see Graph 5.4)

Source: BCRA
On the other hand, the volume traded in the BADLAR interest rate futures market continued to increase, while the agreed rates also decreased. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in contracts maturing at the end of the second quarter of 2010 was 10.3%, 0.4 p.p. below that recorded at the end of March. For their part, the interest rates of contracts maturing at the end of the third quarter decreased 1 p.p., and moved to 12%. The traded amounts of interest rate futures recorded an increase compared to March, reaching a volume close to $3,000 million.

**Active Interest Rates5**

The interest rates charged for loans to companies continued to register decreases, reaching single-digit average values in some segments. For their part, those destined for family consumption also registered decreases, although their levels continued elevated with respect to the cost of funds.

Among the commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate on current account advances with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for amounts greater than $10 million (which represented one-fifth of the total current account advances with agreement), stood at 9.8% after decreasing 0.4 p.p. compared to the average observed in March. Meanwhile, the interest rate on current account advances considering the total of operations also decreased 0.4 p.p. compared to the average of March, reaching a level close to 19.9% (see Graph 5.5).

For its part, within the interest rates of financing through documents (discounted, sole signature and purchased), the interest rate of the most operated modality in the month of April (discounted documents) would have decreased 0.2 p.p. compared to the average of March, reaching a level close to 13.2%.

Meanwhile, according to preliminary information for Capital and GBA, the interest rates on personal loans continued declining (0.6 p.p.) and reached a level around 31.1%, while the monthly average of February, the last available information, of financing with credit cards throughout the country stood at 30.2%, with a decrease of 0.9 p.p. compared to January.

For its part, the interest rates on mortgage loans to families would have increased slightly around 13.4%, while the interest rate corresponding to financing with collateral guarantee remained practically unchanged at a level close to 17.3%.

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

The stock of international reserves totaled US$48,067 million at the end of April (see Graph 6.1), increasing

---

**Footnotes:**

4 The list of financial entities granting entities was restricted to only those that meet the requirements to operate with passive repos with the BCRA.

5 This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country until February. The values for March and April 2010 were estimated based on data of loans granted to the private sector in Capital Federal and Greater Buenos Aires.
3.6 US$607 million compared to March. Among the main

3.5 factors that explained the increase in the balance of inter-

3.4 national reserves in the month, mention can be made of

3.3 Central Bank purchases of foreign currency in the Unified

3.2 and Free Exchange Market (MULC), which doubled the

3.1 amount from March, and increased international reserves

3.0 by US$1,164 million. Meanwhile, operations of the public

 Apr-08 Jun-08 Aug-08 Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 sector generated a decrease in international reserves due to

Source: BCRA foreign currency-denominated debt payments. However, since

 these payments were destined in good measure to holders

 resident in the country, their effect was partially compen-

Chart 6.3 sated by the increase in foreign currency deposits of banks

 $/US$ Future Exchange Market at the Central Bank.

 (monthly average)
 4.30 In the foreign exchange market, the US dollar quotation

 4.20 showed signs of stability throughout the month, increas-

 4.10 ing only 0.3% compared to March (see Chart 6.2). The

 4.00 average quotation for April was 3.88 $/US$. In the for-

 Dic-09 ward market (ROFEX), the futures contracts for US dollars
 3.90 Ene-10
 Feb-10 reflected this stability through a reduction in the antici-

 Mar-10 pated depreciation for the remainder of the year compared

 Abr-10 3.80 to that observed in the previous months (see Chart 6.3). As

 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 a consequence, the amount traded in such contracts was

Source: ROFEX reduced 20% compared to the previous month, mainly due

 to the decrease in the quantity of contracts concluded, being

 $698 million.

 For its part, in the spot market, the Euro quotation fell 0.9%,

 being 5.20 $/Euro. Meanwhile, the Real became more expen-

 sive by 2%, with an average quotation of 2.21 $/Real.

 Chart 7.1

 Performance of World Stock Indices 7. Capital Market
 80 (base index 02/07/07 =100) 15-Apr 140

 31-Mar
 130 Stocks

 120
 70 Throughout April, the selected group of stock markets

 110 showed homogeneous behavior, with positive results until

 100 mid-month, when they began to reverse, as doubts in-

 60 MSCI Global creased regarding Greece's economy. The exception was the

 MSCI Europe 90
 S&P 500, which accumulated a gain of 3.9% in April, due in

 MSCI Japan
 S&P 500 80 part to good company balance sheets. Between late April

 MSCI Latam (right axis) and March, the MSCI global remained almost unchanged

 50 70
 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 (-0.2%). For its part, among the regional indices the MSCI

Source: Prepared based on Bloomberg data Europe was the one that lost the most (-4.5%), followed

 Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 11 by MSCI Latam (-0.8%) and MSCI Japan (-0.2%, see

 Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.2 The results of the main Latin American stock exchanges,

 Sovereign Risk Indicators measured in dollars, were mixed. The IGBVL (Peru) rose

 4.6%, the MERVAL (Argentina) 3.4% and the IGPA (Chile)

 5-year CDS spread EMBI spread spread 3.3%. Meanwhile, the BOVESPA (Brazil; 1.7%) and the IPC

 in b.p. in b.p. in b.p. (Mexico; 1.3%) lost value. In these last two cases, espe-

 5.000 Argentina 700 1.950
 cially in Brazil, the fall would have been greater had it not
 600 Brazil (right axis) 1.750
 4.000 EMBI Argentina 1.550 been for the depreciation of the dollar.

 500 EMBI Latin America 1.350
 3.000 400 1.150
 950 During April the MERVAL (Argentina) index measured in

 2.000 300 750 local currency had an increase of 1%, closing the month at

 200 2,396 points. In the first two weeks of April the evolution
 1.000 550
 100 350 of variable income instruments in the local market was

 0 0 150 mainly influenced by
Jul-07 Mar-08 Dec-08 Sep-09 Jul-07 Mar-08 Dec-08 Sep-09 the progress of the next debt swap with holdouts.

Source: Bloomberg

On the other hand, in the second half of the month, news regarding the evolution of the Greek economy weighed more heavily on the trajectory of the index. In the last twelve months, the MERVAL accumulated a gain of 87.9%, and so far this year of 3.3%.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading sessions- in annualized terms, and measured in dollars, was 19.1% during April, 6.1 p.p. higher compared to March. For its part, the daily average trading volume on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $52 million, $10 million higher than in March, and with an increase of more than $15 million compared to the same period of the previous year.

Public Securities

Similarly to what occurred in the equity market, the evolution of the fixed income market was influenced at the local level by the progress with respect to the next swap of debt held by holdouts, and at the international level by growing tension in the Greek sovereign debt market.

**Chart 7.3**
**Yield Curves of Public Securities in Pesos**

Yield
annual real (%)
16.0
PR 13
14.0 Boden 14
Bogar 18
12.0 DISC $
PRO 12
10.0 PAR $
8.0 PRE 09
6.0 31-Mar
PR 11 30-Apr
4.0
03581 01315
Duration (years)

Source: Prepared based on data from the Argentine Capital Markets Institute

The debt swap was formally launched at the end of April, once approval was obtained from the regulatory authorities of each country. The period for receiving offers will run from May 3 to June 7, 2010, with more favorable conditions for institutional investors who enter the swap by May 14. The result of the swap will be announced on June 15.

The swap will involve the issuance of 8 new species (considering different currencies and legal systems) of Par and Discount bonds, plus a Global 2017 bond under New York law (for payment of accrued interest between 2003 and 2009 and subscription of new financing for a maximum amount of US$1,000 million) and a new series of the UVPBI (unit linked to GDP) in dollars under New York law.

In this framework, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies remained almost unchanged compared to the previous month. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 265 b.p. (+14 b.p.). Meanwhile, the spread of Latin American debt in foreign currency ended April at 313 b.p., that of Brazil at 196 b.p. and that of Argentina at 659 b.p., which implies increases of 11 b.p. in the first two cases and 13 b.p. for Argentina's EMBI+. In the case of the 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) spread (the most traded segment) for Argentina, it decreased 55 b.p. compared to March, while the same segment for Brazil remained almost unchanged (see Chart 7.2).

For its part, within the peso-denominated segment of local public securities, the quotation of bonds with CER decreased in a generalized manner, observing an upward shift of the yield curve (see Chart 7.3). In the case of dollar bonds, there was also an upward shift of the yield curve, although concentrated in short and medium-term securities (see Chart 7.4).

**Chart 7.4**
**Yield Curves of Public Securities in Dollars**

annual yield (%)
13 Boden 15
12 BONAR X
11 BONAR VII DISC USD
Boden 13
10 PAR USD
Boden 12 31-Mar
9 BONAR V 30-Apr
8 03581 013

Again, as in March, during April, the trading volume of public securities (in daily average) in the local market was one of the highest in recent months, partly due to the dynamism that the upcoming swap of debt held by holdouts brought to the market. Specifically, the daily average of the volume
Duration (years)
Source: Own elaboration based on data from the Argentine Capital Market Institute

The volume operated during April was $965 million, $49 million more than in March, and $400 million more than in April 2009.

## Private Securities

In April, in the private debt market, new negotiable obligations (ON) were placed in foreign currency for US$535 million, while placements in pesos reached $137 million.

The most important placement in April was carried out by Pan American Energy, which issued an ON in international markets with the objective of financing part of its investment program in the country and working capital, as well as refinancing debt. At the end of the month, the placement period for an ON of US$500 million ended, at a fixed interest rate of 7.875% per annum. The security will mature on May 7, 2021 and will pay interest from November 7, 2010 on a semi-annual basis.

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 13 Capital payments will be annual from May 7, 2019 until maturity. It should be noted that although the placement period closed at the end of the month, the ON was issued on May 7.

On the other hand, Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 placed, in 3 long-term series, a total of US$34.7 million and $7 million. The first class placed was for US$28.9 million at a rate of 11% nominal per annum. Capital amortizations will be paid in 40 consecutive quarterly installments until maturity in April 2020. The second series has a shorter term than the rest and was issued for $7 million, with maturity in April 2013. The amortizations of this ON in pesos will be paid quarterly in 12 consecutive installments. Finally, class C was for US$5.8 million at a rate of 10% nominal per annum. Capital payments and the maturity date coincide with the first series placed. Interest on the three classes issued will be paid quarterly.

Graph 7.5 Another company that financed itself through ON issuance was Mercedes-Benz Financiera, which placed debt in two series for a total amount of $100 million.

Thousands of Equity of FCI in pesos
millions of $ Participation in Total FCI in pesos

24 10.9% 3.8%
Money Market Variable Income
21 55.3% 30%
Mixed Income Fixed Income
18 + 25%

15

12

9

6

3

0
Apr-05 Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10
Source: BCRA and CAFCI

The first class placed was for $40 million at a fixed rate of 13.5% nominal per annum. Interest will be paid quarterly, while capital will be paid at maturity in April 2011. The second series placed, for $60 million, is at a variable rate equivalent to the BADLAR of Private Banks plus a margin of 2.90%. As with the other series, interest will be quarterly, while capital amortizations will be paid in three consecutive quarterly installments from July 2011 until maturity in January 2012.

Finally, Banco Columbia placed a series of ON for $30 million at a BADLAR rate of Private Banks plus a margin of 3.34% nominal per annum. Both interest payments and capital amortizations will be made monthly from 210 days after issuance until maturity in January 2011.

## Mutual Investment Funds

Mutual investment funds (FCI), in pesos and in foreign currency, reached a net worth of $17,585 million at the end of April, showing a slight monthly increase (0.6%).

On one hand, FCI in pesos ended the month with a net worth of $15,545 million, registering an increase of 0.6% compared to March and 25% compared to April 2009 (see Graph 7.5). The fixed income segment registered the largest monthly increase, closing the period with a net worth of $4,660 million, 9.6% above March. The increase was explained by the greater quantities...
# Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 14

...shares and allowed this segment to represent 30% of the total FCIs in pesos (2 p.p. more than in March). In turn, mixed income funds registered a monthly growth of 3.5%, with equity of $585 million at the end of April. On the other hand, given the smaller number of shares, variable income funds decreased slightly while maintaining an amount exceeding $1,700 million. The money market segment showed a decline of 3.7% monthly explained mainly by the decrease in the number of shares. These funds ended April with equity of $8,600 million, representing 55% of the total (2 p.p. less than the previous month).

## Financial Trusts⁶

Graph 7.6
Emissions of Financial Trusts (in millions of $)
[Emissions aimed at financing infrastructure - Quantity of operations (right axis)]

During April, emissions of Financial Trusts (FF) totaled around $1,550 million (see Graph 7.6), three times more than the amount securitized in March. This increase was driven by a new public sector placement aimed at financing road infrastructure projects, whose amount reached $850 million. Likewise, if Financial Trusts aimed at financing productive projects and infrastructure works are excluded, this month achieved the highest amount so far in the year ($695 million), with an increase of 27% compared to the previous month and 12% compared to the same month of the previous year. Regarding the number of operations, a total of 18 were registered throughout the month, 5 more than in March, although 3 fewer than in April 2009.

The main underlying assets were future cash flows (corresponding to the collection of the diesel tax within the framework of the road infrastructure trust) representing more than half of the total placed in the month (55% of the total). In order of importance, assets linked to consumption followed, corresponding to credit card issuers and non-bank credit cards (44% of the total). Within this group, securitizations of personal loans increased 52% compared to March, while securitizations of credit card coupons fell 33% compared to the previous month. The remainder corresponded to pledge loans (which had no presence since the first month of the year) and commercial loans, with an amount of around $10 million in both cases.

In the role of fiduciary, the National State stood out, in line with the significant public sector placement. For its part, financial entities registered a significant increase in the amount of securitized assets (76% more compared to the previous month; see Graph 7.7). Meanwhile, retail stores, on one hand, and mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers, on the other hand, showed a slight increase in their securitizations compared to the previous month, of 6% and 12% respectively.

Graph 7.7
Securitized Amounts by Type of Fiduciary (in millions of $)
[Retail Stores - Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-Bank Credit Card Issuers - Financial Entities - Others]
Mar-10 | Apr-10

Graph 7.8
Cut-Off Rates of FF
(Class A Securities in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount)

The cut-off rates of senior securities continued to present themselves as relatively stable compared to the previous month.

---

⁶ Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

Informe Monetario | April 2010 | BCRA | 15
# MONETARY INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS

**Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.**

## Variable Yield % Fixed Yield %

**Duration**
- Duration less than 14 months
- Duration between 14 and 30 months
- Duration greater than 30 months
- BADLAR Private Banks

**Previous.** Specifically, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of fixed-yield securities, which in all cases registered a duration of less than 14 months, was located at 11%, 0.1 p.p. below the value registered the previous month. Meanwhile, the rate of securities agreed at variable rate, for the same duration bracket, was located at 12%, registering a slight increase (0.1 p.p. above the average of the previous month). Additionally, this month an operation was registered (corresponding to the placement of the public sector) whose duration far exceeded 30 months, with its cut-off rate at 14.7% (see Chart 7.8).

In this way, the duration (weighted average by amount) of senior securities increased considerably compared to the previous month, standing at around 44 months, versus 5 months the previous month. Meanwhile, if the public sector placement were excluded, the duration would remain at a level similar to that of March.

**Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 168. Monetary and Financial Indicators**

| **Main monetary and financial system variables** | **Apr-10** | **Mar-10** | **Dec-09** | **Apr-09** | **Monthly % Change** | **Average % Variations Last 12 Months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| **Monetary Base** | 120,496 | 120,224 | 118,661 | 99,835 | 0.2% | -0.8% | 20.7% | 9.3% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 92,744 | 93,297 | 92,793 | 76,423 | -0.6% | -1.6% | 21.4% | 9.9% |
| In the hands of the public | 82,500 | 83,106 | 81,691 | 67,769 | -0.7% | -1.7% | 21.7% | 10.3% |
| In financial entities | 10,244 | 10,191 | 11,102 | 8,655 | 0.5% | -0.5% | 18.4% | 7.2% |
| **Current account at the BCRA** | 27,752 | 26,927 | 25,868 | 23,412 | 3.1% | 2.0% | 18.5% | 7.4% |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 14,766 | 13,535 | 6,959 | 15,178 | 9.1% | 8.0% | -2.7% | -11.9% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 34 | 129 | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 48,399 | 43,202 | 34,743 | 11,893 | 12.0% | 10.9% | 307.0% | 268.7% |
| **NOBAC** | 3,678 | 6,089 | 12,616 | 23,365 | -39.6% | -40.2% | -84.3% | -85.7% |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations** | 47,552 | 47,682 | 47,717 | 46,268 | -0.3% | 2.8% | | |
| **2009 SDR Allocation (5)** | 0 | 0 | 1,241 | 0 | | | | |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 233,278 | 226,910 | 216,731 | 196,306 | 2.8% | 1.8% | 18.8% | 7.6% |
| Current account (2) | 72,940 | 70,323 | 71,850 | 61,237 | 3.7% | 2.7% | 19.1% | 7.9% |
| Savings account | 43,906 | 44,185 | 43,355 | 37,263 | -0.6% | -1.6% | 17.8% | 6.7% |
| Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 104,710 | 101,182 | 90,057 | 86,875 | 3.5% | 2.5% | 20.5% | 9.2% |
| Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 18 | 18 | 18 | 141 | -1.3% | -2.3% | -87.4% | -88.5% |
| Other deposits (3) | 11,705 | 11,202 | 11,450 | 10,792 | 4.5% | 3.5% | 8.5% | -1.7% |
| **Private sector deposits** | 164,036 | 160,053 | 155,594 | 136,942 | 2.5% | 1.5% | 19.8% | 8.5% |
| **Public sector deposits** | 69,242 | 66,857 | 61,136 | 59,364 | 3.6% | 2.5% | 16.6% | 5.7% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 15,374 | 11,796 | 11,793 | 11,156 | 30.3% | 37.8% | | |
| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 144,298 | 140,930 | 136,465 | 118,955 | 2.4% | 1.4% | 21.3% | 9.9% |
| **Loans to private sector** | 125,612 | 122,216 | 119,128 | 109,377 | 2.8% | 1.8% | 14.8% | 4.0% |
| Advances | 17,281 | 16,430 | 17,591 | 16,729 | 5.2% | 4.1% | 3.3% | -6.4% |
| Documents | 23,854 | 23,202 | 22,289 | 19,518 | 2.8% | 1.8% | 22.2% | 10.7% |
| Mortgage loans | 18,159 | 18,015 | 17,741 | 18,129 | 0.8% | -0.2% | 0.2% | -9.3% |
| Pledge loans | 7,381 | 7,251 | 7,061 | 7,122 | 1.8% | 0.8% | 3.6% | -6.1% |
| Personal loans | 32,014 | 31,314 | 30,055 | 27,867 | 2.2% | 1.2% | 14.9% | 4.1% |
| Credit cards | 19,647 | 18,868 | 17,705 | 14,926 | 4.1% | 3.1% | 31.6% | 19.2% |
| Others | 7,276 | 7,137 | 6,687 | 5,086 | 2.0% | 0.9% | 43.1% | 29.6% |
| **Loans to public sector** | 18,685 | 18,713 | 17,338 | 9,577 | -0.1% | -1.1% | 95.1% | 76.7% |
| **Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 5,858 | 5,636 | 5,236 | 5,934 | 3.9% | -1.3% | | |
# Total Monetary Aggregates (1)
M1 (currency in circulation + current accounts in pesos) 155,440 153,429 153,541 129,005 1.3% 0.3% 20.5% 9.2%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 199,346 197,614 196,895 166,268 0.9% -0.1% 19.9% 8.6%
M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 315,779 310,017 298,421 264,075 1.9% 0.9% 19.6% 8.3%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 375,360 355,581 343,306 305,263 5.6% 4.5% 23.0% 11.4%

## Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (currency in circulation + private current accounts in pesos) 130,135 128,878 126,006 106,214 1.0% 0.0% 22.5% 11.0%
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 170,147 168,364 165,747 139,914 1.1% 0.1% 21.6% 10.2%
M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 246,536 243,159 237,285 204,710 1.4% 0.4% 20.4% 9.1%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 286,401 282,357 275,369 238,542 1.4% 0.4% 20.1% 8.8%

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 272 0.2% -1,172 -1.0% 1,835 1.5% 20,661 17.1%
Financial sector -1,134 -0.9% -3,036 -2.5% -7,487 -6.2% 490 0.4%
Public sector 824 0.7% 1,349 1.1% 2,841 2.4% 5,501 4.6%
Private external sector 2,752 2.3% 4,675 3.9% 9,641 8.0% 24,774 20.6%
BCRA securities -2,052 -1.7% -3,815 -3.2% -2,478 -2.1% -9,197 -7.6%
Other -117 -0.1% -345 -0.3% -681 -0.6% -906 -0.8%

BCRA international reserves excluding 2009 SDR allocations -130 -0.3% -565 -1.2% -165 -0.3% 1,284 2.7%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 711 1.5% 1,216 2.6% 2,524 5.3% 6,503 13.7%
Payments to international organizations -51 -0.1% -163 -0.3% 1,146 2.4% 3,578 7.5%
Other public sector operations -4,259 -9.0% 678 1.4% -1,392 -2.9% -6,978 -14.7%
Minimum cash 3,090 6.5% 1,782 3.7% 1,407 3.0% 1,322 2.8%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 381 0.8% -4,076 -8.6% -3,849 -8.1% -3,139 -6.6%

2009 SDR allocations 0 0 -1,241 0

1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

|  | Apr-10 | Mar-10 | Feb-10 |
|---|---|---|---|
| (1) National Currency | % of total deposits in pesos |
| Requirement | 15.7 | 15.8 | 15.9 |
| Integration | 16.0 | 16.1 | 16.2 |
| Position (2) | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 |
| Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits % | used for the requirement calculation (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 57.4 | 58.9 | 58.6 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.2 | 20.2 | 20.8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8.5 | 7.7 | 7.1 |
| 90 to 179 days | 7.4 | 8.4 | 8.0 |
| More than 180 days | 5.6 | 4.9 | 5.5 |
| Foreign Currency | % of total deposits in foreign currency |
| Requirement | 20.0 | 20.6 | 20.5 |
| Integration (includes default in application of funds) | 73.6 | 67.7 | 69.4 |
| Position (2) | 53.6 | 47.1 | 48.9 |
| Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits % | used for the requirement calculation (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 61.3 | 61.3 | 58.6 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.6 | 22.5 | 23.4 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8.4 | 8.1 | 9.9 |
| 90 to 179 days | 7.1 | 6.5 | 6.6 |
| 180 to 365 days | 1.4 | 1.4 | 1.3 |
| More than 365 days | 0.2 | 0.2 | 0.2 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates | Apr-10 | Mar-10 | Feb-10 | Dec-09 | Apr-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate | 8.53 | 8.58 | 8.46 | 9.03 | 11.09
Amount traded | 780 | 751 | 662 | 710 | 537
# FIXED TERM DEPOSITS

**In pesos**
- 30 days: 8.89, 9.01, 9.18, 9.45, 11.84
- 60 days or more: 10.08, 10.15, 10.22, 10.49, 12.94
- BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 8.99, 9.16, 9.38, 9.63, 12.05
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 9.25, 9.43, 9.54, 9.82, 12.75

**In dollars**
- 30 days: 0.30, 0.32, 0.35, 0.37, 1.23
- 60 days or more: 0.53, 0.68, 0.72, 0.75, 1.81
- BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.38, 0.46, 0.41, 0.42, 1.21
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.63, 0.60, 0.53, 0.50, 1.97

# ACTIVE INTEREST RATES Apr-10 Mar-10 Feb-10 Dec-09 Apr-09

**Repurchase Agreements in pesos**
- Gross interest rate at 30 days: 10.54, 10.04, 9.74, 11.06, 12.29
- Amount operated (total terms): 193, 178, 158, 194, 133

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
- Current account advances: 19.85, 20.26, 20.35, 21.28, 24.09
- Single-signature documents: 15.57, 15.29, 15.79, 16.08, 21.01
- Mortgage loans: 13.38, 13.22, 13.11, 13.53, 14.00
- Pledge loans: 17.29, 17.20, 17.92, 18.22, 23.85
- Personal loans: 31.13, 31.77, 31.85, 32.47, 35.19
- Credit cards: s/o, s/o, 30.20, 31.45, 29.54

- Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million: 9.81, 10.20, 10.34, 10.70, 17.20

# INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES Apr-10 Mar-10 Feb-10 Dec-09 Apr-09

**LIBOR**
- 1 month: 0.26, 0.24, 0.23, 0.23, 0.45
- 6 months: 0.48, 0.41, 0.39, 0.45, 1.65

**US Treasury Bond**
- 2 years: 1.03, 0.94, 0.84, 0.86, 0.91
- 10 years: 3.81, 3.71, 3.68, 3.59, 2.90

**FED Funds Rate:** 0.25, 0.25, 0.25, 0.25, 0.25

**SELIC (at 1 year):** 8.86, 8.75, 8.75, 8.75, 11.14

(1) Data through February corresponds to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while data from March and April are estimates made based on the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES Apr-10 Mar-10 Feb-10 Dec-09 Apr-09

**BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates**
- Liabilities 1 day: 9.00, 9.00, 9.00, 9.00, 10.50
- Liabilities 7 days: 9.50, 9.50, 9.50, 9.50, 11.00
- Assets 7 days: 11.50, 11.50, 11.50, 11.50, 13.00

**Total REPO Trading Session Repurchase Agreement Rates**
- 1 day: 9.00, 9.01, 9.00, 9.06, 10.58
- 7 days: 9.50, 9.50, 9.50, 9.61, 11.12

**Amount operated in REPO trading session (daily average):** 8,813, 7,276, 9,122, 4,490, 8,934

**LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)**
- 1 month: s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o
- 2 months: s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o, 13.95
- 3 months: s/o, 12.20, s/o, 12.75, 14.13
- 9 months: 13.54, 13.73, 13.80, s/o, s/o
- 12 months: 13.80, 13.87, 13.96, 14.40, s/o

**NOBAC Margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)**
- 9 months BADLAR Private Banks: s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o, 1.31
- 1 year BADLAR Private Banks: 2.20, s/o, s/o, s/o, 1.60
- 2 years BADLAR Private Banks: s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o, 1.80
- 3 years BADLAR Private Banks: s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o, s/o

**Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average):** 314, 214, 158, 165, 143

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Apr-10 Mar-10 Feb-10 Dec-09 Apr-09

**Spot Dollar**
- Exchange houses: 3.88, 3.86, 3.85, 3.80, 3.69
- BCRA Reference: 3.88, 3.86, 3.85, 3.81, 3.69

**Forward Dollar**
- NDF 1 month: 3.89, 3.88, 3.87, 3.84, 3.75
- ROFEX 1 month: 3.89, 3.88, 3.86, 3.84, 3.70
- Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos): 698, 871, 820, 1,153, 710

**Real (Pesos per Real):** 2.21, 2.16, 2.09, 2.17, 1.67

**Euro (Pesos per Euro):** 5.20, 5.25, 5.27, 5.55, 4.87

# CAPITAL MARKET Apr-10 Mar-10 Feb-10 Dec-09 Apr-09

**MERVAL**
- Index: 2,436, 2,355, 2,277, 2,229, 1,218
- Amount operated (millions of pesos): 67, 52, 56, 49, 48

**Government Bonds (at parity)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$): 90.45, 90.26, 87.41, 88.12, 54.67
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law): 77.33, 73.09, 67.73, 73.99, 29.67
- BODEN 2014 ($): 79.62, 74.29, 69.95, 77.20, 29.15
- DISCOUNT ($): 53.07, 50.60, 46.41, 59.83, 26.50

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond: 848, 878, 1,123, 824, 4,681
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina): 281, 298, 339, 335, 578

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 20 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient

**CNV:** National Securities Commission

**DEGs:** Special Drawing Rights

**EE.UU.:** United States of America

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities

**EM:** Minimum Cash

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Funds

**FF:** Financial Trusts

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires

**i.a.:** year-over-year

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total peso deposits from the non-financial public and private sector

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations

**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product

**PM:** Monetary Program

**P.B.:** Basis Points

**P.P.:** Percentage Points

**PyMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Informational Requirements

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate

**VCP:** Short-term Debt Value

**VN:** Nominal Value

---

Monetary Report | April 2010 | BCRA | 21
