# Monthly Monetary Report
February of 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
February of 2010

## Contents

Page 3  |  1. Summary

Page 4  |  2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5  |  3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5  |  4. Loans

Page 7  |  5. Interest Rates
Page 7  |  Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7  |  Interfinancial Markets
Page 7  |  Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8  |  Interbank Market
Page 8  |  Passive Interest Rates
Page 9  |  Active Interest Rates

Page 10  |  6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10  |  7. Capital Markets
Page 10  |  Stocks
Page 11  |  Public Securities
Page 12  |  Private Securities
Page 12  |  Investment Funds
Page 12  |  Financial Trusts

Page 15  |  8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 19  |  9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report -
BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on March 10, 2010. All figures are provisional and are subject
to revision
# Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 21. Summary1

• Total payment means (M2) reached an average of $203,300 million in February, with a monthly decrease of 0.4% associated with the seasonal behavior of the components of private M2 (currency in circulation held by the public and private sight deposits). Private payment means (private M2) presented a monthly reduction of 1.4%, with a slight monthly growth in seasonally adjusted terms.

• The total of deposits in domestic currency increased 1.4% in the period, driven essentially by those belonging to the public sector. In this regard, public sector placements presented a growth of 5.3%, which was explained by increases of similar magnitudes in sight deposits and fixed-term deposits. For their part, the total of private deposits remained at levels similar to those reached in January, with decreases in sight placements (1.4%) and increases in fixed-term deposits (1.5%). Regarding the latter, the increase was evidenced essentially in placements corresponding to the wholesale segment (more than $1 million), which advanced favored partially by the positive statistical carryover from January.

• In February, the entities managed liquidity in accordance with what was expected for the last month of the quarterly period considered for the measurement of reserve requirements. Bank reserves (sum of the current account at the Central Bank and cash in banks) decreased and net repos with the Central Bank increased. The surplus of the quarterly Minimum Cash position ended at 0.6% of deposits in pesos. The measure of bank liquidity that includes the assets considered to integrate reserve requirements and net repos with the Central Bank amounted to 21.8% of total deposits in pesos. Meanwhile, it reached 38.8% of deposits when also considering the holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs of the entities, 1.5 p.p. above the level it presented in January.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector softened their expansion rate in February, mainly as a consequence of seasonal factors associated with summer recess following the holidays. The average balance was located at approximately $120,700 million, registering a growth of only 11.9% y.o.y.. Credits intended mainly for consumption increased in the month by 1% ($510 million), with dissimilar behavior among its lines, while loans with real guarantee increased in the period by 0.7% ($170 million). Meanwhile, credits intended to finance activities mainly of a commercial nature registered a decrease of 0.9% ($400 million), associated mainly with the statistical carryover from January.

• The average of interbank market interest rates decreased with respect to that registered in January by 0.4 p.p., placing itself at 8.5%. Similarly, the interest rate paid by private banks for fixed-term deposits in pesos of more than $1 million and up to 35 days (BADLAR) decreased by 0.3 p.p. and moved to 9.5%. Meanwhile, in the retail segment (deposits of up to $100 thousand), private banks maintained the interest rates paid close to 9%. The BCRA's passive repo rates remained at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively.

• The interest rates charged by loans registered decreases with respect to the average observed in January, highlighting the decrease in the rates of consumer financing. According to preliminary information for Capital and GBA, the interest rates of loans...
# Translation to English

Personal loans registered the largest decline of the month (1.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month) to reach a level of around 33.2%. On the other hand, among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rate for current account advances (considering the total of operations) remained at a level close to 20.8%. And in those with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days of term and for amounts exceeding $10 million, it was located at 10.3% with a decline of 0.5 p.p., with respect to the average observed in January.
1  Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Total means of payment (M2) reached an average of 
 $203,300 million, with a monthly decrease of 0.4%, 
 associated with the seasonal behavior of currency in 
 circulation held by the public and private demand 
 deposits. In effect, private means of payment (private 
 M2) presented a monthly decline of a seasonal nature, 
 of 1.4%.

 Figure 2.1 
 Factors Explaining the Variation in M2
 (February 2010, in average)
 thousands of millions of $

 During the month, the factors that had an expansive 
 effect on M2 were Central Bank purchases of foreign 
 currency in the market, public sector operations, the 
 decrease in the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC of the 
 non-financial private sector and the growth of loans 
 to the private sector. Meanwhile, among the contrac‐
 tive factors is the increase in time deposits of the 
 private sector. However, it should be mentioned that 
 during the first two months of the year, financial 
 entities unwound positions in foreign currency consti‐
 tuted at the end of 2009, which explains the high level 
 shown by the remaining contraction factors of M2 
 (see Figure 2.1).

 The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered an 
 increase of 0.6% during February, while private M3 
 presented a decrease of 0.6%.

 Total deposits in national currency increased 1.4% in 
 the period, driven essentially by those belonging to 
 the public sector. In this sense, public sector placements 
 showed growth of 5.3%, which was explained by similar 
 increases in demand deposits and fixed-term deposits.

 For its part, total private deposits remained at levels 
 similar to those reached in January, with decreases in 
 demand placements (1.4%) and increases in fixed-term 
 deposits (1.5%). With respect to the latter, the increase 
 was evidenced essentially in placements corresponding 
 to the wholesale segment (more than $1 million), which 
 advanced favored partially by the positive statistical 
 carryover from January (see Figure 2.2). Meanwhile, 
 the balance of retail time deposits remained at the 
 January level.

 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, total deposits 
 fell 2.6%, with decreases in public placements and, to 
 a lesser extent, in private ones. In this way, the broad‐
 est aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circu‐
 lation held by the public and total deposits in pesos 
 and foreign currency, grew 0.4% in February.

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 4 Figure 3.1

 Bank Liquidity

 % of deposits (national currency segment)

 3. Bank Liquidity1

 In February, the entities managed liquidity
20 in line with what was expected for the last month of the period
 6,3 6,2
 15 quarterly considered for the measurement of reserve
 4,0 4,5 requirements. In this sense and as in the same month
 10
 of the previous year, bank reserves (sum of the current
 5 11,6 11,1 account at the Central Bank and cash in banksሻ declined
 0 (0.7 p.p. in terms of depositsሻ and net repurchase
 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 agreements with the Central Bank increased (2.4 p.p.,
 Source: BCRA see Chart 3.1).
 This change in the composition of liquid resources
 was possible thanks to the surplus of Minimum Cash
 that financial entities had accumulated in the two
 previous months. The surplus of the quarterly Mini‐
 Chart 3.2 mum Cash position ended at 0.6% with a similar sur‐

 Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos plus in public and private banks (see
 % of % of Daily Accumu- Chart 3.2).
 deposits deposits lated
 Private Banks (*) 6 Public Banks
 6
 Quarterly Pos. 5 Quarterly Pos. 5

 4 4
 The measure of bank liquidity that includes assets
 3 3 considered to meet reserve requirements (cash in
 2 2 banks and current accounts at the Central Bankሻ
 1 1 and net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank
 0.6 0.5
 0 0 reached 21.8% of total deposits in pesos. In turn, it
 -1 -1 reached 38.8% of deposits when also considering the
 -2 -2 holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs of the entities, 1.5
 -3 -3 p.p. above the level presented in January (see
 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Chart 3.1).

 (*) Includes Non-Bank Financial Entities On the other hand, the surplus of the Minimum Cash
 Source: BCRA position in the foreign currency segment decreased
 by 2 p.p. compared to the previous month, as a con‐
 sequence of the decrease in integration, in line with
 Chart 4.1 what was indicated in the Monetary Aggregates Sec‐
 Loans in Pesos to Non-Financial Private Sector thousands of
 % (monthly variation) millions of $

 4.5 4.5
 4.0 Amount (right axis) 4.0 4. Loans 1 2

 3.5 Variation % 3.5

 3.0 3.0 Loans in pesos to the private sector softened their
 2.5 2.5 expansion rate in February, in part, as a consequence
 2.0 2.0 of seasonal factors associated with the summer re‐
 1.5 1.5 cess. In this way, the average balance was located
 1.0 1.0 at approximately $120,700 million, increasing 0.2%
 0.5 0.5 ($280 million, see Chart 4.1) compared to the pre‐
 0.0 0.0 vious month and registering growth of 11.9% in year-
 -0.5 -0.5 over-year terms.
 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10
 Source: BCRA

2 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the
portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 The reduction in the growth rate of loans during Feb‐

 Avg. Dec-07=100 Total Loans in Pesos to Non-Financial Private Sector ruary was recorded in both publicly and privately
180 owned entities. Since August 2009, private entities
170 have begun to show signs of renewed dynamism in
160 the granting of credit, especially consumer credit,
150 Public Banks following the sharp deceleration that had been ob‐
140 served during the first half of 2008. Meanwhile, al‐
 Private Banks
 though public entities softened during 2009 the
130
 growth rate of their loans, they continued with an
120
 active participation (see Chart 4.2).
110

100
90 Credits destined to finance predominantly
 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09commercial activities registered a decrease
 Source: BCRA
 of 0.9% ($400 million). Within this group, overdrafts
 in current account fell back 2%
 ($340 million), affected by the significant negative
 statistical carry-over from January. Meanwhile, after
 several months of growth, financing with
 Chart 4.3
 documents halted its expansion rate, keeping

 thousands of its average balance at levels similar to
millions of $ Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
24 (daily value and monthly average) those of the previous month. The remaining commer‐

23 cial financing showed no major changes, decreasing

22 its monthly average by 0.8% ($60 million,

21 see Chart 4.3).

20

19 Loans with real guarantee increased in

18 the period 0.7% ($170 million). After the expan‐

17 sion in January, mortgage credits returned to

16 Advances - Daily Value show growth similar to that of the end of 2009,
 Advances - Monthly Average
15 Documents - Daily Value increasing 0.5% ($80 million) in the month. Mean‐
 Documents - Monthly Average while, pledge loans showed an increase of 1.2%
14
 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10($90 million), with an acceleration in their growth
 Source: BCRA
 rate, which would be associated with higher levels
 of automobile sales that are characteristic of the
 beginning of the year (see Chart 4.4).

 Chart 4.4 For its part, credits destined mainly for
 consumption increased in the month by 1% ($510
 millions of $ Pledge Loans and Automobile Sales million), with dissimilar behavior among its lines.
 thousands Credit card financing, which in recent months had
 300 90
 been showing great dynamism, decreased 0.5%
 250 80 ($90 million). Meanwhile, personal loans continued

 200 70 with the growth rate of previous months, exhibiting

 150 60 an increase of 1.9% ($600 million).

 100 50

 50 40 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private

 0 30 sector increased again in February (US$30 million),

 -50 20 Pledge loans 10 driven by financing through advances destined to
 Automobile sales to the domestic market (right axis) companies linked to export activity, in accordance
-150 0 with BCRA regulations.
 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10
 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 6 5. Interest Rates

 Securities issued by the BCRA3

 In the primary market of LEBACs, interest rates
 decreased slightly throughout the entire yield
 Chart 5.1 curve (see Chart 5.1) and placements of longer-
 LEBAC Interest Rate term instruments were made than in January. Unlike
 % (primary market) previous months, in which NOBACs had not been
 14.5 awarded, two placements of this type of instruments
 were registered at a maturity close to 6 months.
 14 The margin paid over BADLAR of private banks
 was 0.7%.
 13.5
 The amount placed of securities issued by the
 13 BCRA was higher than what matured during the

 26-Jan 23-Feb month, resulting in a net placement of more than
 12.5 $1,700 million. On the other hand, the BCRA contin‐
 ued conducting purchase operations in the secondary
 12 Days market. In short, the stock of securities issued by
 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360 the Central Bank registered an increase, placing itself

 Source: BCRA at the end of February at $47,480 million, of which
 86% was comprised by LEBACs.
Passive Interest Rates¹

---

¹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 7
-400 Foreign
 Priv. Nat. The averages of the main short-term passive interest
 -600 Public rates decreased compared to the average values
 EFNB
 -800 of the previous month. The monthly average of the
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale
 Source: BCRA segment and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR)
 was located at 9.5%, with a decrease of 0.3 p.p. with
 respect to the average registered in January (see Chart
 5.5). For its part, the monthly average of the interest
 rate paid by private banks on retail placements, for the
 same term, decreased more slightly (0.1 p.p.), placing
 it at 9%.

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 8 On the other hand, interest rates negotiated in the
 futures market also declined. At the close of the
 month, the implicit rate in contracts with maturity at
 the end of the first quarter of 2010 was 9.8%, 0.6 p.p.
 below that registered at the end of January. For its
 part, interest rates on contracts with maturity at the
 end of the second quarter decreased by 0.75 p.p., which
 Chart 5.5 were placed at 11%.

 TNA, % Short-Term Interest Rate
20 (Capital and GBA - Daily Data) Active Interest Rates 1 4

18

16 The interest rates charged on loans registered declines

14 with respect to the average observed in January,
 highlighting the decrease in consumer financing rates.

12

10 Current Account Advances to Companies of more than $10M with 7-day agreement

8 BADLAR private banks

 Retail private banks Among commercial loans granted by private banks
6
Mar-09 Apr-09 May-09 Jun-09 Jul-09 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate on
Source: BCRA
 current account advances with prior agreement,
 granted to companies, for up to 7 days maturity and
 for amounts exceeding $10 million (which represent a
 quarter of the total), was located at 10.3% with a
 decrease of 0.5 p.p., with respect to the average
 observed in January (see Chart 5.5). Meanwhile, the
 interest rate on current account advances (considering
 the total of operations) remained stable with respect
 to the January average, at a level close to 20.8%.

 Chart 6.1

 BCRA International Reserves For its part, the interest rates of the three financing
 thousands of millions modalities through documents (discounted, on sole
 of u$s signature and purchased) registered slight declines
55
 with respect to the levels negotiated in January. In
50
 particular, the average rate on discounted documents
45
 (the most traded modality) would have decreased 0.1
40
 p.p. with respect to the January average, reaching a
35
 level close to 13.7%.
30

25 Meanwhile, according to preliminary information for

20 Capital and GBA, interest rates on personal loans
15
 registered the largest decline of the month (1.3 p.p.
10
 with respect to the previous month) and reached a level
5
 of around 33.2%. For its part, interest rates on
0
 Oct-05 Feb-06 Jun-06 Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 mortgage loans to families would have remained
 Source: BCRA around 13.5%, without changes with respect to the
 January level, as well as the interest rate corresponding
 to financing with chattel mortgage guarantee, which
 was located at a level close to 17.4%.

 4 This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country through December 2009. The values for
 January and February 2010 were estimated based on data for loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater
 Buenos Aires.
# MONETARY REPORT | FEBRUARY 2010 | BCRA | 9 Graph 6.2
Foreign Exchange Market
(average quotations) 6. International Reserves and

$/Euro $/Real $/US$
5.8 2.8 4.0 Foreign Exchange Market

$/Euro 2.6 3.9 $/US$ (Reference)
5.6
$/Real, right axis 3.8
5.4 2.4
The international reserves stock ended February
3.7
2.2
5.2 3.6 at U$S 47,758 million (see Graph 6.1). During the month
2.0
5.0 3.5 there was a reduction in the international reserves balance

1.8 of 0.8%, mainly associated with the decrease in dollar
4.8 3.4
1.6 current accounts of banks at the Central Bank, as a conse‐
3.3
4.6 1.4 quence of the fall in the balance of deposits denominated
3.2
4.4 1.2 3.1 in dollars and the decrease in foreign currency holdings
4.2 1.0 3.0 of financial institutions.

Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10
Source: BCRA In the foreign exchange market, the depreciation of the
peso against the United States dollar during the month
was 1.2%, with an average quotation of 3.85 $/u$s (see
Graph 6.2). Meanwhile, with respect to the Real and the
Euro, the local currency appreciated 2% and 3%, respec‐
tively. The average quotations of these currencies were
2.09 $/Real and 5.27 $/Euro for each case. For its part,
in the forward market (ROFEX), the amount traded in
Graph 7.1 United States dollar futures contracts decreased slightly

compared to the previous month, amounting to $820 mil‐
Performance of World Stock Indices lion.

(base index 02/07/07 = 100)
135
7. Capital Market
115
95 Stocks
75 MSCI World
MSCI Europe With the exception of Europe, where stock markets
55 MSCI Japan were unfavorably affected by uncertainty regarding
MSCI Latam Greece's fiscal situation and, to a lesser extent, that of
S&P 500
35 other countries in the region, the different equity mar‐
Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 kets had a positive performance in February. Although
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. the global MSCI increased 1.2%, when considering re‐
gional evolution the difference in the European context
compared to the rest becomes evident. While the MSCI
for Latin America increased 4.1% and that of Japan rose
1.1%, the index covering European stock exchanges fell
Graph 7.2 3.7%. For its part, the North American S&P 500 in‐
creased 3.9% between the end of January and February
Volatility (%) Volatility of Stock Markets (see Graph 7.1).
22 days

165 Among the main Latin American markets, measured in
145 MERVAL (Argentina) dollars, the IPC (Mexico) gain of 6.7% and the BO‐
125 IPC (Mexico) VESPA (Brazil), which rose 6.6%, stood out. To a lesser
BOVESPA (Brazil) extent, the IGPA (Chile) also rose 1.1%. On the other
S&P 500 (USA)
105 Shanghai Index (China) hand, losses were registered in the IGBVL (Peru), which
85 fell 2.7% and the MERVAL.
65
45
25
5
Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 10 The MERVAL index of Argentina ended February at
2,221 points, with a monthly decrease compared to
the end of January, measured in pesos, of 3.4%. Mean‐
while, over the last twelve months it accumulated a gain
of 118.2%, and in what has elapsed of the year it accu‐
mulates a loss of 4.3%. Measured in dollars, the local
index showed a monthly decrease of 1.7%.
The historical volatility of the MERVAL - 22 trading sessions - in annualized terms and measured in dollars, was 26% during February, 4.4 p.p. higher compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.2). The volume traded daily, on average, at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was approximately $45 million, slightly lower than January, and with an increase of more than $10 million compared to the same period of the previous year.

**Chart 7.3**
**Sovereign Risk Indicators**

|  | spread in p.b. | CDS spread at 5 years in p.b. | EMBI spread in p.b. |
|---|---|---|---|
| Argentina | 700 | Public Securities | |
| EMBI Argentina | 1,950 | | |
| Brazil (right axis) | 600 | | |
| EMBI Latin America | 1,650 | | |

In the fixed income markets, there was also a dissimilar behavior between European markets and those in the rest of the regions. In Europe, the Greek situation and the incipient uncertainty about the context being experienced by Spain, Italy and Portugal, was reflected in increases in the spreads of bonds over benchmark securities and in increases in the costs of protection against the default event. However, towards the end of February, measures of Greek government policy aimed at improving its fiscal situation, together with the commitment of support from the European Union, diminished the uncertainty somewhat.

Meanwhile, in general terms, sovereign risk indicators for emerging economies decreased slightly compared to the previous month. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 295 p.b. (-13 p.b.). Meanwhile, the spread of foreign currency debt in Latin America ended February at 346 p.b., that of Brazil at 215 p.b. and that of Argentina at 806 p.b., which imply variations of -16 p.b., -19 p.b. and 53 p.b., respectively. For its part, the spread of Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts at 5 years (the most traded segment) of Argentina increased 123 p.b. compared to January (see Chart 7.3).

The volume traded of public securities (on average daily) in the local market continued at reduced levels. During February it was $650 million, $150 million less compared to January, although $200 million more than in February 2009.

**Private Securities**

In the private debt market, there was a single placement of a short-term debt security (VCP), in the form of a negotiable bond, in February. The placement was carried out by Tarjeta Shopping, which issued $22.72 million with maturity in November 2010. The interest on this security will accrue quarterly at a BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 400 p.b., while the principal will be amortized at maturity.

**Investment Funds**

**Chart 7.4**
*Equity of FCI in pesos (thousands of millions $)*
*Participation in the Total of FCI in pesos*

24.0 - 12.9% Money market - 3.3% Equity
21.0 - 55.7% - 28.1% Mixed Income - Fixed Income
18.0
15.0
12.0
9.0
6.0
3.0
0.0
Feb-05 Aug-05 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

During February, the equity of investment funds (FCI) registered a decline of 1.1% compared to January. The decrease was reflected both in the local currency and foreign currency segments, registering a total equity of $15,121 million at the end of February.

The FCI in pesos ended the month with an equity of $13,228 million, barely 0.3% lower than

**Chart 7.5**
*millions $ Financial Trusts Issuances*
2000 - 50 Issuances intended to finance infrastructure
Quantity of operations (right axis)
1800 - 45
1600 - 40
1400 - 35
1200 - 30
1000 - 25
800 - 20
600 - 15

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 11
400 January 10 (see Chart 7.4). The slight decrease was

200 5 driven by the money market and variable income

0 0 segments. The former experienced a decline of
Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 1% due to lower quantities of fund shares
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others registered, ending the month of February with a pa‐
trimony of $7,366 million, without losing too much
representativeness in the total of FCIs in pesos (‐0.4
p.p. with respect to January). Meanwhile, variable in‐
come funds showed a patrimony of
$1,712 million at month end, 1% below
that recorded at the end of January. The decline was explained
by lower quantities of fund shares registered
Chart 7.6 during February. On the other hand, the fixed income
and mixed funds showed increases of 1% and 3% respec‐
Participation by type of settlor tively. In the case of the fixed income segment, the in‐
crease was due to higher prices of fund shares
National State and allowed this type of funds to close
60% February with a patrimony of $3,717 million.
Company of the
Other agricultural With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, a
5% sector decline of 6% was evident, explained mainly
1%
Mutuals, Financial by lower quantities of fund shares registered
Cooperatives and Entities in the variable income segment.
Credit card Retail Issuers of
Issuers Companies VDF backed by
Non-banking 20% public securities Financial Trusts5
5% 4%

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others The issuances of financial trusts (FF)
amounted to around $1,500 million in February

5 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 12 (see Chart 7.5), three times more than the amount pla‐
ced in January, with a total of 18
operations recorded in the month. This strong boost is explained
by two placements from the public sector that totalized
$900 million together. One of these placements
($300 million) corresponded to the third series of the "Trust created by decree 976/01" that
has as its purpose the financing of road infrastructure
projects. The other public sector placement
($600 million), intended to finance water infrastructure works, corresponded to the first
series of the Global Issuance Program "Water
Infrastructure Trust – Decree 1381/01". Nevertheless, if
said trusts were excluded, the
total issued in the month would result slightly higher than
that of January (+$75 million) and would evidence an increase
of 35% ($156 million) with respect to the same month of
the previous year.

Because placements for financing infrastructure
projects occurred in the month, future
fund flows constituted more than half
Chart 7.7 of the underlying assets (60% of total). Additionally,
public securities were securitized again, something
% Cut-off Rates of FF that had not occurred since January 2007. These are
37 (Class A securities in pesos - monthly averages weighted by amount)
35 securities from the Buenos Aires City government with which
33 it had paid suppliers. For its part, securitizations
31 of consumption-linked assets amounted
29 Fixed rate to $525 million, an amount similar to that of the previous
27 Variable rate
25 BADLAR Banks Private month. However, within this type of underlying asset,
23 personal loans recorded an
21 increase of 55%, while securitizations of
19
17 credit card coupons fell 93% with
15 respect to January (although part of the decline is explained
13
11
9
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages                                    Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system  Feb-10  Jan-10  Dec-09  Feb-09  Monthly  Last 12 months
                                                                           Nominal  Real  Nominal  Real

Monetary base                                119,268 121,668 118,661 102,740   -2.0%  -2.8%   16.1%   6.9%
Monetary circulation                         93,942  95,667  92,793  79,053   -1.8%  -2.6%   18.8%   9.4%
In public hands                              83,714  84,953  81,690  70,919   -1.5%  -2.2%   18.0%   8.7%
In financial entities                        10,228  10,713  11,103   8,134   -4.5%  -5.3%   25.7%  15.7%
Current account at the BCRA                  25,325  26,001  25,868  23,687   -2.6%  -3.4%    6.9%  -1.6%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities                                  17,024  11,460   6,959  15,995   48.6%  47.4%    6.4%  -2.0%
Assets                                           0  30,341   1,552      -      -      -       -      -

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
In pesos                                     39,163  36,702  34,743   8,161    6.7%   5.9%  379.9% 341.7%

NOBAC                                         7,419   9,857  12,616  30,189  -24.7% -25.3%  -75.4% -77.4%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009  47,959  48,116  47,717  47,058  -0.3%   1.9%

SDR allocation 2009 (5)                          0       0   1,241       0     -      -       -      -

Private and public sector deposits in pesos (1)  224,306 221,210 216,731 199,049   1.4%   0.6%   12.7%   3.7%
Current account (2)                          75,261  75,012  71,850  63,229    0.3%  -0.5%   19.0%   9.6%
Savings account                              44,357  44,233  43,355  37,543    0.3%  -0.5%   18.2%   8.8%
Fixed term non-adjustable by CER             93,519  90,837  90,057  87,480    3.0%   2.1%    6.9%  -1.6%
Fixed term adjustable by CER                    18      16      18     217   10.9%  10.1%  -91.7% -92.3%
Other deposits (3)                           11,151  11,111  11,450  10,581    0.4%  -0.4%    5.4%  -3.0%

---

**Note:** The text at the beginning of the input discusses securitizations and fixed-rate securities, which appears to be the preceding section before Table 8. Here is that translation:

7 due to the unusually high amounts in January, caused by higher end-of-year expenses financed with credit cards). Likewise, commercial credits were securitized, registering a decrease close to 60% compared to the previous month.

In line with the important placements by the public sector, the National State stood out among the fiduciaries, being responsible for more than half of the total securitized in the month (see Chart 7.6). For their part, retail businesses were fiduciaries of 20% of the total, with an increase in the volume of securitized assets of 21% compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, financial entities (10% of the total) and mutual associations, cooperatives and other financial service providers (5% of the total) reduced their securitizations compared to January, by 14% and 16% respectively.

The cut-off rate of the securities awarded at fixed rate registered a decline in February, in line with money market rates. Meanwhile, the corresponding rate for securities with variable yield showed an increase, influenced by public sector placements, which due to having a greater duration (9 times more than the rest) were placed at relatively higher rates. In effect, the cut-off rate (amount-weighted average) of securities awarded at fixed rate was positioned at 11.1%, registering a decrease of 1.7 p.p. compared to January (see Chart 7.7). In contrast, the rate of securities arranged at variable rate was positioned at 13.7%, 1 p.p. above the average of the previous month. However, if water and road infrastructure trusts were excluded, a decline of 0.6 p.p. compared to the previous month would be observed, reaching 12%.

Given the presence of longer-term assets within the framework of water and road infrastructure trusts, the duration (amount-weighted average) of senior securities increased considerably compared to the previous month (from 5.9 months to 40 months). If these were excluded, the duration would be reduced to 6.2 months.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 14
Private sector deposits 158.795 159.009 155.595 139.362 -0,1% -0,9% 13,9% 4,9%

 Public sector deposits 65.511 62.201 61.136 59.687 5,3% 4,5% 9,8% 1,0%

 Private sector and public sector deposits in dollars (1) 11.428 11.733 11.793 9.900 -2,6% 15,4%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 139.218 138.088 136.465 117.326 0,8% 0,0% 18,7% 9,2%

 Loans to private sector 120.733 120.598 119.127 107.869 0,1% -0,7% 11,9% 3,0%
 Advances 16.416 16.756 17.591 16.352 -2,0% -2,8% 0,4% -7,6%
 Documents 22.750 22.756 22.289 18.480 0,0% -0,8% 23,1% 13,3%
 Mortgage loans 17.840 17.756 17.741 18.157 0,5% -0,3% -1,7% -9,6%
 Pledged loans 7.179 7.091 7.061 7.400 1,2% 0,4% -3,0% -10,7%
 Personal loans 30.906 30.452 30.055 27.620 1,5% 0,7% 11,9% 3,0%
 Credit cards 18.581 18.677 17.704 14.868 -0,5% -1,3% 25,0% 15,0%
 Others 7.061 7.111 6.687 4.993 -0,7% -1,5% 41,4% 30,2%

 Loans to public sector 18.484 17.490 17.338 9.457 5,7% 4,8% 95,5% 79,9%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.451 5.284 5.236 5.995 3,2% -9,1%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + checking accounts in pesos) 158.976 159.966 153.540 134.147 -0,6% -1,4% 18,5% 9,1%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 203.333 204.199 196.895 171.690 -0,4% -1,2% 18,4% 9,0%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 308.020 306.163 298.421 269.968 0,6% -0,2% 14,1% 5,0%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 352.043 350.801 343.306 304.729 0,4% -0,4% 15,5% 6,3%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private checking accounts in pesos) 128.972 130.718 126.006 109.868 -1,3% -2,1% 17,4% 8,1%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 169.107 171.535 165.747 144.422 -1,4% -2,2% 17,1% 7,8%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 242.509 243.962 237.285 210.281 -0,6% -1,4% 15,3% 6,2%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 281.138 282.337 275.369 239.354 -0,4% -1,2% 17,5% 8,1%

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -2.400 -2,0% 9.720 8,1% 607 0,5% 16.528 13,9%
 Financial sector -5.499 -4,6% -7.233 -6,1% -9.950 -8,3% -2.444 -2,0%
 Public sector 1.240 1,0% 5.176 4,3% 2.732 2,3% 4.655 3,9%
 Private external sector 1.534 1,3% 10.596 8,9% 6.501 5,5% 14.451 12,1%
 BCRA Securities 397 0,3% 1.583 1,3% 1.733 1,5% -944 -0,8%
 Others -72 -0,1% -403 -0,3% -408 -0,3% 808 0,7%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -158 -0,3% 1.154 2,4% 242 0,5% 901 1,9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 404 0,8% 2.788 5,8% 1.712 3,6% 3.732 7,8%
 Payment to international organizations -52 -0,1% 2.959 6,2% 1.258 2,6% 3.429 7,1%
 Other public sector operations 781 1,6% -2.972 -6,2% -1.289 -2,7% -6.151 -12,8%
 Minimum cash -1.131 -2,4% -1.815 -3,8% -1.505 -3,1% -1.148 -2,4%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -160 -0,3% 194 0,4% 67 0,1% 1.039 2,2%

SDR allocations 2009 0 -2.541 -1.241 0

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09
 (1) (2) (2)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.6 15.7
 Integration 16.2 16.5 16.8
 Position (3) 0.6 0.9 1.1
 Structure of residual maturity of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 58.6 58.6
 30 to 59 days 20.8 20.8 20.8
 60 to 89 days 7.1 7.1 7.1
 90 to 179 days 8.0 8.0 8.0
 more than 180 days 5.5 5.5 5.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.2 20.3 20.6
 Integration (includes resource application default) 69.7 72.3 71.8
 Position (2) 49.5 51.9 51.2
 Structure of residual maturity of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 58.0 61.4
 30 to 59 days 23.4 22.3 21.3
 60 to 89 days 9.9 10.9 8.2
 90 to 179 days 6.6 7.1 7.2
 180 to 365 days 1.3 1.5 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.2 0.2

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos.

(3) Position= Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Dec-09 Feb-09

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.50
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 11.00
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 13.00

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.00 9.05 9.06 9.06 10.51
 7 days 9.50 9.52 9.61 9.61 11.21

Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 9,122 8,567 4,490 4,490 7,662

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 12.75
 3 months n/o n/o 12.75 12.75 12.89
 9 months 13.80 13.95 n/o n/o n/o
 12 months 13.96 n/o 14.40 14.40 n/o

NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.27
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 158 200 165 165 86

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Dec-09 Feb-09

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.85 3.80 3.80 3.80 3.52
 BCRA Reference 3.85 3.80 3.81 3.81 3.51

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.87 3.84 3.84 3.84 3.60
 ROFEX 1 month 3.86 3.83 3.84 3.84 3.53
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 820 888 1,153 1,153 534

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.09 2.14 2.17 2.17 1.51

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.27 5.43 5.55 5.55 4.50

 Capital Market Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Dec-09 Feb-09

MERVAL
 Index 2,277 2,344 2,229 2,229 1,075
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 56 54 49 49 42

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 87.41 87.75 88.12 88.12 57.91
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 67.73 73.45 73.99 73.99 35.35
 BODEN 2014 ($) 69.95 76.32 77.20 77.20 26.98
 DISCOUNT ($) 46.41 55.12 59.83 59.83 32.10

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,123 915 824 824 3,730
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 339 318 335 335 669

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Dec-09 Feb-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.46 8.84 9.03 9.03 10.87
 Amount traded 662 606 710 710 426

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 9.18 9.35 9.45 9.45 11.69
 60 days or more 10.22 10.41 10.49 10.49 12.48
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.38 9.66 9.63 9.63 11.54
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.54 9.86 9.82 9.82 11.98

 In dollars
 30 days 0.35 0.38 0.37 0.37 1.46
 60 days or more 0.72 0.64 0.75 0.75 2.24
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.42 0.42 0.42 1.65
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.56 0.50 0.50 2.38

 Active Interest Rates Feb-10 Jan-10 Dec-09 Dec-09 Feb-09
SELIC (at 1 year)
8.75 | 8.75 | 8.75 | 8.75 | 12.75

(1) Data through December correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those from January and February are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration
**BADLAR:** Interest rate on time deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the Central Bank.
**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds
**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.
**USA:** United States of America.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash Reserve.
**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
**IIF:** Investment Funds.
**FF:** Financial Trusts.
**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.
**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.
**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange
**IGPA:** General Index of Share Prices.
**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.
**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.
**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M3*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.
**MULC:** Unified and Free Exchange Market.
**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
**NDF:** Non Deliverable Forward.
**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.
**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.
**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.
**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.
**PM:** Monetary Program.
**bps:** Basis Points.
**pp:** Percentage Points.
**SMEs:** Small and Medium Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Futures Market.
**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements.
**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.
**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.
**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value
**FV:** Face Value.

Monetary Report | February 2010 | BCRA | 19
