# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
May 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 5 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Stocks
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was June 14, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary

• Total means of payment (M2) reached an average balance in May of $201,090 million, showing a monthly growth of 0.9% and an annual variation of 19.1%. For its part, the broader aggregate in pesos (M3) showed even greater growth, of 3.4%, and an annual variation of 21.7%.

• The total deposits in local currency showed an increase in the period of 3.8% (21.4% y.o.y.), led by the behavior of public sector deposits, driven by resources from tax collection. The concentration of tax payment deadlines in May resulted in a slower growth rate of private term deposits, especially wholesale deposits (over $1 million). Meanwhile, retail term placements maintained their monthly expansion rate.

• The broad liquidity in pesos of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, current account at the Central Bank, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs) remained at 39.9% of their deposits in pesos.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to exhibit strong dynamism, driven by credits destined mainly to companies. The monthly average balance of the total lines was located at $129,480 million, 3% ($3,910 million) above the April average and its annual growth rate went from 14.9% in April to 17.6% in May. Loans with predominantly commercial destination showed a significant monthly increase of 5.2% ($2,535 million), led by current account overdrafts, which grew in line with the greater liquidity demand from companies during tax payment periods.

• Continuing a monetary regulation policy aimed at extending the terms with which the financial system operates and promoting financing directed to the productive sector, at the beginning of June the Central Bank decided to grant funds to financial entities through advances for a maximum term of 5 years. Such advances will accrue at a fixed interest rate to be determined based on the interest rate of passive repo operations, in pesos and at 1 day, for the Central Bank. With such funds, financial entities will be able to offer loans in pesos intended to finance investment projects of the productive sector, with an average term equal to or greater than two and a half years, charging a fixed interest rate to be determined by the Central Bank at the time of each call for bids to award the resources.
• During May, financial entities slightly increased the interest rates paid for time deposits in the wholesale segment, in a context in which companies partially renewed their maturities. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the deposit tranche of more than $1 million and up to 35 days maturity (BADLAR) was located at 9.4%, with a slight increase of 0.1 p.p. with respect to the level registered in April, while the variation between the end of May and April shows an increase of 0.5 p.p.. For its part, both the monthly average and the end-of-month levels of the interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements (up to $100 thousand), for identical maturity, remained unchanged, located at 8.7%.

• The interest rates charged for loans to companies continued to register declines, while those applied to financing intended for family consumption remained stable. Among commercial loans granted by private banks in Capital and GBA, the interest rate of current account advances considering the total of operations was reduced 0.9 p.p. with respect to the April average, reaching a level close to 18.8%. For its part, the interest rates of personal loans remained stable at a level close to 30.7%.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 thousands of M2
 millions of $ Total means of payment (M2) reached in May
 220
 an average balance of $201,090 million, presenting
 210 M2 - 30-day moving average
 a growth in the month of 0.9% ($1,870 million) and re-
 M2 - as of 31-May 2010
 200 gistering a year-on-year variation of 19.1% (see Graph
 19.1%
 190 2.1). For its part, private means of payment (M2
 private) showed a monthly increase of 2.1%

 180 ($3,610 million).

 170
 Among the main factors that drove the increase in
 160
 total means of payment during May, the following stood
 150 out: foreign currency purchases made by the Central
 May-09 Aug-09 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10
 Source: BCRA Bank in the market and the growth of loans from the private sector (see Loans section). These expansionary effects were partially compensated by the increase shown in time deposits and, to a lesser extent, by the increase in the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC of the non-financial private sector and by operations of the public sector.

Graph 2.2

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos thousands of
 millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $

 31 42 The broadest aggregate in pesos, M3, registered during

 30 41 the month an increase of 3.4% (21.7% y.o.y.), while
 More than $1 million
 29 Less than $1 million (right axis) 40 private M3 increased 1.7% (21.4% y.o.y.).

 28 39

 27 38 The total of deposits in local currency presented an

 26 37 increase in the period of 3.8% (21.4% y.o.y.), led by

 25 36 the behavior of public sector deposits. In fact, public

 24 35 deposits showed strong growth in the month (9.4%), driven

 23 34 by income from tax collection.

 22 33
21 32
 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10
 Source: BCRA The total of private deposits increased 1.4% in the month
 (20.9% year-on-year), continuing with the positive trend regis-
 tered in recent months. Sight deposits
 increased 2.2%, as a consequence of the behavior
 of current accounts, since savings accounts
Chart 2.3 remained at the levels of the previous month. For
 its part, fixed-term deposits presented a slight
 increase of 0.4%, with increases in the retail segment
 millions of US$ Deposits in Dollars of the Private Sector %
 700 7 (less than $ 1 million) that more than offset
 
 600 6 Sight the decline recorded in the wholesale segment (see
 500 5 Chart 2.2). Regarding the decline in wholesale
 Total % (right axis)
 400 4 deposits, it should be mentioned that seasonally May is
 300 3 a month characterized by the behavior of companies
 200 2 that, in order to meet their tax obligations,
 100 1 use part of their fixed-term deposits. Additionally,
 0 0 it is expected that companies will continue with this
 -100 -1 behavior during June, especially during
 -200 -2 the second half of the month, as a consequence of new
 -300 -3 tax obligations and the proximity of payment of the half-
 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 year annual bonus.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 4 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits
 showed growth of 5.1%, with increases registered
 both in those belonging to the public sector
 and in those corresponding to the private sector. Regarding
Chart 3.1 private deposits, the growth they have been
 
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos* registering since March is led by sight
 % of deposits deposits (see Chart 2.3). In this way, the broader
 42 aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation
 
 41 in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign
 40 currency, showed an increase of 3.8% (25.1% year-on-year).
 39.9
 39
 
 38
 
 37 3. Bank Liquidity1

 36
 
 35 The liquidity of the peso segment of financial entities
 remained stable in May. This was due to
 34 the increase in peso funding, driven by the
 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 increase in deposits (especially from the public sector given the concentration of tax
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs. maturity dates in the month) being allocated in part to increase liquid
 Source: BCRA assets; and in part, to the granting of loans
 to the private sector. Private banks stood out
 in this latter aspect. The broad liquidity ratio (defined
 as the sum of cash in banks, current account
 at the Central Bank, net repos and holdings of
 LEBACs and NOBACs) stood in May at 39.9% of total
 deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1). The components
 of broad liquidity also remained stable
 in terms of deposits. In this way, the assets that make up
 the integration of reserve requirements
 (cash in banks and current account at the Central Bank)
 remained at 16% of total
Chart 3.2 deposits in pesos, exceeding by 0.4 p.p. the requirement
 
 Minimum Cash Position for Minimum Cash (see Chart 3.2).

 % of
 deposits
 18 Accumulated Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration Regarding the foreign currency segment, the surplus
 
 continued above 50% of total deposits
 in such denomination. In particular, in May, an increase
 17 in integration of 1 p.p. was observed, associated with the
 deceleration of growth in dollar loans.
 This meant that the surplus increased by the same
 16 16.0 amount since the requirement remained stable compared to
 April.
 Quarterly Position 15.6
# 15 4. Loans 1 2

| Dec-09 | Jan-10 | Feb-10 | Mar-10 | Apr-10 | May-10 |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|

Source: BCRA

Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to exhibit great dynamism, driven by credits destined mainly to companies. In effect, the monthly average balance was positioned at $129,480 million, 3% ($3,910 million; see Graph 4.1) above

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio from entities to financial trusts.

| Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 | the April average. For its part, the year-on-year growth rate of credit in pesos to the private sector went |
|---|---|---|---|

**Graph 4.1**

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector (variation of monthly averages)

[Million pesos on left axis: 0-4,200 | Percentage on right axis: 0-30%]

May-10

17.6

Year-on-year variation (right axis)

Source: BCRA

from 14.9% in April to 17.6% in May.

Loans with predominantly commercial destination presented an important monthly increase of 5.2% ($2,535 million). Said increase was led by current account advances, which grew in line with the greater demand for liquidity from companies characteristic of periods of tax payment deadlines.

In effect, current account advances increased 10% ($1,720 million) in the month, the largest monthly increase observed in the last 3 years. For its part, loans implemented by means of documents continued growing at a similar pace to previous months, registering an increase in their monthly average of 2.2% ($530 million, see Graph 4.2). Finally, the remaining commercial financing showed an increase of 4% ($285 million) in the period.

**Graph 4.2**

Commercial Loans (monthly average and year-on-year variation)

[Million pesos on left axis: -1,000 to 1,750 | Percentage on right axis: -50 to 90%]

Monthly Variation Current Account Advances
Monthly Variation Documents
Year-on-year Variation Current Account Advances (right axis)
Year-on-year Variation Documents (right axis)

Nov-07 | May-08 | Nov-08 | May-09 | Nov-09 | May-10

Source: BCRA

For its part, credits destined predominantly to consumption registered an increase of 2.1% ($1,150 million) in May. In particular, personal loans continued growing at relatively high rates, registering an increase of 2.2% ($740 million). For its part, and after the strong increase in April, credit card financing decelerated its rate of expansion by increasing 2.1% ($410 million) in the period.

Loans with real guarantee advanced 0.8% ($225 million) in May. Chattel mortgage credits remained on the growth path of last month, increasing 1.9% ($145 million; see Graph 4.3) compared to April. Meanwhile, mortgage credits showed an increase of 0.4% ($80 million).

**Graph 4.3**

Loans with Real Guarantee (monthly average and year-on-year variation)

[Million pesos on left axis: -200 to 600 | Percentage on right axis: -10 to 70%]

Monthly Variation Mortgage Credits
Monthly Variation Chattel Mortgage Credits
Year-on-year Variation Mortgage Credits (right axis)
Year-on-year Variation Chattel Mortgage Credits (right axis)

Nov-07 | May-08 | Nov-08 | May-09 | Nov-09 | May-10

Source: BCRA

For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private sector stagnated in May, although due to statistical carry-over they registered an increase of US$80 million on average.

Based on quarterly information, available until March 2010, the evolution of loans to the private sector by economic activity can be analyzed 3. In this regard, it is worth noting that up to the first quarter of the year, manufacturing industry continued to be the main sector receiving financing, representing in March 28.9% of the total stock (see Graph 4.4). Loans to said sector registered in the first quarter of 2010 an increase of 2.1% ($517 million). In order of
3 Data from the Centralized System of Informational Requirements (SISCEN) with quarterly periodicity. Last available information March 2010.

Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 6 importance were followed by loans to the service sector (27.5% of the total), which showed an increase of 1.3% ($295 million) with respect to December 2009. Meanwhile,

Graph 4.4 credit to primary production (24.2% of the total)

thousands of Loans to the Private Sector by Economic Activity remained without significant changes with respect to the

millions of $ 100% Participation previous quarter, decreasing 0.4% ($91 million). For its

100 Primary production 23.7% 24.2% Manufacturing industry part, loans to commerce (11.9% of the total)

90 Electricity gas and water 75 Construction registered in March an increase of 1.6% ($160

80 30.9% 28.9% Commerce 50 Services

70 million) with respect to December 2009. Finally, the

11.7% 11.9% 25 sector of electricity, gas and water, and the construction

60 27.0% 27.5% sector registered an increase in bank

0 50 I-09 I-10 financing of 15.4% ($328 million) and 4.9% ($188

40 million), respectively.

30 Continuing a monetary regulation policy aimed at

20 extending the terms with which the financial system

10 operates and promoting financing to the productive

0 sector, with precedents such as the negotiation of

Mar-04 Dec-04 Sep-05 Jun-06 Mar-07 Dec-07 Sep-08 Jun-09 Mar-10 medium and long-term swap operations launched in

Source: BCRA 2008, at the beginning of June the Central Bank decided, within the framework of subsection f of article 17 of the Organic Law, to make funds available to financial entities through advances with a maximum term of 5 years. On these advances, the financial entities will pay a fixed interest rate that will be determined on the basis of the interest rate of passive repo operations for the Central Bank, in pesos and at 1 day. To obtain said funds, they must pledge as guarantee national public securities and/or Guaranteed Loans issued by the National Government. With said funds, the financial entities may offer loans in pesos intended to finance investment projects of the productive sector, with an average term equal to or greater than two and a half years, charging a fixed interest rate that will be determined by the Central Bank at the time of each auction call to award the resources.

Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates

LEBAC Interest Rate

% (primary and secondary market) Titles issued by the BCRA⁴

16.5

15.0 In the primary LEBAC market, interest rates

13.5 remained at values similar to those observed during

12.0 April (see Graph 5.1). With respect to NOBACs, the

21-May- Primary Market margin paid on the BADLAR of private banks for

10.5 May - Secondary Market comparable terms was slightly higher than that recorded

27-Apr-Primary Market in April.

9.0 April - Secondary Market

7.5 As in previous months, the total amount placed

0 60 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 in the primary market was greater than that matured,

Source: BCRA days producing a contractionary monetary effect by the

awarding of these instruments. In this way, the total of

⁴ In this section the figures correspond to data as of month-end, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report / May 2010| BCRA | 7 titles in circulation rose 4% in the month, concluding May at a nominal value of $55,425 million.

The increase in titles issued by the Central Bank

Graph 5.2 was distributed among the different types of holders. In

Monthly Averages Traded in the Secondary Market effect, financial entities registered an increase

millions of $ (daily data) in their holdings of 3.8% with respect to April, while the
## Amount Operated by LEBAC Term in the Market

700%
45 39% remainder of the holders evidenced an increase of
40
35
30 LEBAC NOBAC 8% monthly.
600 25%
25
20 16% 15%
15
500 10 4% The operations carried out in the secondary market re-
5 1%
0
400 Up to 30 From 31-90 From 91-180 From 181-270 From 270-364 More than 361 sulted significantly higher than those of the previous
 days days
 month. With a 43% monthly increase, the average
 300 433%
 operated during May exceeded $440 million. Like

 200 in recent months, the strong participation of LEBAC

 100 stood out in the total, constituting 99% of the
 negotiations carried out. These instruments re-
 -
 Mar-06 Aug-06 Jan-07 Jun-07 Nov-07 Apr-08 Sep-08 Feb-09 Jul-09 Dec-09 May-10 corded a maximum in the monthly operated level.

 Source: BCRA When observing the terms negotiated during May, it
 should be mentioned that approximately 40% of what
 was operated corresponded to species negotiations for
 terms less than 30 days (see Graph 5.2). On the other
 hand, the greater participation in the secondary mar-
 ket of mutual funds5 and insurance companies stood
 out.

 For its part, the LEBAC interest rates in the secondary
 market were similar to those of the previous month.

 ## Interfinancial Markets

## Graph 5.3 Repo Market1

 Yield Curve of the Interbank Loan Market Interest rates for all repo modalities up to 30
 20% $ 139 million
 $ 64 million 18.1%
 days remained at the same levels as April. Passive repo
 May 2010 16.8%
 May 2009 rates were positioned at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7
 days, respectively, while the interest rates for active

 16% $ 9.018 million$ 113 million repos of 1 and 7 days, at 11% and 11.50%,
 Up to 3 days 10.8% 11.9%
 respectively.
 12%
 $ 184 million In May, the average stock of net repos (passive less
 11.7%
 8% $ 169 million active) for the Central Bank, including all modalities
 $ 1.721 million 9.1%
 8.9% of operations in which this Institution participates,
 $ 13.469 million increased $1,320 million, in a context of increased
 8.8%
 deposits (see Banking Liquidity Section). The monthly
 Up to 3 days
 4% average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank
 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
 Source: BCRA days was positioned at a level close to $16,100 million. It
 should be noted that neither active repos existed nor
 were agreed upon.

5 As of Communication A 5050, Mutual Funds whose shareholders are residents were incorporated to the list of authorized holders of domestic LEBAC and NOBAC.

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 8 Interbank Market 1

 Throughout May, the interest rates in the interbank
 market (call) averaged 8.8%, both for the total of
 operations and for those carried out at 1 business day,
 registering a slight increase (0.3 p.p.) with respect to
 the April average. For its part, the average interest rate
 in the repo market between financial entities (exclud-
 ing the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.3%,
 almost unchanged from the previous month.

 The daily average of the amount negotiated during the
 month in the call market was $810 million, $30 million
 more than last month. Meanwhile, the daily average of
 the amount negotiated in the repo market between
 financial entities increased by $230 million with
 respect to April, reaching $1,050 million.

 The dispersion measures of interbank loan interest
 rates continued relatively stable. In particular, the
 difference between the monthly average of the maxi-
## Graph 5.4 mum and minimum interest rate agreed each day was
 slightly reduced to 2.5 p.p., constituting the lowest
 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
14 Capital and GBA - Daily Data value since April 2008.
13 For its part, with respect to the same month of the previous year, in
May a lower time premium was observed in the call mar-
12
 ket, which resulted in a flatter yield curve

11 (see Chart 5.3). In turn, the amount traded in this market continued to be concentra-
10
 ted in shorter-term operations (up to 7 days).

 BADLAR private banks
 9 Retail private banks Passive Interest Rates1

 8
Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Ene-10 Mar-10 May-10During May, financial entities slightly increased
Source: BCRA
 the interest rates paid in the wholesale segment in pesos (placements of more than one million
 pesos), in a context in which companies
 reduced part of their placements (see Section
 Monetary Aggregates). Indeed, the monthly average
 of the interest rate paid by private banks in the
 wholesale bracket (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of
 up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 9.4%,
 practically at the levels recorded in April, however, the variation between the end of May and April
 shows an increase of 0.5 p.p.. For their part, both the
 monthly average and the end-of-month levels of
 the interest rate paid by private banks on
 retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand), for
 the same term, remained unchanged, located at
 8.7%. (see Chart 5.4).

 On the other hand, the trading volume in the futures market for
 BADLAR interest rates presented a
 marked decline while the rates agreed for

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 9 medium term slightly increased. At the close
 of the month, the implicit rate in contracts with
 maturity at the end of the third quarter of 2010 was
Chart 5.5 12%, 0.3 p.p. above that recorded at the end of
 Active Interest Rates April. For their part, the interest rates of contracts

 TNA (%) Monthly Average with maturity at the end of the fourth quarter
 35
 31.1 30.2 31.1
 increased 0.6 p.p., and moved to 13.4%.
 Apr-10 May-10 29.7
 30 The negotiated amounts of interest rate futures recorded

 25 a decline compared to the month of April, reaching a

 19.7 volume close to $725 million.
 20 18.8 18.0 17.5

 15.6 14.6
 15 13.1 13.3 12.9 12.9
 Active Interest Rates1 6

 10

 5 The interest rates charged for loans to companies
 continued to register declines, while the rates
 0 applied to financing intended for consumption
 Overdrafts Discounted DocumentsSingle-Signature Mortgage Chattel Personal Credit Cards
 Documents Documents by Private Banks
 by private banks remained stable, although at elevated
 Source: BCRA levels with respect to the cost of funds.

 Among commercial loans granted by private
 banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate
 on overdrafts in current account with prior agreement,
 granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for
 amounts exceeding $10 million (which represented
 one-fifth of the total overdrafts in current account
 with agreement), was located at 9.7%, a level similar to
 that observed in April. Meanwhile, considering the total
 of overdraft operations in current account, the interest
 rate decreased 0.9 p.p. compared to the average of April,
 reaching a level close to 18.8% (see Chart 5.5).

 For their part, within the interest rates of
Chart 6.1 financing instruments through documents (discounted,
 single-signature and purchased), the interest rate of
 BCRA's International Reserves the most-operated modality in May
 thousands of excluding SDR allocations 2009 (discounted documents) would have decreased 0.2 p.p. with
 millions of US$

 55 respect to the average of April, reaching a level close to
 50 12.9%.

 45 thousands of Variation Factors May 2010
 millions of US$
 40 2.0
 35 As for the lines more associated with consumption, the rates
1,5
 30 interest rates on personal loans remained
 25 1,0
 stable at a level close to 30.7%, while the
 20 0,5
 monthly average for March, the latest available information,
 15 0,0
 of credit card financing for
 10 -0,5
 Res.Int. excl.Purchase ofSectorEf. Min. Others the entire country was located at 29.7%, with a decline of 0.5
 5 assign. DEGsDivisas Public
 2009 p.p. compared to February.
 0
 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10
 Source: BCRA
 Interest rates on mortgage loans to families
 would have been reduced slightly, being located around
 13%; while the interest rate corresponding to
 financing with pledge guarantee fell 0.5 p.p.
 averaging the month at a level close to 17.5%.

6 This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country until March. The values for April and May
2010 were estimated based on data from loans granted to the private sector in Federal Capital and Greater Buenos Aires.

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 10 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market
 Chart 6.2
 The level of international reserves continued to increase
 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate and, after increasing US$933 million in May, it
 % reached US$49,000 million on the last day of the month (see

 8 Chart 6.1). The main explanatory factor for the

 6 monthly increase in international reserves was the
 purchase of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the

 4 Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC), which increased
 2 more than 30% compared to the previous month, in line

 0 with the seasonality of the settlement of foreign currency
 -2 from grain and oilseed exporters. The effect of the
 Central Bank's purchases of foreign currency was partially
 -4 offset by operations
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real
 -6 of the public sector, which allocated foreign currency to pay off debt.
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
 Source: BCRA
 The peso / US dollar exchange rate showed
 a slight depreciation of the local currency, and the average quotation for May was 3.9 $/US$ (+0.7% compared to the
 average for April). In the forward market (ROFEX),
 contracts for US dollar futures increased their trading volume
 more than 50%. Meanwhile, the peso appreciated against the Euro and the
 Real (see Chart 6.2). The average quotation for May
 of the Euro was 4.9 $/Euro (-5.7% compared to the average
 for April) and that of the Real was 2.15 $/Real (-2.5%).

 7. Capital Market

 Stocks

 During May the group of selected stock exchange
Chart 7.1 markets had relatively homogeneous behavior characterized by

 Performance of Stock Exchange Indices in the World significant losses, due,
 (base index 02/07/07 =100) mainly, to the worsening of the crisis in the euro zone,

 80 120 due to the credit rating cut of the sovereign debt of some
 15-Apr
 115 economies in the region. In
 70 110 particular, between late May and April, the MSCI global

 105 fell 9.9%, the largest monthly loss since February
 60 100 2009. In the case of regional indices, the MSCI
 MSCI Global Europe was the one that lost the most (14.3%), followed by
 MSCI Europe 95 MSCI Latam (-8.9%) and MSCI Japan (-8.1%). In the
 MSCI Japan case of the North American market, its main index, the
 50 S&P 500 90 S&P 500, registered a fall of 6.2% (see Chart 7.1).

 MSCI Latam (right axis) 25-May 85 It should be noted that the index of the stock exchanges of Latin

 40 80 America registered a rebound in the last days of May,
 Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 without which the loss of the same would have been 17.8%.
 Source: Prepared by based on Bloomberg data.
The main stock exchanges in Latin America, measured in dollars, also experienced significant losses due to a combination of stock index declines with depreciation of the local currency (with the exception of the Peruvian New Sol). The losses in each index were as follows: the BOVESPA (Brazil) 10.8%; the IGBVL (Peru) 8.5%; the MERVAL (Argentina) 8.4%; the IPC (Mexico) 6.7%; and the IGPA (Chile) 1.7%.

During May, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency experienced a decline of 8%, ending the month at 2,204 points. Like the rest of the region's stock indices, it registered a recovery during the last days of the month. Over the last twelve months, the MERVAL accumulated a gain of 39%, and year-to-date a loss of 5%.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading sessions- in annualized terms, and measured in dollars, was 45.3% during May, 26 percentage points higher compared to April. Similarly, the expected volatility of the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) was on average in May of 32%, with an increase of 15 percentage points compared to April and the highest value of the last twelve months (see Chart 7.2).

Meanwhile, the average daily volume traded on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $51 million, virtually unchanged compared to April and May 2009.

**Public Securities**

Similar to what occurred in the equity market, the evolution of the fixed income market was influenced by growing tension in the sovereign debt market of some eurozone countries.

In the local sphere, it should be noted that the initial debt exchange offering period, aimed at institutional investors, ended on May 14, with an acceptance rate of 45% of the total eligible debt for the exchange. In turn, the final date for receiving offers was extended by 7 days, until June 22.

The sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies registered increases compared to the previous month. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 325 basis points (+60 basis points). Meanwhile, the spread of foreign currency debt in Latin America ended May at 384 basis points, that of Brazil at 235 basis points, and that of Argentina at 807 basis points, which implies increases of 71 basis points, 39 basis points, and 148 basis points, respectively.

In the case of the 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) spread (the most traded segment) for Argentina, it increased 362 basis points compared to April, while the same segment for Brazil increased 12 basis points (see Chart 7.3).

Again, as in March and April, during May, the volume of public securities traded (on average daily) in the local market was one of the highest of recent months, in part due to the dynamism that the debt exchange with holdouts brought to the market. Specifically, the average daily volume traded during May was $943 million, although $12 million less than in April, $150 million more than in May 2009.

**Chart 7.4**

Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos (Thousands of millions of $ - Variation May-10 vs. Apr-10)
- Fixed Income
- Mixed Income
- Variable Income
- Money Market

**Private Securities**
12 -200
 10 During May, a smaller amount of debt was placed in
 -300 -637
 8 the private market compared to the previous month, totaling
 -400
 6 $116 million and US$925 thousand.
 -500

 4 -600

 2 On one hand, Tarjeta Naranja placed a negotiable obligation
 -700 -153
 0 (ON) with a nominal value of $49.5 million at
 -800 -2
 May-04 May-05 May-06 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 270 days. Interest will be paid at 90 and 180 days and
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA
 will be equivalent to the BADLAR rate of private banks
 plus a margin of 2.75% annually, while capital payment
 will be made at maturity.

 On the other hand, Central Térmica Piedra Buena placed
 a short-term debt security valued at $66.3 million at a
 BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 3%. Interest
 will be paid quarterly, while amortization will be at maturity,
 in May 2011.

 In the dollar segment, POP Argentina, a popcorn exporting
 company, announced the result of the placement of an SME
 ON series for US$925 thousand at a fixed rate of 10.5%.
 Its maturity will take place on May 7, 2012, at which time
 100% of capital will be amortized. For its part, interest will
Graph 7.5 be paid semiannually in the months of November and May
 Equity of Variable Income FCIs in Pesos of each year.

 millions of $ index
 2,100 2,800
 Mutual Investment Funds

 2,500
 1,900 Driven by declines in most segments, the equity of
 mutual investment funds (FCI) decreased 5.4% compared
 2,200
 1,700 to the previous month. The decline was evident in the
 local and foreign currency segments, and equity reached
 1,900 an amount of $16,600 million at the end of May.

 1,500 Equity Variable Income in $ 1,600
 Merval Index

 1,300 1,300 On one hand, FCIs in pesos closed the month with equity
 01-Jan 22-Jan 12-Feb 05-Mar 26-Mar 16-Apr 07-May 28-May of $14,760 million, reflecting a 5.1% monthly decline (see
 Source: BCRA
 Chart 7.4). In the negative context shown by stock markets
 in general (see Shares Section), the largest negative variation
 of the month was evident in the variable income FCI segment,
 which ended May with equity of $1,550 million, after

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 13 experiencing a 9% monthly decline in unit prices
 (see Chart 7.5).

 On the other hand, the equity of money market funds
 Chart 7.6 reflected a decrease of 7.4% compared to April, ending
 May at $7,962 million. In this case, the decline was mainly
 Issuances of Financial Trusts explained by a lower quantity of units, which could be
 millions of $ associated with the withdrawal of funds by companies
 2,000 Issuances intended to finance infrastructure 50 that maintained resources in this class of assets,
 1,800 Number of operations (right axis) 45 to face the month's tax payment deadlines (see
 1,600 40 Monetary Aggregates Section).
 1,400 35

 1,200 30 For its part, the mixed income segment decreased slightly,
 1,000 25 while the fixed income segment in pesos was the only
 800 20 segment that showed a slight increase. The latter ended
 600 15 the month with equity of $4,665 million, representing
 400 10 31.6% of the total FCIs in pesos (1.6 p.p. higher than
 200 5 the previous month).

 0 0 Finally, FCIs in foreign currency decreased 7.8% in the
 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 month, showing sharp declines in the variable income
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others and mixed income segments, negatively affected by the
 scenario that prevailed internationally, due to increasing
 volatility in the euro zone.

 Financial Trusts7
FF emissions totaled around $495 million in May (see Chart 7.6), 68% less compared to April, when an important placement by the public sector was recorded ($850 million) intended to finance road infrastructure projects. In any case, if said placement is excluded, a 28% decline is observed in the total placed during the month. Although the amount placed (securitized amounts) was more than double that in May 2009, it should be taken into account that the comparison is being made with the period immediately following the episode involving an appliances company, which had motivated the establishment of greater controls by the CNV when authorizing the issuance of FF, generating a significant contraction in the amount placed during that month.

The main underlying assets were those linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons) representing 94% of the total. Regarding securitized amounts, those corresponding to personal loans recorded a 30% decline compared to last month, after reaching a relatively high amount in April. For their part, the securitizations of credit card coupons continued to decline with a 37% decrease compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.7). The remainder corresponded to commercial credits (4% of the total) and future flows of funds (2% of the total).

Regarding the settlors, the mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers, which began the year showing scarce dynamism, securitized in May the largest amount of the last 12 months ($206 million), with a 50% increase compared to April. Thus, they had the largest participation, being settlors of 42% of the total. In contrast, financial entities (31% of the total) and retail merchants (21% of the total) decreased their securitizations by 47% and 60%, respectively. The remainder corresponded to a company from the agricultural sector ($20 million) and to the Municipality of Río Cuarto ($12 million).

The cut-off rates of the FF senior titles showed a slight increase. Precisely, the cut-off rate (amount-weighted average) of fiduciary securities with fixed yield, which in all cases recorded a duration of less than 14 months, was located at 11.5%, 0.5 p.p. above the value recorded in the previous month. For their part, the rate of securities agreed at variable rate, for the same duration bracket, was located at 12.5%, recording an increase of the same magnitude compared to the previous month. Additionally, during this month an operation was recorded with a duration of 16 months, whose cut-off rate amounted to 15.2% (see Chart 7.8).

In this period, the duration (amount-weighted average) of senior titles decreased to 6 months, compared to almost 44 months in the previous period. However, when considering only the duration of FF with consumption loans as underlying, a slight increase is observed compared to last month (from 4.8 months to 5.6 months).
# Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables May-10 Monthly Last 12 monthsApr-10Dec-09May-09
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 123.554 120.496 118.661 100.741 2.5% 1.8% 22.6% 10.8%
 Monetary circulation 94.856 92.744 92.793 76.859 2.3% 1.5% 23.4% 11.5%
 In the hands of the public 84.079 82.377 81.591 68.640 2.1% 1.3% 22.5% 10.7%
 In financial entities 10.777 10.368 11.202 8.219 3.9% 3.2% 31.1% 18.5%
 Current account at the BCRA 28.698 27.752 25.868 23.881 3.4% 2.6% 20.2% 8.6%

 Stock of Reverse Repurchase Agreements (Pases)
 Liabilities 16.088 14.766 6.959 16.262 9.0% 8.1% -1.1% -10.6%
 Assets 003437

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for reverse repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 52.075 48.399 34.743 13.116 7.6% 6.8% 297.0% 258.8%

 NOBAC 2.573 3.678 12.616 22.437 -30.1% -30.6% -88.5% -89.6%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 48.471 47.552 47.717 46.556 1.9% 4.1%

 SDR allocation 2009 (5) 0 0 1.241 0

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 242.182 233.269 216.731 199.500 3.8% 3.1% 21.4% 9.7%
 Current account (2) 73.001 72.927 71.850 62.723 0.1% -0.6% 16.4% 5.2%
 Savings account 44.006 43.918 43.355 37.475 0.2% -0.5% 17.4% 6.1%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 112.988 104.714 90.057 87.971 7.9% 7.1% 28.4% 16.1%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 16 18 18 121 -9.2% -9.9% -86.6% -87.9%
 Other deposits (3) 12.171 11.693 11.450 11.211 4.1% 3.3% 8.6% -1.9%

 Deposits of the private sector 166.424 164.046 155.594 137.645 1.4% 0.7% 20.9% 9.3%

 Deposits of the public sector 75.758 69.223 61.136 61.855 9.4% 8.6% 22.5% 10.7%

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 16.176 15.385 11.793 11.591 5.1% 39.6%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 147.976 144.304 136.465 120.746 2.5% 1.8% 22.6% 10.7%

 Loans to the private sector 129.473 125.623 119.128 110.125 3.1% 2.3% 17.6% 6.2%
 Advances 19.001 17.280 17.591 17.407 10.0% 9.1% 9.2% -1.4%
 Documents 24.382 23.856 22.289 19.391 2.2% 1.4% 25.7% 13.6%
 Mortgage loans 18.237 18.158 17.741 18.088 0.4% -0.3% 0.8% -8.9%
 Pledge loans 7.523 7.380 7.061 7.031 1.9% 1.2% 7.0% -3.3%
 Personal loans 32.696 32.011 30.055 27.964 2.1% 1.4% 16.9% 5.7%
 Credit cards 20.072 19.663 17.705 15.187 2.1% 1.3% 32.2% 19.4%
 Others 7.561 7.276 6.687 5.057 3.9% 3.2% 49.5% 35.1%

 Loans to the public sector 18.504 18.681 17.338 10.621 -1.0% -1.7% 74.2% 57.4%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 5.940 5.859 5.236 6.057 1.4% -1.9%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (cash in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 157.080 155.303 153.441 131.364 1.1% 0.4% 19.6% 8.1%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 201.086 199.221 196.795 168.838 0.9% 0.2% 19.1% 7.6%
 M3 (cash in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 326.261 315.645 298.321 268.141 3.4% 2.6% 21.7% 10.0%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 389.370 375.270 343.206 311.336 3.8% 3.0% 25.1% 13.0%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (cash in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 133.522 130.013 125.906 107.720 2.7% 1.9% 24.0% 12.0%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 173.648 170.039 165.647 141.241 2.1% 1.4% 22.9% 11.1%
 M3 (cash in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 250.503 246.423 237.185 206.285 1.7% 0.9% 21.4% 9.7%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 291.600 286.293 275.269 241.163 1.9% 1.1% 20.9% 9.3%

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONETARY BASE

Monetary Base 3.058 2.5% 4.286 3.5% 4.893 4.0% 22.813 18.5%
Financial Sector -1.211 -1.0% 1.252 1.0% -8.699 -7.0% 383 0.3%
Public Sector -189 -0.2% -80 -0.1% 2.651 2.1% 6.126 5.0%
Private External Sector 6.248 5.1% 9.389 7.6% 15.890 12.9% 28.580 23.1%
BCRA Securities -1.784 -1.4% -5.996 -4.9% -4.263 -3.5% -11.128 -9.0%
Others -5 0.0% -279 -0.2% -686 -0.6% -1.148 -0.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 919 1.9% 512 1.1% 754 1.6% 1.914 3.9%
Intervention in the Foreign Exchange Market 1.608 3.3% 2.420 5.0% 4.131 8.5% 7.451 15.4%
Payment to International Organizations 80 0.2% -31 -0.1% 1.226 2.5% 3.719 7.7%
Other Operations of the Public Sector 68 0.1% -35 -0.1% -1.324 -2.7% -6.208 -12.8%
Minimum Cash -466 -1.0% 2.446 5.0% 941 1.9% 464 1.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -327 -0.7% -4.242 -8.8% -4.176 -8.6% -3.465 -7.1%

SDR Allocations 2009 0 0 -1.241 0

1 Does not include financial sector or non-residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of recorded BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the principal variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | May-10 | Apr-10 | Mar-10 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **(1)** National Currency | % of total deposits in pesos |
| Requirement | 15.6 | 15.7 | 15.8 |
| Integration | 16.0 | 16.0 | 16.1 |
| Position (2) | 0.4 | 0.3 | 0.4 |
| Residual Term Structure of Time Deposits % | used for the calculation of the requirement (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 58.3 | 57.4 | 58.9 |
| 30 to 59 days | 20.0 | 21.2 | 20.2 |
| 60 to 89 days | 9.3 | 8.5 | 7.7 |
| 90 to 179 days | 5.7 | 7.4 | 8.4 |
| More than 180 days | 6.6 | 5.6 | 4.9 |
| **Foreign Currency** | % of total deposits in foreign currency |
| Requirement | 20.8 | 20.9 | 20.6 |
| Integration (includes resource application default) | 74.8 | 73.5 | 67.6 |
| Position (2) | 54.0 | 52.5 | 47.1 |
| Residual Term Structure of Time Deposits % | used for the calculation of the requirement (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 60.5 | 61.3 | 61.3 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.0 | 21.6 | 22.5 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8.8 | 8.4 | 8.1 |
| 90 to 179 days | 8.1 | 7.1 | 6.5 |
| 180 to 365 days | 1.4 | 1.4 | 1.4 |
| More than 365 days | 0.2 | 0.2 | 0.2 |

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | May-10 | Apr-10 | Mar-10 | Dec-09 | May-09 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (1 day)** |
| Rate | 8.79 | 8.53 | 8.58 | 9.03 | 11.00 |
| Amount Traded | 809 | 709 | 755 | 710 | 538 |
| **Time Deposit** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30 days | 8.73 | 8.89 | 9.01 | 9.45 | 11.80 |
| 60 days or more | 9.63 | 10.08 | 10.15 | 10.49 | 13.49 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 8.83 | 8.99 | 9.16 | 9.63 | 12.05 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 9.38 | 9.25 | 9.43 | 9.82 | 12.82 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30 days | 0.28 | 0.30 | 0.32 | 0.37 | 1.00 |
| 60 days or more | 0.56 | 0.53 | 0.68 | 0.75 | 1.61 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.40 | 0.38 | 0.46 | 0.42 | 1.09 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.55 | 0.63 | 0.60 | 0.50 | 1.49 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | May-10 | Apr-10 | Mar-10 | Dec-09 | May-09 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repos in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 10.46 | 10.54 | 10.04 | 11.06 | 12.84 |
| Amount Traded (total terms) | 210 | 193 | 178 | 194 | 135 |
| **Loans to the Private Sector in pesos (1)** |
| Current Account Advances | 18.79 | 19.68 | 20.11 | 21.28 | 23.35 |
| Documents on Signature Alone | 14.64 | 15.59 | 15.31 | 16.08 | 20.53 |
| Mortgage | 12.91 | 13.33 | 13.46 | 13.53 | 14.22 |
| Pledge | 17.51 | 18.01 | 17.38 | 18.22 | 23.37 |
| Personal | 30.71 | 30.69 | 31.17 | 32.47 | 33.87 |
| Credit Cards | n/o | n/o | 29.65 | 31.45 | 29.87 |
| Current Account Advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 9.69 | 9.81 | 10.20 | 10.70 | 16.53 |

## International Interest Rates

| | May-10 | Apr-10 | Mar-10 | Dec-09 | May-09 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** |
| 1 month | 0.33 | 0.26 | 0.24 | 0.23 | 0.34 |
| 6 months | 0.65 | 0.48 | 0.41 | 0.45 | 1.36 |
# GLOSSARY

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.82 1.03 0.94 0.86 0.92
 10 years 3.42 3.81 3.71 3.59 3.30

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 9.50 8.86 8.75 8.75 10.25

(1) Data up to March correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while those for April and May are estimates made based on the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-10 Apr-10 Mar-10 Dec-09 May-09

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.50
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 11.00
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 13.00

Total REPO Trading Floor Rates
 1 day 8.99 9.00 9.01 9.06 10.51
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.61 11.10

Amount traded in REPO trading floor (daily average) 9,295 8,813 7,276 4,490 9,261

LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 11.15 n/a 12.20 12.75 14.50
 9 months 13.53 13.54 13.73 n/a n/a
 12 months n/a 13.80 13.87 14.40 16.25

NOBAC Spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 2.15 n/a n/a n/a 1.20
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.36 2.20 n/a n/a 1.65
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.25
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 450 314 214 165 177

 Foreign Exchange Market May-10 Apr-10 Mar-10 Dec-09 May-09

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.90 3.88 3.86 3.80 3.73
 BCRA Reference 3.90 3.88 3.86 3.81 3.72

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 3.93 3.89 3.88 3.84 3.78
 ROFEX 1 month 3.93 3.89 3.88 3.84 3.73
 Amount traded (all terms, millions of pesos) 1,089 698 871 1,153 652

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.15 2.21 2.16 2.17 1.81

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 4.90 5.20 5.25 5.55 5.09

 Capital Market May-10 Apr-10 Mar-10 Dec-09 May-09

MERVAL
 Index 2,217 2,436 2,355 2,229 1,498
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 64 67 52 49 69

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 89.14 90.45 90.26 88.12 61.70
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 70.54 77.33 73.09 73.99 38.62
 BODEN 2014 ($) 74.43 79.62 74.29 77.20 30.00
 DISCOUNT ($) 45.74 53.07 50.60 59.83 29.98

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,120 848 878 824 3,879
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 344 281 298 335 509

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

 Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days maturity

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient

**CNV:** National Securities Commission

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights

**USA:** United States of America

**EFNB:** Non-Bank Financial Entities

**EM:** Minimum Cash

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index

**MIF:** Investment Funds

**FF:** Financial Trusts

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector

**M3\*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market

**MULC:** Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

**NDF:** Non-Deliverable Forward

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations

**ONs:** Negotiable Bonds

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product

**PM:** Monetary Program

**bp:** Basis Points

**pp:** Percentage Points

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate

**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value

**FV:** Face Value

---

Monetary Report / May 2010 | BCRA | 20
