# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2010 | Monthly Monetary Report
September 2010

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 9
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 10
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Markets | Page 11
   - Stocks | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 13
   - Investment Funds | Page 14
   - Financial Trusts | Page 15
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 18
9. Glossary | Page 22

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was October 12, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• The growing dynamism of economic activity continued to drive the increase in transactional money demand from the private sector. Additionally, the conditions of stability that continued to characterize the local monetary and exchange rate market favored the strengthening of broader money demand, which includes those components not directly related to transactional motives, such as time deposits.

• Total means of payment (M2) reached in September an annual rate of change of 23.8% y.o.y., (with an average monthly balance of $221,240 million), placing itself slightly below the baseline scenario of the updated Monetary Program.

• Time deposits placements from the private sector continued accelerating their expansion rate, presenting an increase of 3.9% ($2,900 million), with increases of similar magnitude in the wholesale and retail segments, registering in the quarter the largest growth of recent years. For its part, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos from the private sector (Private M3) registered in September a growth of 2.4% (29.9% y.o.y.).

• Entity liquidity increased in September by 0.8 percentage points and was applied to longer-term assets (LEBACs and NOBACs), as has been happening throughout the year. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio reached in the monthly average 40.3% of total deposits in pesos.

• In the primary market for LEBACs and NOBACs, cut-off interest rates registered decreases throughout the entire yield curve, mainly in shorter-term instruments. Interbank market interest rates remained stable, with greater volatility toward the end of the month. Interest rates paid on time deposits also remained stable: the BADLAR for private banks was placed at 10.5%, 0.1 percentage points above the average registered in August; meanwhile, that paid by private banks for retail placements in pesos (up to $100,000) remained at 9%.

• Stability was also observed in interest rates charged for loans in pesos to the private sector. Among commercial lines, the average rate of total current account overdraft operations remained around 18.5%, and that charged for discounted documents remained at 13.3%. Neither did interest rates on mortgage loans to families register significant monthly variations, standing at 14.2%, while rates corresponding to financing with pledge collateral remained around 17%. In contrast, the interest rate on personal loans, which had been showing successive decreases over months, showed a slight increase (0.3 percentage points), standing at 29.3%.

• Loans in pesos to the Private Sector grew in September 2.6% ($3,765 million), and in this way, accumulated annual growth of 26.7%, 2.4 percentage points above what was observed in August. The increase in loans for the month was led by financing instrumented through documents and by personal loans. Financing instrumented through documents showed an increase of 4.4% ($1,220 million), while personal loans increased 3.6% ($1,295 million).

• Within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), which aims at the granting of long-term funds to financial entities, in order to improve the supply of credit for investment and productive activity, with a fixed total financial cost in pesos, the first fund auction was held. The total amount of auctioned resources amounted to $230 million, while the bids received reached $295 million, exceeding the total auctioned.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1
thousands of M2 - 2010 Goals
millions of $ 254.7 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

260 (29.4% y.o.y.)
 Monthly Average
250 The growing dynamism of economic activity continued
 Monetary Program Range 230.2
240 (28.8% y.o.y.) driving up the demand for money from the private
 240.9
230 221.2 (22.4% y.o.y.) sector. Facing the strong economic growth, which is

220 209.1 (23.8% y.o.y.)
 202.9 (19.4% y.o.y.) much higher than originally forecast in the 2010 Mone-
210 (21.2% y.o.y.) 217.7
 206.3 (21.8% y.o.y.) tary Program, in August the Central Bank updated the

200 196.8 197.5
 196.9 monetary goals for the second half. In this way, it avoided
190 191.4 (12.4% y.o.y.)
 (14.3% y.o.y.) giving a contractionary character to monetary policy,
180
 which would have affected product growth and job
170
 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 creation.

 Source: BCRA
 In September, total means of payment (M2) reached a
 monthly average balance of $221,240 million, showing
 a monthly increase of 1.8%. With a year-over-year
 variation rate of 23.8% y.o.y., M2 was positioned
 slightly below the baseline scenario of the updated
 Monetary Program (see Chart 2.1). For its part, pri-
 vate means of payment (private M2) showed an increase
 Chart 2.2 in the month of 1.9% (31.1% y.o.y.), registering in-
 Monetary Aggregates creases in both sight deposits (2.2%) and currency in
 (September 2010, on average) circulation held by the public (1.6%, see Chart 2.2).

 Deposits in US$

 Public Sector

 Other Deposits Private Sector
 Among the main factors explaining the variation of
 M3* total M2, the following stood out with expansionary
 2.7%
 Time Deposits effect: the Central Bank's purchases of foreign cur-
 M3 rency in the Unified Free Foreign Exchange Market
 2.8%
 Sight Deposits (MULC), the growth of private sector loans, and public
 M2 sector operations (see Chart 2.3). Meanwhile, the
 1.8%
 Bills and Coins strong growth exhibited by time deposits placements
 and, to a lesser extent, the stock of LEBAC and NO-
 -7 -5 -3 -1 1 3 5 7 BAC from the non-financial private sector, generated a
 billions of $ contraction that partially offset the aforementioned
 Source: BCRA expansionary effects.

 Chart 2.3
 Monetary Base (BM) reached in September a monthly
 Factors Explaining M2 Variation average of $137,780 million, registering during the
 (September 2010, on average) period a growth of approximately $2,340 million
 thousands of
millions of $ (see Chart 2.4). The contractionary effect that LEBAC
8 and NOBAC placements made by the Central Bank
6 during the month had, partially offset the expansion
4 produced by its foreign currency purchases in the
2 MULC and the monetary effect of public sector opera-
0 tions.
-2
-4 Total deposits in domestic currency showed during the
-6 period an increase of 3.2% (32.7% y.o.y.), registering
-8
 increases from both the private sector and the public
 Foreign Currency Sector LEBAC and Loans to Deposits Time Other M2
 Purchases Public* NOBAC Private Sector Deposits and
 excluded Others Sector Banks Others

*Includes loans and other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.4
 thousands of Factors Explaining BM
 (September 2010, on average) Private sector deposits continued growing, showing
 millions of $ in September an increase of 2.9% (30.1% y.o.y.). Beyond
5 the increase in sight deposits already mentioned, the
4 significant growth of fixed-term deposits stands out,
3 which showed in the month an increase of 3.9% ($2,900
2 million). In this way, fixed-term deposits of the private
1 sector continued accelerating their expansion pace,
0 registering in the quarter the largest increase of recent
-1 years (see Chart 2.5) and reaching a year-over-year
-2 growth rate of
-3
-4 year-on-year growth of 28.1%. The good performance of fixed-term

-5 placements was observed in both the wholesale and retail segments. Particularly noteworthy is the

 Public Sector Purchases LEBAC and Repo Other BMevolution of the segment under $1 million, whose sustained
 Foreign Exchange* NOBAC
*Includes Central Bank intervention increase over the last 3 months of approximately 3.5% monthly
Source: BCRA
 is at the highest level of recent years. Meanwhile, deposits belonging to the public sector increased 4%, with increases recorded both in fixed-term placements and demand deposits.

 Chart 2.5

 billions of $ Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector Thus, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) recorded in
 80 (daily balance - index as of 30-Jun-10)
 2010 September a growth of 2.8% (28.1% y.o.y.). In the same
 2009
 78 2008 manner, private M3 exhibited an increase of 2.4% (29.9% y.o.y.).

 2007
 2006
 76 2005 In the foreign currency segment, the total of deposits showed

 2004
 74 an expansion of 1.5%, explained essentially by public sector placements. Private deposits registered a slight increase (0.3%), mainly in fixed-term deposits.

 72 Thus, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in public hands and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency, showed an increase

 70
 68 of 2.7%.
 30-Jun 30-Jul 30-Aug 30-Sep3. Bank Liquidity¹
 Note: 2008 includes fixed-term deposits of the former-AFJP made on the occasion of the change in regulations on investments in mutual funds of MERCOSUR.
 Source: BCRA

 Chart 3.1 Bank liquidity increased in September at a more accelerated pace than in the previous month. In particular, liquidity was directed toward longer-term assets, as has occurred throughout the year. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio in pesos reached an average in September of 39.6, 39.7, 39.5, 39.4, 40.3, 40.3% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart

% of deposits Bank Liquidity in Pesos 3.1), and 39.7% for the third quarter of the year. The

45 Bank Reserves Net Repo Lebacs monthly variation was 0.8 percentage points, as a result of the

40 36.7 38.2 increase in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities (1.3 p.p.) and the decrease in net repos with the
 34.6
35 BCRA of 0.3 p.p..

30
 Meanwhile, assets designated to meet the Minimum Cash

25 (MC) requirement in pesos were slightly reduced (0.2 p.p.), as was the requirement. This was
 located at an average of 15.2% of total deposits in pesos

20
 in the month, as a result of a greater participation of
 fixed-term deposits which have a lower reserve coefficient
15 than demand placements². In this way, the MC position
 resulted in a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits in pesos
10 (see Chart 3.2). Throughout the entire month, and unlike

 5 the previous month, compliance exceeded the requirement.

 0
 2009-III 2009-IV 2010-I 2010-II 2010-III Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 In a context of sustained growth of foreign currency loans, the MC position in dollars decreased in the month by 1.1
Source: BCRA
 Chart 3.2 percentage points as a result of the decline in compliance,
 since the requirement remained at a similar level to that
 % of Minimum Cash Position of deposits August. Thus, the surplus was 50% of total deposits in
 Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position dollars, the lowest of the last six months.
 2.5

 2.0

 1.5 4. Loans¹³

 1.0 Chart 4.1 Loans in pesos to the Private Sector continued to grow in
 September at a sustained pace, even slightly higher than
 0.5 that of August, led by financing instruments through
 0.3
 0.0 documents and by the

 -0.5

 -1.0

 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10
 Source: BCRA

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 4,000 (var. of monthly averages) 35
 2010 Sept. vs. Aug-10
 3,500 30
3,000 25 personal loans (see Graph 4.1). In this way,
 26.7 Year-on-year var. (right axis)
2,500
 20 they registered an increase of 2.6% ($3,765 million) in

2,000 their monthly average, presenting a year-on-year
 15
1,500 variation of 26.7%, 2.4 percentage points above that

1,000 10 observed in August.
 500 5

 0 0 Loans destined mainly for commercial activity
 registered in the month an increase of 2.4%
 ($1,350 million), showing disparate behavior
 Commercial Consumption Guarantee Real among their main lines. While documents
Source: BCRA
 continued with the significant dynamism they have
 been showing since July, advances in current account
 are going through a phase of scarce liquidity demand
 Graph 4.2 by companies, which was reflected in their relative

 % Commercial Loans % stagnation (see Graph 4.2). Specifically,

12 100 the financings arranged through documents

10 Advances - monthly var. average 80 evidenced an increase of 4.4% ($1,220 million) in
 Documents - monthly var. average
8 Advances - year-on-year var. (right axis) September, while advances increased by only 0.6%
 Documents - year-on-year var. (right axis) 60
 ($110 million). The rest of the commercial financings
6 40
 remained stable compared to the previous month.
4 20

2 0 Loans oriented mainly toward consumption

 0 grew in September by 3.2% ($1,845 million). Personal

-2 -20 loans once again showed an acceleration in their
-4 -40 expansion rate, increasing in September by 3.6%

-6 -60 ($1,295 million). It is worth mentioning that around

 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10
Source: BCRA 54% of the amounts granted in September were

 2 The minimum cash coefficient for demand deposits is 19% and for time placements it differs by residual maturity and is currently
 on average 10.9%. For more details on reserve requirement coefficients, see the ordered text of Minimum Cash available at
 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/texord/t-efemin.pdf.

 3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
 of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 6 Graph 4.3 concentrated in the segment between $10,000 and

 % Consumption Loans $50,000, while 75% of personal loans were granted
8 % 90 for a period of 1 to 5 years. Meanwhile, financings
 Personal Loans - monthly var. average
 Credit Cards - monthly var. average 80 with credit cards registered an increase of 2.5%
6 Personal Loans - year-on-year var. (right axis)
 Cards - year-on-year var. (right axis) 70 ($550 million; see Graph 4.3).

4 60 For their part, loans with real guarantee experienced
 50 in September an increase of 2.1% ($570 million),

2 40 an increase greater than that registered in previous
 months. Mortgage loans, which seemed to have
0 30 stabilized their growth rate around 1% monthly,

 20 registered in the month an increase of 1.5%
-2
 ($290 million), the largest increase since January
 10
-4 0 2009. In the same direction, secured loans reached

 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 the largest increase since July 2008 by increasing
Source: BCRA 3.4% ($280 million; see Graph 4.4), accompanying
 the increase in automobile sales.

 Graph 4.4 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 continue growing at a good pace, led by
% Loans with Real Guarantee the documents with sole signature that advanced u$s470
%
6 70 million in the month, more than compensating for the
Mortgages - avg. monthly var.
5 Pledge loans - avg. monthly var. 60 decrease presented by financings
Mortgages - var. y.o.y. (right axis)
4 Pledge loans - var. y.o.y. (right axis) 50 implemented through overdrafts on current accounts
(u$s260 million). In this way, the total loans
3 40
in foreign currency to the private sector registered in
2 30 September an increase of 3.7% (u$s230 million).

1 20

0 10 The first auction of funds was held within
the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing
-1 0
Program (PFPB), which aims at the provision
-2 -10 of long-term funds to financial entities in order to
Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10
Source: BCRA improve the supply of credit for investment and
productive activity with a fixed total financial cost
in pesos. The total amount of resources auctioned reached
$230 million, while the bids received amounted
to $295 million, exceeding the total auctioned. The
Chart 5.1 interest rate to be paid by each financial entity will be
9% nominal annual on the allocated funds,
Yield Curve of LEBAC and NOBAC while the total financial cost for the respective

LEBAC NOBAC - Margin over BADLAR borrowers will be up to 9.9% nominal annual (see

% %
15 3.2 Communications A5089 and B9911 and Statement
P49744).
14
2.7

13 5. Interest Rates

2.2

12 Securities issued by the BCRA4

31-Aug-10 1.7 31-Aug-10

11 28-Sep-10 In the primary market of LEBACs the interest rates
28-Sep-10
of cut recorded decreases throughout the entire

10 days days1.2 yield curve, to a greater extent in the shorter-
0 100 200 300 400 500 600100 200 300 400 500 600
Source: BCRA term instruments. In the case of NOBACs, the
margins paid over the BADLAR of private banks
4 In this section the figures correspond to end of month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 7 experienced a decrease compared to the previous month for
all maturities of the securities placed (see Chart
5.1). On the other hand, a small decrease was recorded
both in the amounts and in the average maturity of the
instruments allocated compared to the previous month.

Chart 5.2 As in previous months, in September the total

Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC allocated exceeded the amount matured, resulting in a

thousands of (monthly average balances)
millions $ %
80 80 contractionary monetary effect greater than $4,000 million. As a

Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC 72.1 70.7 result, the nominal value in circulation reached
70 70
LyN / Monetary Base - right axis 60.3 $72,565 million, placing itself at a maximum since
60 60 its issuance began. If this stock is related
51.3
50 50 to other variables, it is observed that it is below
the levels reached in 2007. Indeed, the ratio
40 40
of LEBAC and NOBAC to the Monetary Base
30 30 (MB) increased slightly in the last month, placing
20 20 itself at a value close to 51%, 20 percentage points below
the maximum reached in June 2007 (see Chart 5.2).
10 10
0 0
Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10
Source: BCRA In the month, the circulation of BCRA securities increased
7%. The holders that explain this increase are the
banks, whose holdings increased 9% in the month, reaching
a stock exceeding $62,000 million.

On the other hand, it is worth noting the gradual growth of
NOBACs in recent months. They came to represent 16% of the
amount in circulation, more than 5 times higher than the
minimum reached in May of this year.
After increasing 24% in the month, the traded value
 Graph 5.3 in the secondary market registered the highest level opera-
 ted in the year. Although monthly growth is observed
 LEBAC - Secondary Market in the volumes traded of both types of instru-

 Interest Rate Traded Amounts ments, LEBAC operations still explain

 % Millions $
15.5 500 more than 90% of what was traded in that market. As in

14.5 450 the primary market, interest rates registered

 400 a decrease for all traded terms (see Graph

13.5 350
 5.3).

12.5 300

 250 Interfinancial Markets
11.5
 200

10.5 August - Secondary Market 150
 Repurchase Agreement Market1
 September - Secondary Market 100
 9.5
 50
 Days The interest rates on BCRA repurchase agreement opera-
 8.5 - tions remained unchanged. The interest rates of its pas-
 0 80 160 240 320 400 480 560 Ago-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10
BCRA sive repurchase operations were placed at 9% and
Source: BCRA
 9.5%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while those
 of its active repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days, remained at
 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 8 In September, the average stock of net repurchase agreements (pas-
 sive minus active) for the BCRA (including all
 types of operations in which this Institution
 participates) decreased by approximately $190 million.
 The average monthly balance of passive repurchase agreements for the
 Central Bank was placed at a level close to $13,000
 million, while no active repurchase agreements have been
 arranged for the Central Bank since the end of 2009.

 Interbank Market1

 In September, interest rates in the interbank market
 (call) averaged 9.4%, for both the total of
 operations as well as those conducted at 1 business day,
 with an increase of 0.2 p.p. compared to August.
 Graph 5.4 For its part, the average interest rate in the market

 Interbank Market of repurchase agreements between financial entities (excluding the

 Amount Repurchase Agreements (eje der.)(operations at 1 business day) Millions BCRA) at 1 business day was 9.5%, with no changes with respect
 % pesos
 Amount Call (eje der.) to the previous month. In both markets an increase of 0.6 p.p. was observed in the average rate of the last three
11.0 Interest rate Call Financial entities that can carry out passive repurchase agreements with BCRA 4,200 busi-
 Interest rate of Repurchase agreements between financial entities ness days of the month. This temporary increase, which
10.5 Interest rate Call (total banks) 3,700 is reversing as of October, could be
10.0 2,700 associated with a relatively important decline in

9.5 2,200 placements of money market funds (see section Investment
 1,700 Funds) at a moment when banks
9.0 were closing their Minimum Cash position
 1,200
8.5 700

8.0 200
 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 The daily average of the amount traded during the month

Source: BCRA in the call market amounted to $910 million, $70 mi-
 llion more than during August. For its part, the daily average
 of the amount traded in the market of repurchase agreements between
 financial entities was $1,580 million, $130 mi-
 llion more compared to August (see Graph 5.4).

 The dispersion measures of interest rates on
 interbank loans continued relatively sta-
 ble. In particular, the difference between the monthly average
 of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed
 each day was in September of 2.8 p.p., while the
 standard deviation of operations was 0.5%. Regarding
 the deviation of repurchase agreement operations between
 banks, it is also found at reduced values (0.2%).

 Passive Interest Rates1
During September, the short-term interest rates paid by financial entities for deposits in pesos did not present significant changes. In effect, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks for deposits of up to 35 days and for more than $1 million (BADLAR) was located at 10.5%, 0.1 p.p. higher than the previous month. With regard to the monthly average of the rate paid by private banks for retail placements (up to $100 thousand) for an identical term, no variations were observed with respect to the previous month, remaining around 9% (see Chart 5.5).

With respect to the BADLAR interest rate futures market, a lower traded amount was registered compared to the previous month with slightly lower rates. Chart 5.5 The rates for contracts with a two-month term were located around 10.85%, 0.2 p.p. below those registered in August for contracts of the same term. For its part, the rate of contracts with expiration at year-end was located at 11.1%, decreasing by more than 0.3 p.p. with respect to that observed for said contracts in the previous month.

**Active Interest Rates 1 5**

The interest rates charged for loans intended mainly for commercial activities did not present significant changes in the month. The average rate of the total operations of overdrafts in current account remained around 18.5% and that charged for discounted documents remained at 13.3%, while documents at face value increased slightly (0.2 p.p.) being located at 15.4% (see Chart 5.6).

In the same sense, the interest rates for mortgage loans to families also did not register large variations in the month, being located at 14.2%, nor the rates corresponding to financings with pledge guarantee, which remained around 17%.

Chart 5.6 In contrast to the above, the average monthly interest rate charged for personal loans evidenced a slight increase (0.3 p.p.), being located at 29.3%, despite which it accumulates a decrease in the year of 4.6 p.p., being the interest rate that presents the largest decline. Finally, according to the latest available data on credit card financings corresponding to August, these registered a monthly increase of 0.2 p.p., being located at 32.8%.

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

The BCRA continued with its policies of prudential accumulation of International Reserves and foreign exchange intervention, in order to moderate the volatility of the exchange rate. Thus, the purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) totaled in the month u$s1.014 billion. In this way, the level of International Reserves increased in September around u$s800 million, despite the various payments of obligations in foreign currency by the public sector that occurred in the month (see Chart 6.1). In this manner, the International Reserves of the BCRA reached on September 23 a new historical record of u$s51.270 billion.
Stocks

In September, the most relevant stock markets for the Argentine economy had homogeneous behavior, with significant increases in all indices. These were driven from the beginning of the month by good placements of long-term debt in Spain, greater optimism about the economic indicators of the United States, Europe and China, and the possibility that the main central banks maintain the implementation of non-conventional monetary policy measures aimed at supporting the recovery of the level of activity. This upward trend was decelerating towards the end of September due to greater concern regarding European economies with vulnerabilities that again placed debt but with less encouraging results, the restructuring of an Irish bank and the publication of other economic indicators with less encouraging data.

In this sense, the variation between August and September of the MSCI Global measured in dollars was 9.1%, reaching the highest value in the last 5 months (see Graph 7.1). In the same line, the MSCI Europe showed the largest growth with a variation of 13%, followed by the MSCI Latam with 10.4%. The main index of the North American market, the S&P 500, grew 8.8%, registering the largest variation for a September month since 1939. Finally, the MSCI Japan rose only 3.8%. All stock indices reached high values similar to those of May of this year and in the cases of the United States and Latin America, equivalent to those of October 2008.

The main stock exchanges of Latin America, measured in dollars, had considerable gains generated by increases in stock indices and, with the exception of Argentina and Peru, by appreciations of local currencies. In effect, the IGBVL (Peru) increased 18.4%, the MERVAL (Argentina) rose 12.9%, the BOVESPA (Brazil) grew 10.9%, the IPC (Mexico) climbed 10.3% and the IGPA (Chile), 9.4%.
40 80
Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. In September, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency experienced an increase of 13.1%, closing the month at 2,643 points. With the exception of three days where the index decreased slightly by 0.8%, the local stock market had a clear upward trend, following, in part, the behavior of international markets (see Chart 7.2). In the last 12 months, the MERVAL has accumulated a gain of 27.4%, although this has been decreasing progressively during the period.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 sessions-, in Chart 7.2 annualized terms and measured in dollars, retreated 12 p.p. in September, ending at 14.5%. In the same framework, the expected volatility of S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) on average in September was 22.3%, retreating 2.4 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

4% Daily Variations of Stock Market Indices For its part, the volume traded daily, on average, on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA) was $47.5 million, 25% lower than the amount traded in August and only 5% lower than that of September 2009.

3%

2%

1%

0%

-1% Public Securities

-2% MERVAL (Argentina)

-3% S&P 500 (USA)

-4%
01-Aug 16-Aug 31-Aug 15-Sep 30-Sep

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. Both indices are measured in dollars. Despite the profit-taking carried out during the month, in the fixed income market there were strong increases in traded volumes driven by the increase in sovereign ratings in local and foreign currency (from B- to B) by Standard & Poor's (S&P) and by the attractive returns at the international level presented by Argentine securities given the improvement in macroeconomic fundamentals.

In this sense, sovereign risk indicators for emerging economies decreased slightly with respect to the previous month. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 277 basis points (b.p.), 26 b.p. below the August value. Meanwhile, the spread of Latin American debt in foreign currency ended September with 334 b.p., that of Brazil at 206 b.p. and that of Argentina at 765 b.p., which implies declines of 28 b.p., 27 b.p. and 85 b.p., respectively. Similarly, the spread of the 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts (the most traded segment) for Argentina was reduced by 195 b.p. Chart 7.3 in the last month, while the same segment for Brazil did so by 16 b.p. (see Chart 7.3).

5-year CDS spread EMBI spread spread
in b.p. in b.p. in b.p. In September, the volume traded of public securities (on average daily) in the local market again had significant growth, increasing almost 50% for the second consecutive month. In particular, the daily average of volume traded during September was $1,815 million, about $600 million more than in the previous month and $1,000 million higher than that of September 2009. This was the largest amount traded since the exit of the AFJPs from the market in October 2008 ($1,900 million).

5,000 700 1950
Argentina 600 1750 Private Securities
4,000 1550
Brazil (right EMBI Argentina 500 1350
axis)
3,000 EMBI Latin 1150 In September, in the private debt market there were eight placements of negotiable obligations (ONs). Seven ONs were registered in local currency for a total of approximately $240 million and only one of them in foreign currency amounting to u$s37 million.

America 400 950

2,000 300 750

1,000 200 550

350
0 100 150
Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Oct-07 May-08 Dec-08 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10

Source: Bloomberg
Tarjeta Naranja S.A. issued debt in both currencies. Series XI reached an amount of $42 million. Interest payments will be made quarterly at a rate composed of BADLAR plus a margin of 2.95 percentage points. The principal will be amortized completely on its maturity date, 270 days after issuance. In contrast, series XII reached an amount of US$36.8 million with maturity in one year. This issuance was placed at a discount at a price of 93.9%.

Rombo Compañía Financiera placed two ONs for a total of $100 million. Series VII corresponds to $39.5 million and will pay quarterly a fixed rate of 14.85%. The principal payment is at the maturity of the instrument, 12 months after being issued. Series VIII was for a debt of $60.5 million and will pay interest quarterly at a rate equivalent to BADLAR plus a margin of 3.9 percentage points. The amortization will be distributed in 2 identical payments to be made at month 18 and, at its maturity, month 21.

For its part, Banco Cetelem Argentina S.A. placed its first two ONs for a total of $50 million. Series I, whose amount amounts to $30 million, will pay quarterly an interest rate equivalent to BADLAR plus a margin of 3.38 percentage points. This instrument has a term of 24 months and will make its principal payments in 3 equivalent amounts in months 12, 18, and 24. Series II corresponds to the remaining $20 million, which will pay interest quarterly at a fixed rate of 13.48%. The amortization will be in a single payment on the maturity date, 270 consecutive days after issuance.

For the first time, Electrónica Megatone S.A. placed debt for a total of $30 million with maturity in 300 days. Principal payments will be made on days 241 (25%), 270 (35%), and 300 (40%). The interest rate will be equivalent to the BADLAR rate plus a margin of 3.5 percentage points and will be paid together with the principal.

Finally, LIAG Argentina S.A. (Leaders in Agricultural and Livestock Innovation) issued a debt of $15 million maturing in 270 days. Interest will be paid monthly at a rate corresponding to BADLAR plus a margin of 3.44 percentage points. Principal payments will be made in the last 3 months in installments corresponding to 25%, 30%, and 45% of the total.

## Mutual Investment Funds

Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, totaled a net worth of $18,135 million at the end of September, showing a monthly increase of 1%. The net worth achieved is beginning to resemble the values prior to the subprime crisis (see Graph 7.4).

On one hand, FCIs in national currency closed the month with a net worth of $16,140 million demonstrating a slight increase of 0.6%, characterized by a decline of 1.9% in its most representative segment (money market) which was offset by increases in all remaining segments. The fixed income segment continued its upward trend and increased 3.1%, ending the month at $5,520 million. In this way, it reached a new historical maximum both in net worth and in participation (34%). Mixed income funds increased 5.5% to reach $1,115 million, also a historical maximum value. The evolution of both segments is explained by increases in prices and in the quantity...
Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 14 share units. For its part, the equity segment stopped a decline of 11 consecutive months and increased its assets by 1.8%, totaling $1,800 million. In this case, it was due exclusively to the increase in their prices. The three segments mentioned owe their evolution, in large part, to the good performance that both public securities and stocks had in the local stock markets. As a result, among other things, the good performance of international markets spread at the local level, the traded amount of both instruments (public securities and stocks) reached levels higher than those registered in the last two years (see Stocks Section and Public Securities Section). Finally, through a decrease in the quantity of share units registered and a fall in their prices, money market funds decreased by $150 million. In this way, they closed the month with assets of $8,100 million and a participation of 50.2%, the minimum value in the last two years.

In any case, it should be noted that in the last week there was a strong decline in peso funds. Specifically, fixed income funds fell 2.7% and money market funds decreased by up to 8.3%, approximately $150 million and $700 million respectively.

Regarding the assets of FCIs in foreign currency, a monthly advance of 5% was recorded, ending the month at u$s 503 million ($1,995 million). This variation was driven both by equity funds (7.6%), which stopped their constant decline during the year, and by fixed income funds (3.4%). All foreign currency funds owe their respective increases to the evolution of their prices and in the case of fixed income funds, also to the quantity of share units registered.

Financial Trusts6

Financial Trust (FFs) emissions totaled around $600 million in September through 14 operations, 12% less than the total placed in the previous month (see Graph 7.5). Meanwhile, regarding September 2009 an increase of 19% was evident. Excluding FFs linked to the financing of productive projects and infrastructure works (due to being sporadic placements of singular magnitude and nature), it is observed that during the first nine months of the year FF emissions accumulated around $5,620 million, which implies an increase of 21% with respect to the total issued in the same period of 2009.

6 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 15 Regarding underlying assets, although consumer financing continued to predominate, with 82% of the total, this month other types of assets were securitized, such as leasing contracts (4% of the total) and public securities7 (2% of the total), which had no presence since November 2009 and February 2010, respectively. The remainder corresponded to future flows of funds (7% of the total) and commercial credit in dollars (4% of the total).

Graph 7.6
Fiduciants
(amounts issued)
Retail Businesses

In the month, the main fiduciants continued to be retail businesses, participating in approximately half of the total placed in September, the same as the previous month (see Graph 7.6). However, they registered a decrease in their securitizations of 19% respec-
500 to the previous month. In order of importance, they were followed by
 mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers,
 which in August had shown scarce participation by registering one of the lowest amounts

 250 in recent years. In effect, the amount securitized
 in September was 7 times greater than that of the previous

 0 month, thus participating in 26% of the total placed in
 Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 the month. For their part, financial entities were fi-
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others.
 duciaries of 13% of the total, with a decrease in their
 securitizations of 71% with respect to August. The remainder
 corresponded to a company from Chaco, to SMEs dedicated to
 agricultural activity and to a group of companies linked,
 mostly, to environmental management, responsible for
 the securitization of the public securities mentioned
 previously.

 In the lower duration segment8, the cutoff interest rate
 (weighted average by amount) of the fiduciary debt securities
 Chart 7.7 in pesos with fixed and variable returns were located at
 similar levels (see Chart 7.7). In this sense, the one
% Cutoff Rates of FF (Class A titles in pesos with duration less than 14 months -
40 monthly averages weighted by amount) corresponding to titles awarded at variable rate remained
 at 13.5%, while that of titles with fixed returns

35 Fixed rate registered an increase of 0.6 p.p. with respect to August, reaching 13.6%.

 Variable rate For their part, the duration (weighted average by amount)
30 BADLAR rate private banks of the senior titles was located in September at around
25 6.5 months, compared to 5.9 months of the trusts
 placed in August.

20

15 According to the latest balance information corresponding
 to June 2010, the stock of assets of the FF
 remained practically unchanged with respect to the previous

10 quarter, reaching $13,295 million (see
 Chart 7.8). When discriminating the stock of assets by type

 5 of fiduciary, it is observed that those linked to FF of in-
 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10
Source: BCRA based on CNV and other data Chart 7.8 frastructure, mostly belonging to the public sector,
 were the only ones that showed an increase in the

 7 These correspond to debt securities issued by the Government of the City of Buenos Aires under Law 3,152 (GCBA Titles
 Nov. 2011).
 8 Includes all operations in the month of September, with the exception of the Electrical Infrastructure FF, whose duration
 was around 16 months.

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 16 Chart 7.8 stock of assets in circulation, of around 15%
 millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF by type of Fiduciary
20,000 Fiduciaries linked to infrastructure FF ($560 million) with respect to the previous quarter, offsetting
 Financial Entities the decreases recorded in that stock by the
18,000 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers
16,000 Retail Commerce remainder of the fiduciaries. Meanwhile, in the year-over-year
 Others comparison, a decrease of 11% is observed ($1,665
14,000
12,000 million).

10,000

 8,000

 6,000

 4,000

 2,000

 0
 2006-II 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV 2008-II 2008-IV 2009-II 2009-IV 2010-II
Source: own elaboration based on CNV data

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 17

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system variables Sep-10 Monthly Last 12 months
 Aug-10 Dec-09 Sep-09
 Nominal Real Nominal Real
Monetary base 137.879 135.535 118.661 106.268 1.7% 0.9% 29.7% 16.7%
 Monetary circulation 106.245 104.858 92.793 81.784 1.3% 0.5% 29.9% 16.9%
 In the hands of the public 94.971 93.441 81.591 73.403 1.6% 0.8% 29.4% 16.4%
 In financial entities 11.274 11.417 11.202 8.381 -1.3% -2.0% 34.5% 21.0%
 Current account at the BCRA 31.633 30.678 25.868 24.484 3.1% 2.3% 29.2% 16.2%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 13.087 13.267 6.959 10.877 -1.4% -2.1% 20.3% 8.2%
 Assets 0 0 34 535

 Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 59.142 55.673 34.743 20.638 6.2% 5.4% 186.6% 157.8%

 NOBAC 11.520 9.632 12.616 18.671 19.6% 18.7% -38.3% -44.5%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 50.920 50.210 47.717 45.193 1.4% 12.7%

 SDR allocation 2009 (5) 0 0 1.241 2.630

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 273.644 265.122 216.731 206.216 3.2% 2.4% 32.7% 19.4%
 Current account (2) 76.630 75.086 71.850 66.077 2.1% 1.2% 16.0% 4.3%
 Savings account 49.642 48.819 43.355 39.194 1.7% 0.9% 26.7% 13.9%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 134.753 128.813 90.057 90.602 4.6% 3.8% 48.7% 33.8%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 14 15 18 33 -5.7% -6.4% -57.5% -61.8%
 Other deposits (3) 12.605 12.389 11.450 10.310 1.7% 0.9% 22.3% 10.0%

 Deposits of the private sector 185.132 179.988 155.594 142.271 2.9% 2.0% 30.1% 17.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 88.513 85.133 61.136 63.945 4.0% 3.1% 38.4% 24.5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 14.614 14.397 11.793 12.204 1.5% 19.8%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 163.518 159.940 136.465 130.021 2.2% 1.4% 25.8% 13.1%

 Loans to the private sector 143.782 140.151 119.128 113.512 2.6% 1.8% 26.7% 13.9%
 Advances 20.424 20.311 17.591 17.953 0.6% -0.2% 13.8% 2.3%
 Documents 29.094 27.874 22.289 20.644 4.4% 3.5% 40.9% 26.8%
 Mortgage loans 18.804 18.516 17.741 17.602 1.6% 0.8% 6.8% -3.9%
 Pledged loans 8.254 7.975 7.061 6.978 3.5% 2.7% 18.3% 6.4%
 Personal loans 35.523 34.358 30.055 28.533 3.4% 2.6% 24.5% 12.0%
 Credit cards 22.675 22.126 17.705 15.725 2.5% 1.7% 44.2% 29.7%
 Other 9.009 8.990 6.687 6.077 0.2% -0.6% 48.2% 33.4%

 Loans to the public sector 19.736 19.790 17.338 16.510 -0.3% -1.1% 19.5% 7.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.563 6.333 5.236 5.306 3.6% 23.7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 171.601 168.527 153.441 139.480 1.8% 1.0% 23.0% 10.7%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 221.243 217.346 196.795 178.674 1.8% 1.0% 23.8% 11.4%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 368.615 358.563 298.321 279.619 2.8% 2.0% 31.8% 18.6%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 426.359 415.249 343.206 326.515 2.7% 1.9% 30.6% 17.5%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 148.944 146.351 125.906 113.210 1.8% 1.0% 31.6% 18.3%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 195.028 191.387 165.647 148.809 1.9% 1.1% 31.1% 17.9%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 280.103 273.429 237.185 215.674 2.4% 1.6% 29.9% 16.8%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 324.493 317.551 275.269 254.880 2.2% 1.4% 27.3% 14.5%

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 18 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.343 1.7% 11.131 8.1% 19.218 13.9% 31.611 22.9%
 Financial sector 266 0.2% 3.009 2.2% -5.292 -3.8% -2.021 -1.5%
 Public sector 2.724 2.0% 5.286 3.8% 7.986 5.8% 9.932 7.2%
 External private sector 4.039 2.9% 14.776 10.7% 35.005 25.4% 48.000 34.8%
 BCRA Securities -4.540 -3.3% -11.596 -8.4% -17.354 -12.6% -22.284 -16.2%
 Other -147 -0.1% -345 -0.2% -1.127 -0.8% -2.017 -1.5%
International reserves of the BCRA excluding 2009 SDR allocations 710 1.4% 1.691 3.3% 3.203 6.3% 5.727 11.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.024 2.0% 3.754 7.4% 8.995 17.7% 12.399 24.3%
 Payment to international organizations -30 -0.1% -8 0.0% 1.192 2.3% 3.201 6.3%
 Other operations of the public sector -230 -0.5% -547 -1.1% -1.528 -3.0% -3.414 -6.7%
 Minimum cash -221 -0.4% -1.987 -3.9% -1.646 -3.2% -2.739 -5.4%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) 168 0.3% 479 0.9% -3.765 -7.4% -3.674 -7.2%

SDR Allocations 2009 0 0 -1.241 -2.630

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN recorded.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Sep-10 Aug-10 Jul-10
 (1) (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.2 15.4 15.5
 Integration 15.5 15.7 15.9
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.6 58.7 54.5
 30 to 59 days 21.0 21.0 25.6
 60 to 89 days 8.8 7.2 8.2
 90 to 179 days 7.6 6.3 4.7
 more than 180 days 6.9 6.8 7.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.5 20.6 20.4
 Integration (includes application of resources default) 70.1 71.2 73.2
 Position (2) 49.5 50.6 52.8
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 59.8 58.6 58.9
 30 to 59 days 21.6 23.4 21.9
 60 to 89 days 9.3 9.5 10.5
 90 to 179 days 7.1 6.7 7.0
 180 to 365 days 2.2 1.7 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 19 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-10 Aug-10 Jul-10 Dec-09 Sep-09

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.37 9.23 9.20 9.03 10.53
 Amount traded 914 808 843 710 581

 Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 9.44 9.27 9.19 9.45 11.32
 60 days or more 10.33 10.14 10.29 10.49 12.68
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.56 9.54 9.46 9.63 11.51
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.55 10.46 10.31 9.82 12.23

 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.30 0.31 0.37 0.66
 60 days or more 0.66 0.70 0.61 0.75 1.08
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.38 0.40 0.42 0.85
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.57 0.51 0.58 0.50 0.93

 Active Interest Rates Sep-10 Aug-10 Jul-10 Dec-09 Sep-09

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.88 10.28 10.62 11.06 14.04
 Amount traded (total terms) 194 183 185 194 146

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 18.48 18.60 18.47 21.28 22.76
 Single signature documents 15.39 15.18 15.17 16.08 19.55
 Mortgage 14.25 14.33 13.69 13.53 13.94
 Collateral 17.10 17.27 17.20 18.22 22.59
 Personal 29.34 29.08 29.58 32.47 33.98
 Credit cards n/a n/a n/a 31.45 29.56

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.65 10.59 10.54 10.70 16.05

 International Interest Rates Sep-10 Aug-10 Jul-10 Dec-09 Sep-09

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.26 0.27 0.33 0.23 0.32
 6 months 0.48 0.58 0.72 0.45 1.18

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.48 0.52 0.61 0.86 1.16
 10 years 2.64 2.69 2.98 3.59 3.70

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 10.75 10.75 10.44 8.75 9.58

 (1) Data through June 2010 corresponds to the monthly reporting requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards corresponds to the daily reporting requirement SISCEN 18.
# Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 20

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates | Sep-10 | Aug-10 | Jul-10 | Dec-09 | Sep-09

**BCRA Repo Rates**
- Liabilities 1 day | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.41
- Liabilities 7 days | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.91
- Assets 7 days | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.91

**Total REPO Floor Repo Rates**
- 1 day | 9.06 | 9.08 | 9.01 | 9.06 | 9.45
- 7 days | 9.51 | 9.51 | 9.50 | 9.61 | 10.60

**Amount Operated of REPO Floor Repos (daily average)** | 7,491 | 8,077 | 8,704 | 4,490 | 5,607

**LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)**
- 1 month | s/o | 11.45 | s/o | s/o | —
- 2 months | s/o | 11.85 | 11.50 | s/o | s/o
- 3 months | 12.12 | 12.22 | 12.25 | 12.75 | s/o
- 9 months | 13.35 | s/o | 13.45 | s/o | 15.35
- 12 months | 13.85 | 13.94 | 13.95 | 14.40 | 15.91

**NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)**
- 9 months BADLAR Private Banks | 2.10 | 2.10 | s/o | s/o | s/o
- 1 year BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | 2.39 | 2.45 | s/o | 0.95
- 2 years BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | 3.20 | 3.25 | s/o | s/o
- 3 years BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o

**Amount Operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average)** | 468 | 404 | 330 | 167 | 155

## Foreign Exchange Market | Sep-10 | Aug-10 | Jul-10 | Dec-09 | Sep-09

**Spot Dollar**
- Exchange houses | 3.95 | 3.94 | 3.94 | 3.80 | 3.77
- BCRA Reference | 3.95 | 3.94 | 3.93 | 3.81 | 3.77

**Future Dollar**
- NDF 1 month | 3.98 | 3.96 | 3.96 | 3.84 | 3.83
- ROFEX 1 month | 3.99 | 3.97 | 3.96 | 3.84 | 3.78
- Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 1,007 | 1,325 | 1,022 | 1,153 | 950

**Real (Pesos x Real)** | 2.30 | 2.24 | 2.22 | 2.17 | 1.92

**Euro (Pesos x Euro)** | 5.17 | 5.08 | 5.04 | 5.55 | 5.29

## Capital Markets | Sep-10 | Aug-10 | Jul-10 | Dec-09 | Sep-09

**MERVAL**
- Index | 2,494 | 2,391 | 2,312 | 2,229 | 1,598
- Amount operated (millions of pesos) | 51 | 79 | 41 | 49 | 49

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$) | 91.43 | 90.98 | 93.93 | 88.12 | 64.44
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 82.07 | 81.35 | 72.83 | 73.99 | 66.80
- BODEN 2014 ($) | 88.30 | 86.01 | 80.25 | 77.20 | 62.61
- DISCOUNT ($) | 66.70 | 60.89 | 50.46 | 59.83 | 50.68

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond | 727 | 744 | 731 | 824 | 2,666
- EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) | 331 | 315 | 345 | 335 | 467

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 219. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a 30 to 35 day term (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

IGPA: General Share Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | September 2010 | BCRA | 22
