# Monthly Monetary Report
July of 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
July 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repurchase Agreement Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Equities
Page 12 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was August 11, 2010. All figures are provisional and are sub-
ject to revision.

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In a month characterized by high demand for transactional money, associated with the collection of
bonuses and winter recess, private means of payment (private M2) showed growth of 5.3%. Meanwhile,
total M2 registered an increase of 5.6% (23.8% year-on-year) in July, reaching an average balance of
$217,790 million.

• Time deposits showed an increase of 2.5% ($1,760 million), the largest monthly increase since
November 2009. The majority of this increase on average was verified in the retail segment (less than $1
million), while wholesale deposit placements showed marked growth from mid-month.

• Thus, the monetary expansion observed in the period is due to a strengthening of money demand,
both for transactional and savings reasons. This is in line with what has been observed in recent months,
both in the monetary market and in the foreign exchange market, through lower formation of net external
assets. At the same time, the Central Bank has absorbed potential liquidity surpluses through sterilization
operations (LEBACs and NOBACs and repurchase agreements) that represent 70% of the expansionary
monetary effect of foreign currency purchases in the first seven months of the year.

• The broad liquidity ratio in pesos (which includes current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks
and LEBACs and NOBACs) averaged July at 39.4% of total deposits in pesos (0.2 percentage points above
June). In particular, during the month there was an increase in assets computed as integration of reserve
requirement provisions, and in holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs, which meant that such assets increased
their proportion with respect to total deposits in pesos, by 0.1 p.p. and 0.3 p.p., respectively. Meanwhile,
the stock of net repurchase agreements remained in absolute value although, reducing as a percentage of
deposits, by 0.2 p.p..

• In July, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 2.7% ($3,715 million), driven primarily by
lines aimed at financing mainly commercial activities. Thus, the average monthly balance was located at
approximately $137,200 million, registering a year-on-year variation of 21.9%, 1.9 p.p. above that
observed in June. Loans intended primarily for commercial activity presented an average monthly increase
of 4.3% ($2,285 million). Unlike what had been happening in recent months, this time financings
implemented through documents stood out over overdrafts on current account, showing growth of 5.7%
($1,435 million), greater than that observed in previous years for the same time of year.
• During July, financial entities maintained interest rates on time deposits relatively stable. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 10.3%, with an increase of 0.2 p.p. compared to the June average. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand), for identical term, increased 0.1 p.p., reaching a level of 8.9%

• The interest rates applied to financing for the private sector remained relatively stable compared to June, with slight decreases in those destined for household consumption. The interest rate charged by banks in the total of advance operations reached an average level close to 18.4% (-0.1 p.p.), while within the interest rates of financing implemented through documents (discounted, single signature and purchased), the interest rate of the most operated modality (single signature documents) averaged 15.2% (+0.2 p.p.). As for the lines most associated with consumption, the average of the interest rates of personal loans was located at a level close to 29.3% (-0.5 p.p.).

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In a month characterized by high demand for transactional money, associated with the collection of the bonus (aguinaldo) and winter recess, private means of payment (private M2) showed growth of 5.3%. For its part, total M2 registered a monthly increase of 5.6% (23.8% y.o.y.), reaching an average balance of $217,790 million (see Graph 2.1).

Graph 2.1
Monetary Aggregates On the M2 supply side, the main factors
(July 2010, in average) explaining its increase were the purchases of foreign currency carried out by the Central Bank in the market, the growth of loans from the private sector and the operations of the public sector. Among the factors of contraction in means of payment, the main ones were time deposits of the private sector, which showed the largest monthly increase so far this year, absorbing part of the monetary expansion, both primary and secondary. Additionally, time deposits of the public sector and the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC of the private non-financial sector were also factors of contraction in monetary aggregates.

Deposits in US$
Public Sector
Other Deposits Private Sector
M3*
3.6%
Time Deposits
M3
4.5%
Sight Deposits
M2
5.6%
Bills and Coins

-7 -5 -3 -1 1 3 5 7
thousands of millions of $
Source: BCRA

The broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a monthly growth of 4.5% (29.1% y.o.y.). A similar magnitude increase (4.4%) was registered by private M3 (25.7% y.o.y.).

Thus, the monetary expansion observed in the period is due to a strengthening of the demand for money, both for transactional and savings motives. This is in line with what has been observed in recent months, both in the monetary and exchange markets, through lower formation of net external assets. Simultaneously, the Central Bank has absorbed potential liquidity surpluses through sterilization operations (LEBAC and NOBAC and repos) that represent 70% of the expansive monetary effect of foreign currency purchases in the first seven months of the year.

Graph 2.2 In the domestic currency segment, the total of deposits
thousands of Fixed-Term Private Deposits in Pesos presented an increase of 3.9% (30.7% y.o.y.) in the
millions of $ (variation of monthly averages) % period, with increases both in those of the private sector
3.0 6
Amount
2.5 Variation % (right axis) 5

2.0 4

1.5 3

1.0 2
0.5 1 as well as in the public sector. With respect to these latter

0.0 0 ones, they grew 4.7%, driven by sight deposits and time

-0.5 -1 placements.

-1.0 -2

-1.5 -3 The total of private deposits in pesos showed an increase
-2.0 -4 of 3.5% (26.3% y.o.y.). Sight placements increased 4.5%,

Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Ene-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 with a decrease in current account placements and growth
in savings account deposits. Meanwhile, time placements
Source: BCRA showed an increase of 2.5% ($1,760 million), the largest

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 4 monthly increase since November 2009 (see Chart 2.2).
Most of this increase was verified in the retail segment
(less than $1 million), while wholesale placements showed
marked growth from mid-month.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed a
reduction of 1.6%, explained essentially by public sector
placements, which decreased at the end of July due to their
use to meet debt service obligations. On the other hand,
private deposits continued growing at a reduced rate, which
in July stood at 1.2%, with increases in sight deposits and,
mainly, in time deposit commitments.

Thus, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency
in circulation in public hands and the total of deposits in
pesos and foreign currency, showed an increase of 3.6%.

Chart 3.1

3. Bank Liquidity¹

% of Minimum Cash Position

deposits The most liquid assets of financial entities increased
 Cumulative Position Cumulative Requirement Cumulative Integration compared to June. The broad liquidity ratio (which includes
18 current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in banks and
LEBACs and NOBACs) averaged 39.4% of total deposits
17 in pesos in July (0.2 p.p. above June). In particular, during
the month there was an increase in assets computable as
16 integration of reserve requirements (current accounts at
 15.8 the Central Bank and cash in banks) and in LEBAC and
 15.5 NOBAC holdings, which implied that said assets increase

15 their proportion relative to total deposits in pesos, by 0.1
Mar-10 Abr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 p.p. and 0.3 p.p., respectively. The stock of net repos
Source: BCRA remained in absolute value, declining as a percentage of
deposits, by 0.2 p.p..

Meanwhile, the average reserve requirement for the month
was 15.5% of deposits in pesos, and financial entities
ended July with a surplus in the Minimum Cash Position
equivalent to 0.4% of deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1).
For its part, for the foreign currency segment, the surplus
integration was reduced by 1 p.p. compared to June, and
was 53% of total deposits in dollars, due to the reduction
in public sector placements (see Monetary Aggregates
Section).

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.1 4. Loans¹ ²

millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
4,000 (monthly average variation) 30 In July, loans in pesos to the private sector showed an
 increase of 2.7% ($3,715 million), explained above all
3,500 by lines aimed at financing mainly commercial activities.
 Jul-10 25 Thus, the monthly average balance stood at $137,200
3,000 million, registering a year-over-year variation of 21.9%,
 var y.o.y. (%) - right axis 20 1.9 p.p. above that observed in June (see Chart 4.1) and
2,500 21.9 11.7 p.p. above that observed at the end of the previous year.
2,000 15
 Loans destined mainly for commercial activity showed a
1,500 10 monthly average increase of

500 0

0 0
Commercial Consumer Real Guarantee 4.3% ($2,285 million). Unlike what had been
Source: BCRA occurring in recent months, this time the financings
implemented through documents stood out above current
account advances, evidencing a growth of 5.7% ($1,435
Graph 4.2 million), greater than that observed in previous years for
the same time of year (see Graph 4.2). The increase in
millions of $ Commercial Loans % loans granted as documents was widespread among
1,750 (average monthly and year-over-year variation) 90 financial institutions with greater participation in this fi-
nancing line and was composed mainly of documents on
1,500 Monthly Var. Advances
70 signature alone. For its part, current account advances
Monthly Var. Documents
1,250 decelerated their expansion rate compared to previous
1,000 Y-o-Y Var. Advances (right axis) 50
Y-o-Y Var. Documents (right axis) months, registering in the period an increase of 1.4%
750 ($285 million). Finally, the remaining commercial fi-
500 30 nancings increased in the month 7% ($565 million).
250 10

0 For its part, credits destined mainly for consumption
-250 -10 registered an increase of 1.9% ($1,040 million),
-500 -30 moderating their expansion rate. In this sense, personal
-750 loans grew 1.8% ($615 million; see Graph 4.3) in the
-1,000 -50 month, while credit card financings registered an in-
crease of 2% ($425 million), which is linked in large
Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 part to the cancellation of credit card balances by virtue
Source: BCRA of the collection of half of the annual supplementary
salary.
Graph 4.3

millions of $ Consumer Loans Loans with real guarantee increased in the month by
1,400 (average monthly variation) % 90 1.5% ($390 million). While mortgage loans grew at a
1,200 Personal 80 rate similar to that of the previous month by increasing
Credit Cards 0.9% ($170 million), loans with pledge guarantee ac-
1,000 Y-o-Y Var. Personal (right axis) 70
Y-o-Y Var. Credit Cards (right axis) celerated their expansion rate, registering an increase of
2.8% ($220 million). This acceleration was related to the
800 60
statistical carryover that June left thanks to a specific
600 50 operation that took place at the end of that month.
400 40

200 30
0 20
-200 10
-400 0
Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10
Source: BCRA

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 6 Additionally, loans in foreign currency to the private
sector registered a slight increase (u$s75 million),
explained by greater financings implemented through
documents.

5. Interest Rates

Graph 5.1 Securities issued by the BCRA³

Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC In the primary market of LEBAC, interest rates were
% LEBAC - TNA % NOBAC - Margins on BADLAR similar to the previous month and the average term of
15 4.0 the awarded securities resulted slightly lower. In the
case of NOBAC, the margins paid on the interest rate
14 3.5
BADLAR of private banks for comparable terms also
13 remained at values similar to last month, decreasing
3.0 slightly in the last auction (see Graph 5.1).
12
2.5
11

29-Jun-10 2.0
10 29-Jun-10 20-Jul-10
---

27-Jul-10 1.5 As in previous months, the total awarded in
 9 27-Jul-10
 the primary market was higher than the amount that matured,
 8 1.0 so the Central Bank continued with its policy of
 30 130 230 330 430 530 630100 300 500 700 900
Source: BCRA days days liquidity absorption, sterilizing through this instrument part of the monetary effect generated by
 foreign currency purchases. In this way, the total of securities in
 circulation increased 7% in the month, ending July at
 $62,064 million. Although LEBACs represent the
 largest part of the total amount in circulation (87%), they
 once again lost participation (3 p.p.) in the total stock.

 On the other hand, it is worth mentioning that, through Communication "A" 5100 issued in mid-month, was
 incorporated to the list of holders of LEBACs and NOBACs
 admitted, which already included several types of legal entities in particular (see Communication "A" 5078), to
 Graph 5.2 "other legal entities resident in the country" (basically, companies), as long as they do not acquire
 securities exceeding 3 months maturity. Nevertheless,
 Secondary Market
 (daily data) to date there has been no significant increase
 
 Millions $ Average Traded Monthly Interest Rate% in the balance of securities issued by the Central Bank in
 15
 700 those holders. In this way, the monthly increase in letters
 LEBAC NOBAC
 14 600 and notes was distributed among financial entities
 and the rest of the holders together, mainly
 500 13
 400 12 investment funds and public sector holders,
 whose balances increased in similar proportions.
 300 11

 June
 200 10 Regarding the secondary market, the average amount
 July
 100 9 traded was lower in relation to the previous month,
 again highlighting negotiations with
 days LEBACs (96% of the total traded). For its part, the rates
 - 8
 Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-100 100 200 300 400 500 600 of letters at shorter maturities increased slightly,
 while for maturities exceeding 150 days they

 3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 7 remained relatively stable compared to
 the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

 Interfinancial Markets

 Repo Market¹

 The interest rates on passive repos for the Central Bank
 remained at 9% and 9.5%, for 1 and 7 days,
 respectively, while the interest rates on active repos of 1 and 7 days, are located at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

 In July, the average stock of passive repos for the
 Central Bank, including all modalities of
 operations in which this Institution participates, was reduced 4.9%, placing it at a level close to $15,000 million, while, within the framework of the appropriate levels
 of liquidity that have persisted in recent months,
 Graph 5.3 no active repos were arranged for the Central Bank.
 Interbank Market
 Operations at 1 business day Millions
 % Amount Repos
 of pesos
 11.0 Amount Call 4,000 Interbank Market¹
 Call Financial entities that can conduct passive repos with the BCRA 3,600
 Repos between financial entities
 3,200 Call (total banks)
 10.5
 10.0 2,800

 2,400 In July, the interest rates in the interbank market
 9.5 (call) averaged 9.2%, both for the total of operations
 2,000 and for those conducted at 1 business day, registering
 1,200 an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the
 9.0
 average of June. For its part, the average interest rate
 800
 in the repo market between financial entities
 8.5 (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.6%,
 400
 also increasing 0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous
 8.0
 Sep-09 Nov-09 Ene-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 month.
The daily average of the amount traded during the month in the call market rose to $880 million, $20 million above the previous month. For its part, the daily average of the amount traded in the repo market between financial entities increased 58% with respect to June, reaching $1,580 million, one of the highest values of recent months although similar to the amounts observed at the end of 2009 and the beginning of this year (see Graph 5.3).

The dispersion measures of the interbank loan interest rates continued relatively stable. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed upon each day was in July of 3 p.p., while the standard deviation of the operations was 0.6%, the lowest since April 2010. For its part, the deviation of the interest rates of the repo operations between banks also stood at reduced values (0.1%).

Within this framework of lower dispersion of interest rates in the interbank loan market, the risk premium between operations with or without guarantee of this market (repos and call, respectively) has been reduced uninterruptedly in recent months. This behavior reflects the conditions of normalcy in which the monetary market has been operating in recent months (see Graph 5.4).

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

Starting in July, the Central Bank has implemented the expansion of geographic coverage of information on interest rates for loans and deposits. Until June, entities reported only operations agreed upon in their offices located in the City of Buenos Aires and Greater Buenos Aires. Since July 1st, the data published with daily frequency are prepared with data supplied by all offices and branches throughout the country.

During July, the interest rates on fixed-term deposits remained relatively stable. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale bracket (of $1 million and more) and by private banks deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 10.3%, with an increase of 0.2 p.p. with respect to the June average. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks to retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand), for the same period, increased 0.1 p.p., reaching a value of 8.9% (see Graph 5.5).

On the other hand, the volume traded in the BADLAR interest rate futures market remained stable with respect to June, while the rates agreed upon at medium term presented slight declines. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in the contracts with maturity at the end of the third quarter of 2010 was reduced 0.7 p.p., reaching a value of 10.9%, while the contracts with maturity at the end of the fourth quarter closed with rates around 11.65%.

**Active Interest Rates¹⁴**
17.1
15 15.2 13.7 Interest rates applied to financing for the
Personal Private Sector remained relatively stable
10 Credit Cards
Current Account Advances with respect to June, with slight reductions in those
5 Single Signature Documents destined for household consumption (see Chart 5.6).
Pawn Loans
Mortgage Loans The interest rate charged by banks in the total advance
- operations reached a level close to 18.4%
Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 and would have decreased 0.1 p.p. with respect to June. On
Source: BCRA the other hand, within the interest rates of financings
implemented through documents (discounted, single sig-
nature and purchased), the interest rate of the most
4 This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country. Data for the month of July are of a provisional nature. operated modality (single signature documents) increased

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 9 0.2 p.p. with respect to the June average, reaching an
approximate level of 15.2%.

Chart 6.1 Regarding the lines most associated with consumption,
the interest rates on personal loans decreased by
BCRA International Reserves 0.5 p.p., standing at a level close to 29.3%, while
thousands of excluding SDR allocations 2009 the monthly average of June, the last available infor-
millions of U$S mation, of financing with credit cards for the entire
55 country stood at 30.2%, with an increase of 0.5 p.p.
50 with respect to May.
45 Jul-10
40 The interest rates on mortgage loans to households
35 would have increased, standing around 13.7%; while
30 the interest rate corresponding to financing with
25 pawn guarantee decreased 0.2 p.p., reaching a level
20 close to 17.1%.
15
10
5
0
Jul-06 Nov-06 Mar-07 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market

During July, the stock of international reserves reached
its historical maximum value (U$S 51,081 million on July
28), and on the last business day of the month stood at
U$S 51,073 million (see Chart 6.1). During the month it
increased U$S 1,833 million, mainly due to the purchase
of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the market,
which totaled about U$S 1,700 million. On the other
hand, there was an increase in government deposits at
the Central Bank to the detriment of foreign currency
current accounts of financial entities, resulting from the
transfer of public sector funds in order to dispose of re-
Chart 6.2 sources to meet public debt maturities denominated in
dollars, planned for the first days of August (Boden 2012
$/U$S Foreign Exchange Market Future for approximately U$S 2,200 million).
(monthly average)
4.35 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
4.30 Apr-10 with respect to the US Dollar, the Real and the Euro,
4.25 May-10 in a context in which the latter 2 currencies appreciated
4.20 Jun-10 with respect to the US Dollar. The average quotations
4.15 Jul-10 were 3.93 $/U$S (+0.2% with respect to June, being
4.10 the smallest variation since February), 2.22 $/Real
4.05 (+2.4% monthly) and 5.04 $/Euro (+5.1% monthly).
4.00 Meanwhile, in the forward market (ROFEX), the forward
3.95 contracts celebrated for the US Dollar reflected the de-
Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 celeration of depreciation in the spot market. That is to
Source: ROFEX say that in July the expectations of peso depreciation,
measured through quotations in this market, became
more moderate for the coming months, in
Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 10 in relation to those of the previous months (see Chart 6.2). The negotiated amount was around $1,000 million, with no significant changes compared to the previous months.

7. Capital Markets

Stocks

Chart 7.1 In July the selected stock markets had a relatively
Performance of World Stock Indices homogeneous behavior with a markedly positive monthly
(base index 02/07/07 = 100) variation thanks to significant relief in the markets due to
80 15-Apr 06-Jul 120 lower fear regarding the debt of certain vulnerable
115 economies in the Eurozone. The increase in the MSCI
70 110 Global between the end of June and July was 8%, which
105 allowed it to recover May levels. In the case of the North
60 100 American market, one of its main indices, the S&P 500,
95 registered a monthly increase of 6.9%. Meanwhile, the
MSCI Global 50 90 MSCI Europe rose 12.9%, followed by the MSCI Latin
MSCI Europe
MSCI Japan 85 America (11.8%) and the MSCI Japan (3.5%) (see Chart
S&P 500 40 80 7.1).
MSCI Latam (right axis)
Ago-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

The main stock exchanges in Latin America, measured in dollars, also showed a recovery. The BOVESPA (Brazil) rose 13.9%, the IGPA (Chile) 12.8%, the MERVAL (Argentina) 9.3%, the IPC (Mexico) 6.1%, and the IGBVL (Peru) 2.3%. Mainly, in the Brazilian, Mexican and Peruvian cases, the increases in local currency of the stock indices were boosted by an appreciation of their respective currencies.

During July the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency accumulated an increase of almost 10%, closing the month at 2,394 points. The MERVAL had a

Chart 7.2 bullish behavior practically throughout July, both due to
Volatility of MERVAL and Expected Volatility of S&P lower stress in international markets, as well as an
% impulse associated with the successful completion of the
110 debt swap with holdouts. In the last twelve months the
100 MERVAL accumulates a gain of 41%, and in what has
90 MERVAL gone by this year of 3.2%.
80 S&P

70 For its part, the average daily volume traded on the Buenos
60 Aires Stock Exchange was $34 million, 12% lower than the
50 June volume, and 8% lower than July 2009.
40

30 The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading
20 sessions- in annualized terms, and measured in dollars,
10 was 20.8% during July, 5 p.p. lower compared to June. In
Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 the same way, the expected volatility of the S&P 500
Source: Bloomberg (measured by the VIX) on average in July was 25.8%,
with a decrease of 3.9 p.p. compared to June (see Chart 7.2).

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.3 Public Securities

Sovereign Risk Indicators
EMBI spread The fixed income market continued to evolve positively
in b.p. due to the aforementioned completion of the debt
5-year CDS spread 1950
spread in b.p. in b.p. swap with holdouts and lower stress in international
5,000 Argentina 700 1750 markets.
1550
4,000 Brazil (right 600
axis) 1350 In this sense, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging
500 economies registered a reduction compared to the
3,000 1150 previous month. The EMBI+, which measures the
400 EMBI Argentina 950 spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at
2,000 750
300 EMBI Latin 287 b.p. (-50 b.p.). Meanwhile, the spread of debt in
America 550
1,000 200
350
Foreign currency from Latin America ended July at
Jul-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10Jul-07 Mar-08 Dec-08 Sep-09 Jun-10
Source: Bloomberg 338 basis points, that of Brazil at 214 basis points and that of Argentina at
707 basis points, which implies reductions of 47 basis points, 34 basis points and
114 basis points, respectively. In contrast, the spread of the
5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts (the
most traded segment) of Argentina decreased 193
basis points with respect to June, while the same segment
for Brazil fell 23 basis points. In the case of Argentina's CDS spread, the lowest level since
August 2008 was reached (see Chart 7.3).

As in recent months, during July, the traded
volume of public securities (on a daily average)
in the local market was, together with that of June, one of
the largest of the past year, due, in large part, to the effect
that the debt swap with holdouts had. In
this sense, the daily average of the traded volume
during July was $830 million, $130 million less
than the June amount and $150 million more than in July
2009.

Private Securities

In July, placements of negotiable bonds were registered
in the private debt market, both in
local and foreign currency.

On one hand, IRSA Investments and Representations placed
debt for u$s150 million at 10 years maturity. The
interest on this security will be paid semiannually at a
fixed rate of 11.50%, while capital amortization will be
at maturity.

For its part, Cresud placed two series of bonds for a
total amount of $106 million. The first, for $36 million at a BADLAR rate of Private Banks plus a
margin of 400 basis points. It will mature after
21 months of its issuance and will pay interest quarterly.
The second series was for an amount of $70 million at
a fixed rate of 7.75% annual. Maturity will take
place in July 2012, while interest will be paid
in each quarter. Capital payments of both

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 12 series will be made quarterly from October
2011 until the maturity of each one.

In mid-month, Megatone placed a bond for $30
million with maturity in April 2011. Interest will be
paid monthly from February 2011, and will be
equivalent to the BADLAR rate of Private Banks
plus a margin of 4.50 percentage points. The 3 capital
payments will be made together with interest payments at 25%, 35% and 40%
respectively.

Finally, at month-end Morixe Hermanos, a company dedicated to
the manufacturing of wheat flour, placed a
bond for u$s6 million, at a fixed rate of 11% annual.
Its interest will be paid semiannually while
amortization will take place at maturity, at
3 years from the date of issuance.

Chart 7.4  Investment Funds

thousands of Patrimony of Investment Funds in Pesos
millions $

20 Thousands of
millions $ (Variation Jul-10 vs. Jun-10) The patrimony of Investment Funds (FCI) showed an increase, both in national
18 Fixed income
Mixed income 600 currency as in foreign currency, ending July at

16 Variable income
500 $16,700 million, more than 3% above the previous month

14 Money Market
400 204 (see Chart 7.4).

12 
On one hand, the FCI in national currency closed the month
300
10 at $14,730 million showing an increase of 3%.
200
8 The highest positive monthly variation was shown by
265
6 the mixed income segment, in line with the good performance

100
4

2 0 26
-80
 0 that financial assets had, growing 36% and
 Jul-04 Jul-05 Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10-100
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA ending with a net worth of almost $1,000 million.
 Although these funds have little participation in the total
 of FCI in pesos, it is worth noting the increase that they
 showed in recent months which led to them in July
 reaching 6.8% of the total, more than double that of the
 prior year. On the other hand, after a monthly growth
 of 4.4%, fixed income funds ended July with
 a net worth of $4,836 million. The increase was explained
 both by the greater quantities as well as by the prices
 of the fund shares and caused these funds to continue
 representing more than 32% of the total of FCI in pesos. With
 respect to money market, they showed a
 small increase in the month, ending the period with a
 net worth of $7,430 million. In this segment, the
 increase was due mainly to the greater quantities of
 fund shares registered. Finally, the variable income segment
 was the only one that showed a negative variation in
 July, closing at $1,465 million, 5% lower than the
 net worth recorded the previous month. As a result, this
 segment lost almost 1 p.p. of participation in the total of
 FCI in pesos, coming to represent less than 10%.

 With respect to the net worth of FCI in foreign
 currency, a monthly increase of 6.6% was observed, fi-

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 13 nalizing July at $2,005 million. The increase was reflected in
 all segments, driven mainly by the higher prices of
 fund shares in the mixed and variable income segments, in
 accordance with what was noted in the
 analysis of financial markets (see sections stocks
 and public securities).

 Financial Trusts5

Chart 7.5 In July, Financial Trust emissions reached a historical
 maximum by totaling around $7,390 million, 40%

 million $ Placements of Financial Trusts ($2,100 million) surpassing the amount issued throughout

 7,500 6,500
 Infrastructure trusts 280 the first half of the year. This increase is explained by
 6,750 Other 6,000 590 the emission of several FF intended to finance productive
 6,000 5,500
 5,000 projects and infrastructure works, corresponding
 5,250 4,500 to FF NASA (Nucleoeléctrica Argentina SA), Chubut
 4,500 4,000
 1,762 6.5413,500Hydrocarbons Royalties I and Chaco Housing I (see
 3,750 3,000 5,671
 2,500 Chart 7.5). Excluding this type of emissions, it is
 3,000
 2,000 observed that the total placed in the month amounted to $850
 2,250 1,500
 3,525 1,000 million, which meant an increase of 27% ($180 mi-
 1,500
 500 llion) with respect to June and the largest amount of the last
 750 0
 848 Chaco Housing I 7 months, and which was carried out through 15 operations (3
 0 Jul-10
 Accumulated Jan-Jun 2010 Jul-10 Chubut Hydrocarbons
 more than in June).
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other Royalties I
 NASA data
 Additionally, and unlike what occurred in June,
 where all of the securitized assets
 corresponded to consumer loans (personal loans and
 credit card coupons), in July there was a wide
 variety of underlying assets. Future cash flows
 constituted the largest part of the securitized assets in July (89% of the total) by backing the emission
 of the infrastructure FF. For their part, consumer loans, which would represent 61% of the total if
 the aforementioned FF were
 excluded, registered a decrease of 23% ($155 million) with respect to June in the securitized amounts, decreasing both the
 Chart 7.6 securitizations of personal loans as well as credit cards.

 million $ Trust Originators
1.100 (excluding infrastructure FFs) mortgage loans as underlying assets, upon placing a
 1.000 Financial Entities
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Credit Card Issuers new series of Argentine Mortgage Certificates, re-
 900 non-banking credit presenting 32% of the total net of infrastructure FFs
 Retail Stores
 800 Others. The remainder corresponded to commercial credits in

 700
 392 dollars and public securities, being the second time so
 600 +52%
 258 far this year that an asset of this type is securitized,
 500
 400 +116% after three years without issuances with these charac-
 110 238teristics.
 300

 200 -47%
 301 159Among the settlors, those belonging to the pub-
 100
 0 59 lic sector stood out, being responsible for the issuances

 Jun-10 Jul-10destined to finance productive projects and infrastructure
 Source: Own preparation based on CNV data and others works.
 Specifically, it is the state-owned company Nucleoeléc-
5 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 14 trica Argentina S.A (NASA), from the Province of Chubut and from the Provincial Institute
 of Urban Development and Housing of the Province of
 Chaco ("IPDUV"). If such settlors are excluded, finan-
 cial entities stand out (46% of the total), presenting an
 increase in their securitizations of 52% ($134 million)
 compared to the previous month, as a result of the im-
 portant placement by Banco Hipotecario, which repre-
 sented 70% of the total issued by banks. In order of
 importance, mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking
 credit card issuers followed, which increased their par-
 ticipation in the total from 16% to 28%, doubling the
 amount of securitized assets in June. Meanwhile, retail
Graph 7.7 stores, which were settlors of 19% of the total, regis-
 Cut-off Rates of FFs tered a decrease in their securitizations of 47% ($143
 (Class A securities in pesos - weighted monthly averages by amount) million) compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.6).
 %
 40 Variable Yield 40 Fixed Yield
 Duration less than 14 months Duration between 14 and 30 months Duration less than 14 months
 Duration greater than 30 months 35 Private Banks BADLAR Private Banks BADLAR
 35

 30 30 The cut-off rates of senior securities in pesos, group-
 ed in the shorter duration segment (less than 14 months)
 25 25
 presented uneven behavior according to their type of

 20 20 yield. In this sense, the cut-off rate (weighted average by
 amount) of fiduciary debt securities awarded at variable
 15 15
 rate was 13.3%, registering an increase of 0.9 p.p. com-

 10 10 pared to the previous month. Meanwhile, the cut-off rate
 of securities with fixed yield was 11.4%, 0.7 p.p. below
 5 5
 Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10the June average. Additionally, this month two operations
 at variable rate were registered in the longer duration
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others segment (more than 30 months), which yielded a cut-off
 rate (weighted average by amount) of 11.5% (see Graph 7.7).

 For its part, the duration (weighted average by amount)
 of senior securities increased from 5.6 months in June
 to 59 months in July, given the presence of longer-term
 assets. Although when excluding public sector place-
 ments the duration is reduced to practically half (28
 months), it remains at a relatively high level.

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 15 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system variables Jul-10 Monthly Last 12 monthsJun-10Dec-09Jul-09
 NominalRealNominalReal
Monetary base 133.808 126.748 118.661 105.960 5.6% 4.7% 26.3% 13.6%
 Monetary circulation 103.404 97.868 92.793 82.999 5.7% 4.8% 24.6% 12.0%
 In the hands of the public 92.201 86.817 81.591 73.967 6.2% 5.4% 24.7% 12.1%
 In financial entities 11.202 11.051 11.202 9.032 1.4% 0.6% 24.0% 11.5%
 Current account at the BCRA 30.405 28.880 25.868 22.961 5.3% 4.4% 32.4% 19.1%

Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 15.021 15.802 6.959 11.835 -4.9% -5.7% 26.9% 14.1%
 Assets 003437

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 52.696 52.560 34.743 13.051 0.3% -0.5% 303.8% 263.1%

 NOBAC 7.153 4.315 12.616 20.408 65.8% 64.5% -64.9% -68.5%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations 50.448 49.229 47.717 45.993 2.5% 9.7%

2009 SDR allocation (5) 0 0 1.241 0

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 258.575 248.944 216.731 197.780 3.9% 3.0% 30.7% 17.6%
 Current account (2) 75.037 73.619 71.850 61.538 1.9% 1.1% 21.9% 9.7%
 Savings account 50.555 45.835 43.355 40.467 10.3% 9.4% 24.9% 12.3%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 120.537 117.173 90.057 84.587 2.9% 2.1% 42.5% 28.1%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 15 15 18 108 0.0% -0.8% -86.1% -87.5%
 Other deposits (3) 12.432 12.302 11.450 11.079 1.1% 0.3% 12.2% 0.9%

 Deposits of the private sector 175.599 169.657 155.594 138.998 3.5% 2.7% 26.3% 13.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 82.976 79.287 61.136 58.782 4.7% 3.8% 41.2% 26.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15.438 15.692 11.793 11.765 -1.6% 31.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 156.828 152.518 136.465 125.081 2.8% 2.0% 25.4% 12.8%

 Loans to the private sector 137.207 133.717 119.128 112.561 2.6% 1.8% 21.9% 9.6%
 Advances 20.196 19.910 17.591 18.419 1.4% 0.6% 9.6% -1.4%
 Documents 26.788 25.354 22.289 20.218 5.7% 4.8% 32.5% 19.2%
 Mortgage loans 18.483 18.416 17.741 18.034 0.4% -0.4% 2.5% -7.8%
 Secured loans 7.836 7.616 7.061 6.928 2.9% 2.1% 13.1% 1.7%
 Personal loans 33.589 33.096 30.055 27.833 1.5% 0.7% 20.7% 8.5%
 Credit cards 21.510 21.086 17.705 15.185 2.0% 1.2% 41.7% 27.4%
 Others 8.804 8.239 6.687 5.944 6.9% 6.0% 48.1% 33.2%

 Loans to the public sector 19.620 18.801 17.338 12.520 4.4% 3.5% 56.7% 40.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.989 5.914 5.236 5.765 1.3% 3.9%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 167.238 160.435 153.441 135.506 4.2% 3.4% 23.4% 11.0%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 217.793 206.271 196.795 175.973 5.6% 4.7% 23.8% 11.3%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 350.776 335.760 298.321 271.747 4.5% 3.6% 29.1% 16.1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 411.525 397.372 343.206 316.560 3.6% 2.7% 30.0% 16.9%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 143.035 138.067 125.906 112.465 3.6% 2.8% 27.2% 14.4%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 188.694 179.164 165.647 149.234 5.3% 4.5% 26.4% 13.7%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 267.800 256.473 237.185 212.965 4.4% 3.6% 25.7% 13.1%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 310.522 298.594 275.269 249.466 4.0% 3.2% 24.5% 11.9%

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 7.061 5.3% 13.312 9.9% 15.148 11.3% 27.849 20.8%
 Financial sector 886 0.7% 72 0.1% -7.415 -5.5% -2.791 -2.1%
 Public sector 2.179 1.6% 2.038 1.5% 4.879 3.6% 8.087 6.0%
 External private sector 6.386 4.8% 16.973 12.7% 26.615 19.9% 42.190 31.5%
 BCRA Securities -2.319 -1.7% -5.598 -4.2% -8.077 -6.0% -17.778 -13.3%
 Others -71 -0.1% -172 -0.1% -853 -0.6% -1.860 -1.4%
International reserves of the BCRA excluding 2009 SDR allocations 1.219 2,5% 2.897 5,7% 2.732 5,4% 4.455 8,8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.624 3,2% 4.341 8,6% 6.864 13,6% 10.942 21,7%
 Payment to international organizations 36 0,1% 89 0,2% 1.235 2,4% 3.473 6,9%
 Other public sector operations -61 -0,1% 350 0,7% -1.042 -2,1% -5.415 -10,7%
 Minimum cash -538 -1,1% -1.604 -3,2% -197 -0,4% -800 -1,6%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) 159 0,3% -236 -0,5% -4.084 -8,1% -3.700 -7,3%

2009 SDR Allocations 0 0 -1.241 0

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15,5 15,5 15,6
 Integration 15,8 15,8 16,0
 Position (2) 0,4 0,3 0,4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 54,5 55,6 58,3
 30 to 59 days 25,6 20,0 20,0
 60 to 89 days 8,2 12,6 9,3
 90 to 179 days 4,7 4,9 5,7
 More than 180 days 7,0 6,9 6,6

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20,3 20,5 20,6
 Integration (includes resource application default) 73,1 74,1 74,7
 Position (2) 52,8 53,6 54,2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 58,9 59,8 60,5
 30 to 59 days 21,9 21,5 21,0
 60 to 89 days 10,5 9,2 8,8
 90 to 179 days 7,0 7,9 8,1
 180 to 365 days 1,5 1,4 1,4
 More than 365 days 0,1 0,2 0,2
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual percentage nominal and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9,20 8,89 8,79 9,03 10,38
 Traded amount 883 820 732 710 523

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 9,19 9,04 8,73 9,45 11,95
 60 days or more 10,29 10,14 9,63 10,49 12,94
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9,46 9,39 8,83 9,63 12,34
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10,31 10,14 9,38 9,82 13,04

 In dollars
 30 days 0,31 0,29 0,28 0,37 0,90
 60 days or more 0,61 0,59 0,56 0,75 1,32
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,40 0,43 0,40 0,42 1,12
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,58 0,55 0,55 0,50 1,28

 Active Interest Rates Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10,62 10,89 10,46 11,06 13,01
 Traded amount (total terms) 185 205 210 194 144

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 18,44 18,56 19,08 21,28 22,48
 Documents on signature only 15,15 14,97 14,69 16,08 19,83
 Mortgages 13,71 13,03 12,47 13,53 13,95
 Pledge loans 17,13 17,29 17,47 18,22 22,10
 Personal loans 29,26 29,78 30,44 32,47 34,29
 Credit cards without ceiling 30,19 29,66 31,45 30,62

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10,53 10,09 9,69 10,70 15,93

 International Interest Rates Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

 LIBOR
 1 month 0,33 0,35 0,33 0,23 0,29
 6 months 0,72 0,75 0,65 0,45 0,98

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0,61 0,71 0,82 0,86 1,00
 10 years 2,98 3,19 3,42 3,59 3,55

 FED Funds Rate 0,25 0,25 0,25 0,25 0,25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 10,44 10,04 9,50 8,75 9,06

 (1) Data until June 2010 corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.
Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

BCRA reverse repurchase rates
Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.10
Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 10.60
Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 12.60

Total reverse repurchase rates REPO round
1 day 9.01 9.00 9.00 9.06 10.13
7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.61 10.82

Amount traded in reverse repurchase round REPO (daily average) 8,704 9,097 9,295 4,490 7,458

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month 11.45 n/o n/o n/o n/o
2 months 11.50 n/o n/o n/o n/o
3 months 12.25 11.11 11.15 12.75 14.50
9 months 13.45 13.53 13.53 n/o n/o
12 months 13.95 13.93 n/o 14.40 16.24

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o 2.00 2.15 n/o 1.37
1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.45 2.52 2.36 n/o 1.79
2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.25 n/o n/o n/o n/o
3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 330 368 449 167 114

Foreign Exchange Market Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

Spot Dollar
Exchange houses 3.94 3.93 3.90 3.80 3.81
BCRA Reference 3.93 3.93 3.90 3.81 3.81

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.96 3.96 3.93 3.84 3.87
ROFEX 1 month 3.96 3.95 3.93 3.84 3.82
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,022 1,061 1,089 1,153 972

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.22 2.17 2.15 2.17 1.98

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.04 4.79 4.90 5.55 5.37

Capital Market Jul-10 Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jul-09

MERVAL
Index 2,312 2,260 2,217 2,229 1,617
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 41 44 64 49 43

Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 93.93 91.89 89.14 88.12 65.99
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 72.83 69.51 70.54 73.99 54.84
BODEN 2014 ($) 80.25 74.72 74.43 77.20 51.29
DISCOUNT ($) 50.46 45.58 45.74 59.83 44.60

Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 740 1,018 1,120 824 2,433
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 345 363 344 335 425

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Investment Funds.

FF: Financial Trusts.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the public and private non-financial sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.

ONs: Negotiable Obligations.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

bp.: Basis points.

pp.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-term Debt Value

NV: Nominal Value.

---

Monetary Report | July 2010 | BCRA | 20
