# Monthly Monetary Report
June of 2010 | Monthly Monetary Report
June 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 7 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 7 | Repo Market
Page 8 | Interbank Market
Page 8 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 9 | Active Interest Rates

Page 10 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 10 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 10 | Stocks
Page 11 | Public Securities
Page 12 | Private Securities
Page 13 | Investment Funds
Page 14 | Financial Trusts

Page 16 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 20 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was July 12, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject
to revision

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary 1

• In June, total means of payment (M2) grew 2.6% ($5,180 million), registering a year-over-year
variation of 17.8%. In this way, they reached an average balance of $206,260 million,
positioning themselves once again within the range established in the Monetary Program.

• The total of deposits in pesos from the private sector presented a monthly increase of 1.9%
(22.4% y.o.y.). Although the average growth of private terms in June (0.5%) was negatively
affected, as is customary in this month, by the decrease that the payment of income tax in the
second half of May implies for this class of deposits, the monthly variation led to an acceleration in
the year-over-year growth rate of time deposits from the private sector. It is worth noting that when
comparing the balance of time deposits from the private sector at the end of June with that recorded
at the end of May, they accumulated a growth of $1,740 million (2.6%).

• The liquidity of the entities decreased slightly in June within the framework of sustained growth
that loans in pesos to the private sector have presented. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio (defined
as the sum of cash in banks, current account at the BCRA, net repos and the holding of LEBACs
and NOBACs in terms of total deposits in pesos) averaged 39.2% in June. This level implied
a decline of 0.7 p.p. compared to the average of May, explained mainly by a decrease of
0.8 p.p. in the position of net repos in terms of deposits.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued growing in June at a very good pace,
highlighting the evolution of credits intended mainly for commercial purposes, which, after the
period of tax expirations, maintained their dynamism. Thus, the monthly average balance was placed at
$133,000 million, registering an increase of 2.8% ($3,665 million) compared to the previous month. In this
way, the year-over-year variation rate accelerated, positioning itself at 19.4%, 1.8 p.p. above the May
level. In particular, loans intended mainly to finance commercial activities grew in June 4.1% ($2,095 million),
with increases in both those instruments through current account advances and those granted in the form
of documents.
• During June, financial entities increased the interest rates paid in the wholesale segment in pesos (placements of more than one million pesos), driving the growth of this type of placements. In effect, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale bracket and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 10.1%, with an increase of 0.7 p.p. with respect to the May average. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand), for the identical term, remained relatively stable around 8.8%.

• The interest rates charged by financing for family consumption continued to decrease, although from elevated levels; while those applied to loans intended mainly for commercial activities halted the downward trend observed in recent months. As for the lines more associated with consumption, the interest rates on personal loans were reduced by 0.7 p.p., reaching a level close to 30.4%, while the monthly average for April, the last available information, of financing with credit cards throughout the country was located at 29.5%, with a decline of 0.2 p.p. with respect to March.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

Graph 2.1

M2 - 2010 Targets In June, total means of payment (M2) grew
billions of $
2.6% ($5,180 million), registering an inter-
240 234.1
annual variation of 17.8%. In this way, they
(18.9% y.o.y.) Monthly average
230 Monetary Program Range reached an average balance of $206,260 million, placing themselves once again within the range established in the Monetary Program (see Graph 2.1).

214.4
220 209.1 (20.0% y.o.y.) Like in previous months, during June the
(19.4% y.o.y.) (11.9% y.o.y.)
210 202.9 main factors that explained the increase in total
(21.2% y.o.y.) 206.3 means of payment were the foreign exchange purchases
200 197.5 (17.8% y.o.y.) carried out by the Central Bank in the market and the
196.8 201.9
(13.0% y.o.y.) growth of peso loans from the private sector
(12.4% y.o.y.)
190 196.9 (see Loans section). Meanwhile, the increases in
191.4
(14.3% y.o.y.) term placements, both from the private and public
180 sectors, generated a contraction that partially com-
Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10
Source: BCRA pensated the expansionary effects.

Graph 2.2

Private Sector Deposits in Pesos Meanwhile, private means of payment (M2 private)
% (inter-annual variation)
presented an average balance of $179,170 million,
25
with a monthly increase of 3.2% ($5,500 million) and
Sight Term
20 an inter-annual increase of 23%.

15 During June, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3)
registered an increase of 2.9% (23.6% y.o.y.). For its
10 part, M3 private also presented a monthly growth
of 2.4% (22.4% y.o.y.).
5

0 The total of deposits in local currency presented in the
Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 period an increase of 2.8% ($6,700 million, 24.1% y.o.y.),

Source: BCRA recording increases of similar magnitude in those from the
private sector and in those from the public sector.

With an acceleration in the inter-annual expansion rate
of term deposits, the total of deposits in pesos from the
private sector presented a monthly increase of 1.9%
Graph 2.3 (22.4% y.o.y., see Graph 2.2). The placements at the
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos thousands of sight deposits increased 3.1%, with growth in savings
millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $
31 42 accounts and, mainly, in current accounts. Meanwhile, the
 More than $1 million
30 41 average balance of fixed-term deposits showed an
 Less than $1 million (right axis)
29 40 increase of 0.5% ($340 million). This average value was

28 39 negatively affected, as is customary in this month, by the

27 38 decrease that affects this type of deposits due to the

26 thousands of thousands of 37 payment of income tax in the second half of May. However,
 millions of $ millions of $
 31 41
25 36 the monthly variation led to an acceleration in the annual

 30 40
24 35 growth rate of private sector fixed-term deposits and, when

23 29 39 34 comparing the balance at the end of June with that

22 33 recorded at the end of May, they accumulated a growth
 28 38
 01-Apr 16-Apr 01-May 16-May 31-May 15-Jun 30-Jun
21 32 of $1,740 million (2.6%). Meanwhile, retail placements
Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10
 Source: BCRA (less than $1 million) showed an increase over the course

 Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 4 of the month of $890 million, while in the wholesale

 segment there was an increase of $850 million between

 the end of May and June (see Chart 2.3).

 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed
 Chart 3.1 a reduction of 3%, with decreases recorded in those
 belonging to the public sector and increases in those
 belonging to the private sector. With respect to private
 Bank Liquidity deposits, growth of similar magnitude was observed
% of deposits (monthly average)
45 (approximately US$100 million) in sight deposits and in

 Eff+CCBCRA Net Repos Lebac fixed-term placements. In this way, the broader
40 aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in the hands
35 of the public and the total of deposits in pesos and
30 18.9 foreign currency, showed an increase of 2.1%.

25

20
 4.5
15

10 3. Bank Liquidity1

 15.9
5
 The liquidity of the entities decreased slightly in June in
0
 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 the context of the sustained growth that loans in pesos
Source: BCRA
 to the private sector have presented (see Loans Section).
 Thus, the broad liquidity ratio (defined as the sum of
 cash in banks, current account at the BCRA, net repos
 and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs in terms of
 total deposits in pesos) averaged 39.2% in June (see
 Chart 3.1). This level implied a decline of 0.7 p.p.
 compared to the May average, explained mainly by a
 decrease of 0.8 p.p. in the position of net repos in
 Chart 3.2 terms of deposits. Meanwhile, the stock of LEBACs and
 NOBACs held by banks totaled 18.9% of total deposits
 in pesos, increasing 0.3 p.p. compared to May.
 % of Minimum Cash Position
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position

2.5 Additionally, the entities complied with the Minimum
 Cash requirement, with a contribution of 15.8% of
2.0
 total deposits in pesos, which yielded a surplus of 0.35%
1.5 (see Chart 3.2), in line with the average surplus

1.0 recorded so far this year (0.36%). The requirement
0.5 was located at 15.4%, declining compared to previous
 0.35 months, since during the year so far there has been an
0.0
 increase in the participation of fixed-term placements
-0.5
 in the total of obligations, which have a lower reserve
-1.0 requirement coefficient
Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 with respect to the applicable rate on sight deposits. Both public and private banks ended the month with integration greater than required. Regarding the foreign currency segment, excess integration was positioned at 54% of total dollar deposits, decreasing 0.4 p.p. compared to May.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.1 4. Loans 1 2

millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
4,000 (var. of monthly averages) 55
 Loans in pesos to the private sector continued
3,500 50
 Jun-10 45 growing in June at a very good pace, highlighting the

3,000 var i.a. (%) - right axis 40 evolution of credit with destination mainly

2,500 35 commercial, which after the period of mandatory

 30 maturities, maintained their dynamism. Thus, the average
2,000 25

1,500 20 monthly balance was positioned at $133,000 million, regis-

1,000 19.4 15 tering an increase of 2.8% ($3,665 million; see Chart

 10 4.1) compared to the previous month. In this way, the year-

 500 5 on-year variation rate accelerated, positioning itself at 19.4%,

 0 0 1.8 p.p. above the May level.

Source: BCRA

Loans intended mainly to finance commercial activities grew in June 4.1% ($2,095 million), the largest increase recorded for this month in the last 4 years. In this sense, overdrafts on current accounts increased in the month 4.8% ($920 million; see Chart 4.2), favored by the statistical carryover left by May but also by the greater seasonal demand for liquidity from companies related to the payment of the mid-year supplementary salary and the payment of the first installment of the income tax advance. At the same time, documents advanced 2% ($495 million) in the month. Finally, the remaining commercial financing increased 9.1% ($680 million) compared to May.

For its part, credit intended mainly for consumption grew at a similar pace to the previous month, with an increase of 2.4% ($1,330 million; see Chart 4.3) compared to the previous month. Within this line, personal loans recorded an increase of 1.9% ($670 million) in the last month, while credit card financing showed in June an increase of 3.2% ($660 million), accelerating slightly its expansion pace, given the promotions in force in recent months and spending motivated by Father's Day.

Loans with real guarantee grew 0.9% ($240 million) in June. Pawn loans showed a slowdown in their expansion pace by increasing in June 1.2% ($95 million). However, this result was linked to a specific operation canceling an agricultural sector loan, which took place during the first days of the month and which reduces the monthly average by around $60 million.

Meanwhile, mortgage credit registered in the month an increase of 0.8% ($145 million).

Chart 4.2

thousands of millions; Stock of Overdrafts and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector

 26 millions of $

 24

 22 Overdrafts - Daily Value
 Overdrafts - Monthly Average
 20 Documents - Daily Value
 Documents - Monthly Average

 18

 16
 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10
 Source: BCRA

Chart 4.3

millions of $ Consumption Loans % (monthly average var.) 6.0
1,200
 Personal
1,000 Credit Cards 5.0
 Total Consumption (right axis)
 800
 4.0
 600
 3.0
 400
 2.0
 200
 1.0
 0
 0.0
 -200
 -1.0
 -400
 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10
Source: BCRA

2 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts.
Repurchase Agreement Market¹

The interest rates of the Central Bank's repurchase agreements remained at the same levels as May. Passive repurchase agreement rates were positioned at 9% and 9.5%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates of active repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days, at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

In June, the average stock of net repurchase agreements (passive less active) for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this Institution participates, was slightly reduced, driven by operations of financial entities, which continued increasing credit to the private sector (see sections Banking Liquidity and Loans). The monthly average balance of passive repurchase agreements for the Central Bank was positioned at a level close to $15,800 million, while, within the framework of the adequate liquidity levels that have persisted in recent months, no active repurchase agreements were arranged for the Central Bank.

**Graph 5.3 Interbank Market¹**

% Coefficient of Variation of Call and Repo Operations
16 Operations at 1 business day % 10 In June, interest rates in the interbank market
 (call) averaged 8.9%, both for the total of operations
CV call and for those conducted at 1 business day, registering
14 CV repo (right axis) 8 a slight increase (0.1 p.p.) compared to the average
 of May. For its part, the average of the interest rate
12 6 in the repurchase agreement market between financial
 entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day
10 4 remained at 9.3%.

---

³ In this section the figures correspond to data at end of month, unless another specification is indicated.

# MONETARY REPORT | JUNE 2010 | BCRA | 7

operations of financial entities, which continued increasing credit to the private sector (see sections Banking Liquidity and Loans).
The daily average of the amount traded during the month in the call market rose to $860 million, $50 million above the previous month. In contrast, the daily average of the amount traded in the repo market between financial entities decreased $110 million with respect to May, standing at $940 million.

The dispersion measures of interbank loan interest rates continued relatively stable for the third consecutive month (see Chart 5.3). In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed each day remained close to 2.5 p.p..

**Passive Interest Rates 1**

During June, financial entities increased the interest rates paid in the wholesale segment in pesos (placements of more than one million pesos), driving the growth of this type of placements (see Monetary Aggregates Section). In effect, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) stood at 10.1%, with an increase of 0.7 p.p. with respect to the average of May. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand), for identical term, remained relatively stable around 8.8% (see Chart 5.4).

On the other hand, the volume traded in the BADLAR interest rate futures market presented a slight decline, while the rates agreed for the medium term remained stable. At the close of the month, the implicit rate in the contracts with maturity at the end of the third quarter of 2010 remained at 12%, while the contracts with maturity at the end of the fourth quarter closed with rates around 13.5%.

**Active Interest Rates 1**

The interest rates applied to financing intended for family consumption continued to decrease, while those charged on loans intended mainly for commercial activities halted the downward trend observed in recent months (see Chart 5.5).

Among commercial loans granted by banks in Capital and GBA, the average interest rate on overdrafts in current account with prior agreement, granted to companies, for up to 7 days term and for amounts exceeding $10 million (which represented one-fifth of the total overdrafts in current account with agreement), stood at 10.1%, with an increase of 0.4 p.p. with respect to the average of May. Meanwhile, considering the total of overdraft operations in current account, the interest rate remained at a level close to 18.8%. For its part, within the interest rates of financing implemented through documents (discounted, at face value and purchased), the interest rate of the most operated modality (documents at face value) increased 0.7 p.p. with respect to the average of May, reaching an approximate level of 15.3%.
Regarding the lines most associated with consumption, the interest rates on personal loans were reduced by 0.7 p.p., placing themselves at a level close to 30.4%, while the monthly average for April, the latest available information, of credit card financing throughout the country was placed at 29.5%, with a decrease of 0.2 p.p. with respect to March.

The interest rates on mortgage loans to families would have increased slightly, placing themselves around 13.6%; while the interest rate corresponding to financing with pledge guarantee, remained at a level close to 17.5%.

4 This section was prepared with information on interest rates on loans for the entire country through April. The values for May and June 2010 were estimated based on data of loans granted to the private sector in Capital Federal and Greater Buenos Aires.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 9 6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market

Graph 6.1 International Reserves of the BCRA The stock of international reserves reached on the last

billions of thousands of day of June u$s49.240 million (see Graph 6.1) in-
u$s excluding SDR allocations 2009
55 creasing in the month u$s240 million. The purchases
50
45 of foreign exchange by the BCRA in the Single and

thousands of Variation Factors June 2010 Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) were the principal factor
40 millions u$s

35 1.5 of increase in international reserves, by totalizing

30 1.0 u$s1.050 million in June. Said foreign exchange inflow was

25 0.5 partially compensated for by the reduction of current

20 0.0
 accounts in foreign currency of banks that hold
15 -0.5
 public sector deposits which, in turn, used those
10 -1.0
 Int. Res. excl. Purchase of Sector Public Min. Eff. Others resources to make debt payments.
5 allocations Foreign Exchange
 2009
0
 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10Regarding the quotations of the currencies of the prin-
Source: BCRA
 cipal trading partners, it was observed that, considering
 Graph 6.2 the average values of June, the peso depreciated
 Foreign Exchange Market with respect to the United States Dollar (0.6%) and the Real
(average quotations)
 $/Euro (0.8%), while it appreciated in relation to the Euro (-2.2%)
 $/Real $/US$ as it has been doing since the end of 2009. The average
5.8 2.8 4.0 quotation of June of the United States Dollar
 $/Euro $/US$ (Reference)
 5.6 2.6 3.9 was of 3.93 $/U$S, while that of the Real was placed at
 $/Real, right axis 3.8
 5.4 2.4 2.17 $/Real, and that of the Euro was of 4.79 $/Euro (see Graph
 2.2 3.7
5.2 3.6 6.2). Meanwhile, in the forward market (ROFEX), the amount
2.0
5.0 3.5 negotiated of the futures contracts of the United States
1.8
4.8 3.4 dollar remained stable around $1.000 million.
1.6
3.3
4.6 1.4
3.2

4.4 1.2 3.1
 7. Capital Market
4.2 1.0 3.0
 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10
 Source: BCRA
 Stocks

 In June, the group of selected stock markets had a relatively homogeneous performance, with
 Graph 7.1 a monthly variation slightly negative. After decreasing 10% in May, in June the MSCI Global accumulated
 Performance of World Stock Indices
 a drop of 3.6%, reaching its lowest value in the
(base index 02/07/07 = 100) last 10 months. During the first three weeks a slight
 80 04-Apr 120 upward trend was observed, caused by the successful
 21-Jun
 115 debt placements of the Bank of Spain and certain
 70 110 appreciation of the euro with respect to the United
 105 States dollar. However, in the last days, the stock
 60 100 market indices experienced important falls, driven by
 MSCI Global 95 various factors: the presentation of data from the USA
MSCI Europe worse than expected, concerns about the fi-
50 MSCI Japan 90
S&P 500 nancing of vulnerable European economies, the
MSCI Latam (right axis) 8-Jun 85 uncertainty about the situation of European banks

40 80 and the evolution of the Chinese economy. In the case of
Aug-09 Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. the North American market, its main index, the S&P
500, registered a monthly decline of 5.4%. For its part,
the MSCI Latam fell 3.4%, followed by the MSCI of

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 10 Japan (-2.0%) and the MSCI of Europe (-1.5%) (see
Graph 7.1).

Graph 7.2 The main stock exchanges in Latin America, measured in dol-
lars, had considerable losses. The BOVESPA
MERVAL Volatility and Expected Volatility of S&P (Brazil) fell 2.5%, the MERVAL (Argentina) 1.5% and
% %(measured by the VIX index)
85 120 both the IGBVL (Peru) and the IPC (Mexico) decreased

75 2.8%. The only exception was the increase of 1.0%
100 of the IGPA (Chile). In the Brazilian and Peruvian cases,
VIX Close
65 the declines were softened by an appreciation of their
MERVAL (right axis) 80 local currencies.

55

45 % 60 During June the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured
in local currency had a decline of 0.8%, ending the
35 month at 2,185 points. Up to June 28 it had accumu-
40 lated an increase of around 4% but, like the rest of

25 20 the stock exchange indices in the region, it fell sharply in
15 the last few days. In the last twelve months the MER-
5 0 VAL accumulated a gain of 38%, and so far this year a

Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 loss of 6%.

Source: Bloomberg The historical volatility of MERVAL -22 trading sessions- in
annualized terms, and measured in dollars, was
25.5% during June, 20 p.p. lower compared to May and
22 p.p. below the maximum value that was reached at the
beginning of the month under review. In the same sense,
the expected volatility of the S&P 500 (measured by the
VIX), on average in June, was 30%, with a decrease of
2 p.p. compared to May, when it had reached the
highest value of the last twelve months. However, the
volatility of the S&P continued to be well above
Graph 7.3 the values of the first quarter, when it averaged
20% (see Graph 7.2).

Sovereign Risk Indicators The daily average trading volume on the Buenos
5-year CDS spread EMBI spread spread Aires Stock Exchange was $38 million, 25% lower
in b.p. in b.p. in b.p.
5,000 700 1950 than in May, and 17% lower than in June 2009.
Argentina
Brazil (right 1750
4,000 axis) 600
1550 Public Securities
500 1350
3,000 EMBI Argentina
1150 In the fixed income market, on June 22, the swap of
400 EMBI Latin 950 local debt held by holdouts was concluded. According
America
2,000 to the press release issued on June 23, with preliminary
300 750
information, the acceptance would have been equivalent
1,000 550 to 66% of eligible debt (more than US$12,000 million).
200 350 According to the information provided at the same time,
0 100 150 approximately US$8,500 million of the amount that
Jul-07 Mar-08 Dec-08 Sep-09 Jun-10 entered the swap is made up of wholesale holders,
Jul-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 approximately US$3,500 million correspond to Italian
Source: Bloomberg bondholders and US$367 million belong to the rest of
retail holders.

The sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies
registered increases compared to the previous month
# Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 11

...terior. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 337 b.p. (+12 b.p.). Meanwhile, the spread of Latin America's debt in foreign currency ended June at 385 b.p., that of Brazil at 248 b.p. and that of Argentina at 821 b.p., levels that imply slight monthly increases. On the other hand, the spread of Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts (the most traded segment) decreased 225 b.p. compared to May, while the same segment for Brazil registered a slight increase of 4 b.p. (see Chart 7.3).

As in the last three months, during June, the traded volume of public securities (on a daily average) in the local market was one of the highest of the past year, due, in large part, to the effect of the debt swap in the hands of holdouts. The daily average of the traded volume during June was $957 million, $14 million above the amount in May.

Private Securities

In the private debt market, three new placements of negotiable obligations (ON) and two short-term debt securities were registered. Most of the companies that issued debt in the month did so in local currency, for a total of $138 million. Meanwhile, only one company placed debt in foreign currency, for u$s 45 million.

The foreign currency placement was carried out by Grupo Financiero Galicia, in two series of ON. The first series was for u$s 18 million with maturity in May 2012. Capital amortization will be carried out completely at maturity, while interest will be paid semi-annually and will be 8% annual. The other series placed was for u$s 27 million with a fixed annual rate of 9%. Interest will be paid semi-annually and 100% of the capital will be amortized at maturity, in May 2013.

On the other hand, New San placed an ON for $50 million at the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 3.85% nominal annual. It will mature in December 2011, will pay interest quarterly and amortizations in four quarterly installments of 25%, starting in March 2011.

The last ON of the month was issued by Tarjetas Cuyanas, which placed debt for $30 million with a term of 9 months. Amortization will take place at maturity, while interest will be paid quarterly at the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 3%.

# Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 12

Regarding short-term debt securities, Frávega issued one for $30 million with a BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 3.1%. Capital payments will be monthly from December 2010 until maturity in March 2011. For its part, interest will also be paid monthly starting in July 2010.

Chart 7.4 Finally, Banco Finansur placed a short-term debt security for $28 million with maturity in De-
Thousands Equity of FCIs in pesos
of millions $ cember 2010. Interest will be paid monthly at a BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin
- data at end of month -
14.3 of 3%. For its part, amortizations will be made in 3 payments, the first two at 4 and 5 months
10.8% 5.1%
51.7% from issuance and for 20% of the capital each, while the last for the remaining 60% of capital
32.4%
will be paid on the last interest payment date.

Variable income Mixed income
Fixed income Money Market 7.4

Common Investment Funds

4.6
During June, the equity of common investment funds (FCI) showed a small decrease driven
1.5 151 M
by the local currency segment. It closed the month at $16,200 million, 2.6% below the equity
0.7 (25.9%)
(-0.3%)
4 M -32 M -558 M -443 M recorded at the end of the previous month.
(-0.7%) (-7.0%) (-3.0%)
Variable income Mixed income Fixed income Money Market TOTAL

Source: BCRA and CAFCI Equity as of June 2010 Monthly Variation
Regarding the equity of FCIs in pesos, a monthly decline of 3% was recorded, explained by the three most representative segments. The largest negative variation was observed in the money market segment, which ended June at $7,404 million. The 7% monthly decline was explained mainly by the fall in the quantities of fund shares registered, causing a loss of 2 percentage points of the representativeness of this segment in the total FCIs in pesos (52%). On the other hand, fixed-income funds after a slight decline in equity (0.7%), closed the month at $4,632 million. Finally, variable-income funds fell 0.3% monthly, standing at $1,545 million. As in the money market, both in the fixed-income and variable segments, the decline in equity was also due to lower quantities of fund shares registered. The only positive variation was recorded in the mixed-income segment, which after increasing 25.9% ended the month with equity of $733 million (see Graph 7.4).

On the other hand, the equity of FCIs in foreign currency showed a slight monthly increase (0.1%), with an increase during the first days of the month that was practically offset by the decline in the second fortnight, ending June at $1,882 million. In this segment, the increase in dollar fixed-income funds stood out, growing both due to higher prices and quantities of fund shares registered.

## Financial Trusts

In June, emissions of Financial Trusts (FF) totaled $670 million (see Graph 7.5), around 35% more compared to the previous month. This increase was not linked to a greater number of placements, but to the emission of FF in higher amounts. In effect, this month a total of 12 operations were registered, 3 fewer than in May. In this way, the average per placement went from $33 million in May to $56 million in June. Regarding year-on-year comparison, it is worth recalling that in June of last year a historical maximum was reached thanks to an important public sector placement. Thus, the total placed during the month was 60% lower than in June 2009.

This month, the underlying assets were concentrated exclusively in those linked to consumption, with an increase in the securitized amount of 45% compared to the previous month. The majority of these corresponded to personal loans (75% of the total), whose securitizations recorded an increase of 27% compared to May. For its part, the securitized amount of credit card vouchers increased substantially (by approximately $100 million), more than offsetting the decrease from the previous month, which could be linked to greater use of credit cards given the promotions in effect in recent months and spending motivated by Father's Day.

The main trustees of the month were retail merchants (45% of the total), which after securitizing a relatively low amount in May, tripled it in June. Additionally, financial entities (39% of the total) placed 70% more in June than in May. In
35 therefore, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers (16% of the total), which the previous month had the highest participation in the total, reduced their securitizations by 47% compared to May (see Chart 7.6).

The cut-off rates of senior securities (which in all cases presented a duration of less than 14 months) exhibited dissimilar behavior according to their type of return. While the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of fiduciary debt securities awarded at variable rate remained stable, at 12.5%, that of securities negotiated at fixed rate recorded an increase of 0.6 percentage points compared to the previous month, similar to that observed in the wholesale time deposits segment, reaching a value of 12.1%. In this way, the spread between both rates was reduced from 1.1 percentage point in May to 0.4 percentage point in June (see Chart 7.7).

For its part, the duration (weighted average by amount) of senior securities remained relatively stable, at 5.6 months.

Chart 7.8

millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF by type of Fiduciary

20,000 Fiduciaries linked to FF of infrastructure
18,000 Financial Entities
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers
16,000 Retail Stores
 Others
14,000

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

 0
 2006-I 2006-III 2007-I 2007-III 2008-I 2008-III 2009-I 2009-III 2010-I

Source: own elaboration based on CNV data

According to the latest balance information corresponding to March 2010, the stock of assets of the FF amounted to around $13,285 million (see Chart 7.8), which represented a decrease of around 4% ($560 million) compared to the previous quarter. However, in the comparison with the first quarter of 2009, an increase of 10.5% ($1,260 million) was evidenced. The participation by type of fiduciary in the stock of assets in circulation remained without significant changes compared to the last quarters. In this way, financial entities continued to be the main fiduciaries of said stock with 37% of the total, followed by fiduciaries belonging to the energy sector and public sector (linked to FF of infrastructure), which represented 27% of the total. As for the underlying assets, those linked to consumption continued to be the most important, representing 35% of the total in the first quarter of 2010.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables Jun-10 May-10 Dec-09 Jun-09 Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 126,748 123,554 118,661 103,652 2.6% 1.9% 22.3% 10.2%
Monetary circulation 97,868 94,856 92,793 79,526 3.2% 2.5% 23.1% 10.9%
In public hands 86,830 84,069 81,591 70,989 3.3% 2.6% 22.3% 10.2%
In financial entities 11,038 10,787 11,202 8,537 2.3% 1.6% 29.3% 16.5%
Current account at BCRA 28,880 28,698 25,868 24,126 0.6% -0.1% 19.7% 7.9%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 15,802 16,088 6,959 14,886 -1.8% -2.5% 6.2% -4.3%
Assets 0 0 34 39

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 52,560 52,075 34,743 12,496 0.9% 0.2% 320.6% 279.1%

NOBAC 4,315 2,573 12,616 21,640 67.7% 66.6% -80.1% -82.0%

International reserves of BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 49,229 48,471 47,717 46,385 1.6% 6.1%

SDR allocation 2009 (5) 0 0 1,241 0
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 248.916 242.180 216.731 200.608 2.8% 2.1% 24.1% 11.8%
 Current account (2) 73.587 73.003 71.850 65.352 0.8% 0.1% 12.6% 1.5%
 Savings account 45.839 44.002 43.355 38.811 4.2% 3.4% 18.1% 6.4%
 Time deposits not adjustable by CER 117.166 112.992 90.057 85.142 3.7% 3.0% 37.6% 24.0%
 Time deposits adjustable by CER 15 16 18 113 -7.4% -8.0% -86.7% -88.0%
 Other deposits (3) 12.309 12.166 11.450 11.190 1.2% 0.5% 10.0% -0.9%

 Deposits from the private sector 169.658 166.429 155.594 138.588 1.9% 1.2% 22.4% 10.3%

 Deposits from the public sector 79.259 75.751 61.136 62.020 4.6% 3.9% 27.8% 15.2%

 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15.690 16.176 11.793 11.602 -3.0% 35.2%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 151.810 147.985 136.465 122.525 2.6% 1.9% 23.9% 11.7%

 Loans to the private sector 133.008 129.482 119.128 111.394 2.7% 2.0% 19.4% 7.6%
 Advances 19.915 18.997 17.591 18.038 4.8% 4.1% 10.4% -0.5%
 Documents 24.881 24.385 22.289 19.618 2.0% 1.3% 26.8% 14.3%
 Mortgage loans 18.387 18.238 17.741 18.059 0.8% 0.1% 1.8% -8.2%
 Pledge loans 7.616 7.522 7.061 6.970 1.2% 0.5% 9.3% -1.5%
 Personal loans 33.222 32.692 30.055 27.945 1.6% 0.9% 18.9% 7.1%
 Credit cards 20.745 20.087 17.705 15.167 3.3% 2.6% 36.8% 23.3%
 Others 8.241 7.561 6.687 5.597 9.0% 8.2% 47.3% 32.7%

 Loans to the public sector 18.802 18.503 17.338 11.131 1.6% 0.9% 68.9% 52.2%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.853 5.943 5.236 6.024 -1.5% -2.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current account in pesos) 160.417 157.072 153.441 136.341 2.1% 1.4% 17.7% 6.0%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 206.256 201.075 196.795 175.152 2.6% 1.9% 17.8% 6.1%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 335.746 326.249 298.321 271.597 2.9% 2.2% 23.6% 11.4%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 397.349 389.358 343.206 315.319 2.1% 1.3% 26.0% 13.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current account in pesos) 138.079 133.513 125.906 110.957 3.4% 2.7% 24.4% 12.1%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 179.173 173.641 165.647 145.643 3.2% 2.5% 23.0% 10.9%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 256.488 250.498 237.185 209.577 2.4% 1.7% 22.4% 10.3%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 298.603 291.594 275.269 245.143 2.4% 1.7% 21.8% 9.8%

 Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Cumulative 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.194 2.5% 6.524 5.1% 8.087 6.4% 23.096 18.2%
 Financial sector 397 0.3% -1.948 -1.5% -8.301 -6.5% -616 -0.5%
 Public sector 48 0.0% 683 0.5% 2.700 2.1% 6.239 4.9%
 Private external sector 4.339 3.4% 13.340 10.5% 20.229 16.0% 33.360 26.3%
 BCRA securities -1.495 -1.2% -5.332 -4.2% -5.758 -4.5% -14.361 -11.3%
 Others -96 -0.1% -218 -0.2% -782 -0.6% -1.526 -1.2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 758 1.5% 1.547 3.1% 1.512 3.1% 2.844 5.8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.109 2.3% 3.428 7.0% 5.241 10.6% 8.674 17.6%
 Payment to international organizations -26 -0.1% 2 0.0% 1.200 2.4% 3.589 7.3%
 Other operations of the public sector 343 0.7% -3.849 -7.8% -981 -2.0% -5.775 -11.7%
 Minimum cash -600 -1.2% 2.024 4.1% 341 0.7% 53 0.1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -68 -0.1% -14 0.0% -4.243 -8.6% -3.653 -7.4%

SDR allocations 2009 0 0 -1.241 0

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund usage.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to exchange rate valuation change
Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Informative Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.4 15.6 15.7
 Integration 15.8 16.0 16.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.4 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.7 58.3 57.4
 30 to 59 days 19.9 20.0 21.2
 60 to 89 days 12.7 9.3 8.5
 90 to 179 days 4.9 5.7 7.4
 more than 180 days 6.8 6.6 5.6
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.6 20.6 20.9
 Integration (includes resource application default) 74.2 74.6 73.5
 Position (2) 53.6 54.0 52.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 59.9 60.5 61.3
 30 to 59 days 21.5 21.0 21.6
 60 to 89 days 9.0 8.8 8.4
 90 to 179 days 8.0 8.1 7.1
 180 to 365 days 1.4 1.4 1.4
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.2 0.2
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 8.89 8.79 8.53 9.03 10.53
 Amount traded 860 732 709 710 581

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 9.04 8.73 8.89 9.45 11.84
 60 days or more 10.14 9.63 10.08 10.49 13.33
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.39 8.83 8.99 9.63 12.26
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.14 9.38 9.25 9.82 12.94

 In dollars
 30 days 0.29 0.28 0.30 0.37 0.90
 60 days or more 0.59 0.56 0.53 0.75 1.53
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.43 0.40 0.38 0.42 0.99
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.55 0.63 0.50 1.29

 Active Interest Rates Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.89 10.46 10.54 11.06 14.04
 Amount traded (total maturities) 205 210 193 194 146

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 18.84 18.79 19.68 21.28 22.76
 Documents on sole signature 15.33 14.65 15.60 16.08 19.55
 Mortgage loans 13.61 12.91 13.33 13.53 13.94
 Pledged loans 17.49 17.52 18.01 18.22 22.59
 Personal loans 30.40 31.10 31.07 32.47 33.98
 Credit cards n/a n/a 29.47 31.45 29.56

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.09 9.74 9.81 10.70 16.05

 International Interest Rates Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

LIBOR
 1 month 0.35 0.33 0.26 0.23 0.32
 6 months 0.75 0.65 0.48 0.45 1.18

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.71 0.82 1.03 0.86 1.16
 10 years 3.19 3.42 3.81 3.59 3.70

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.04 9.50 8.86 8.75 9.58

(1) Data until April correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while those for May and June are estimates made from
the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 10.50
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 11.00
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 13.00

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.06 10.52
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.61 11.26

Amount traded of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 9,097 9,295 8,813 4,490 7,446

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 11.11 11.15 n/a 12.75 14.49
 9 months 13.53 13.53 13.54 n/a n/a
 12 months 13.93 n/a 13.80 14.40 16.25
NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
9 months BADLAR Private Banks 2.00 2.15 n/a n/a 1.35
1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.52 2.36 2.20 n/a 1.80
2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.25
3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 368 450 314 165 173

Foreign Exchange Market Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

Spot Dollar
Exchange Houses 3.93 3.90 3.88 3.80 3.77
BCRA Reference 3.93 3.90 3.88 3.81 3.77

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 3.96 3.93 3.89 3.84 3.83
ROFEX 1 month 3.95 3.93 3.89 3.84 3.78
Amount Traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 1061 1089 698 1153 950

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.17 2.15 2.21 2.17 1.92

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 4.79 4.90 5.20 5.55 5.29

Capital Market Jun-10 May-10 Apr-10 Dec-09 Jun-09

MERVAL
Index 2,260 2,217 2,436 2,229 1,598
Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 44 64 67 49 49

Government Bonds (at parity)
BODEN 2012 (US$) 91.89 89.14 90.45 88.12 64.44
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 69.51 70.54 77.33 73.99 49.71
BODEN 2014 ($) 74.72 74.43 79.62 77.20 41.40
DISCOUNT ($) 45.58 45.74 53.07 59.83 35.30

Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,018 1,120 848 824 2,666
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 363 344 281 335 467

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 20. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the Central Bank.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCIs: Mutual Investment Funds.
FF: Financial Trusts.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange
IGPA: General stock price index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ONs: Negotiable Obligations.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
P.P.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-term Debt Value
FV: Face Value.

Monetary Report | June 2010 | BCRA | 20
