# Monthly Monetary Report
August of 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
August 2010

Contents

Page 3 | 1. Synthesis

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 6 | 3. Bank Liquidity

Page 7 | 4. Loans

Page 8 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 8 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Stocks
Page 13 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 14 | Investment Mutual Funds
Page 15 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on September 13, 2010. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 2

1. Synthesis¹
• The growing dynamism of economic activity continued to drive the increase in demand for transactional money from the private sector. Additionally, the stability conditions that continued to characterize the local monetary and foreign exchange market favored the strengthening of broader money demand, which includes those components not directly related to transactional motives, such as time deposits. In this way, the broadest aggregate in pesos of the private sector (private M3) registered in August a growth of 2.1% (28.1% y-o-y).

• Time placements continued to accelerate their expansion rate, presenting an increase of 4.4% ($3,150 million), the largest monthly growth since February 2009 and one of the highest in recent years. Both wholesale placements (of $1 million and more) and retail placements registered significant increases in the month, with increases of $1,800 million and $1,400 million, respectively.

• Private means of payment (private M2) showed in August a growth of 1.4% (29.5% y-o-y), while total means of payment (M2) registered a slight decrease of 0.2% (24.2% y-o-y), reaching an average monthly balance of $217,360 million.

• In a context of increased deposits, in August both the liquidity of financial entities and the granting of loans to the private sector increased. In particular, entities opted for liquid assets with longer terms at the expense of the immediate liquidity asset position. Indeed, the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC of financial entities increased 1.2 p.p. in terms of total deposits in pesos, while repos decreased 0.7 p.p.. Additionally, assets intended to comply with the reserve requirement (cash and current account at the BCRA) averaged 15.7% of total deposits in pesos. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio was 39.8% of deposits in pesos.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector increased 2.4% ($3,295 million), with a strong boost from financings implemented through documents and those destined mainly for consumption. Although said increase was lower than in previous months, mainly due to seasonal decrease in the growth of advances, continuity is observed in the recovery process initiated during the third quarter of 2009, and an acceleration in the rate of year-on-year growth, which in August reached 24.4%, 2.4 p.p. above July.

• The average of interest rates paid for time deposits increased slightly in August, in a similar manner to what occurred in July. The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale tranche (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was positioned at 10.4%, 0.2 p.p. above the average registered in July. Meanwhile, the monthly average interest rate paid by private banks for retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand) and for the same term, registered an increase of 0.1 p.p., reaching a value of 9%.

• The interest rates charged for loans in pesos to the private sector showed disparate movements, although their monthly variations were limited for all main financing lines. For commercial financings, the interest rate charged by banks for advance operations averaged 18.7%, after increasing 0.2 p.p. compared to July, as did the monthly average interest rate for discounted documents, which was positioned at 13.4% in August. On the other hand, the interest rates for personal loans showed a decrease of 0.6 p.p., averaging 28.8% for the month.

• The Central Bank updated the targets of the 2010 Monetary Program (PM 2010) for the second semester of the year, adapting them to the greater growth of economic activity. In this way, it avoids conferring upon it a strongly
contractionary to monetary policy that would affect product growth, reducing credit supply and job creation. In this sense, a new projection of Private M2 was calculated, using the same model that was utilized on the occasion of the PM 2010, maintaining all the coefficients and arguments originally employed, with the exception of real GDP, which was replaced by one that combines the real growth already observed and the best available estimate for what remains of the year. In the case of sight deposits in pesos from the public sector, the relationships in terms of GDP provided for in the PM 2010 for the base scenario were maintained. Additionally, the amplitude and asymmetry of the range established as a target for total M2 was maintained. As a result, the range of year-on-year growth established as a target for M2 is comprised between 21.8% y.o.y. and 28.8% y.o.y. for September and between 22.4% y.o.y. and 29.4% y.o.y. for December².
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.
2 For more details see the document "Update of Monetary Program Targets – Second semester of 2010" at
http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/polmon/Actualización%20metas%20PM%20segundo%20semestre%202010.pdf

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 3

2. Monetary Aggregates1

Chart 2.1 The growing dynamism of economic activity continued
Monetary Aggregates driving the increase in demand for transactional money
(August 2010, in average) by the private sector. Additionally, a strengthening of
 broader money demand was observed, which includes
Other Deposits those components not directly related to transactional
Public Sector motives, such as time deposits, which was favored by the
Private Sector improved climate in financial markets associated with
Time Deposits lower uncertainty related to the international context
M3 and the closure of the debt swap process.
2.2%

Sight Deposits In this context, private means of payment (M2 private)
M2 showed growth of 1.4% in August (29.5% year-on-year).
-0.2% Meanwhile, total means of payment (M2) registered a
Bills and Coins slight decrease of 0.2% (24.2% year-on-year), reaching
 an average monthly balance of $217,360 million (see
-7 -5 -3 -1 1 3 5 7 9 11 Chart 2.1).
billions of $
Source: BCRA

Chart 2.2 Among the factors that explained the variation of total M2,
Factors Explaining the Variation of M2 foreign exchange purchases made by the Central Bank
billions of (August 2010, in average) in the market continued to record an expansionary effect,
$ and the growth of private sector loans. However, the
6 increase exhibited by time deposits and, to a lesser
3 extent, holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs by the non-
0 financial private sector, completely neutralized those
-3 expansionary effects (see Chart 2.2).

-6
 Regarding primary money creation, the monetary base
-9 registered growth of approximately $1,730 million (see
 Foreign Sector Loans LEBAC and Time Deposits Deposits Excluded Other M2 Chart 2.3), reaching an average monthly balance of
 Exchange Public* NOBAC Private Sector Others Banks $135,535 million. In August, the Central Bank sterilized,
 *Includes loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA through the issuance of LEBACs and NOBACs and its repurchase agreement operations, 70% of the expansion generated by its foreign exchange purchases.

Chart 2.3 For its part, the broader aggregate in pesos (M3) registered
billions of Factors Explaining the Monetary Base growth of 2.2% (30.6% year-on-year) in August. A
$ (August 2010, in average) similar monthly increase was presented by private M3,
5 exhibiting growth of 2.1% (28.1% year-on-year) in the
4 month.
3
2 The total of deposits in domestic currency presented in
1 the period an increase of 2.5% (31.8% year-on-year), with
0 increases in both those of the private sector and those of
-1 the public sector.
-2
-3 The total deposits belonging to the private sector pre-
-4 sented an increase of 2.5% (28.4% year-on-year). Sight
-5 deposits grew 1.5%, with increases in the current account
 Foreign Sector Public LEBAC and Repurchase Other Monetary that more than offset the decline in savings accounts.
 Exchange* NOBAC Agreements Base Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits continued accelerating
 *Includes Central Bank intervention their expansion rate, presenting an increase of 4.4%
Source: BCRA ($3,150 million), the largest increase since February 2009 and one of the largest

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 4

Chart 2.4
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos rose to levels not seen in recent years. Both wholesale placements (of $1 million and more) as well as retail placements registered significant increases in the month, with increases of $1,800 million and $1,350 million, respectively (see Chart 2.4). For its part, public sector deposits grew 2.6%, with increases recorded in fixed-term placements and decreases in sight deposits.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed a reduction of 6.7%, explained essentially by the behavior of public sector placements, which decreased in order to meet debt service obligations. Private deposits continued to grow, with increases in both sight deposits and fixed-term placements. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits, in pesos and in foreign currency, showed an increase of 0.9% (29.5% y.o.y.).

Finally, it should be noted that in August the Central Bank proceeded to update the targets of the 2010 Monetary Program for the second half of the year, to adapt them to the greater growth of economic activity. It is important to highlight that, to force compliance with the original monetary program, strongly contractionary measures would have had to be implemented which, in the medium and long term, would give rise to an evolution of money and credit that is not considered appropriate to consolidate the recovery of output and job creation.

In this sense, considering that the greater difference with respect to what was foreseen in the 2010 Monetary Program stems from the increase in demand for transactional money, a new projection of the same was calculated. In a first stage, an estimate of M2 Private in pesos was made, using the same model that was used at the time of the 2010 Monetary Program. In this projection, all coefficients and arguments originally used were maintained, with the exception of real GDP, which was replaced by one that combines the real growth already observed and the best available estimate for what remains of the year.

In the case of sight deposits in pesos of the public sector, the relationships in terms of GDP foreseen in the 2010 Monetary Program for the base scenario were maintained. Finally, the M2 Total was calculated by adding the projections of M2 Private updated on the basis of the model with the sight deposits of the public sector recalculated. For the determination of the range of M2 targets, the breadth and asymmetry of the bands originally foreseen were maintained.

As a result, in the base scenario a growth of M2 Total of 24.1% year-over-year in September and 24.8% year-over-year in December is stipulated (see Table 1).

**Table 1**

**2010 Monetary Program - Updated Targets**

| | Sep-10 | Dec-10 |
|---|---|---|
| var y.o.y., in % | | |
| **M2 total Base** | **Superior** | 28.8 | 29.4 |
| | 24.1 | 24.8 |
| | **Inferior** | 21.8 | 22.4 |
| **M2 private Base** | **Superior** | 29.9 | |
| | 23.2 | |
| | **Inferior** | 21.1 | |
| balances, in millions | Sep-10 | Dec-10 |
| **M2 total Base** | **Superior** | 230,173 | 254,706 |
| | 221,696 | 245,643 |
| | **Inferior** | 217,666 | 240,930 |
| **M2 private Base** | **Superior** | 215,200 | |
| | 204,023 | |
| | **Inferior** | 200,598 | |

**Chart 3.1**

**Bank Liquidity**
(monthly average)
% of deposits

In a context of increased deposits, in August...
30 16.9 17.9 18.6 18.6 18.9 19.2 20.5 increased both the liquidity of financial entities
 14.1 15.4 16.5 17.6 17.7 17.2
25 as well as the granting of loans to the private sector.

20 In particular, entities opted for more liquid assets

 5.0 4.4 4.1 3.3 2.7 3.8 6.2 4.9 5.1 5.2 4.5 4.3 3.5
15 of longer maturity (LEBACs and NOBACs) to the detriment of
 the position of immediate liquidity assets (repos with
10
 15.7 15.7 15.8 16.1 16.9 16.4 15.7 16.2 16.1 16.1 15.9 15.9 15.7 the BCRA, cash and current account at the BCRA). In
 5
 fact, the holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs of financial
 0 entities increased 1.2 p.p. in terms of total deposits in
 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10
 pesos, while repos decreased 0.7 p.p.. Additionally, assets
 allocated to meet reserve requirements (cash and current
 account at the BCRA) averaged 15.7% of total deposits in
 pesos. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio was 39.8% of
 deposits in pesos, 0.3 p.p. higher than recorded in July
 and 5 p.p. higher than observed a year ago (see Chart 3.1).

 For its part, the minimum cash position in pesos ended
 August with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits (see Chart
 3.2). As mentioned, the integration of reserve requirements
 Chart 3.2 averaged 15.7% of total deposits in pesos while the
 reserve requirement was, on average, 15.4% of such
 % of Minimum Cash Position deposits. It should be noted that this latter ratio decreased
 of deposits
 0.2 p.p. compared to its July level, due to a higher proportion
 Cumulative Position Cumulative Requirement Cumulative Integration
 18 of time deposits. It should be recalled that the average
 requirement for time deposits is 11% while that
 17 corresponding to demand deposits is 19%.

 16 For its part, the minimum cash requirement for
 15.7 obligations in foreign currency remained stable
 15.4 compared to July, while integration decreased by 2
 15 p.p.. In this way, the minimum cash position in foreign
 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 currency ended August with a surplus of 51% of total
 deposits in such denomination³.

³ The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for application of resources default.

 Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 6

 Loans 1 4

 Chart 4.1

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % In August, loans in pesos to the private sector
3,500 (var. of monthly averages) 35 presented an increase of 2.4% ($3,290 million), with
3,000 30 a strong boost from financings instruments through
 Aug-10
2,500 25 documents and those destined mainly for consumption
 y.o.y. var. (%) - right axis
 24.4 (see Chart 4.1). Although said increase was smaller than
2,000 20
 in previous months, due mainly to the seasonal decline

1,500 15 in the growth of advances, continuity is observed in the
1,000 10 recovery process initiated during the third quarter of 2009
 500 5 and an acceleration in the year-on-year growth rate,
 0 0 which in the last month reached 24.4%.

 Commercial Consumption Real Guarantee Loans destined mainly for commercial activity
 increased in the month by 2.6% ($1,465 million), led
 by financings implemented through documents, which
 continued with the momentum from last month. In this
 Chart 4.2 sense, documents showed in August a growth of 4.2%
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (var. monthly average) ($1,135 million), similar to that observed in the same
 7.5 month of 2006 and 2007, when the local and external
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 macroeconomic context was more favorable than in
 5.0 2008 and 2009 (see Chart 4.2).
2.5 Financing through documents is directed princi-
pally to companies and, of the amounts granted in
0.0 5
August, 31% was allocated to SMEs , while 60%
was directed to other legal entities. In turn, this
-2.5 class of loans is concentrated in the short term,
with 82% of the amounts granted in August instru-
-5.0 mented with documents for periods of up to 180
days. On the other hand, as mentioned previously,
overdrafts on current accounts decelerated their
expansion rate in line with what was expected for
Graph 4.3 this part of the year, registering an increase of 0.6%
Consumer Loans ($125 million) in the period. The remaining com-
% mercial financings increased 2.1% ($185 million).
12.0 (avg. monthly var.)

10.0 Personal loans Credit cards Credits oriented mainly to consumption resumed
growing at a similar pace to that of June, after
8.0
moderating their expansion rate in July (see Graph
6.0 4.3). In this way, in August they showed an increase
4.0 of 2.6% ($1,505 million). Personal loans accelerated
their growth rate, advancing 2.7% ($945 million) in
2.0
the month, while credit card financings increased
0.0
2.6% ($560 million).
-2.0

-4.0 Aug-07 Dec-07 Apr-08 Aug-08 Dec-08 Apr-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10

4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the
portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
5 For purposes of classifying a legal entity that is not a financial services provider as an SME, it must be verified that it complies
with the requirements established by current regulations as provided in the matter of "Determination of the condition of micro,
small or medium-sized enterprise" (see Communication "A" 5116).

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 7

For its part, loans with real guarantee grew at a
Graph 4.4 similar rate to that of July, increasing this month
Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector
US$ millions 1.2% ($340 million). Mortgage loans increased in
6,500 August 1% ($200 million), while secured loans
6,300 registered an increase of 1.8% ($140 million).
6,100

5,900 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private
5,700 sector registered an increase of 5.9% (US$345 mil-
5,500 lion), driven exclusively by financings instrumen-
Daily stock Monthly average
5,300 ted through documents, a segment in which finan-
5,100 cings associated with foreign trade are concen-
4,900 trated (see Graph 4.4).
4,700

4,500
May-08 Aug-08 Nov-08 Feb-09 May-09 Aug-09 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10
Source: BCRA

5. Interest Rates
Titles Issued by the BCRA 6
Graph 5.1 During August, the average term of the LEBAC and
Interest Rates of Lebac and Nobac NOBAC placed in the primary market resulted in
% Lebac - TNA % NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR being higher than that of July. Meanwhile, the interest
15 4.0 rates on the bills, and the margins paid over BADLAR
of private banks for the notes, did not register sig-
14 3.5 nificant changes, remaining at levels similar to those
recorded the previous month (see Graph 5.1).
3.0
13
2.5 Likewise, the total awarded in the primary market
12 during the month was higher than the amount mat-
24-Aug-10 2.0 uring, producing again a contractionary monetary
11 24-Aug-10 27-Jul-10 effect through the use of this sterilization tool
27-Jul-10
10 1.0 days (see Monetary Aggregates Section). As a conse-
1.5
30 230 430 630 100 300 500 700 900 quence, the stock of securities in circulation in-
Source: BCRA creased 9% in the month, ending August at $67,550
million. The increase was distributed both among
banks and among the rest of the holders, with in-
Graph 5.2 creases in their holdings of 10.5% and 9%, respec-
tively.
Interbank Market

In August, interest rates in the interbank market (call) averaged 9.2%, both for the total of operations and for those carried out at 1 business day, with no changes compared to the July average. Considering exclusively the group of entities that can participate in the repo market with the Central Bank, the rate of their call operations averaged 9.6% in August.

For its part, the average of the interest rate in the repo market between financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.5%, 0.1 p.p. lower compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3).

The daily average of the traded amount during the month in the call market amounted to $850 million, $30 million below the previous month. For its part, the daily average of the traded amount in the repo market between financial entities was $1,450 million, $130 million less than during July.

The dispersion measures of interbank loan interest rates continued at reduced values, showing the stability that persisted in this market. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed each day in August was 2.7 p.p., while the standard deviation of operations was 0.5%, the lowest value since April 2008. With regard to the deviation of repo operations between banks, it was also located at reduced values (0.1%).

---

## Passive Interest Rates¹

The average of the interest rates paid by private entities for their fixed-term deposits registered a slight increase in August. Indeed, the monthly average

---

¹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

*Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 8*
# Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 9

of the interest rate paid by private banks in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and for deposits of up to 35 days (BADLAR) was located at 10.4%, 0.2 p.p. above the average registered in July. With regard to the average monthly interest rate paid by private banks on retail placements in pesos (up to $100 thousand) and for the same term, it registered an increase of 0.1 p.p., reaching a value of 9%. (see Graph 5.4).

Graph 5.4
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days
15 Daily Data
14
13 BADLAR Private Banks
12 Up to $100 thousand Private Banks
11
10
9
8
Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10

On the other hand, the monthly average of the volume traded in the BADLAR interest rate futures market registered a considerable increase with respect to July, with quotes slightly lower than those of July. For its part, the implicit rate in contracts maturing at the end of the third quarter was located at 10.7%, 0.2 p.p. below that registered the previous month for said contracts. For its part, the rate for contracts whose maturity takes place at year-end was located around 11.5%, also 0.2 p.p. below its value the previous month.

Active Interest Rates¹ 7

During the month of August, the interest rates charged for loans in pesos to the private sector showed disparate movements, although their monthly variations were limited for all the main financing lines (see Graph 5.5).

Graph 5.5
Active Interest Rates
Annual Rate (%) Monthly Average

For commercial financing, the average of the interest rate charged by banks on advance operations increased slightly (0.2 p.p.), positioning itself at a level of 18.7%. For its part, the average monthly interest rate of discounted documents, which represent more than 60% of the total financing through documents, was located at 13.4%, increasing 0.2 p.p. with respect to last month. In contrast, the average of the interest rate applied for loans arranged through documents at sole signature decreased 0.6 p.p. with respect to July, positioning itself at 14.6%.

Jul-10 Aug-10
29.4
28.8
18.5 18.7
17.2 17.3
15.2
14.6 13.4 14.3
13.2 13.7

On the other hand, the interest rates for personal loans showed a decline of 0.6 p.p., averaging 28.8% for the month.

Finally, the average of the interest rates for mortgage loans increased 0.6 p.p. during August, positioning itself around 14.3%. Meanwhile, the corresponding one for financing with collateral guarantee remained relatively stable, positioning itself at 17.3%.

Advances | Discounted | Documents | Mortgage | Collateral | Personal
 | Documents | at sole signature | Loans | Loans | Loans
Source: BCRA

⁷ This section was prepared with information on interest rates on loans for the entire country. The data corresponding to the month of July are provisional in nature.

# Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 10

6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market

Graph 6.1
millions Variation of International Reserves
of u$s (August 2010)

1,000 Payment BODEN 2012:
 US$ 2,200 million
500

0

The balance of international reserves ended August above US$50,000 million, with a decline of only US$726 million, despite the payment of US$2,200 million of public debt (BODEN 2012) made at the beginning of the month (see Graph 6.1). When considering the factors
**International Reserves of the BCRA**

-500 thousands of excluded allocations SDRs 2009 that explained the monthly variation of 55 international reserves, one can observe that the reduction originating
-1,000 millions of u$s 50
45 from the operations of the public sector was partially
40
-1,500 35 Aug-10 compensated by the increase in current accounts in
30
25 foreign currency of financial entities at the Central
20
-2,000 15 Bank (around u$s 900 million), resulting from the
10
5 payment of BODEN 2012 services to resident holders
0
-2,500 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 of the financial and non-financial sector. Additionally,
International Reserves Public Sector Min. Ef. Foreign Exchange Purchases Other the purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in
Source: BCRA the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) gener-
ated in the month an increase in international reserves
of approximately u$s 900 million. In this way, the
stock of international reserves reached u$s 50,348
million on the last day of August.

In the exchange market, during the month, the peso depreciated slightly in relation to the United States Dollar, with an average quotation of 3.94 $/u$s (0.1% higher than July). The slowdown in peso depreciation initiated in June was reflected in the contracts entered into for the future of the United States Dollar in the forward market (ROFEX), where expectations of peso depreciation became more moderate for the coming months (see Graph 6.2). Meanwhile, the amount negotiated increased 30% compared to July, placing itself around $1,300 million, due to the increase in the volume traded. For its part, with respect to the Real and the Euro, the peso depreciated to a greater extent, in a context of appreciation of both currencies. Thus, the average quotations were 2.24 $/Real (0.7%) and 5.08 $/€ (0.8%).

**Graph 6.2**

**Future Exchange Market**
$/u$s
4.35 (monthly average)
4.30
Jun-10
4.25 Jul-10
Aug-10
4.20
4.15
4.10
4.05
4.00
3.95
Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11
Source: ROFEX

**7. Capital Market**

**Stocks**

In August, the group of selected stock market exchanges had relatively homogeneous behavior, with a monthly variation slightly negative, characterized mainly by greater caution in financial markets. The variation between the end of July and August of the MSCI Global was a decrease of 3.9%, a loss that would increase to 6% if not considered the rise that occurred on the first business day of the month. Although in the first week all indices increased due to the repercussions of the disclosure of European stress tests, the publication of some indicators of the North American economy with values lower than those expected by market surveys, together with doubts about the dynamism of the Chinese economy, and the downgrade of the credit rating for Ireland, generated increasing caution toward the markets, causing the fall of all stock market indices. In fact, the MSCI for Europe fell during the month 6.2%, the main index of the North American market, the S&P 500, fell 4.7%, while the MSCI Latam and the MSCI for Japan decreased 2.5% and 2.3%, respectively (see Graph 7.1).

**Graph 7.1**

**Performance of Stock Market Indices Worldwide**
(base index 02/07/07 = 100)

80 15-Apr 09-Aug 120
115
70 110
105
60 100 MSCI Global
MSCI Europe 95
50 MSCI Japan 90 S&P 500 06-Jul
MSCI Latam (right axis) 85
40 80

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 11
Sep-09 Oct-09 Nov-09 Dec-09 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.

The main stock exchanges in Latin America, measured in dollars, showed uneven performance. The IGPA (Chile) increased 8.5% and the IGBVL (Peru) rose 7%; in both cases the effects were amplified by respective appreciations of the local currencies, representing in the Chilean case slightly more than 40% of the index change. On the other hand, the IPC (Mexico) fell 6.1%, the BOVESPA (Brazil) declined 3.6% and the MERVAL (Argentina) did so by 2.6%. In the three countries, depreciations of the local currency contributed to the declines but only in the Mexican case were they significant, representing more than 70% of the variation.

During August, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency suffered a decline of 2.4%, ending the month at 2,337 points, barely 0.7% above the December value. In mid-month and in line with the beginning of the fall in international markets, there was a total drop of more than 3% that recovered entirely in the immediately following days. In any case, on the 23rd and 24th of the month, there was an additional decline of almost 6% caused by the increasingly uncertain international context, the downgrade of recommendations on Argentine debt by different investment banks and widespread profit-taking. In the last 12 months, the MERVAL accumulated a gain of 31%, being the year-on-year variation the lowest of the last year (see Chart 7.2).

**Chart 7.2 - Evolution of the Merval Index**

[Graph showing MERVAL closing in December 2009 at approximately 2,250 points, with movements through August 2010]

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

The fluctuations of the local equity market were reflected in the historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading sessions- which, in annualized terms, and measured in dollars, was 26.1% during August, 13 p.p. higher than in July. Similarly, the expected volatility of the S&P500 (measured by the VIX) on average in August was 24.7%, barely 1.1 p.p. below the July value.

For its part, the average daily trading volume on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $64 million, almost doubling the July volume and 43% higher than August 2009.

**Public Securities**

In the fixed income market there was some heterogeneity in intra-monthly behavior, with losses observed towards the end of the month associated with higher volatility levels in international markets and profit-taking.

In this sense, between late July and August, sovereign risk indicators for emerging economies registered a slight increase. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 303 p.b. (+16 p.b.). Meanwhile, the spread of debt in foreign currency of Latin America ended in August at 362 p.b., Brazil's at 233 p.b. and Argentina's at 760 p.b., which implies increases of 24 p.b., 19 p.b. and 53 p.b., respectively. Similarly, the spread of five-year Credit Default Swap (CDS) contracts (the most traded segment) for Argentina increased 152 p.b. with respect to July, while the same segment for Brazil also rose 15 p.b. (see Chart 7.3).

**Chart 7.3 - Sovereign Risk Indicators**

[Chart showing EMBI spread, CDS 5-year spread, and spread indicators for Argentina, Brazil, and Latin American EMBI]

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 12
0 100 150 During August, the volume traded of public securities
 Jul-08 Dic-08 Jun-09 Dic-09 Jun-10Jul-07 Mar-08 Dic-08 Sep-09 Jun-10
 Source: Bloomberg (daily average) in the local market grew again,
 as has been happening in recent months, in part,
 due to the reinvestment of BODEN 12
 services collected at the beginning of the month (see International Reserves
 Section). In particular, the daily average of the
 volume traded during August was $1,230 million, the
 largest amount traded since October 2008, $400 mil-
 lion more than during last July and $520 million
 greater than with respect to August 2009.

 Private Securities

 During August, 4 placements were registered in local currency of
 negotiable obligations (NO) in the private debt
 market for a total of $123.5 million.

 On one hand, the Financial Services Bank placed
 debt for a value of $43.5 million with maturity
 in May 2012. Said security will pay interest quar-
 terly at a rate equivalent to the BADLAR of Private
 Banks plus a margin of 3.75%. Principal payments
 will be quarterly and in equal parts starting from
 November 2011.

 On the other hand, CGM Leasing Argentina placed its first
 series of NO for $20 million, with maturity in 3

 Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 13
 years. The interest rate is equivalent to the BADLAR of Private
 Banks plus a margin of 5% and will be paid
 monthly starting from the month following integration. Beginning
 in January 2013 (month N°29), amortization
 payments will be made in identical and monthly
 installments until the maturity date.

 In mid-month, Banco Mariva placed a negotiable
 obligation for a nominal value of $25 million
 at a BADLAR rate of Private Banks plus a
 margin of 3%, which will be paid monthly. The issuance,
 with maturity date of 270 days, will execute
 principal payments in equal installments at 210, 240 and 270 days.

 Finally, Tarshop S.A. issued debt of $40 million
 with maturity in 270 days. The interest rate
 Chart 7.4 is equivalent to the BADLAR of Private Banks plus
 a margin of 4% and will be paid quarterly. The prin-

 Monthly Variation by FCI Tranche in Pesos cipal payments will be made in the last 3 months in install-
 % ments of 25%, 25% and 50% respectively.

 80%
 Variable IncomeBlended IncomeFixed IncomeeMoney Market

 60%

 40% Common Investment Funds

 20%
 In the month of August, the assets of the Common
 0% Investment Funds (FCI) experienced an increase of
 -20% Participation in Total FCI in Pesos
 7%, driven exclusively by the tranche in national currency
 $1,376 million and closed the month at almost $18,000 million.
 -40% $1,057 million
 8.6% 6.6%
 51.4%
 -60% 33.4% On one hand, the FCI in pesos ended the month at

 -80% $16,050 million, showing an increase of 9%, explained

 $8,257 million $5,359 million
 -120% by the variations in the two most representative tranches (see Chart 7.4). The money market
 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dic-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dic-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 segment
 Source: BCRA and CAFCI grew 11.1%, ending the month at $8,250 million.
 This increase was due to the increase in the quantity of quota-
 shares. In turn, the fixed income tranche continued with its
 upward trend and ended the month with a historical maximum value of $5,360 million, 10.8% above
 the value of the previous month and the maximum of 33% participation
 over the total FCI in pesos. In the case of
 blended income funds, they showed
 a monthly growth of 6.1% to reach assets of $1,060
 million at month end, almost doubling its value with respect
 to that of 3 months ago. Both for the fixed income
 values and for the blended income values, the growth was explained
 by increases in prices and in the quantity of quota-
 shares.
The equity segment was the only segment in pesos that showed a negative variation in August. Its assets ended at $1.375 million, decreasing 5.9%, due exclusively to the fall in the quantity of share units and retreating its participation in the total of FCIs in pesos to 8.6% (-1.3 p.p.).

For its part, the assets of FCIs in foreign currency fell 5.3%, ending August at $1.900 million. Said fall was driven mainly by equity funds (-18%) that gradually are ceding their participation to fixed income funds in dollars. Said setback was due both to variations in prices and in the quantity of share units registered.

**Financial Trusts Placements**

The FF emissions totaled $683 million in August through 14 operations. The total placed in the month evidences a decrease of 19% compared to the previous month (if excluded from the July emissions those intended to finance productive projects and infrastructure works) and of 26% compared to the same month of the past year (see Graph 7.5). However, in what has gone of the year the monthly emissions average $630 million, placing itself above the average amount of 2009 ($550 million), although far from reaching the values of 2008 ($820 million). Meanwhile, regarding the quantity of placements, in what has gone of 2010 an average of 14 operations per month were registered, two fewer than in 2009. In this way, a greater presence of larger-sized emissions is noted. In effect, the average amount per placement amounts to $45 million, compared to $35 million in 2009.

The underlying assets linked to consumption, which in August represented 94% of the total, show in what has gone of the year a gradual recovery, after the sharp decrease that they experienced throughout 2009. It can be observed that said recovery is being driven by personal loans, while the securitizations of credit card vouchers remain relatively stable (see Graph 7.6). In particular, in the last month the securitized amounts of personal loans presented an increase of 40% compared to July, while credit card securitizations registered a decrease of around 80% compared to the previous month. The remainder corresponded to commercial credits, increasing the securitized amount from $29 million in July to $40 million in August.

The main fiduciaries were retail merchants, being responsible for around half of the securitized assets in the month, more than doubling the amount of securitized assets in July. In this manner, in what has gone of the year they placed on average around $250 million monthly, $50 million more than what was placed on average throughout 2009. For its part, the

---

*Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 14*

**Graph 7.5**
*Financial Trusts Placements*
*millions of $ millions of $*

*FF linked to infrastructure | Other Financial Trusts*
*6,541 (Jul-10) | 848 (Jul-10)*
*683 (Aug-10)*

*Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others*

**Graph 7.6**
*Securitized Amounts of Consumer Loans*
*millions of $ (12-month moving average)*

*Consumption | Personal Loans | Credit Card Vouchers*

*Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others*

---

8 Only trusts with public offering are considered.
# Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 15

financial entities were fiduciaries of 40% of the total, although they decreased their securitizations by 31% with respect to July given that that month registered a FF mortgage for a relatively high amount. Finally, the mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers participated in a single operation of $22 million, thus recording the lowest amount of the

**Graph 7.7**
% Cut-off Rates of the FF (Senior titles in pesos with a duration less than 14 months - monthly weighted averages by amount)

40
35    Fixed rate
30    Variable rate
       BADLAR private banks rate
25
20
15
10
5
    Jun-06  Dec-06  Jun-07  Dec-07  Jun-08  Dec-08  Jun-09  Dec-09  Jun-10

Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

last years.

The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos, which in all cases presented a duration of less than 14 months, showed in August a slight increase with respect to the previous month. In effect, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of fiduciary debt titles awarded at variable rate stood at 13.5%, increasing 0.2 p.p. with respect to July, in line with the evolution of the BADLAR private banks rate (see Graph 7.7). For its part, the cut-off rate of titles with fixed yield (modality under which a single operation was registered) stood at 13%, observing in the month a larger increase (1.5 p.p.). On the other hand, the duration (weighted average by amount) of senior titles stood at 5.9 months, decreasing significantly with respect to July since in that month assets of longer maturity had been securitized. Meanwhile, if only the FF of personal loans are considered, it is observed that the duration reaches a value similar to that of the previous month, standing at 5.6 months in August.

---

# Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 16

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Aug-10 | Jul-10 | Dec-09 | Aug-09 | **Monthly percentage variations** | **Average percentage variations last 12 months** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| **Monetary base** | 135,535 | 133,808 | 118,661 | 105,293 | 1.3% | 0.5% | 28.7% | 15.8% |
| **Monetary circulation** | 104,858 | 103,404 | 92,793 | 82,062 | 1.4% | 0.6% | 27.8% | 14.9% |
| In the hands of the public | 93,444 | 92,186 | 81,591 | 73,321 | 1.4% | 0.6% | 27.4% | 14.6% |
| In financial entities | 11,414 | 11,217 | 11,202 | 8,741 | 1.8% | 1.0% | 30.6% | 17.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 30,678 | 30,405 | 25,868 | 23,231 | 0.9% | 0.1% | 32.1% | 18.8% |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 13,267 | 15,021 | 6,959 | 12,805 | -11.7% | -12.4% | 3.6% | -6.8% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 34 | 285 | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 55,673 | 52,696 | 34,743 | 16,054 | 5.6% | 4.8% | 246.8% | 211.9% |
| **NOBAC** | 9,632 | 7,153 | 12,616 | 19,306 | 34.6% | 33.6% | -50.1% | -55.1% |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations** | 50,210 | 50,448 | 47,717 | 44,851 | -0.5% | 11.9% | | |
| **2009 SDR Allocation (5)** | 0 | 0 | 1,241 | 317 | | | | |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 265,130 | 258,563 | 216,731 | 201,145 | 2.5% | 1.7% | 31.8% | 18.6% |
| Current account (2) | 75,098 | 75,034 | 71,850 | 62,851 | 0.1% | -0.7% | 19.5% | 7.5% |
| Savings account | 48,816 | 50,575 | 43,355 | 38,889 | -3.5% | -4.2% | 25.5% | 12.9% |
| Fixed-term deposit non-adjustable by CER | 128,810 | 120,540 | 90,057 | 88,484 | 6.9% | 6.0% | 45.6% | 30.9% |
| Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER | 15 | 15 | 18 | 102 | -1.1% | -1.9% | -85.5% | -87.0% |
| Other deposits (3) | 12,392 | 12,399 | 11,450 | 10,818 | -0.1% | -0.9% | 14.5% | 3.0% |
| **Private sector deposits** | 180,000 | 175,586 | 155,594 | 140,133 | 2.5% | 1.7% | 28.4% | 15.5% |
| **Public sector deposits** | 85,130 | 82,976 | 61,136 | 61,011 | 2.6% | 1.8% | 39.5% | 25.5% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 14,398 | 15,440 | 11,793 | 12,007 | -6.7% | 19.9% | | |
| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 159,933 | 156,879 | 136,465 | 127,107 | 1.9% | 1.1% | 25.8% | 13.2% |
Loans to the private sector 140.206 137.251 119.128 112.745 2.2% 1.3% 24.4% 11.9%
 Advances 20.318 20.193 17.591 18.090 0.6% -0.2% 12.3% 1.0%
 Documents 27.937 26.799 22.289 20.390 4.2% 3.4% 37.0% 23.2%
 Mortgage loans 18.516 18.484 17.741 17.880 0.2% -0.6% 3.6% -6.9%
 Pledged loans 7.976 7.834 7.061 6.886 1.8% 1.0% 15.8% 4.2%
 Personal loans 34.361 33.585 30.055 28.070 2.3% 1.5% 22.4% 10.1%
 Credit cards 22.110 21.552 17.705 15.366 2.6% 1.8% 43.9% 29.4%
 Others 8.988 8.805 6.687 6.064 2.1% 1.3% 48.2% 33.3%

 Loans to the public sector 19.727 19.628 17.338 14.362 0.5% -0.3% 37.4% 23.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.333 6.007 5.236 5.499 5.4% 15.2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in circulation + current accounts in pesos) 168.541 167.220 153.441 136.172 0.8% 0.0% 23.8% 11.3%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 217.358 217.795 196.795 175.061 -0.2% -1.0% 24.2% 11.7%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total deposits in pesos) 358.574 350.749 298.321 274.466 2.2% 1.4% 30.6% 17.5%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 415.262 411.503 343.206 320.561 0.9% 0.1% 29.5% 16.5%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in circulation + private current accounts in pesos) 146.369 143.021 125.906 112.352 2.3% 1.5% 30.3% 17.2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 191.403 188.699 165.647 147.838 1.4% 0.6% 29.5% 16.5%
 M3 (currency in circulation + total private deposits in pesos) 273.444 267.773 237.185 213.454 2.1% 1.3% 28.1% 15.2%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 317.567 310.493 275.269 251.738 2.3% 1.5% 26.1% 13.5%

 Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 17
 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary base 1.727 1.3% .982 8.8% 16.875 12.5% 30.243 22.3% 11
 Financial sector 1.857 1.4% 3.141 2.3% -5.558 -4.1% -141 -0.1%
 Public sector 383 0.3% 2.610 1.9% 5.261 3.9% 7.470 5.5%
 Private external sector 4.351 3.2% .076 11.1% 30.966 22.8% 45.890 33.9% 15
 BCRA securities -4.738 -3.5% 8.552 -6.3% -12.814 -9.5% -21.021 -15.5% -
 Others -127 -0.1% -294 -0.2% -980 -0.7% -1.955 -1.4%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -239 -0.5% .739 3.5% 2.493 5.0% 5.359 10.7% 1
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.106 2.2% 3.839 7.6% 7.971 15.9% 11.878 23.7%
 Payment to international organizations -13 0.0% -4 0.0% 1.222 2.4% 3.488 6.9%
 Other public sector operations -257 -0.5% 26 0.1% -1.298 -2.6% -3.695 -7.4% -
 Minimum cash requirements -1.227 -2.4% 2.365 -4.7% -1.424 -2.8% -2.505 -5.0%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 152 0.3% 243 0.5% -3.932 -7.8% -3.762 -7.5%

SDR allocations 2009 0 0 -1.241 -317

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

2 Net of unified fund usage.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the principal variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10

 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.4 15.5 15.5
 Integration 15.7 15.9 15.8
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 58.7 54.5 55.6
 30 to 59 days 21.0 25.6 20.0
 60 to 89 days 7.2 8.2 12.6
 90 to 179 days 6.3 4.7 4.9
 more than 180 days 6.8 7.0 6.9

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.4 20.4 20.5
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 71.2 73.2 74.1
 Position (2) 50.7 52.8 53.6
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 58.9 59.8
 30 to 59 days 23.4 21.9 21.5
 60 to 89 days 9.5 10.5 9.2
 90 to 179 days 6.7 7.0 7.9
 180 to 365 days 1.7 1.5 1.4
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.2

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes time deposits subject to court order.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 18

 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.22 9.20 8.89 9.03 10.53
 Amount operated 848 843 820 710 581

 Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 9.27 9.19 9.04 9.45 11.81
 60 days or more 10.14 10.29 10.14 10.49 12.95
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.54 9.46 9.39 9.63 12.07
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.46 10.31 10.14 9.82 12.73

 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.31 0.29 0.37 0.77
 60 days or more 0.70 0.61 0.59 0.75 1.33
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.38 0.40 0.43 0.42 0.91
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.51 0.58 0.55 0.50 1.08

 Active Interest Rates Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

 Secured loans in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.28 10.62 10.89 11.06 14.04
 Amount operated (total maturities) 183 185 205 194 146

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 18.71 18.49 18.56 21.28 22.76
 Documents on personal signature 14.57 15.16 14.97 16.08 19.55
 Mortgages 14.34 13.71 13.03 13.53 13.94
 Pledge loans 17.30 17.17 17.29 18.22 22.59
 Personal loans 28.84 29.44 29.78 32.47 33.98
 Credit cards n/a n/a 30.19 31.45 29.56

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 10.57 10.53 10.09 10.70 16.05

 International Interest Rates Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.27 0.33 0.35 0.23 0.32
 6 months 0.58 0.72 0.75 0.45 1.18

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.52 0.61 0.71 0.86 1.16
 10 years 2.69 2.98 3.19 3.59 3.70

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 10.75 10.44 10.04 8.75 9.58

 (1) Data through June 2010 corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards corresponds to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 19

 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.63
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 10.13
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 12.13

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.08 9.01 9.00 9.06 10.06
 7 days 9.51 9.50 9.50 9.61 10.76

 Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average) 8,077 8,704 9,097 4,490 7,736

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 11.30 11.45 n/a n/a n/a
 2 months 11.85 11.50 n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 12.22 12.25 11.11 12.75 14.28
 9 months n/a 13.45 13.53 n/a n/a
 12 months 13.94 13.95 13.93 14.40 n/a

 NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 2.10 n/a 2.00 n/a 1.27
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.39 2.45 2.52 n/a 1.78
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.20 3.25 n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

 Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 404 330 368 167 187
## Foreign Exchange Market Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

**Spot Dollar**
Exchange houses 3.94 3.94 3.93 3.81 3.77
BCRA Reference 3.94 3.93 3.93 3.81 3.77

**Forward Dollar**
NDF 1 month 3.96 3.96 3.96 3.84 3.82
ROFEX 1 month 3.97 3.96 3.95 3.84 3.78
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1325 1022 1061 1153 950

**Real (Pesos per Real)** 2.24 2.22 2.17 2.17 1.92

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** 5.08 5.04 4.79 5.55 5.29

## Capital Market Aug-10 Jul-10 Jun-10 Dec-09 Aug-09

**MERVAL**
Index 2.391 2.312 2.260 2.229 1.598
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 79 41 44 49 49

**Government Bonds (at par)**
BODEN 2012 (US$) 90.98 93.93 91.89 88.12 64.44
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 81.35 72.83 69.51 73.99 62.06
BODEN 2014 ($) 86.01 80.25 74.72 77.20 53.34
DISCOUNT ($) 60.89 50.46 45.58 59.83 45.57

**Country Risk (basis points)**
BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 744 731 1.018 824 2.666
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 315 345 363 335 467

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 20

## 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration
**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the Central Bank.
**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)
**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds
**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.
**USA:** United States of America.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash.
**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
**FCI:** Investment Funds.
**FF:** Financial Trusts.
**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.
**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.
**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange
**IGPA:** General Index of Share Prices.
**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.
**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.
**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.
**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment
**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.
**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.
**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.
**ONs:** Negotiable Obligations.
**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.
**PM:** Monetary Program.
**B.P.:** Basis Points.
**P.P.:** Percentage Points.
**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.
**SISCEN:** Centralized Information Requirements System.
**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.
**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.
**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value
**FV:** Face Value.

Monetary Report | August 2010 | BCRA | 21
