# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
December 2010

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Bank Liquidity | Page 7
4. Loans | Page 8
5. Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 9
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 10
   - Repo Market | Page 10
   - Interbank Market | Page 11
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 11
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 12
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 13
7. Capital Markets | Page 14
   - Stocks | Page 14
   - Public Securities | Page 15
   - Private Securities | Page 16
   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 17
   - Financial Trusts | Page 18
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 20
9. Glossary | Page 24

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on January 12, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 2

1. Synthesis
• Total means of payment (M2) ended the year with a monthly average balance of $252,070 million (28.1% year-on-year), placing itself 1.3 p.p. below the upper limit of the range established as a goal in the update of the 2010 Monetary Program. In December they registered a monthly increase of 8.1%, largely associated with the seasonality that transactional money demand presents at the end of each year.

• As was duly reported, in a context of significant increase in demand for pesos, in December private means of payment (private M2) reached an average balance of $220,530 million (33.1% year-on-year), approximately 2.5% above the upper limit stipulated in the Monetary Program ($215,200 million) for this aggregate.

• The sustained and elevated growth of loans to the private sector continued promoting a high participation of secondary expansion in total money creation. In this sense, and unlike what was recorded in December 2009 (and the first months of 2010), the increase shown by loans in December 2010 turned out to be the main explanatory factor of the M2 variation. In this way, credit to the private sector was one of the most important factors in M2 growth in 2010, being of a similar magnitude to monetary expansion generated by foreign currency purchases.

• The total of deposits in local currency increased 3% in December, driven essentially by placements belonging to the private sector, which showed an increase of 4.4%. The increase in total private deposits was explained fundamentally by the growth registered in sight deposits, in a month characterized by the high seasonal liquidity demand of families and businesses. This higher transactional demand usually translates into a deceleration in time deposits, so the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits presented an increase of only 0.5% with respect to the November average. However, between November 30th and the last day of December, these placements presented a rise close to $970 million, showing increases in both the retail segment (deposits of less than $1 million) and the wholesale segment (placements of $1 million and more).

• The liquidity of financial entities remained at adequate levels, although with a change in its composition, as usually occurs in the first month that covers the quarterly computation period of Minimum Cash requirements (a measure that facilitates the administration of bank liquidity in the face of higher demand for liquid resources from depositors). In particular, in the month under analysis banks increased their computable assets as integration of the Minimum Cash regime (current account and cash) by the equivalent of 0.6 p.p. of deposits in pesos while they reduced their net position in repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC. The broad liquidity ratio averaged 40.6% of total deposits in pesos in December.

• Favored by typical seasonal factors at year-end, loans in pesos to the private sector grew in December 4.5% ($7,070 million), evidencing an acceleration in its growth rate compared to November. On one hand, the main commercial lines were driven by the higher liquidity demand of companies. In the same sense, motivated by higher consumption typical of year-end, credit card financings received an additional boost.

• In 2010, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 35.7% year-on-year, 16 p.p. more than in 2009. Credit more associated with productive activity explained around half of the annual increase in loans to the private sector given that in the last months of the year the growth rate of commercial lines exceeded that of consumption-oriented financings.
• The interest rate paid by private financial entities for time deposits in pesos of up to 35 days and exceeding $1 million (BADLAR) registered a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p., averaging 11.1% in December. Meanwhile, most interest rates on loans to the private sector did not present significant changes, although those applied to consumer financing continued to decline. While the average monthly rate for personal loans was around 29.1%, decreasing 2 p.p. compared to November, the rates charged for credit card financing fell back 1.5 p.p. during the month, placing itself at 30.5%. In this way, in 2010 the interest rates for personal loans and that applied to credit cards accumulated reductions of 3.4 p.p. and 0.9 p.p., respectively.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 thousands of M2 - 2010 Targets
 millions of $ 254.7 Total means of payment (M2) ended the year with
260 (29.4% y.o.y.) an average monthly balance of $252,070 million, with
 Monthly average 252.1
250 growth of 28.1% y.o.y., placing itself 1.3 p.p. below
 Monetary Program Range 230.2 (28.1% y.o.y.)
240 (28.8% y.o.y.) the upper limit of the range established as a target
 240.9
230 (22.4% y.o.y.) in the update of the 2010 Monetary Program for this
 month (see Graph 2.1). In December, M2 registered
220 209.1 221.2
 202.9 (19.4% y.o.y.) a monthly increase of 8.1%, largely associated with
210 (21.2% y.o.y.) 217.7
 206.3 (21.8% y.o.y.) the seasonal increase in demand for transactional
200 196.8 197.5 money at year-end.
190 196.9
 191.4 (12.4% y.o.y.)
180 (14.3% y.o.y.) The sustained and high growth of loans to the private

170 sector continued promoting a high participation of
 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 secondary expansion in total money creation. In this
 Source: BCRA sense and unlike what was recorded in December
 2009 (and the first months of 2010), the increase
 shown by loans in December 2010 turned out to be
 the main explanatory factor of the variation in total
 Graph 2.2 M2 (see Graph 2.2). Other factors that also presented
 Factors Explaining M2 Variation expansionary effect were the foreign currency purchases
 (December 2010, in average) made by the Central Bank in the market and public
 thousands of sector operations. Regarding this last sector, to meet
 millions of $ part of year-end payments, it reduced its time deposits,
 20 which operated as a source of creation of transactional
 Dec-09 money.
 15 Dec-10

 10 In this context of significant increase in peso demand
 and credit growth, as reported in the Monetary Program
 5 Monitoring Report for the Fourth Quarter of 20102, in
 0 December private means of payment (private M2) reached
 an average balance of $220,530 million (33.1% y.o.y.),
 -5
 approximately 2.5% above the upper limit stipulated
 Foreign Sector Loans to Time Deposits Time Deposits Other Others M2
 Currency Public* Private Sector of Privates of Public
 Purchases Sector
 in the Monetary Program ($215,200 million) for this
 *Includes loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base. aggregate. In particular, in December private M2
 Source: BCRA presented an increase of 7.5%, slightly below the
 increase observed during 2009 (see Graph 2.3).
 Graph 2.3
 % Private M2 Regarding primary money creation, the monetary base
10 (December 2010 - percentage variation of monthly averages) registered growth of 7.4%, showing an average balance
 9 8.7 of approximately $156,100 million. Among the factors
 8 7.8 7.5 7.7 of primary money expansion are the foreign currency
 6.8 7.3 purchases made by the Central Bank, the reduction in
 7 the balances of reverse repurchase agreements and
 6 the effect of public sector operations.
 5
 4 The broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) registered
 3 growth of 4.2% (35.6% y.o.y.) during December. In the
 2 same sense, private M3 presented a monthly increase
 1
 of 5.5% (31.3% y.o.y.).
 0
 Private M2 Bills and Coins Demand Deposits Privates
 2009 2010
 Source: BCRA

2 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/polmon/BMA1210.pdf

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 4
The total deposits in local currency increased 3% in December, driven essentially by placements belonging to the private sector, which showed an increase of 4.4%. Meanwhile, deposits corresponding to the public sector remained stable, with declines in fixed-term deposits that were offset by the growth of sight deposits.

The increase in total private deposits was explained essentially by the growth recorded in sight deposits (see Chart 2.4). In effect, in a month characterized by high seasonal demand for liquidity from families and businesses, linked among other factors to the payment of the supplementary half-year salary, sight deposits increased 7.3%.

This greater transactional demand usually translates into a deceleration in fixed-term placements. Thus, the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits showed an increase of 0.5%. However, between November 30 and the last day of December, these placements showed growth close to $970 million, demonstrating increases in both the retail segment (deposits of less than $1 million) and the wholesale segment (placements of $1 million and more). Both amount strata, mainly during the second half of the month, returned to a growth path.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed an expansion of 0.3%, with declines in public sector placements that were more than offset by the increase in private sector deposits. The latter recorded an increase of 1.5%, with increases of similar magnitude in sight and fixed-term placements. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency, showed an increase of 3.7%.

## 2011 Monetary Program

The 2011 Monetary Program was designed taking as a base scenario the reference variables of economic policy included in the 2011 National Budget Bill Project and considering the statistical information known after its presentation.

The Central Bank will maintain its managed floating policy aimed at guaranteeing exchange rate stability and predictability. It is expected that foreign currency purchases in the exchange market will exceed those carried out in 2010, becoming one of the main factors in monetary supply growth.

Within a framework of economic growth and financial deepening, it is estimated that credit will have very dynamic behavior, continuing with the performance shown during 2010. Thus, the increase in credit to the private sector will be the main factor in monetary expansion, exceeding the expansionary effect of foreign currency purchases. In turn, the Central Bank will continue...
## Private M2 - Base Scenario
will continue with the bidding process for funds from the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**December-11**
**Monthly Average Balance**
**284,903**
**(millions of $)**

**Growth Rate**
**compared to Dec-10**
**29.2**
**(in %)**

It is estimated that this will contribute to bolstering credit dynamism during 2011, especially that destined for the productive sector and investment. To date, $1,025 million have been awarded through 3 bidding processes. The funds already disbursed were allocated to finance diverse sectors that include the manufacturing of metal structures, auto parts, elements for agricultural machinery, toys and clothing, offset printing, the production of yerba mate and tea, and transportation.

The interest rate to be paid by each financial entity will be 9% nominal annual on the awarded funds, while the total financial cost for the respective borrowers will be up to 9.9% nominal annual.

*Nominal values will be adjusted taking into account the definitive values of 2010.*
*To verify compliance with the Monetary Program, a range of ±4% will be considered with respect to the Base Scenario balances.*

For 2011, in accordance with the Budget Bill Project and Decree 2054/2010, the use of International Reserves is foreseen to attend to public debt service for an amount of US$ 7,504 million. Likewise, the transfer of the Central Bank's profits corresponding to 2010 and the granting of Temporary Advances are stipulated. The expansive effect of these last two operations in pesos will be less than that observed during 2010.

With the objective of maintaining equilibrium between the factors of supply and demand for money, during 2011 it is foreseen to sterilize monetary surpluses through the use of available monetary regulation instruments (Bills, Notes, repos, sale of financial assets and reserve requirements). The sterilization needs for 2011 will be approximately 60% of the expansion foreseen by foreign currency purchases in the exchange market.

In this way, within the framework of an economy that continues on a path of robust growth, an average variation for M2 and Private M2 is estimated in the base scenario of the 2011 Monetary Program of 27.9% and 29.2% year-on-year, respectively³ (see Table 1).

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

The liquidity of financial entities remained at adequate levels, although its composition was modified, as typically occurs in December, the first month that covers the quarterly computation period for Minimum Cash requirements. In effect, the possibility of averaging balances between December and February facilitates the management of bank liquidity in the face of the greater demand for liquid resources by depositors in December. Additionally, with validity between December 6, 2010 and January 31, 2011, the reduction of the minimum daily integration requirement in pesos that financial entities must maintain in current accounts at the Central Bank was established. During that period the requirement was reduced by 20 percentage points, to 30% of the average requirement of the previous month⁴.

**Graph 3.1**
**% Bank Liquidity in Pesos* (monthly average)**
**deposits**

[The graph shows Bank Liquidity in Pesos (monthly average) as a percentage of deposits, tracking three components: Cash, CC at BCRA (Current Account at Central Bank), Net Repos, and Lebac and Nobac holdings, from December 2008 to December 2010]

*Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of Lebac and Nobac.
Source: BCRA Central Bank.

**Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | December 6**
In particular, in the month under analysis banks increased their computable assets as integration of the Minimum Cash requirement (current account and cash) for the equivalent of 0.6 p.p. of deposits in pesos. In this way, such assets represented 16.3% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1), which meant a surplus with respect to the reserve requirement of 0.5 p.p. of deposits (see Graph 3.2), in line with what was observed in the same month of previous years. In this sense, at the end of December, both public and private entities accumulated an average surplus in their Minimum Cash position in pesos (0.4% and 0.6% respectively). On the other hand, entities reduced their position of net repos with the Central Bank and their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio averaged 40.6% of total deposits in pesos in December. In 2010 the broad liquidity ratio in pesos increased 3.3 p.p., due to the increase in the balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in the hands of financial entities.

For its part, in the foreign currency segment, in December a notable decline in integration was evident compared to November (3.9%), which was verified in both public and private banks. As has been happening in recent months, this was mainly due to the application of dollar resources to the granting of loans to the private sector in that currency. Thus the surplus over the Minimum Cash requirements in dollars was reduced 3.8 p.p. compared to November, placing itself at 48.4% of total deposits in foreign currency, the lowest level of the last nine months.

## 4. Loans¹⁵

In 2010 loans in pesos to the private sector increased 35.7%, 16 p.p. more than in 2009. In the last months of the year the growth rate of commercial lines exceeded that of financing oriented toward consumption, so that credit more associated with productive activity explained around half of the annual increase in loans to the private sector.

Favored by seasonal factors typical of year-end, loans in pesos to the private sector grew in December 4.5% ($7,070 million; see Graph 4.1), showing an acceleration in their growth rate compared to November. On one hand, the main commercial lines were boosted by the greater demand for liquidity from companies for this time of year. In the same sense, motivated by greater consumption typical of year-end, credit card financing received an additional boost.

Loans with mainly commercial purpose accelerated their expansion rate in December, by increasing 4.7% ($3,000 million). Said growth was driven by the greater demand for liquidity
Source: BCRA tional of companies, linked among other factors to
the payment of the mid-year complementary salary. The fi-
nancings implemented through documents continued
exhibiting great dynamism, registering a
**Graph 4.3** monthly increase of 6.2% ($1,960 million; see Graph
4.2). For its part, current account advances,
% Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector Apr-08=100 which in November had practically halted their growth,
10 250 increased in December 2.7% ($580 million).

Average monthly variation
8 Shopping Center Sales (right axis) Additionally, credits destined mainly for consumption
Dic-09 200 increased their expansion pace. In line with higher spending
levels, characteristic of year-end, credit card financings
6 grew in the month 7.1% ($1,750 million; see Graph 4.3).
Dic-08 150 For its part, personal loans grew at a slightly lower pace
4 than in November, registering an increase of 3.6% ($1,440
Dic-07 million).
2 Dic-06 100

0 Real estate secured credits presented, as a whole, a growth
50 similar to that of the previous two-month period. Within
-2 this type of loans, chattel mortgage credits continued
-4 0 growing at relatively high rates, in a context of persistent
dynamism in automobile sales. In this way, they registered
Nov-06 Jun-07 Ena-08 Ago-08 Mar-09 Oct-09 May-10 Dic-10 an increase of 4.6% ($420 million). Meanwhile, mortgage
Source: BCRA and INDEC loans grew at the same rate as in November, 2.2% monthly
($450 million).
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
continued growing at a good pace, registering in the month
**Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 8** an increase of 5.1% (u$s350 million), which was driven by
**Graph 5.1** financings implemented through documents. In this way,
in 2010 dollar-denominated credits accumulated an
% LEBAC Interest Rates in the Primary and increase of 38.8%.
Secondary Market
15.5
**5. Interest Rates**
14.5
**Securities issued by the BCRA6**
13.5
During December, in the primary market of LEBACs
12.5 the interest rates remained without major changes with
respect to the previous month, with slight reductions for
11.5 shorter-term securities, and slight increases in those with
29-Dec-09 - Primary Market more distant maturities. At the end of 2010, the interest
30-Nov-10 - Primary Market rates of the letters, regardless of the term, accumulated
10.5 28-Dec-10 - Primary Market decreases with respect to December 2009. For example,
the average monthly interest rate paid by LEBACs with a
Dic 2009 - Secondary Market maturity close to one year (340 to 400 days) registered an
9.5 Nov 2010 - Secondary Market annual decline of 1.5 p.p., reaching a level of 12.8% in
Dic 2010 - Secondary Market December 2010 (see Graph 5.1).

8.5 Days
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 Regarding the primary market of NOBACs, the average
term of the notes placed was superior, with securities
Source: BCRA awarded at terms close to 2.5 years. The margins paid on
BADLAR of Private Banks for comparable terms proved
slightly higher than in the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

**Graph 5.2**

Margins paid on BADLAR in NOBACs
p.p.
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
28-Dec-10
1.5
30-Nov-10

In addition to operations in the primary market, in
Repo Market¹

The Central Bank did not modify the interest rates of its repo operations over the course of 2010. Thus, the interest rates on passive and active repos of the Central Bank remained at the same levels as in the previous months, which, in the case of passive repos were located at 9% and 9.5% for operations of 1 and 7 days maturity respectively, while for active repos they remained at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

In December, the average stock of net repos (passive minus active) for the Central Bank, including all types of operations in which this Institution participates, recorded a decrease of approximately $3,200 million, in line with the change in the composition of liquidity typical of the month (see Liquidity Banking Section). Consequently, the average monthly balance of passive repos was placed at a level close to $9,200 million, with no active repo operations recorded in the month.

**Graph 5.4**
**Interbank Loan Market**
(monthly averages)
Millions of $ | %
2,000 | 100
1.800 Amount traded in pesos 90
 Unlike the previous month, where 1-day operations1.600 Interest rate on peso op. 80
 were prioritized extensively, only 55% of the average balance
1.400 70 of total BCRA passive repos were conducted at 1 day,
1.200 60 with the remainder corresponding to 7-day operations.
1.000 50
 800 40 Interbank Market1

 600 30
 400 20 In December, interest rates in the interbank market
 200 10 (call) averaged 9.7%, both for total operations and for
 0 0 those conducted at 1 business day, which implies an
 Jan-93 Jan-95 Jan-97 Jan-99 Jan-01 Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09increase of 0.3 p.p. compared to November. Meanwhile,
Source: BCRA the average interest rate in the repo market between
 financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business
 day was 9.6%, 0.2 p.p. higher than in November. The
 aforementioned levels implied an annual increase of 0.7
 p.p. for the call rate and 0.1 p.p. for the rate operated in
 the repo market between financial entities.

 The daily average of the amount traded during the
 month in the call market amounted to $780 million, $130
 million less than in November (see Chart 5.4). Meanwhile,
 the daily average of the amount traded in the repo market
 between financial entities in the 1 business day segment
 was $1,800 million, $230 million more than in November.

 The measures of dispersion of interest rates on interbank
Chart 5.5 loans continued relatively stable, reflecting normal
 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days conditions in this segment. In particular, the difference
14 between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum
 Up to $100 thousand Private Banks interest rate agreed each day was 3.1 p.p. in December,
13 BADLAR Private Banks while the standard deviation of operations was 0.5%.
 The deviation of repo operations between banks also
12 Avg Dec-10 settled at reduced values (0.3%).
 11.1
11 Avg Dec-09
 9.8 Passive Interest Rates1
10
 9.1 Avg Dec-09 The interest rate paid by private financial entities for
 9 9.4 Avg Dec-10 fixed-term deposits in pesos of up to 35 days and for
 8 more than $1 million (BADLAR) registered a monthly
 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10increase of 0.3 p.p. Thus, it accumulated an increase
Source: BCRA of 1.3 p.p. during the year, averaging 11.1% in December.
 Meanwhile, the average monthly interest rate for the
 retail segment (up to $100 thousand) remained at 9.1%, a
 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 11 Chart 5.6 level 0.3 p.p. lower than that registered in December of
 the previous year (see Chart 5.5).

 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities
 (monthly average) On the other hand, the lowest amount traded for
 TNA, % the year was recorded in the BADLAR interest rate
 26 p.p Variations Monthly and Annual futures market, whose interest rates proved
 Total Advances Discounted Documents 1.0 relatively similar to the previous month. Indeed, the
24 Documents on Sole Signature 0.5 interest rate for contracts with expiration at the end of
 22 0.1 0.1 March 2011 was 11.5%, increasing 0.2 p.p. compared to
 - contracts agreed with the same expiration date in
20 -0.0 November. Meanwhile, the longest maturity traded
 18 -0.5 during the month corresponded to contracts with
 -0.6 expiration in September 2012, whose rate settled
16 -1.0 around 15.3%.
 -1.5 -1.3
14 Monthly Var
 12 -2.0 Active Interest Rates1
 -2.0 Annual Var
 10 -2.5
 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Tot.Adv. Disc.Doc. Doc.on sole
Source: BCRA Signature
In the last month of 2010 the majority of interest rates on loans to the private sector presented minor changes, however, those applied to consumer financing continued to decline.

**Graph 5.7 Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee (monthly average)**

TNA, % In December the interest rates charged by commercial Monthly and Annual Variations loans were presented as relatively stable with respect to p.p the previous month. However, a pronounced decline is
1.5
evident from their maximum values reached in November
1.1 2008. In effect, the average monthly rate of advances
1.0 Monthly Var was around 19.2%, above its level in November, although
0.5 experiencing a decline of around 2 p.p. compared to De-
0.2 0.1 cember 2009. On the other hand, the average monthly
- p.p. interest rate charged for financing through discounted
-0.1 documents (which represented more than 60% of what
-0.5 was operated via documents), remained at 13.3%. With
Mortgage Chattel -0.7 respect to the average monthly interest rates on docu-
-1.0 ments at sight, it increased 0.1 p.p. with respect to No-
Annual Var vember, standing at 14.8%. Like the rates charged on
Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 advances, those applied to financing through documents
Source: BCRA accumulated decreases in 2010. In effect, with respect to
December 2009, the rate corresponding to discounted
documents retreated 0.6 p.p., while that of documents at
**Graph 5.8 sight, 1.3 p.p. (see Graph 5.6).**

Interest Rates on Loans to Consumer Loans (monthly average)

TNA, % Monthly and Annual Variations The average monthly interest rates on financing with real
-p.p guarantee also remained relatively stable in December.
35 -0.5 In this sense, the average monthly interest rate on loans
-1.0 -0.9 with chattel guarantee was around 17.5%, with an in-
33 -1.5 crease of 0.2 p.p. in the month and a decrease of 0.7 p.p.
-1.5 -2.0 in 2010. Meanwhile, that corresponding to mortgages
31 -2.0 -2.5 granted to families stood at 14.6%, decreasing by 0.1 p.p.
-3.0 in the month. Unlike the rest of the active interest rates
29 Monthly Var Annual Var mentioned, this last one showed slight monthly increases,
-3.4 -3.5 Personal Cards mainly between May and August, which explains the
-4.0 increase it accumulated in 2010, of 1.1 p.p. (see Graph
27 Personal Cards 5.7).

25 Finally, the average monthly interest rates charged for
Source: BCRA Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 consumer loans declined in the month. On the one hand,
the average monthly rate of personal loans was around
Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 12 29.1%, decreasing by 2 p.p. with respect to November. On
the other hand, the rates charged for financing via credit
card retreated 1.5 p.p. in the month, standing at 30.5%.
In both cases decreases were evident with respect to the
**Graph 6.1 previous year, around 3.4 p.p. for the case of personal loan
interest rates, and 0.9 p.p. for credit cards (see Graph 5.8).**

International Reserves of the BCRA thousands of millions of u$s
excluding SDR allocations 2009

55 **6. International Reserves and**

Dec-10 **Foreign Exchange Market**
50

45

thousands of Variation of International Reserves
millions of u$s (December 2010)
40 1.6
1.2
0.8
35 0.4
0.0
-0.4
-0.8 International Currency Sector Public Minimum
30 -1.2 Reserves Purchase of Divisas Effective Reserve
Foreign Exchange Market

25
Dec-06 Apr-07 Aug-07 Dec-07 Apr-08 Aug-08 Dec-08 Apr-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10
Source: BCRA

The stock of international reserves increased during the course of December, and ended the month at US$52,190 million, one of the historically highest levels (see Chart 6.1). The Central Bank continued with its managed floating exchange rate policy, and in December purchased foreign currency in the exchange market, generating an increase in the balance of international reserves of US$1,281 million. Said inflow was partially offset by the decrease in current accounts in foreign currency of entities at the Central Bank, as a result of the application of resources in this denomination to the granting of loans to the private sector (see Loans section), and public sector debt payments.

In this way, in 2010 the accumulated increase in international reserves was US$4,222 million, driven mainly by the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases, which totaled US$11,805 million in the year, exceeding the decrease associated with the use of international reserves for public debt payments, as provided for by Decrees 297/10 and 298/10.

**Chart 6.2**
**Nominal Reference Exchange Rate**
$/US$

Daily Quotation
Monthly Average Quotation
+0.3%
5% Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
4%
0.3% In the exchange market, the average quotation of the United States dollar was 3.98 $/US$ (see Chart 6.2),
3% 0.3% higher than in November, accumulating an increase of 4.5% with respect to December 2009. The rate of
2% monthly increase was similar to that of the previous month, in line with the low volatility of the exchange rate
1% throughout the year (0.4% monthly on average). Correspondingly, in the dollar forward market (ROFEX) the contracts carried out had implicit a depreciation of the peso more attenuated for the coming months, in comparison to what was observed in previous months. Meanwhile, the traded amount remained stable with respect to November, at approximately $1,000 million. On the other hand, the peso also depreciated with respect to the real, influenced by the appreciation of such currency with respect to the United States dollar. Thus the average quotation for December was 2.35 $/real (1.3% higher with respect to November and 8% more with respect to December 2009). Finally, the peso appreciated in relation to the euro (given its depreciation with respect to the United States dollar). In this way, the quotation was 5.26 $/euro (2.9% less than in November and 5.3% lower than that of the same month of the previous year).

**Average 2009: 0.9%**
**Average 2010: 0.4%**
* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.

**Chart 7.1**
**Performance of World Stock Indices**
(base index 07/02/07 = 100) 30-Nov 125
15-Apr 4-Nov

**7. Capital Market**

During December, the most relevant stock market exchanges for the Argentine economy had a very homogeneous behavior. After having ended November with generalized declines, there was a change in trend throughout December in all indices, allowing the year to end with significant increases in a good part of the markets, with the exception of Europe. Among the highlighted events of the month is the extension of tax exemptions in the United States, together with the suggestion of the FED president regarding a possible expansion of Quantitative Easing 2.

MSCI Global 100 Shares
MSCI Europe
MSCI Japan
S&P 500
MSCI Latam (right axis)

Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 13

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
In this sense, the increase between November and December for the MSCI Global measured in dollars reached 7.2% (see Graph 7.1). The largest variation was that of MSCI Europe which, after declining 11.2% during November, had an increase of 8.5% in the month under analysis. In second place was the MSCI Japan with an increase of 7.5%, followed by the S&P500 (the main index of the North American market) and the MSCI Latam, which grew 6.5% and 6%, respectively.

Graph 7.2 During December, the main stock markets

3800 Evolution of the Merval Index of Latin America, measured in dollars, experienced

3600 very disparate behavior, although in general terms

3400 they ended the month with a neutral or positive result.

3200 On one hand and in line with the growth of the

3000 MSCI Latam, the IGBVL (Peru) and the MERVAL

2800 (Argentina) grew very strongly, in the order of 21.3%

2600 Increased 52% and 11.1%, respectively, despite the slight de-

since September preciations of their local currencies (0.3% and 0.8% respec-

2400 tively). In a secondary position, although also with

2200 Closing of the important increases, the IPC (Mexico) and the IGPA (Chile)

MERVAL in increased 8.4% and 5%, respectively. In the Mexican

2000 December 2009 case, there were no variations in the quotation of its

1800 local currency, but the variation of the IGPA was due

Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 almost exclusively to an appreciation of its local currency,

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg greater than 4.3%. Finally, the BOVESPA (Brazil) was

Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 14 barely modified (0.3%). In any case, it should be noted that said index offset a decline of 1.9% in reals with an appreciation of 2.2% of the quotation of its local currency.

In December, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency continued with its growing trend initiated towards the end of August (see Graph 7.2), ending the year at 3,524 points (maximum value measured in dollars since June 1992). In fact, the index grew again 8% during December and, in this way, totaled an annual growth of 51.8%, concentrating the increase registered in the last four months. This increase was related to the good climate in the international financial markets and the favorable result of the reopenings of local debt swaps.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL – 22 sessions-, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, decreased 12.4 p.p. with respect to November, to end the year at 22%. In the same framework, the expected volatility of the S&P500 (measured by the VIX) averaged 17.4% in December, Graph 7.3 decreasing 2.6 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

Sovereign Risk Indicators

For its part, the volume traded daily, on average, at the Stock Exchange of Buenos Aires was 5-year CDS spread EMBI spread in p.b. in p.b. in p.b. 

5,000 Argentina 650 EMBI Argentina 1950 $79.5 million, 25.3% below the amount traded in

Brazil (right axis) 1750 November but 92.7% above the amount negotiated

4,000 550 EMBI Latin America 1550 in the same month of 2009. It should be noted that November

450 1350 was the month with the highest volume of operations in the last

3,000 1150 32 months.

350 1350

2,000 950

250 750

1,000 550 Public Securities

150 350

0 50 150

Jul-08 Feb-09 Sep-09 Apr-10 Nov-10 Jul-08 Feb-09 Sep-09 Apr-10 Nov-10

Source: Bloomberg

In December, despite a certain slowdown in the volume traded in the market, the improvement in the quotation of local public securities continued due to the reopening of debt swaps. In addition, developments at the international level (see Stocks) also favored the fixed income market.
In this context, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies registered considerable declines, highlighting the evolution of the index for Argentina. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of foreign currency debt of emerging countries as a whole, decreased 30 basis points (b.p.) to close the month at 248 b.p.. Meanwhile, EMBI+ Argentina fell 86 b.p., reaching at the end of the month the lowest value of the last 33 months, closing the year at 496 points. The spread of Latin America's debt fell 29 b.p., ending the month at 306 b.p. (see Chart 7.3). For its part, the indicator for Brazil showed a decline of 9 b.p. to reach 189 b.p..

Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 15 Chart 7.4 In December, the volume traded of public securities (on a daily average) in the local market was reduced to
 Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds*
 Last 5 years $1,000 million ($100 million less than in Novem-
 millions of $ ber). Despite being one of the lowest amounts of the se-
 Notable Placements cond semester, it was very close to the annual average and
 4.500 Month Placement Amount
 Total Amount May-07 TGS US$ 500M
 4.000 May-07 Petrobras US$ 300M implied an increase of $90 million with respect to De-
 Apr-10 Pan American Energy US$ 500M cember 2009.
 Jul-10 IRSA US$ 150M
 Annual Average 3.500 Oct-10 Highways of the Sun US$ 243M
 Oct-10 Edenor US$ 140M
 3.000 Nov-10 Arcor US$ 200M
 Dec-10 Airports Argentina 2000 US$ 300M
 2.500 Dec-10 Clisa US$ 200M
 
 2.000

 1.500 Private Securities

 1.000

 500
 0 In December, in the private debt market, 13 placements
 of negotiable obligations (ONs) were registered, with a
 (*) Includes emissions of companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets. total subscribed amount of around $2,300 million. Of
 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg
 these emissions, 7 of them were made in local currency
 for a total of $420 million, and the remaining 6 were in
 foreign currency for a total of US$ 460 million. This is
 the largest monthly amount of private debt financing
Chart 7.5 since May 2007. In effect, the total amount issued in the
 Issuance of Bonds by Economic Sector last quarter ($5,980 million) helped achieve the highest
 annual average of the last 5 years ($868 million; see
 January-November 2010 December 2010 Chart 7.4).

 Oil and Gas Infrastructure, Transport and
 Services During the month under analysis, financing stood out in
 Electric Energy Financial, Stock Market and the area of Infrastructure, Transport and Services, which
 Insurance Activities represented 74% of the emissions (2 placements in for-
 Infrastructure, Transport and Banks eign currency). In a secondary position were the areas of
 Services Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities,
 Financial, Stock Market Foodstuffs and beverages
 and Insurance Activities Banks which covered 12% of total emissions (4 in local cur-
 Foodstuffs and beverages Other rency and 2 in foreign currency), and Banks with 9% of
 Banks Electric Energy the same (2 placements in local currency; see Chart 7.5).
 Real Estate Activities Oil and Gas
 Other Real Estate Activities
 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% In the segment of securities in local currency, the aver-
 Source: IAMC and BCBA % % % % % % age rate (weighted by amounts issued) for variable yield
 securities reached 15.4%, while for fixed rate placements
 it was 14.5%. In the case of securities in foreign currency,
 all placements were at fixed rate. The average rate for
Chart 7.6 short-duration emissions was 5.9%, while in the case of
 Rates of Private Securities in Pesos, LEBACs and NOBACs longer duration securities (greater than two years) it rose
 to 11.2%. The average duration for securities in pesos
 18 % % Rates in Pesos 12 Rates in Dollars was 16.1 months, while for the segment

 17 11

 16 10
15 9 remainder was 43.5 months. In the local currency
 14 8 market, the interest rate spread between variable rate
 13 7 placements and the yield of the last NOBAC auction in the month (for similar duration values) is
 Tasa Fija Tasa Fija en US$ located in a range between 1 p.p. and 3.5 p.p.. In turn, the
 12 Tasa Variable 6
 LEBAC 28-Dec rate differential between private debt issues at
 11 NOBAC 28-Dec 5
 fixed rate and the yield of LEBAC was located between 1.5
 10 4
 0 5 10 15 20 25 300102030405060 p.p. and 2.5 p.p. (see Chart 7.6).

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 16 Investment Funds

 During December, Investment Funds
 (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, reached their
 maximum value in the last two years, ending the
 month with a total equity of $20,500 million. This
 level implied a monthly growth of 4.9% and 21% annually.

 On one hand, FCIs in national currency concluded
 the year with a total equity of $18,700 million, with
 a monthly increase of 5.1%, explained almost exclusively by the money market segment (see Chart
 7.7). Thus, they totaled the maximum annual growth in the last 4 years (25.9%), driven mainly by
 the fixed income segment.

 In particular, during the last month, money market
Chart 7.7 funds grew 9.6% to close the year with an equity of $9,050 million, barely 1.1% higher than

 Thousands of Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos
 December 2009. The monthly variation was caused
 of millions $
 Fixed Income (Variation Dec-10 vs. Nov-10) by a greater number of shares. Second, the
 18 thousands of
 Mixed Income 1,000 variable income segment increased 6.9% in the month,
 16 Variable Income 900
 63 through its prices, to end the period with an
 14 Money Market 800
 12 700 equity of $1,790 million and a year-on-year decline of

 600 2.9%. It should be noted that this type of funds experi-
 10
 500 enced declines during the first eight months of the year.
 8 790
 400 On the other hand, the mixed income segment increased its equity
 6 300
 4 200 by 4.6% compared to November due to
 2 100 increases in both prices and the number of shares. This is how it ended the year with a total equity of $1,440 million, more than tripling the value of
 0 -54 December of last year. Finally, the fixed income segment
 0 -100
 Jul-04 Jul-05 Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 retreated 0.8% during the last month due to
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA
 a decrease in the number of registered shares.
 In any case, it totaled an annual growth of
 77.3%.

 With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, despite
 showing a monthly increase of 2%, they accumulated
 an annual decrease of 13.1%, ending the year with
 an equity of u$s 455 million ($1,810 million). The
 monthly increase was caused by an increase in the equity of mixed income funds (10.6%) and the
 fixed income segment (1.3%). In both cases it was due to
 the increase in prices and the number of registered shares. The variable income and money
 market segments showed practically no changes compared
 to the previous month. During 2010, the variable income segment
 suffered the largest loss of equity (59%) that could not
 be offset by increases in the fixed income segments (19.7%) and mixed income (61.5%). Money
 market funds, the smallest segment, were reduced by 6.8% in the year.

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 17 Financial Trusts7
 Chart 7.8 The issuances of FF totaled around $1,200 mi-

 Issuances of Financial Trusts llion in the last month of the year through 28 operations,
 (monthly amounts and accumulated in the year)
 $7.390 M two of which were intended to finance
 millions $ Infrastructure
 3.000 millions $ Rest infrastructure works, in one case linked to the sector
20,000 energy ($107 million) and in the other to the construction

2,500 18,000 of homes ($60 million). Said amount represents

16,000 approximately 50% less compared to what was issued in No-
2,000 14,000
9,961 vember, a month in which two placements had also been
12,000 recorded aimed at financing infrastructure projects,
1,500 +225%
10,000 although for a higher amount ($1,450 million in total).
1,000 8,000 3,067 Excluding this type of issuance, the amount placed in De-
6,000 cember turns out to be slightly higher than that of No-
+27% 8,398
500 4,000 6,624 vember and the highest of the year. Throughout 2010,
2,000 FF issuances accumulated $18,360 million, 90% more
0 0 than in 2009, an increase that is explained mainly by
Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 2009 2010 the significant growth of placements linked to infrastruc-
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others ture (see Chart 7.8).

Chart 7.9 Regarding the underlying assets, in December those linked
to consumption predominated, and in particular, personal
millions $ Fiduciants loans (60% of the total), as was the case for the rest of
(amounts issued) the year if FF of infrastructure are not considered, which
3,000 Participation are backed entirely by future fund flows.

2,400 39%
19%
6% Among the fiduciants, retail stores stood out (39% of the
1,800 1,450
14% 22% total), with an increase in securitized amounts of 23%
1,200 compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.9). For their
-35% 167 part, mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank
350 229 +16%
600 223 258 credit card issuers and financial entities had similar partici-
383 471 +23% pation (22% and 19% of the total, respectively), although
0 in the first case an increase in the securitized amount of
Nov-10 Dec-10 16% was observed compared to the previous month, while

Fiduciants linked to FF infrastructure financial entities issued 35% less than in November. The
Financial Entities remainder corresponded to fiduciants linked to infrastruc-
Mutual Associations, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers ture trust funds.
Retail Stores
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others Others

Chart 7.10 The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos, with a
duration of less than 14 months, remained without major
FF Cut-Off Rates changes. The cut-off rate (amount-weighted average) of
(titles A in pesos - weighted monthly averages by amount) titles adjudicated at variable rate stood in December at
% 13.9%, registering a slight increase compared to the pre-
40 Variable Yield 40 Fixed Yield
Duration up to 13 months vious month (0.3 p.p.), in line with the evolution of the
Duration between 14 and 30 months Duration up to 13 months wholesale term deposit rate. Additionally, two variable rate
Duration greater than 30 months BADLAR Private Banks operations were recorded in the longer duration tranches
35 BADLAR Private Banks 35 corresponding to the two infrastructure FF mentioned
earlier. In the case of the FF for the construction of homes,
30 30 which recorded a duration greater than 30 months, the
25 25

20 20

15 15

10 10

5 5
Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10

Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

7 Only trust funds with public offering are considered.
Stock of Underlying Assets of FF by type of Fiduciary

(millions of $)

24,000 - Fiduciaries linked to FF of infrastructure
20,000 - Financial Entities
         Mutual funds, Cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
16,000 - Retail Commerce
         Others
12,000 -

8,000 -

4,000 -

0 -
     2006-III 2007-I 2007-III 2008-I 2008-III 2009-I 2009-III 2010-I 2010-III

Source: own elaboration based on CNV data
Loans to private sector 161.637 154.891 119.128 119.128 4.4% 3.4% 35.7% 22.2%
 Advances 22.051 21.475 17.591 17.591 2.7% 1.8% 25.4% 12.9%
 Documents 33.741 31.779 22.289 22.289 6.2% 5.2% 51.4% 36.4%
 Mortgage loans 19.945 19.607 17.741 17.741 1.7% 0.8% 12.4% 1.3%
 Pawn loans 9.421 9.001 7.061 7.061 4.7% 3.7% 33.4% 20.2%
 Personal loans 39.360 38.131 30.055 30.055 3.2% 2.3% 31.0% 18.0%
 Credit cards 26.326 24.572 17.705 17.705 7.1% 6.2% 48.7% 34.0%
 Others 10.793 10.326 6.687 6.687 4.5% 3.6% 61.4% 45.4%

 Loans to public sector 20.210 19.748 17.338 17.338 2.3% 1.4% 16.6% 5.0%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 7.412 7.069 5.236 5.236 4.9% 41.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + checking account 195.476 181.499 153.441 153.441 7.7% 6.7% 27.4% 14.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 252.067 233.122 196.795 196.795 8.1% 7.2% 28.1% 15.4%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 404.578 388.377 298.321 298.321 4.2% 3.2% 35.6% 22.2%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 467.858 451.328 343.206 343.206 3.7% 2.7% 36.3% 22.8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public+ cancellatory checks in pesos+ private checking 167.219 156.909 125.906 125.906 6.6% 5.6% 32.8% 19.7%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 220.535 205.187 165.647 165.647 7.5% 6.5% 33.1% 20.0%
 M3 ((Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 311.342 295.084 237.185 237.185 5.5% 4.6% 31.3% 18.3%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency 357.213 340.177 275.269 275.269 5.0% 4.1% 29.8% 16.9%

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 20 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 10.692 6.8% 18.225 11.7% 37.443 24.0% 37.443 24.0%
 Financial sector 3.119 2.0% 3.971 2.5% -1.321 -0.8% -1.321 -0.8%
 Public sector 4.268 2.7% 6.044 3.9% 14.030 9.0% 14.030 9.0%
 Private external sector 3.945 2.5% 11.637 7.5% 46.642 29.9% 46.642 29.9%
 BCRA securities -245 -0.2% -2.522 -1.6% -19.876 -12.7% -19.876 -12.7%
 Others -394 -0.3% -906 -0.6% -2.032 -1.3% -2.032 -1.3%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -104 -0.2% 1.212 2.3% 4.415 8.5% 4.415 8.5%
 Foreign exchange market intervention 992 1.9% 2.936 5.6% 11.931 22.9% 11.931 22.9%
 Payment to international organizations 187 0.4% 224 0.4% 1.416 2.7% 1.416 2.7%
 Other public sector operations -102 -0.2% -2.129 -4.1% -3.657 -7.0% -3.657 -7.0%
 Minimum cash -1.018 -2.0% 11 0.0% -1.635 -3.1% -1.635 -3.1%
 Remainder (including foreign exchange valuation) -163 -0.3% 170 0.3% -3.595 -6.9% -3.595 -6.9%

SDR allocations 2009 0 0 -1.241 -1.241

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic accounting and SISCEN Information System.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash
Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.8 15.4 15.3
 Integration 16.3 15.7 15.7
 Position (2) 0.5 0.3 0.4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 56.0 51.5 53.3
 30 to 59 days 25.5 24.4 19.2
 60 to 89 days 6.9 12.8 12.8
 90 to 179 days 6.1 5.2 8.0
 more than 180 days 5.6 6.1 6.7
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21.1 21.1 20.9
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 69.5 73.4 74.2
 Position (2) 48.4 52.2 53.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 59.4 57.3 57.3
 30 to 59 days 22.3 23.4 21.9
 60 to 89 days 8.4 9.8 10.8
 90 to 179 days 7.6 7.2 7.6
 180 to 365 days 2.2 2.2 2.3
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 21 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.70 9.42 10.12 9.03 9.03
 Amount traded 781 867 879 710 710

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 9.57 9.38 9.33 9.45 9.45
 60 days or more 10.67 10.39 10.18 10.49 10.49
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.25 9.71 9.72 9.63 9.63
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.12 10.81 10.70 9.82 9.82

 In dollars
 30 days 0.27 0.27 0.28 0.37 0.37
 60 days or more 0.60 0.62 0.60 0.75 0.75
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.36 0.36 0.41 0.42 0.42
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.51 0.58 0.50 0.50

 Active Interest Rates Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.97 11.27 10.61 11.06 11.06
 Amount traded (total terms) 216 191 201 194 194

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 19.23 19.15 18.62 21.28 21.28
 Documents on sole signature 14.81 14.69 15.08 16.08 16.08
 Mortgage loans 14.59 14.65 14.48 13.53 13.53
 Pledge loans 17.49 17.32 17.40 18.22 18.22
 Personal loans 29.10 31.09 29.64 32.47 32.47
 Credit cards 30.54 32.01 32.02 31.45 31.45

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.10 11.57 11.26 10.70 10.70

 International Interest Rates Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

LIBOR
 1 month 0.26 0.25 0.26 0.23 0.23
 6 months 0.46 0.45 0.46 0.45 0.45

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.61 0.45 0.37 0.86 0.86
 10 years 3.27 2.74 2.51 3.59 3.59

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.75 10.75 10.75 8.75 8.75

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 22 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Repurchase agreement rates total REPO round
 1 day 9.20 9.04 9.17 9.06 9.06
 7 days 9.53 9.51 9.51 9.61 9.61

Amount traded in repurchase agreements REPO round (daily average) 5,973 8,679 8,591 4,490 4,490

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 10.86 10.90 n/o n/o n/o
 2 months 10.93 11.05 n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 11.10 11.05 n/o 12.75 12.75
 9 months n/o 12.05 12.75 n/o n/o
 12 months 13.05 12.68 13.03 14.40 14.40

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.81 1.75 1.67 n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.07 2.02 2.20 n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.52 2.68 n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 341 355 438 167 167
Foreign Exchange Market Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 3.98 3.97 3.96 3.80 3.80
 BCRA Reference 3.98 3.97 3.96 3.81 3.81

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.00 3.99 3.98 3.84 3.84
 ROFEX 1 month 4.01 4.00 3.99 3.84 3.84
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 1095 1081 943 1153 1153

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.35 2.32 2.35 2.17 2.17

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.26 5.42 5.50 5.55 5.55

 Capital Markets Dec-10 Nov-10 Oct-10 Dec-09 Dec-09

MERVAL
 Index 3,429 3,252 2,769 2,229 2,229
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 94 112 84 49 49

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 95.27 93.44 92.25 88.12 88.12
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 93.34 94.00 89.07 73.99 73.99
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.49 93.06 91.07 77.20 77.20
 DISCOUNT ($) 85.48 83.23 74.92 59.83 59.83

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 529 628 662 824 824
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 292 297 306 335 335

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 239. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: Year-over-year.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Information Requirements of the BCRA.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | December 2010 | BCRA | 24
