# Monthly Monetary Report
October 2010 Monthly Monetary Report
October 2010

## Contents

Page 3 | 1. Summary

Page 4 | 2. Monetary Aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Banking Liquidity

Page 6 | 4. Loans

Page 7 | 5. Interest Rates
Page 7 | Securities Issued by the Central Bank
Page 8 | Interfinancial Markets
Page 8 | Repo Market
Page 9 | Interbank Market
Page 9 | Passive Interest Rates
Page 10 | Active Interest Rates

Page 11 | 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Markets

Page 11 | 7. Capital Markets
Page 11 | Stocks
Page 13 | Public Securities
Page 13 | Private Securities
Page 14 | Investment Funds
Page 15 | Financial Trusts

Page 17 | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 21 | 9. Glossary

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on November 10, 2010. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The sustained dynamism of economic activity continued driving the expansion of private sector money demand, both motivated by transactional purposes and destined for savings. In this context, total means of payment (M2) reached an average balance of $229,480 million in October, presenting a monthly growth of 3.7% (28.1% y.o.y.). Meanwhile, private means of payment (private M2) showed an increase of 2.7% (33% y.o.y.), registering increases in both sight deposits and currency in circulation held by the public.

• Deposits belonging to the private sector continued their growth path, presenting an increase of 2.9% (31.2% y.o.y.). Sight deposits increased 3%, observing increases of similar magnitude in savings account deposits and current account deposits. Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits continued increasing, registering in October a growth of 2.8% ($2,200 million), with increases in the wholesale and, mainly, retail segments.

• In October, banking liquidity (defined as the sum of cash in banks, the current account at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities) averaged 40.9% of total deposits in pesos, 0.3 percentage points higher than observed in September.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector presented an acceleration in their growth rate, favored by seasonal factors, reflected mainly in the increase of advances in current accounts and financing with credit cards, although generalized increases were observed in all lines. In this way, they grew on average 4.4% ($6,385 million), registering a year-over-year variation of 30.6%, 3.9 percentage points more than recorded in September. Credits destined mainly to commercial activity doubled their monthly variation rate by increasing 5% ($2,930 million) in October, presenting similar increases among their main lines.

• During October, the most representative passive interest rates remained relatively stable. The interest rate paid by private financial entities for peso deposits of up to 35 days and more than $1 million (BADLAR) was situated at 10.7%, increasing by 0.2 percentage points with respect to the previous month. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate paid in the retail segment (up to $100 thousand) remained around 9.1%.
• In general terms, the interest rates applied to credits in pesos did not show significant variations with respect to September. In particular, among those charged for commercial loans, the average monthly interest rates for the total of overdrafts in current accounts and financing granted in the form of documents remained at the same levels as September, 18.6% and 13.3%, respectively. The average monthly interest rate for personal loans also remained at the average level of September, standing at 29.5%.

• The stock of international reserves accumulated an increase of u$s793 million (1.2%) in October, standing at the end of the month at u$s51.918 billion.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 3 

2. Monetary Aggregates1

Graph 2.1
Monetary Aggregates
(October 2010, in average)

The sustained dynamism of economic activity continued driving the expansion of money demand from the private sector, both that motivated for transactional purposes and that intended for savings. In this context, total means of payment (M2) reached in October an average balance of $229,480 million, presenting a monthly growth of 3.7% (28.1% annualized). Meanwhile, private means of payment (M2 private) showed a somewhat smaller increase, of 2.7% (33% annualized), registering increases both in sight deposits and in currency in circulation in the hands of the public (see Graph 2.1).

[Graph 2.1 shows breakdown of deposits:]
- Deposits in US$ from Public Sector
- Deposits in US$ from Private Sector
- Other Deposits
- M3*: 3.6%
- Time Deposits (M3): 3.3%
- Sight Deposits (M2): 3.7%
- Bills and Coins

Source: BCRA

The growth of total M2 was explained mainly by the secondary creation of money since loans to the private sector continued on an upward trend, showing an acceleration in its expansion rate in relation to previous months (see Loans section). On the side of primary creation, the purchases of foreign currency made by the Central Bank appear in the market and the operations of the public sector. Meanwhile, the growth exhibited by time deposits acted as a factor for absorption of means of payment, which partially compensated for the mentioned expansive effects.

Graph 2.2
Factors Explaining the Variation of M2
(thousands of millions of $ - October 2010, in average)

[Graph showing bars ranging from -9 to 9, with factors:]
- Foreign Currency Purchases
- Public Sector*
- Loans to Private Sector
- Time Deposits and Others
- M2

*Includes loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base.

Source: BCRA

For its part, the monetary base registered a growth of 3% (see Graph 2.3), showing a monthly average balance of $142,096 million. The main expansion factor of the monetary base in October were the purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank, which continued being partially sterilized through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC. Meanwhile, financial entities reduced their liquidity maintained in repurchase agreements at the Central Bank (see Liquidity section), which also originated expansion of the monetary base.

In October, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) registered a growth of 3.3% (34.8% annualized). In the same sense, private M3 presented a monthly increase of 2.7% (31.3% annualized).

Graph 2.3
Factors Explaining the BM
(thousands of millions of $ - October 2010, in average)

[Graph showing bars ranging from -4 to 5]

The total balance of deposits in domestic currency exhibited in the period an increase of 3.6% (36% annualized), with increases both in those of the private sector and in those of the public sector.

The deposits belonging to the private sector continued with their upward trend, presenting an increase of [text appears to be cut off]
-5 2.9% (31.2% y.o.y.). Sight deposits increased
 Public Sector Purchases LEBAC and Repos Other BM
 Foreign Exchange* NOBAC 3%, with increases of similar magnitude
 *Includes Central Bank intervention
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 4 observed in deposits in savings accounts and current
 accounts. Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits continued
 to increase, registering in October a growth of 2.8%
 Chart 2.4 ($2,200 million; see Chart 2.4), with increases in
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector the wholesale and, mainly, retail segments. Meanwhile,
 % (variations of monthly averages) % deposits belonging to the public sector increased 5.1%,
 5 30 recording increases in both fixed-term placements
 4.4 and sight deposits.
 4.0 3.9
 4 3.6 25
 2.8 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed
 3 2.4 2.7 2.5 20
 2.0 2.0 an expansion of 5.6%, explained essentially by public
 2 1.8 1.5 15 sector placements. For their part, private deposits re-
 1 0.5 0.5 10 corded a slight increase (0.7%), presenting increases of
 0.1
 0 5 similar magnitude in fixed-term deposits and sight
 -0.3 Monthly variation 0 placements. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*,
 -1 -0.7 Y.o.y. variation which includes currency in circulation and total deposits
 -2 -1.8 -5 in pesos and foreign currency, showed a monthly in-
 -3 -2.4 -10 crease of 3.6%.
 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10

 Source:

 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos (monthly average)
 % of deposits
 Cash CCBCRA Net Repos Lebac In October, the main sources of funding for financial
 45 entities were the increase in deposits and the decrease
 40 in repos at the Central Bank. These resources were
 35 applied fundamentally to the granting of loans to the
 30 private sector and to increasing liquidity maintained
 25 in LEBAC and NOBAC, and in cash.

 20

 15 In particular, the increase in credit to the private sec-
 tor was equivalent to 60% of the growth of deposits in
 10 pesos.
 5

 0 Thus, bank liquidity (defined as the sum of cash in
 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 banks, the current account at the BCRA, net repos with
Source: BCRA the BCRA and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC by
 entities) averaged 40.9% of total deposits in pesos
 Chart 3.2 (see Chart 3.1). The assets computable as integration
 Minimum Cash Position of the minimum cash regime represented 15.7% of total
 % of deposits in pesos, increasing by 2 p.p., with respect
 deposits Surplus Daily position Accumulated position to September as a result of a decrease in the current
 2.0 account of entities at the BCRA, more than offset by
 1.5 an increase in cash in banks. Thus the minimum cash
 position resulted in having a daily surplus throughout
 1.0 the entire month, and on average ended at 0.5% of de-
 0.5 posits in pesos (see Chart 3.2). For their part, the net
 0.5
 0.0 repos of financial entities with the BCRA decreased in
 -0.5 terms of deposits by 0.4 p.p. on average, reaching
 -1.0 2.9%, while LEBAC and NOBAC increased by 0.6 p.p.,
 with respect to September (averaging in October 22.3%
 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 of total deposits in pesos).
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 5 For its part, in the foreign currency segment, the
Chart 4.1 minimum cash position registered a surplus higher than

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % that of the previous month, in part as a consequence of
 millions $ (var. of monthly averages) 70 greater integration by public banks, asso-
Oct-10 vs. Sep-10 linked to the inflow of resources from the placement
 6.000 60
 52,7 Var. y.o.y. (right axis) of debt securities in this currency. Said increase
 5.000 50

 44,0 more than offset the decrease in integration as a
 4.000 44,8 40
 consequence of the application of resources in foreign
 3.000 23,8 26,8 30
 30,6 24,6 currency (loans in such denomination), which shows
 2.000 20
 an increase in the last four months. In this way, the
 1.000 8,5 10 integration exceeded the requirement by 54% of dollar
 0 0 deposits.

 Commercial Consumption Real Guarantee4. Loans1 2

 Source: BCRA
 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed in October
 an acceleration in their growth rate, favored by seasonal
 factors, reflected mainly in the increase in overdrafts on
 Chart 4.2 current account and credit card financing, although
 Commercial Loans Index generalized increases were observed in all lines (see
 % 1993=100
 12 200 Chart 4.1). In this way, they grew on average 4.4%
 Overdrafts - monthly avg. var. ($6,385 million), registering a year-over-year variation
 10 Documents - monthly avg. var.
 8 EMAE 180 of 30.6%, 3.9 p.p. higher than that registered in
 6 September.

 160
 4
 Credits destined mainly to commercial activity doubled
 2 their monthly variation rate by increasing 5% ($2,930
 140
 0 million) in October, showing similar increases among
 their main lines. Financing implemented through docu-
 -2 120 ments continued showing the high growth levels of pre-
 -4 vious months, registering in the last month an increase
 -6 100 of 4.9% ($1,420 million). On the other hand, overdrafts
 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 on current account, which in August and September had
 Source: BCRA and INDEC practically halted their expansion rate, resumed their
 growth path, accompanying the higher level of economic
 activity that is usually observed towards the end of each
 Chart 4.3 year. In this way, they increased 5% ($1,025 million;
 % Consumption Loans see Chart 4.2) in the month. The rest of commercial
 8 Personal - monthly avg. var. 90 financing grew 5.5% ($485 million).

 Credit Cards - monthly avg. var.
 Personal - y.o.y. var. (right axis) 80
 6 Credit Cards - y.o.y. var. (right axis) 70 Credits oriented mainly towards consumption grew in
 October 4.4% ($2,670 million), showing an acceleration
 4 60 in their expansion rate. To the dynamism that personal
 50 loans have been showing in recent months, is added in
 2
 40 October the boost from credit card financing, as a result
 0 30 of higher consumption associated with Mother's Day. In
 fact, personal loans grew in the month 3.9% ($1,470
 20
 million; see Chart 4.3), a variation similar to that
 -2 10
 registered in September. When observing the evolution
 -4 0 of the amounts granted during the last months:
 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10
 Source: BCRA

 2 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 6

 Chart 4.4
 Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (amounts granted by amount stratum - total country) months, an increase is observed from around
100 3.9 4.0 4.1 4.0
 5.3 5.8 6.3 6.2 $1,680 million in July to $2,300 million in October,
 90
 13.3 13.7 13.8 13.5 $75,000 and above observing increases of similar magnitude in each
 80
 70 14.7 14.7 14.5 14.2 $50,000 to $74,999 one of the amount strata. In this way, the participa-
 tion of each one of them in the total granted was main-
 60 $30,000 to $49,999 tained relatively stable (see Chart 4.3). In the last
 50 25.4 24.1 23.8 23.7
 40 $20,000 to $29,999 month approximately 38% of the new loans
 
 $10,000 to $19,999 were granted for amounts less than $10,000, 51%
 30 16.4 16.2 17.0 17.3 between $10,000-$50,000 and 10% was lent for more
 20 $5,000 to $9,999
 10 21.1 21.4 20.5 21.1 than $50,000. In the same direction, when disaggregating the

 Up to $4,999 amounts granted by term stratum, it is found that
 0
 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 they grew in almost all brackets and that the
Source: BCRA most relevant stratum is that of 1 to 5 years term, which
 concentrates 76% of the amounts. Meanwhile, credit card
 Chart 4.5 financings showed greater dynamism, registering in
 Loans with Real Guarantee October an increase of 5.3% ($1,200 million).

 thousands of
 % units thousands of
 6 70 % units
 Pledged - avg. monthly var. 5 12 For its part, loans with real guarantee evidenced
 Mortgages - avg. monthly var.
 5 Sale of automobiles to October an increase of 2.8% ($785 million). Pledged
 4 Deeds (right axis)* 10
 domestic market (right axis) 60
 4 loans registered a growth of
 3 3 8 4.9% ($410 million), in line with the high levels
 50
 of automobile sales. In the same direction, mortgage
 2 2 6
 loans grew at relatively high rates, increasing in the
 1 40 1 4 month by 1.9% ($375 million), accompanying the
 0 improvement in the real estate market (see Chart 4.5).
 30
 0 2 In this regard, it is worth noting that since the
 -1
 beginning of 2010 there is an increasing participa-
 -2 20 -1 0
 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 tion of operations in the real estate market carried out
 
 *Information on deeds from the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires from the Argentine Real Estate Chamber.
 Source: BCRA, ADEFA and Argentine Real Estate Chamber. with mortgages, since the proportion of mortgages over
 the total of deeds in the City of Buenos Aires
 increased from 6.1% in February to 8.5% in Septem-
 Chart 4.6 ber (see Chart 4.6).
 Proportion of Mortgages over Deeds Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 % (12-month average) continued growing driven by financings
 12 implemented through documents, registering in Oc-
 11 tober an increase of 3.1% (u$s200 million).
 10 Dec-07
 9 8.7 Sep-10 8.5 5. Interest Rates
 8
 6 Titles issued by the BCRA3
 Feb-10
 6.1
 5
 4 During October, in the primary market of LEBAC
 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 interest rates showed a significant decrease for all
 Source: own elaboration based on information from the Argentine Real Estate Chamber. terms, mainly in the longer ones, with the one-year
 LEBAC rate standing around 13% (more than 0.7 p.p.
 lower than the previous month). In contrast, in the
 3 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated. case of NOBAC, greater placement was recorded driven
 
 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 7 by higher-term instruments
Yield Curve of LEBAC and NOBAC average term in relation to what was observed in September. The margins paid over the BADLAR rate of
LEBAC NOBAC - Margin over Badlar
private banks were lower for shorter terms,
% %
15 3.2 while for placements longer than one and a half
years did not show significant changes
14
2.7
compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.1, where the size
13
2.2 of each circle indicates the distribution of the total amount
awarded among different terms).
12
The total amount awarded exceeded the maturities of the
28-Sep-10 1.7 28-Sep-10
month, generating a monetary contraction through
11 26-Oct-10
26-Oct-10 these instruments (see Monetary Aggregates Section).
As a consequence, the stock of securities in circulation
10 1.2
0 100 200 300 400 500 600100 200 300 400 500 600 700 increased, placing itself at a value close to $74,000
Source: BCRA
million, 2% above the previous month. Said increase was
reflected only in the holdings of banks, which
increased 3%, reaching a stock close to
$64,000 million. Finally, it is worth highlighting the growth
of NOBAC, which after having increased
their stock by almost 40% monthly, already represent more
than 22% of the total securities in circulation (6 p.p. more
than in the previous month).

Chart 5.2

LEBAC - Secondary Market Driven by lower amounts traded of LEBAC, the
amount traded in the secondary market of the securities
Interest Rate Distribution of the amount traded
% in October by term
15.5 40% issued by the Central Bank recorded a decrease

14.5 of approximately 15% monthly. The interest rates of said
30%
13.5 instruments decreased mainly in negotiations
whose terms were longer than 3 months,
12.5
20% remaining at similar levels for shorter periods. For its part,
39%
11.5 the terms traded concentrated
32%
10.5 October - Secondary Market among species with maturities of less than
10%
13% 15 days and those around 6 months of term (see
9.5 September - Secondary Market 10%
7% Chart 5.2). On the other hand, in this market, just as in
Days 0%
0 80 160 240 320 400 480Up to 60 days 90 days 180 days More than the primary market, greater participation of
30 days 181 days NOBAC was observed compared to the previous month.
Source: BCRA
They increased their traded values by more than 75%
monthly, prioritizing those terms close to 90
days. In this way, NOBAC reached a participation of 6% of the total traded in the month, 3 p.p. higher
than its representation in September.

Interfinancial Markets

Repo Market¹

The interest rates of active and passive repo operations
remained at the same levels as in previous months. In effect, the interest rates of passive repos
remained at 9% and 9.5% for 1 and 7 days of
term respectively, while those of active repos at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 8 The monthly average balance of passive repos for the
BCRA (including all the modalities in which
it operates) decreased by approximately $1,000 million
compared to September. As in previous months,
no active repos were recorded, while the
monthly average of passive repos was placed at $12,300
million. It is worth noting that 60% of the average balance
of the total passive repos of the BCRA was conducted at 1 day of
term, with the remainder corresponding to operations for 7 days.

Interbank Market¹
In October, interest rates in the interbank market
(call) averaged 10.1%, both for the total of
operations and for those carried out at 1 business
day, with an increase of 0.7 p.p. compared to Sep-
tember. For its part, the average interest rate
in the market for repo operations between financial entities (ex-
cluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day
was 10.2%, also with an increase of 0.7 p.p. compared to the
previous month.

Along with the increase in the level of rates, there was also
an increase in the negotiated volume, in the
measures of dispersion, and in the risk premium between
Chart 5.3 operations with and without collateral. In the first case, the
increase in the negotiated amount was 31%, if com-

p.p. Risk Premium of the Interbank Market pared to the last six days of October, with the rest of the month,

5.5 Between operations with and without collateral. Operations at 1 business day.

p.p. for operations at 1 business day. The daily average
0.7 of the negotiated amount was $970 million in the
4.5 30-day Moving Average 0.5 call market, and $2,300 million in the repo market

0.3 at 1 business day.

3.5

0.1

2.5 All measures of dispersion showed slight increases.
-0.1 In particular, the difference between the monthly average
01-Aug 16-Aug 31-Aug 15-Sep 30-Sep 15-Oct 30-Oct of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed
1.5 each day was in October 3.7 p.p., 0.9 p.p. more than in
September, while the standard deviation of the opera-
0.5 tions was 0.7%, 0.2 p.p. higher than the previous month.

-0.5
There was also a slight increase in the standard deviation of the
May-08 Oct-08 Mar-09 Aug-09 Jan-10 Jun-10 repo operations between banks, which was 0.4%,
0.13 p.p. greater than the previous month.

In this framework of greater dispersion of interest rates in the
interbank loan market, it was observed punctually on the days in
which the negotiated amount increased (the last six days of the
month) a greater risk premium between operations with or without
collateral (repos and call, respectively, see Chart 5.3).

Passive Interest Rates ¹

During October, the most representative
passive interest rates remained relatively stable. The in-
terest rate paid by private financial entities for depo-

Chart 5.4 sits in pesos of up to 35 days and for
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days more than $1 million (BADLAR) was 10.7%, in-
14 creasing by 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month. Mean-
while, the monthly average of the interest rate paid

13 in the retail segment (up to $100 thousand), remained at
around 9.1% (see Chart 5.4).

12

Oct. Average 11 In the BADLAR interest rate futures market, a lower
10.7 negotiated amount was recorded at similar rates
10 Apr. Average compared to the previous month. As in September, the
9.3 Up to $100 thousand Private Banks interest rate for contracts maturing at year-end
BADLAR Private Banks was around 11.1%. On the other hand, the longer
9 maturity negotiated during October corresponds to the
contracts with maturity in January 2012, whose rate
8 was around 13.6%.
Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10
Source: BCRA

Active Interest Rates ¹⁴

In general terms, the interest rates applied to
loans in pesos showed no significant variations
compared to September.

In particular, among those charged for commercial
loans, the average monthly interest rate of the total of
overdrafts in current account was around
18.6%, showing no significant variations compared
to September. On the other hand, the average monthly interest rate of
advances to companies for more than $10 million
and of up to 7 days term, one of the most representative
segments within overdrafts in current aco-

Chart 5.5
**TNA (%) Active Interest Rates**
**Monthly Average**

35 32.9
32.3
Sep-10 Oct-10 29.4 29.5 of current, increased 0.6 p.p. during the month, moving to
30 around 11.3%, in a period in which this financing line
recovered momentum (see Loans Section).

25

20 18.5 18.6 On the other hand, the interest rate charged for discoun-
17.1 17.2
15.4 15.1 ted documents (which represent almost 80% of the total
15 13.3 14.3 13.3 14.3 documents) did not show monthly changes, remaining
at 13.3%. Meanwhile, the one corresponding to single-
10 signature documents decreased by 0.3 p.p., positioning
itself around 15.1%.
5

- 
Advances Documents a Discounted Mortgages Pawned Personal Credit
Totals Single Signature Documents Cards
Source: BCRA

Regarding interest rates for longer-term financing, no
differences are recorded compared to September. Indeed,
the average monthly interest rate for mortgages to fami-
lies was positioned at 14.3%, while the interest rates
corresponding to pawned guarantee financing remained
around 17.2%.

⁴ This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the country as a whole.

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 10

In line with the above, the average monthly interest rate
for personal loans was positioned at 29.5%, without
varying significantly compared to the September average
(see Chart 5.5). While the average monthly interest rate
for credit card financing registered a monthly increase
of 0.6 p.p., positioning itself around 33%.

**Chart 6.1**

**BCRA International Reserves**
**thousands of millions of u$s excluding SDR allocations 2009**

55

50 Oct-10
45

40

35

30

25
Oct-06 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10
Source: BCRA

---

## 6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market

The stock of international reserves continued increasing
in October, reaching u$s51,918 million at the end of the
month, which represented a record level (see Chart 6.1).
Such increase was driven by the Central Bank's foreign
exchange purchases in the Single and Free Exchange
Market (MULC) and the increase in foreign currency
current accounts of financial entities in this Institution.
Said inflows were partially offset by the outflow of
foreign currency associated with operations of the na-
tional public sector. Ultimately, the monthly variation in
international reserves amounted to u$s793 million (1.6%).

In the foreign exchange market, during October, the peso
remained relatively stable in relation to the United States
Dollar, accumulating a depreciation of 0.1%, below the
average depreciation of what has occurred so far this
year (see Chart 6.2). Thus, the average quotation in the
month was 3.96 $/U$S, while the forward contracts for
United States Dollar of the term market (ROFEX) contin-
ued incorporating low volatility in their expectations.
With this, the expected appreciation for the coming
months was more moderate compared to past expecta-
tions. For its part, the peso depreciated with respect to
the Real and the Euro, almost exclusively due to the
appreciation of such currencies in relation to the United
States Dollar (with a notable increase in the rate of
appreciation of the Euro). In this sense, the quotations
were 2.35 $/Real (+2.2%) and 5.5 $/Euro (+6.3%), for
each of the currencies mentioned.

**Chart 6.2**

**Nominal Reference Exchange Rate**
**$/US$**

4.0 Daily Quotation
Monthly Average Quotation
3.9

3.8 +0.1%
3.7 5% Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
3.6 4%
3%
3.5 2%
Average 2009: 0.9% Average 2010: 0.4%
3.4 1%
0%
3.3
-1%
3.2
Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10

* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
3.1
Oct-08 Dec-08 Feb-09 Apr-09 Jun-09 Aug-09 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10
Source: BCRA 7. Capital Markets

 Stocks

 In October, the most relevant stock markets for the
 Argentine economy showed homogeneous behavior, con-
 tinuing the generalized increases initiated in September
 of all indices, although at a softer pace. These increases were related
 to the prospect of a new round of non-conventional expan-
 sionary policies by the United States Federal

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 11 Reserve that would carry out purchases of
 Chart 7.1 medium and long-term securities for a significant amount.
 In contrast, the data that generated uncertainty on October
 Performance of Stock Indices Worldwide 19 was the unexpected increase in China's monetary
 (base index 02/07/07 = 100) policy rate, which had a negative impact on the markets be-
85 125 cause it increased fears of a currency war.
 15-Apr 25-Aug 19-Oct
 120
 In this sense, the variation between September and Oc-
75 115 tober of the MSCI Global measured in dollars was 3.6%,
 110 approaching the values of April, a period in which it reached
 65 105 its highest value in the year (see Chart 7.1). Like in the
 MSCI Global 100 month of September, MSCI Europe again demonstrated
 MSCI Europe 55 MSCI Japan 95 the largest growth with a variation of 5.5%. The main in-
 S&P 500 dex of the North American market, the S&P 500, increased
 MSCI Latam (right axis) 90 3.7%, followed by MSCI Latam and MSCI Japan with 3.1%
 45 85 and 2%, respectively. The stock market indices of the United
 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 States, Europe and Japan would be approaching their maxi-
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data mum values during this year, while the index for Latin
 America has already far exceeded it.

 During October, all the main markets in Latin America,
 measured in dollars, showed positive variations, although
 very different. The most notable increase was that of MER-
 VAL (Argentina) with an advance of 13.9%, due exclusively
 to the variation of the stock index. The IPC (Mexico)
 showed an increase of 8.9%, characterized in part by an ap-
 preciation of its currency of 2%. For its part, the IGBVL
 (Peru) increased 7.1%, with a very slight depreciation of its
 currency (0.5%). For its part, the IGPA (Chile) and BO-
 VESPA (Brazil) both grew 1.1%, with a depreciation of their
 local currencies of 1.2% and 0.7% respectively.

 Chart 7.2 In October, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in
 local currency again experienced a strong rise, in this

 3200 Evolution of the Merval Index case of 13.8%, to close the month at the historical high
 (in pesos) of 3,007 points. In the last two months it has
 3000 Increased 29% accumulated growth of 28.7%, in line with the good climate
 between August and
 2800 October in international financial markets (see Chart 7.2). In the
 last 12 months, MERVAL accumulates gains of 36.3%.
 2600

 Closing of the
 2400 MERVAL in The historical volatility of MERVAL - 22 trading sessions -,
 December 2009 in annualized terms and measured in dollars, had a slight
 2200 increase in October, rising 2.5 p.p. to close at 17%. In the
 same framework, the expected volatility of S&P 500 (mea-
 2000 sured by the VIX) on average in October was 20.4%, decline
 ing 2.1 p.p. with respect to the previous month.
 1800
 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 12 For its part, the volume traded daily, on average, on the Buenos
 Aires Stock Exchange was $80.4 million, 70% above the
 amount traded in September and 15% above the amount in
 October 2009. In any case, it should be noted that the amount
 traded in September was lower than the average of recent
 months.

 Public Securities
During October, there was a significant improvement in the quotation of public securities, while the volume of business in this market continued at elevated levels, linked in part to a better perception by the markets of securities from emerging countries.

**Chart 7.3
Sovereign Risk Indicators**

In this context, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies registered an improvement, with Argentina's standing out for its decline above the rest. The EMBI+, which measures the spreads of emerging countries as a whole, closed at 245 b.p., 32 basis points below the September value. Meanwhile, the spread of Latin America's foreign currency debt ended October at 298 b.p., that of Brazil at 175 b.p. and that of Argentina at 528 b.p., which implies declines of 36 b.p., 31 b.p. and 147 b.p., respectively. Similarly, the spread of Argentina's 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS) contracts (the most traded segment) fell 125 b.p. last month, while the same segment for Brazil did so by 16 b.p. (see Chart 7.3).

In October, the volume traded in public securities (on a daily average) in the local market, although it declined with respect to September by $350 million, having been $1,450 million, is the second highest since October 2008. However, with respect to October 2009, the amount traded increased by $480 million. These relatively high levels of trading are due, as mentioned, to the improvement in the perception by the markets of public securities from emerging countries.

**Private Securities**

In October, in the private debt market, six placements of negotiable obligations (ONs) were recorded, of which five were made in local currency, for a total amount of $420 million, and only one in foreign currency for u$s230 million.

Banco Santander Río S.A. placed debt for $184 million. Series I will pay, each quarter, a rate composed of the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin of 3 p.p.. Capital payment will be made in a single installment at maturity, 18 months after its issuance.

At the beginning of the month, Mercedes Benz Compañía Financiera S.A. placed two ONs. Series VI reached an amount of $40 million and will pay quarterly a fixed rate of 13.35%. Capital payment will be made in a single installment at the maturity of the instrument, 12 months after being issued. For its part, Series VII exceeded $46 million and will pay quarterly a rate equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin of 3.3 p.p.. Capital amortization will be carried out in 3 equal installments in months 15, 18 and 21, the date on which said obligation matures.

**Chart 7.4
Thousands Equity of FCIs in pesos
of millions $**

Also within the automotive sector, Toyota Compañía Financiera de Argentina S.A. issued its second series for a total of $70 million. This issuance will pay quarterly a variable interest rate composed of the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin of 3.15 p.p.. The instrument has a term of 21 months and will make its capital payments in three equal installments in months 15, 18 and 21.
6.0%
4
 Central Piedra Buena S.A. (thermal power plant of Pampa
2 1.4 1.3 4.0%
 16.0% 10.5% 4.8% Energía SA) issued its fifth series for a total of $80
0 0.7% 0.1% 2.0%
 million. This instrument will pay, every 90 days, a va-
-2 0.0%
 Variable Income Mixed Income Fixed Income Money Market TOTAL riable rate equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks
 plus a margin of 3 percentage points. This series matures
Source: BCRA and CAFCI
 360 days after its issuance, at which time the full pay-
 ment of capital will be made.

 Finally, Edenor S.A. (North Distribution and Marketing
 Company S.A.) invited subscriptions to a bond in dollars
 maturing in 2022 at a fixed rate of 9.75% in cash or in
 kind, through the delivery of Class 7 bonds maturing in
 2017. On October 26 the company reported that it ex-
 changed Class 7 bonds for 2022 bonds for a nominal
 value of u$s90 million and that, through cash subscrip-
 tion, it issued a nominal value of u$s140 million of
 bonds maturing in 2022. Additionally, the company
 purchased u$s33 million in cash of Class 7 bonds.

 Mutual Investment Funds

 The Mutual Investment Funds (FCI), in pesos and in
 foreign currency, reached in October a total equity of
 $18,930 million, showing a monthly increase of 4.4%.

 On one hand, the FCI in national currency closed the
 month with a total equity of $16,920 million, showing

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 14 an increase of 4.8% with respect to September,
 generalized to all its segments but driven mainly by the
 fixed income segment (see Chart 7.4). In effect, the
 fixed income segment increased 10.5%, closing the
 month at $6,100 million, again marking a historical
 maximum in equity and participation (it rose from 34
 to 36%). In the same line, the mixed income segment
 reached an equity of $1,290 million, with a monthly
 growth of 16%, and a participation of 7.6% (+0.7%).
 In both cases the increases were driven by rises in their
 respective prices and quantity of quotas. Through a rise
 in their prices, the variable income segment experienced
 a slight increase of 0.7%, ending the month at $1,410
 million. In this way, given the uneven performance so
 far this year, the variable income segment would go from
 quadrupling the equity of mixed income funds to being
 equivalent. Finally, money market funds remained rela-
 tively stable, increasing just 0.1%, totaling an equity of
 $8,110 million.

 With respect to the equity of FCI in foreign currency,
 a monthly increase of 0.8% was recorded, reaching a
 total equity of u$s508 million ($2,010 million). This
 growth was due, in large part, to the increase of fixed
 income FCI of 4.4% and, to a lesser extent, to mixed
 income of 4.7%. On the other hand, variable income
 funds declined 5.2%, accumulating a decrease of 38%
 so far this year. In all segments of funds in foreign cur-
 rency the quantity of quotas and prices moved in the
 same direction, with the exception of fixed income,
 whose increase was related to the quantity of quotas
 registered.

 Financial Trusts5

Chart 7.5
 If emissions of FF from the public sector are excluded,
 the amount issued in October, $754 million, is higher
Financial Trust Emissions than the monthly average of what was issued in the
 million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
 year, $635
1,400

 Amount issued in the month
1,200 Average Amount

 1,000 Avg. Avg.
 $820M
 Avg. Avg. $730M $635M
 800
 $580M Avg.
 $550M
 600

 400

 200

 0
 Jan-06 Aug-06 Mar-07 Oct-07 May-08 Dec-08 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10
Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and other millions (see Graph 7.5). In this way, an increase was observed in the total amount placed in the month of 25% compared to the previous month and 21% compared to the same period in 2009, accumulating so far this year around $14,715 million, although more than half (57%) corresponds to FF intended to finance productive projects and infrastructure works.

The underlying assets were concentrated exclusively in those linked to consumption. Personal loans, which were the most securitized assets throughout the year (not considering future fund flows, which in their majority correspond to FF linked to infrastructure works financing) constituted the totality of the securitized assets in the month.

Likewise, securitizations of this type of loan practically doubled compared to the previous month. In this way, it is noted that the amount issued of FF with personal loans as underlying reached the highest value since July 2008 (see Graph 7.6)

Regarding the fiduciaries, retail stores again had the highest participation in the total, being responsible for 45% of the amount issued in the month and registering an increase in their securitizations of 18% compared to September. For their part, financial entities (38% of the total) registered a considerable increase in the securitized amount, which was almost four times that of September, more than compensating for the decrease recorded that month, when a single operation had been recorded. In this way, the total amount placed in the month was similar to that of August. Meanwhile, mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers were fiduciaries of the remaining 17%, showing a decrease of 18% compared to the previous month.

Graph 7.6
Underlying Assets
millions of $ (excludes future fund flows)
1,000 Leasing Contracts
900 Secured Loans
Mortgage Loans
800 Public Securities
700 Commercial Credits
Credit Card Installments
600 Personal Loans
500
400
300 754
631
200 514 568
503 449
374 395 359
331
100
0
Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10
Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and other

The interest rates of the shorter duration senior titles in pesos evolved differently depending on their type of return, although their movements were limited. In fact, the interest rate cut (amount weighted average) of the titles awarded at variable rate registered in October a slight increase (0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month), similar to that observed in the wholesale time deposit segment, standing at 13.8%. In contrast, the one corresponding to titles agreed at a fixed rate reached a value of 12.8%, 0.8 p.p. below the September average (see Graph 7.7). For their part, the duration (amount weighted average) of the senior titles stood in October at around 6.3 months, a level similar to that recorded in September.

Graph 7.7
% Interest Rate Cuts of FF (titles A in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months - weighted monthly averages by amount)
40
35 Fixed Rate
Variable Rate
30 BADLAR private banks rate
25
20
15
10
5
Oct-06 Jun-07 Feb-08 Oct-08 Jun-09 Feb-10 Oct-10
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 16

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages
Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary and financial system variables Oct-10 Sep-10 Dec-09 Oct-09
Monthly Last 12 months
Nominal Real Nominal Real
Monetary base 142.096 137.879 118.661 107.280 3,1% 2,2% 32,5% 19,2%
 Monetary circulation 110.620 106.245 92.793 82.777 4,1% 3,3% 33,6% 20,3%
 In the hands of the public 97.180 94.958 81.591 73.990 2,3% 1,5% 31,3% 18,2%
 In financial entities 13.440 11.288 11.202 8.787 19,1% 18,1% 53,0% 37,7%
 Current account at the BCRA 31.476 31.633 25.868 24.503 -0,5% -1,3% 28,5% 15,6%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 12.224 13.087 6.959 10.964 -6,6% -7,3% 11,5% 0,4%
 Assets 3 0 34 398

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 59.348 59.142 34.743 26.271 0,3% -0,4% 125,9% 103,4%

 NOBAC 14.317 11.520 12.616 15.999 24,3% 23,3% -10,5% -19,4%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 51.607 50.920 47.717 45.733 1,3% 12,8%

 SDR allocation 2009 (5) 0 0 1.241 2.695

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 283.530 273.640 216.731 208.532 3,6% 2,8% 36,0% 22,4%
 Current account (2) 80.853 76.624 71.850 65.665 5,5% 4,7% 23,1% 10,8%
 Savings account 51.451 49.648 43.355 39.489 3,6% 2,8% 30,3% 17,3%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 138.004 134.755 90.057 92.956 2,4% 1,6% 48,5% 33,6%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 14 14 18 23 0,0% -0,8% -38,4% -44,5%
 Other deposits (3) 13.208 12.599 11.450 10.399 4,8% 4,0% 27,0% 14,3%

 Deposits of the private sector 190.548 185.133 155.594 145.201 2,9% 2,1% 31,2% 18,1%

 Deposits of the public sector 92.982 88.508 61.136 63.331 5,1% 4,2% 46,8% 32,2%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15.415 14.615 11.793 11.784 5,5% 30,8%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 169.847 163.541 136.465 131.628 3,9% 3,0% 29,0% 16,2%

 Loans to the private sector 150.080 143.807 119.128 114.926 4,4% 3,5% 30,6% 17,6%
 Advances 21.447 20.421 17.591 17.318 5,0% 4,2% 23,8% 11,5%
 Documents 30.532 29.111 22.289 21.081 4,9% 4,0% 44,8% 30,4%
 Mortgages 19.178 18.803 17.741 17.683 2,0% 1,2% 8,5% -2,4%
 Pledges 8.664 8.253 7.061 6.956 5,0% 4,1% 24,6% 12,1%
 Personal loans 36.876 35.517 30.055 29.079 3,8% 3,0% 26,8% 14,2%
 Credit cards 23.889 22.693 17.705 16.590 5,3% 4,4% 44,0% 29,6%
 Others 9.495 9.009 6.687 6.219 5,4% 4,6% 52,7% 37,4%

 Loans to the public sector 19.767 19.734 17.338 16.702 0,2% -0,6% 18,4% 6,5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.763 6.564 5.236 5.183 3,0% 30,5%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + current account in pesos) 178.033 171.581 153.441 139.656 3,8% 2,9% 27,5% 14,8%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 229.483 221.229 196.795 179.144 3,7% 2,9% 28,1% 15,3%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total deposits in pesos) 380.710 368.598 298.321 282.522 3,3% 2,5% 34,8% 21,3%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars) 441.703 426.346 343.206 327.618 3,6% 2,8% 34,8% 21,4%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (currency in the hands of the public + private current account in pesos) 152.694 148.927 125.906 114.392 2,5% 1,7% 33,5% 20,2%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 200.207 195.017 165.647 150.538 2,7% 1,8% 33,0% 19,7%
 M3 (currency in the hands of the public + total private deposits in pesos) 287.728 280.090 237.185 219.191 2,7% 1,9% 31,3% 18,2%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars) 332.427 324.480 275.269 257.962 2,4% 1,6% 28,9% 16,0%

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2010 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 4.217 3,0% 8.287 5,8% 23.435 16,5% 34.816 24,5%
 Financial sector 948 0,7% 3.072 2,2% -4.343 -3,1% -798 -0,6%
 Public sector 1.728 1,2% 4.835 3,4% 9.714 6,8% 11.969 8,4%
 Private external sector 4.083 2,9% 12.474 8,8% 39.088 27,5% 47.945 33,7%
 BCRA securities -2.354 -1,7% -11.632 -8,2% -19.708 -13,9% -22.718 -16,0%
 Others -189 -0,1% -462 -0,3% -1.315 -0,9% -1.583 -1,1%
International reserves of the BCRA excluding 2009 SDR allocations 687 1.4% 1,158 2.2% 3,890 7.5% 5,874 11.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1,033 2.0% 3,163 6.1% 10,027 19.4% 12,351 23.9%
 Payment to international organizations -4 0.0% -47 -0.1% 1,188 2.3% 3,182 6.2%
 Other public sector operations -1,601 -3.1% -2,088 -4.0% -3,130 -6.1% -5,010 -9.7%
 Minimum cash 932 1.8% -516 -1.0% -713 -1.4% -1,319 -2.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 327 0.6% 647 1.3% -3,438 -6.7% -3,285 -6.4%

2009 SDR allocations 0 0 -1,241 -2,695

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10
 (1)

Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.2 15.3 15.4
 Integration 15.7 15.5 15.7
 Position (2) 0.5 0.2 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 53.3 55.6 58.7
 30 to 59 days 19.2 21.0 21.0
 60 to 89 days 12.8 8.8 7.2
 90 to 179 days 8.0 7.6 6.3
 more than 180 days 6.7 6.9 6.8

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.5 20.5 20.6
 Integration (includes application of resources default) 74.2 70.1 71.2
 Position (2) 53.7 49.6 50.6
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 57.3 59.8 58.6
 30 to 59 days 21.9 21.6 23.4
 60 to 89 days 10.8 9.3 9.5
 90 to 179 days 7.6 7.1 6.7
 180 to 365 days 2.3 2.2 1.7
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data on Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

 Call in pesos (1 day)
 Rate 10.12 9.37 9.23 9.03 10.53
 Amount traded 973 914 807 710 581

 Fixed-Term
 In pesos
 30 days 9.33 9.44 9.27 9.45 11.09
 60 days or more 10.18 10.33 10.14 10.49 12.36
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.72 9.56 9.54 9.63 11.31
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.70 10.55 10.46 9.82 11.79

 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.30 0.30 0.37 0.58
 60 days or more 0.60 0.66 0.70 0.75 0.95
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.41 0.38 0.42 0.73
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.58 0.57 0.51 0.50 0.77

 Active Interest Rates Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 10.61 10.88 10.28 11.06 14.04
 Amount traded (all terms) 201 194 183 194 146

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 18.58 18.45 18.60 21.28 22.76
 Documents on signature alone 15.08 15.39 15.18 16.08 19.55
 Mortgage 14.35 14.25 14.33 13.53 13.94
 Pledge-backed 17.20 17.11 17.26 18.22 22.59
 Personal loans 29.50 29.36 29.08 32.47 33.98
 Credit cards 32.86 32.28 32.94 31.45 29.56

 Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.26 10.65 10.59 10.70 16.05

 International Interest Rates Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.26 0.26 0.27 0.23 0.32
 6 months 0.46 0.48 0.58 0.45 1.18

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.37 0.48 0.52 0.86 1.16
 10 years 2.51 2.64 2.69 3.59 3.70

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 10.75 10.75 10.75 8.75 9.58

 (1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.
# Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 19

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

**BCRA Repo Rates**
- Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.15
- Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.65
- Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.65

**Total REPO Round Repo Rates**
- 1 day 9.17 9.06 9.08 9.06 9.24
- 7 days 9.51 9.51 9.51 9.61 10.11

**Amount Operated in REPO Round Repos (daily average)** 8,591 7,491 8,077 4,490 6,646

**LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)**
- 1 month n/o n/o 11.30 n/o n/o
- 2 months n/o n/o 11.85 n/o n/o
- 3 months n/o 12.12 12.22 12.75 13.39
- 9 months 12.75 13.35 n/o n/o 15.00
- 12 months 13.03 13.85 13.94 14.40 15.60

**Margin of NOBAC in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)**
- 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 1.67 2.10 2.10 n/o 0.90
- 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.20 n/o 2.39 n/o n/o
- 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o 3.20 n/o n/o
- 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

**Amount Operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average)** 438 468 404 167 184

## Foreign Exchange Market Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

**Spot Dollar**
- Exchange Houses 3.96 3.95 3.94 3.80 3.77
- BCRA Reference 3.96 3.95 3.94 3.81 3.77

**Future Dollar**
- NDF 1 month 3.98 3.98 3.96 3.84 3.83
- ROFEX 1 month 3.99 3.99 3.97 3.84 3.78
- Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 943 1,007 1,325 1,153 950

**Real (Pesos per Real)** 2.35 2.30 2.24 2.17 1.92

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** 5.50 5.17 5.08 5.55 5.29

## Capital Market Oct-10 Sep-10 Aug-10 Dec-09 Oct-09

**MERVAL**
- Index 2,769 2,494 2,391 2,229 1,598
- Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 84 51 79 49 49

**Government Bonds (at parity)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$) 92.25 91.43 90.98 88.12 64.44
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 89.07 82.07 81.35 73.99 71.73
- BODEN 2014 ($) 91.07 88.30 86.01 77.20 71.69
- DISCOUNT ($) 74.92 66.70 60.89 59.83 53.25

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 662 727 744 824 2,666
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 306 331 315 335 467

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 209. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentenary Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.

SCP: Short-Term Debt Value

NV: Nominal Value.

RDV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | October 2010 | BCRA | 21
