# Monthly Monetary Report
April of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
April 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 8
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 9
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Market | Page 10
   - Stocks | Page 10
   - Public Securities | Page 11
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on May 11, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject
to revision

Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In April, an increase in demand for pesos from the private sector was verified, basically associated with the favorable behavior of time deposits. These placements grew $3,660 million (4.1%) driven mostly by placements of more than $1 million. Thus, the year-on-year growth rate of time deposits from the private sector continued to be the highest in the post-convertibility period, standing at 36.2%, 3 p.p. above that observed last month.

• Regarding transactional money, the average balance of the total means of payment in pesos (M2) stood at $268,830 million in April, registering a monthly increase of 1.8%.

• The Central Bank implements a policy aimed at controlling monetary aggregates, ensuring that their growth is compatible with money demand. Thus, the expansionary effect of the Central Bank's foreign exchange purchases and public sector operations was partially sterilized through the placement of LEBACs and NOBACs and the arrangement of repo operations.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to accelerate their monthly growth rate, a behavior that began in March, once the summer period passed. In April, the monthly average balance of peso credits to the private sector increased 2.6% ($4,480 million), with increases in all lines, and reached a year-on-year variation of 40.8%. As expected for this time of year, when tax payment maturities generate greater liquidity demand from companies, the growth of overdrafts in current accounts stood out, and especially financing implemented through documents.

• The increase in deposits made possible both the granting of loans in pesos to the private sector and the increase in liquidity of financial entities. Thus, for all financial entities, the sum of cash, the current account at the Central Bank, net repos with the Central Bank, and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs, averaged 42.2% of total peso deposits in April, reflecting an increase of 0.7 p.p. compared to March.

• While interest rates applied to time deposits remained practically unchanged compared to March, interest rates on most loan lines decreased in April, with declines standing out in lines associated with consumption. The average rate of credit card financing registered the largest negative variation (0.9 p.p.), standing at around 31.5%. On the other hand, the interest rate applied to personal loans stood at 29.2%, decreasing 0.2 p.p. during the month.

• The private debt market continued to show great dynamism. In April, 13 placements of negotiable securities were registered for a total amount of $2,130 million. Two of the placements were made in foreign currency for a total of US$370 million, while the remaining eleven were made in pesos for a total of $620 million, the largest monthly amount of negotiable securities placed in pesos during recent years.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In April, the average balance of the total means of payment in pesos (M22) stood at $268,830 million, registering a monthly increase of 1.8%. While sight deposits from the public sector practically did not vary in relation to March, private M2 accumulated a monthly growth of 2.1%, constituted principally by sight deposits from the private sector.

Chart 2.1 Time Deposits from the Private Sector
Daily Balance Year-on-Year Growth Rate
44 in billions of $ 54 40 in percentage

43 53 35 The increase in demand for pesos also affected the
42 52 evolution of time deposits. In particular, time place-
 30
 41 51 ments in pesos increased $4,100 million
 40 50 25
 (2.6%) in April, fundamentally due to the increase in
 39 49 20 deposits from the private sector. Driven princi-

 38 48 15 pally by wholesale placements (of $1 million

 37 47 10 and more), time deposits from the private sector grew

 36 Of $1 million and more 46
 Less than $1 million (right axis)5 $3,660 million (4.1%) in April (see Chart 2.1).
 35 45 In this way, the year-on-year growth rate of the

 34 44 0
 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11Apr-06 Oct-07 Apr-09 Oct-10 fixed-term deposits of the private sector continued to be
 Source: BCRA the highest of the post-convertibility period, standing at
 36.2%, 3 percentage points above the previous month. Although the
 daily evolution of this type of deposits shows an
 attenuation in its expansion rate during the last
 days of April, it is similar to that observed for the same
 period in previous years, consistent with the greater
 demand for liquidity by the private sector to
 Chart 2.2 face the deposit maturities that are concentrated
 Variation Factors of Aggregates
 thousands of (April 2011, average flows) in this part of the year.

 millions of $

 6

 5 In short, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3)3

 4 accumulated a monthly growth of 2.1% (41.4% y.o.y.),

 3 Private with a monthly increase in private M3 of 2.6%
 Sector
 2 (37.2% y.o.y.).

 1
 Public 0 The factors that explained the increase in monetary
 Sector aggregates in pesos were similar to those of the previous
 -1 month. On one hand, the Central Bank continued its
 -2 managed float policy for the exchange rate, so

 -3 that the purchases of foreign exchange by the Central Bank in the
 Purchases of Foreign Loans to Other M2 Time Deposits foreign exchange market constituted the most important
 Exchange Private S. M3
 Source: BCRA factor of monetary expansion in April. The increase in
 credit to the private sector also had a prominent role
 among the expansion factors of monetary aggregates,
 since its monthly growth rate increased again (see
 Loans section). Additionally, the Treasury transferred part
 of the funds it held on deposit at the Central Bank to its
 accounts in commercial banks, which caused the

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, checks payable in pesos and deposits in current accounts and savings accounts
of the non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, checks payable in pesos and deposits in current accounts, savings accounts
and time deposits of the non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 4 public sector to also generate a monetary expansion,
 Chart 2.3 although of a magnitude much inferior to that of the

 Variation Factors of the Monetary Base other factors mentioned (see Chart 2.2).
 thousands of (April 2011, average flows)
 millions of $

 6
 5 The developments mentioned reflect the policy that
 4 the Central Bank implements, aimed at controlling
 3 monetary aggregates, ensuring that their growth
 2 is compatible with the demand for money. Thus, the
 1
 0 expansive effect of the purchases of foreign exchange
 -1 by the Central Bank and of the operations of the public
 -2 sector was partially sterilized through the placement of
 -3 LEBACs and NOBACs and the arrangement of repo
 -4 operations. As a result, in April the monetary base
 Purchases of Foreign Exchange Public Sector LEBACs and NOBACs Repos Monetary Base registered an increase of 2.1%, reaching an average balance
 Source: BCRA of $167,839 million (see Chart 2.3).

 In the foreign currency segment, the total of deposits
 Chart 3.1 increased 1.2%4, with a growth in placements from the

 Banking Liquidity in Pesos private sector (2.4%) partially offset by a decrease in
 deposits from the public sector
% of (monthly average) public. In this way, the broadest monetary
deposits aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in the hands of the public,

45 Ef+CCBCRA Net Positions LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity cancellation checks and the total deposits in

39.9 39.9 39.2 39.5 40.9 40.7 40.6 40.7 40.5 41.5 42.239.840.6
40 pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos) grew

35 2.1% in April.

30

25 3. Bank Liquidity1

20

15 The increase in deposits made possible both the granting

10 of loans in pesos to the private sector as well as the

5 increase in liquidity of financial entities. Thus, the sum

0 of cash, the current account at the Central Bank, net repo
 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11operations with the Central Bank and the holdings of
 Source: BCRA LEBACs and NOBACs of financial entities, averaged
 in April 42.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1),
 Graph 3.2 reflecting an increase of 0.7 p.p. with respect to March.
 Said increase was due to the increase in longer-term
 % Minimum Cash Position assets (holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC deposits by 0.5
 Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position p.p.) and those that are computed as part of the minimum
 2.0 Quarterly Position cash requirement regime in pesos (cash in banks and
 1.5 current account in pesos at the BCRA by 0.2 p.p.). In
 1.0 turn, on average, the integration of minimum cash
 0.5 0.3 exceeded the requirement by 0.3% of total deposits in
 0.0 pesos (see Graph 3.2).

 -0.5 Both public banks and private banks ended the month

 -1.0 with a surplus in their minimum cash position.

 -1.5
 -2.0 In the foreign currency segment, the surplus in the
 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11minimum cash position continued to decline with respect
 Source: BCRA to the previous month (2.4 p.p.) due to the decrease in
4 Variation of balance expressed in foreign currency. integration as a consequence, in part, of the application
 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 5 of resources to the granting of credit in foreign currency.
 Graph 4.1 Thus the average surplus for April was 41.5% of total
 Loans in Pesos to the Non-Financial Private Sector deposits in dollars, accumulating a decrease of 7.2 p.p.
 % % in what has elapsed in the year.
 5 (monthly average variation) 60

 Monthly % Variation
 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 4. Loans1 5
 4 2.6 40

 Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with the
 3 16 30
 2 acceleration process of their monthly growth rate initiated
 20
 in March, once the summer period had passed. In April
 1
 0 10 the average monthly balance of credits in pesos to the
 -1 0 private sector increased 2.6% ($4,480 million, see
 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11
 Graph 4.1), with increases in all lines. For its part, the
 Source: BCRA year-over-year variation of this loan segment stood at
 40.8%. When computing the year-over-year expansion
 Graph 4.2 rate for the major financing lines, it is observed that
 % commercial financing has been the one that presented
 Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos
 (year-over-year variation of monthly averages) the highest expansion rate since the last quarter of 2010
 80 (see Graph 4.2).
 Commercial Loans
 60 Consumer Loans The lines intended primarily to finance activities...
 Loans with Real Guarantee Apr-11
47.2 commercial activities showed greater dynamism in
40 April, as expected for this time of year in
41.5
 April in which tax payment deadlines generate greater
20 27.2 liquidity demand from companies. In particular,
 financing instruments structured through docu-
0 ments increased in the month by 3.3% ($1,215 million),
 in line with the growth of previous years (see Graph
-20 4.3). For its part, advances in current account
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10
Source: BCRA showed a monthly increase of 1.5% ($345 million).

 Regarding credit oriented mainly toward consumption,
 Graph 4.3 personal loans registered the highest monthly expansion
 rate so far this year, showing an increase of 3.7%
Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector ($1,580 million) compared to the previous month.
 % (monthly variation of monthly averages) Meanwhile, financing with credit cards maintained
8 their average monthly balance at a level similar to the
6.2 04-05 previous month, presenting an increase of 0.9% ($250
6 05-06 million).
4.8 06-07
4.1 07-08
4 08-09 3.3 For its part, loans with real guarantees grew at a similar
09-10 rate to the previous month. Loans with chattel mortgage
10-11 1.9
2 guarantees continued to show significant dynamism,
0.6 accompanying the growth in automobile sales (see
0 Graph 4.4). In particular, in the last month they increased
 by 4.6% ($500 million) and continued accelerating their
-2 year-on-year growth rate, which in April was located at
 54.3%, 4.2 percentage points higher than observed the
-4
 November December January February March April previous month and the highest since June 2008. Mean-
 while, mortgage loans increased in the month by 1.1%
Source: BCRA ($230 million). It is worth noting that if corrected by the
 reclassification of a specific operation of $100 million
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, made by an entity at the end of March, the increase
fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. in mortgage loans in April results similar to that recorded
 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 6 in March (1.5%).

 Graph 4.4 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 % Chattel Mortgage Loans and Automobile Sales thousands accelerated their expansion rate, showing an average
 of units monthly increase of 4.1% (US$335 million). Their
7 80 year-on-year variation rate was located at 49.2%.
 Chattel mortgage loans (var. %)
6 Domestic market automobile sales (right axis) 70
5 60

4 50 5. Interest Rates 6

3 40
 BCRA Issued Securities7
2 30

1 20 In the primary market, both the interest rates of LEBAC
 as well as the terms of the securities placed remained at
0 10
 levels similar to those of March. In effect, the term that
-1 0
 concentrated the largest part of the allocations among
-2 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 LEBAC corresponded to securities with maturities be-

Source: BCRA and ADEFA. tween two and three months, whose average monthly
 interest rate was located around 11%. On the other hand,
 as in the previous month, an increase was recorded in
 the term of allocated NOBAC, with more than 85% of
 amounts placed concentrated in securities with matur-
 ities exceeding one year. With regard to the margins
 Graph 5.1 paid over BADLAR of private banks, a considerable
 decrease was evident in all the terms placed. Even, in
Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Primary Market the last auction of the month, a small amount was placed
 TNA,% Lebac % NOBAC- Margins over BADLAR in a security of 6 months term without margin over the
13.5 BADLAR of private banks (see Graph 5.1).
4.0

3.5 The Central Bank used LEBAC and NOBAC as

3.0
12.5
2.5

2.0
30-Mar-11 1.5 30-Mar-11
11.5 one of the main sterilization instruments

27-Apr-11 1.0 26-Apr-11 (see Monetary Aggregates Section). As in

0.5 previous months, the allocations of these securities

10.5 0.0 exceeded maturities. Consequently, at the end of April
days days
50 150 250 350 450 5500 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 the stock of securities issued by the Central Bank exceeded

Source: BCRA
$87,100 million (2.4% monthly increase). However,
the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC measured as a per-
centage of other relevant variables (international re-
serves, monetary aggregates, Central Bank liabilities)
remains below the values it had reached in mid-2007.

62% of the total securities in circulation corresponded to
instruments that accrue a variable interest rate.

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 7 At the end of the month, the average maturity of the total
LEBAC and NOBAC portfolio reached 220 days (almost 20
days more than in March), and banks continued to hold
more than 88% of the total stock.

Finally, in the secondary market for LEBAC and NO-
BAC, a significant amount traded was recorded
Chart 5.2 (approximately $500 million daily, on average),
although lower than the previous month. As occurred in

Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market the primary market, the rates negotiated in the

TNA, % (data as of the last auction day of each month) LEBAC were similar to those of March, while
13.5
those corresponding to NOBAC decreased
compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.2).
12.5
Interfinancial Markets
11.5 LEBAC 27-Apr-11

NOBAC 27-Apr-11

LEBAC 30-Mar-11 Pass Market1

10.5 NOBAC 30-Mar-11

Logarithmic (LEBAC 27-Apr-11)
Logarithmic (NOBAC 27-Apr-11) In April, the Central Bank did not modify the interest
rates for pass operations. In this way, the rate for
9.5
Logarithmic (NOBAC 30-Mar-11) passive passes for operations at 1 and 7-day terms

Logarithmic (LEBAC 30-Mar-11) remained at 9% and 9.5% respectively. Mean-
8.5
while, those corresponding to active passes continued
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
Source: BCRA. In NOBACs the margin plus the BADLAR Rate of Private Banks is considered.
at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

As in the last two months, the average stock of net
passes (passive minus active) for the Central
Bank, including all types of operations in which this
Institution participates, registered an increase of around
Chart 5.3 $400 million. Thus, an approximate average level of

% T.N.A. Call Interest Rate $13,400 million was reached, of which 53%
14
% T.N.A.
11.0 corresponded to 7-day term passes.

13 10.5
Interbank Market1
10.0
12
9.5
In April, the interest rates in the interbank market
11 9.0
Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11
(call) averaged 9.7% for total operations,
10
while for those conducted at 1 business day the
At 1 Business Day average for the month was 9.5% (see Chart 5.3). In both
9
cases they decreased 0.2 p.p. compared to March. For its
Total Operations
8 part, the average interest rate in the pass market between
Jan-09 May-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business
Source: BCRA
day was 9.4%, 0.3 p.p. less than the previous month.
Regarding the amount traded, the daily average during the month in the call market amounted to $750 million, $30 million less than in March. For its part, the daily average of the amount traded in the repo market between financial entities for 1 business day operations also decreased – approximately $400 million – positioning itself at $1,600 million.

Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 8 The measures of dispersion of interbank loan interest rates increased slightly compared to March. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rates agreed each day was 4.1 percentage points in April, while the standard deviation of operations was 0.7%.

**Passive Interest Rates 1**

**Graph 5.4 Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 days**

As in the previous months, the interest rates paid by private financial entities for deposits in pesos of up to 35 days, both for the wholesale and retail segment, did not register significant changes. In fact, the BADLAR interest rate for private banks remained around 11.2%, while the one corresponding to deposits up to $100 thousand positioned itself at 9.3% (see Graph 5.4).

For its part, in the BADLAR rate futures market, volumes considerably higher than those traded the previous month were registered. The preferred contracts were those of shorter maturity (with expiration at month-end), whose rate positioned itself around 11.2%. On the other hand, the longest maturity traded corresponded to new contracts with expiration in February 2013, with a rate of 16%. For contracts with year-end expiration, rates remained at levels similar to the previous month (13%).

**Graph 5.5 Active Interest Rates 1**
**Active Interest Rates**
**(monthly average)**

The interest rates of most loan lines decreased in April, highlighting the declines in lines associated with consumption.

The average rate of credit cards registered the largest negative variation (0.9 percentage points), positioning itself around 31.5%. On the other hand, the interest rate applied on personal loans positioned itself at 29.2%, after decreasing 0.2 percentage points during the month (see Graph 5.5).

Similarly, the interest rates of loans associated with commercial activities also decreased. Those corresponding to current account advances and documents to sole signature, after decreasing 0.2 percentage points and 0.1 percentage points, averaged 19% and 15.1% in April, respectively. For its part, the average monthly interest rate of discounted documents (which represented approximately 70% of total operations executed through documents), did not present changes during the month, remaining at 13.4%.

Regarding the average monthly interest rates of longer-term financing, a slight decrease (0.2 percentage points) was observed in that corresponding to pawn loans, which positioned itself at 17.5%, while that of mortgages to families did not register significant variation, averaging 14%.

**6. International Reserves and**
**Foreign Exchange Market**

**Graph 6.1** International reserves increased by US$713 million in April, compensating for much of the reduction
thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA tion produced by the payment of public debt denomina-

millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009
 ted in foreign currency in March. Thus, the balance at the
55 Apr-11
 end of April was US$52.011 million (see Chart 6.1). The

50 main factors that explained the monthly increase

45 in international reserves were the purchases of foreign
 thousands of Variation of International Reserves
 exchange by the Central Bank in the Single and Free
 millions of US$ (April 2011)
40 0.9
 1.0 Exchange Market (MULC) and the variations in the
 0.7
 0.7 quotation of the US Dollar with respect to other curren-
35 0.3
 0.4

 0.1 cies.
30
 -0.2 -0.1
25 -0.5 -0.4 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 International Purchase of Public Sector Cash Other
 Reserves Foreign Exchange Minimum
20
 against the US Dollar, the Real and the Euro, registering
 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 a higher depreciation rate than in previous months.
Source: BCRA
 Indeed, the average quotations for April were: 4.07
 $/Dollar (+0.7%), 2.56 $/Real (+5.3%) and 5.88
 $/Euro (+4.1%; see Chart 6.2). In the Dollar forward
 market, the traded amount increased 25% compared to
 March, although it continued at a level below the aver-
 age for 2010.

 Chart 6.2 7. Capital Markets
 Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotations)

$/Euro $/Real $/US$ Stocks
6.0 3.0 4.1
 $/Euro $/US$ (Reference)

5.8 $/Real, right axis 2.8
 4.0 The most relevant stock markets for the Argentine
 economy had very homogeneous behavior throughout
5.6 2.6
 April. Despite the continuation of conflicts in the
5.4 2.4 3.9 Middle East and North Africa, the first half of the
 month was marked by stable behavior in all markets,
5.2 2.2
 3.8 except for a slight improvement in Europe due to the
5.0 2.0 increase in its monetary policy interest rate and Port-
 3.7
4.8 1.8 ugal's formal request to the European Union and the
 IMF for an aid package. On April 18, due to the down-
4.6 1.6 3.6
 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 grade of the long-term credit rating of the United States
Source: BCRA
 by Standard & Poor's, a widespread decline was recorded
 in almost all markets. From that date, the last days of
 the month were characterized by improvements driven
 by the publication of economic indicators in line with
 expectations and corporate financial statements with
 results better than forecast.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 10 In this sense, the MSCI Global measured in dollars
 increased 4% between March and April (see Chart 7.1).
 For its part, the MSCI Europe rose 7.8%, followed by the
 S&P 500 (the main index of the North American market)
 with an increase of 2.8%. On the other hand, the MSCI
 Japan and the MSCI Latam remained relatively stable.

 During April, the main stock markets in Latin America,
 measured in dollars, experienced very disparate behavior.
 On one hand, increases were recorded in the IGPA (Chile)
 and the IPC (Mexico), of 8% and 2.2%, respectively. In
 both cases the appreciation of their currencies explained
 a good part of the increases: almost half in the case of
 Chile and the entirety in the case of Mexico, where the
 appreciation of the local currency (3.4%) exceeded the
 decline of the stock market index in terms of that cur-
 rency. On the other hand, declines of 0.1% were record-
 ed in the BOVESPA (Brazil) and in the MERVAL (Argen-
 Chart 7.1 Stock Indices of the World tina). In the case of Brazil, the decline of the index
 (base index 02/07/07 =100) 11-Mar
90 130 expressed in local currency was almost offset by an ap-
 8-Jun
 preciation of its currency (3.5%), while in the Argentine
80 120 case the increase of the index was exceeded by a depre-
 ciation of 0.6% of the local currency. Finally, the IGBVL
70 110 (Peru) decreased 11.3%, where 0.8%
60 100 corresponds to the depreciation of its currency.
 MSCI Global
 MSCI Europe
50 MSCI Japan 90 During April, the MERVAL index (Argentina), measured

 S&P 500 in local currency, closed the month at 3,406 points, reaching
 MSCI Latam (right axis)
40 80 monthly growth of 0.5% and annual growth of
Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. 42.1%. In any case, year-to-date it accumulates
 a decline of 3.3%.

 The historical volatility of MERVAL – 22 trading sessions –, in
 annualized terms and measured in dollars, decreased
 2.2 p.p., ending the month at 18.9%. In the same
 framework, the expected volatility of the S&P 500 (measured by the
 VIX) on average decreased 3.5 p.p., ending April
 at 16.2%.

 For its part, the volume traded daily, on
 average, on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was
 $48.9 million, 9.9% below the amount traded during
 March and 25.4% below the amount recorded
 for the same month in 2010. It is the fifth consecutive
 month that said amount has decreased.

 Public Securities

 In April, given minor changes in the quotations of
 public securities, a slight slowdown was recorded
 in the trading volume in the market. However, it should be
 noted that the Units Linked to GDP constituted
 an exception and have already accumulated growth of 16% in the year.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 11 The sovereign risk indicators of emerging
 economies registered slight increases, except for a minimal
 decline for the Brazilian economy. The EMBI+, which
 measures the spreads of debt in foreign currency of
 emerging countries as a whole, increased 15 b.p. to
 close the month at 276 basis points. Meanwhile, the spread of
 debt for Latin America also increased 21 b.p.,
 ending the month at 347 b.p. (see Chart 7.2). For its
 part, the indicator for Argentina rose 16 b.p., concluding
 the month at 555 b.p.. Finally, as mentioned
 Chart 7.2 previously, the EMBI+ Brazil showed once again a
 Sovereign Risk Indicators slight decline of 4 b.p., ending the month at 169 basis points.

 5-year CDS spread EMBI spread spread
 in b.p. in b.p. in b.p.
5,000 650 1,950 In April, the volume of public securities traded (on
 1,750 average daily) in the local market decreased from
 Argentina 550 EMBI Argentina
4,000 1,550 $1,680 million to $1,610 million. Even so, it continues
 Brazil (right axis) EMBI Latin America
 450 1,350 to far exceed the volume traded during the
3,000 1,150
 same period of the previous year ($965 million).
 350
2,000 950

 250 750 Private Securities
1.000 550
 150
 350
 150 In April, 13 placements of negotiable obligations
 0 50
 Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11Jul-07 Abr-08 Ene-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Abr-11 (ONs) were registered in the private debt market. The
 Source: Bloomberg total amount subscribed reached $2,130 million, conti-
 nuing with the strong debt issuance that began in
 October 2010 (see Chart 7.3). Of these placements,
 two ONs were issued in foreign currency for a total of
 US$370 million, while the remaining eleven were made
 up in pesos for a total of $620 million, the largest
 monthly amount of ONs in pesos placed during recent
 years.
 Chart 7.3 Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds*
 Last 6 years This month was highlighted by issuances belonging to
 Outstanding Placements
millions of $ Month Placement AmountFinancial Entities, which accounted for 83% of the
 May-07 TGS US$ 500M
4.500 May-07 Petrobras US$ 300M
 Total Amount Apr-10 Pan American Energy US$ 500Mtotal amount issued, distributed among nine place-
 Jul-10 IRSA US$ 150M
4.000 Oct-10 Autopistas del Sol US$ 243M
 Annual Average Oct-10 Edenor US$ 140M
 ments, where four ONs corresponded to issuances from
3.500 Nov-10 Arcor US$ 200M
 Dec-10 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 US$ 300M
 Dec-10 Clisa US$ 200M Banks (70% of the total) and five ONs from Automotive
3.000 Jan-11 Tarjeta Naranja US$ 200M
 Mar-11 Capex US$ 200M Financial Companies (13% of the total). In second place
2.500 Apr-11 Galicia US$ 300M was a single issuance from Electric Power with 14% of
2.000 the total issued. Finally, 3% of the total issuances was
1.500 distributed among three placements related to Financial
1.000 Activities, Stock Market and Insurance.
 500
 0 Within the segment of peso-denominated securities, six
 (*) Includes issuances from companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets. ONs will pay interest equivalent to the Badlar of Private
 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg Banks plus a margin that ranged between 2.8% and
 3.2%; while three ONs will accrue a fixed interest rate
 that varies between 13.3% and 13.8%. Additionally,
 two ONs in pesos (one at a fixed rate and another at a
 variable rate) will pay interest well above the average,
 in the order of 17.1%. Nevertheless, the highest interest
 rates corresponded to placements for a reduced amount,
 made by smaller companies in relation to the rest of
 the month's issuers. With respect to securities issued

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 12 in foreign currency, the two issuances will pay interest
 at a fixed rate (8.95% and 9.75%).

 It is worth noting that the issuances in foreign currency
 were for terms of 7 and 11 years, while the eleven
 issuances in local currency do not exceed 2 and a half
 years in term.

 Mutual Investment Funds

 During April, the Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs),
 in pesos and in foreign currency, increased for the tenth
 consecutive month, reaching a total net asset value of
 $25,600 million, the highest in recent years. The April
 net asset value implied a monthly increase of 7.2%,
 driven in large part (66%) by the performance of fixed
 income funds in pesos. In this way, in the last twelve
 months the FCIs in pesos accumulated growth of 45.4%
 and an increase of 25% so far this year.
Chart 7.4
 thousands On one hand, the FCIs in pesos ended the month with a
of millions $ Net Asset Value of FCIs in pesos
26 total net asset value of $23,700 million, with increases
24 23.7
 in all their segments (see Chart 7.4), increasing 7.6%
22
20 Net Asset Value at April 2011 compared to March and 52.1% compared to the same
18 Monthly Variation month of the previous year. As already mentioned, the
16
14 largest increase was recorded in the fixed income
12 10.3 segment, which expanded its net asset value by 13.1%
10 9.8
 and its share of the total amount in pesos to 41.3%
8
6 (+2 p.p.). In second place was the Money Market
 segment that increased its
4 equity by 4.5% but resigned 1.3 p.p. of its partici-
 1.81 1.77 13.1% 7.6%
2 1.7% 4.2% 4.5%
0 pation (43.6%) in the total of FCIs in pesos. For its part,

-2 the mixed income and variable income FCIs increased
 Variable income Mixed income Fixed income Money Market TOTAL
Source: BCRA and CAFCI their equity by 4.2% and 1.7% respectively,
 although they suffered decreases in their participations,
 ending April at 7.5% (-0.2 p.p.) and 7.7% (-0.4 p.p.)
 of the total of FCIs in pesos, respectively. In all cases,
 the variation in equities is attributed to the increase in
 both the price of assets and the quantity of fund shares
 registered. Except in variable income funds, the equities
 reached their maximum historical levels.

 On the other hand, the equity of FCIs in foreign currency
 grew 1% and reached US$470 million ($1,910 million).
 The decreases in equity in the mixed income segments
 (-7.2%) and Money Market (-0.1%) were more than offset
 by increases in the fixed income (+2.8%) and variable
 income (+1.5%) segments, which represent 85% of FCIs
 in foreign currency. In the cases of fixed income and
 Money Market segments, variations are attributed to the
 behavior of prices and the quantity of fund shares
 registered, while in the variable income segment it was

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 13 due only to the behavior of prices and in the mixed
 Chart 7.5 income segment, only to the decline in the quantity of
 fund shares registered.
 Emissions of Financial Trusts
millions of $ millions of $
1,500 7,000 Financial Trusts8

 Emissions intended to finance infrastructure works (right axis)
1,250 6,000
 Other
 Through 15 operations, the emissions of Financial
 5,000
1,000 Trusts (FF) totaled around $5,770 million in April, the
 largest amount following the historical record registered
 4,000
 750 in July 2010 (see Chart 7.5). As in that opportunity, the
 3,000 placement of this exceptionally high amount was
 500 explained by the emission of several FF with the purpose
 2,000
 of financing infrastructure projects. In particular, in
 250 1,000 April, a new series of Water Infrastructure FF was
 0 0 placed ($830 million) and two FF were launched intended
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and othersJan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11to finance the commissioning of the thermoelectric
 plants in Ensenada de Barragán (Buenos Aires Province)
 and Brigadier López (Santa Fe Province), which together
 Chart 7.6 totaled US$1,040 million. Therefore, if infrastructure
 Amounts issued by type of fiduciary FF are excluded, the total placed in the month amounted
 millions of $ to around $700 million and corresponded exclusively
 500 (12-month moving average)
 to FF with loans linked to consumption as underlying
 Financial entities (personal loans and credit card installments of credit
 400 Retail stores cards). This amount represents a 33% decrease compared
 Mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers to what was issued the previous month.

 300 As for the fiduciaries, if those linked to infrastructure
 FF (fundamentally from the public sector) are excluded,
 200 the participation of retail stores stands out, as they are
 fiduciaries of more than the
 100
0 portion of the total placed in the month (53% of the total), with an
 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 increase in its securitizations of 29% compared to the
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others previous month. In order of importance, they were followed by financial
 entities (32% of the total), which securitized assets
 for around $230 million, half of March.
 The remainder corresponded to FF issued by mutuals, cooperative
 Chart 7.7 societies and non-banking credit card issuers
 (15% of the total). It is worth noting that since the beginning of
 TNA; % Cut-off Rates of the FF (class A titles in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months- last year there has been a sustained recovery of the
 40 monthly averages weighted by amount) amounts placed by the different types of fiduciaries and
 that, even, retail commerce exceeded the
 35 highs reached at the end of 2008 (see Chart 7.6).
 30 Fixed rate
 Variable rate
 25 BADLAR rate private banks The cut-off interest rates of the senior titles in
 pesos with a duration of less than 14 months continued to be
 20 relatively stable. In effect, the cut-off rate (weighted
 average by amount) of titles with variable yield
 15 was located in April at 13.6%, slightly below
 the one recorded in March (0.2 p.p. less), while
 10 that corresponding to titles agreed at fixed rate
 5 decreased 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching
 Dec-06 Oct-07 Aug-08 Jun-09 Apr-10 Feb-11 13% in April (see Chart 7.7). In line with
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others the greater weight of the underlying assets of longer
 8 Only trusts with public offering are considered. term, the duration (weighted average by amount) of
 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 14 the senior titles doubled in April, reaching 42
 months. Meanwhile, the duration of the FF that have personal
 loans as underlying remained around
 6 months.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Apr-11 Monthly Last 12 months Mar-11 Dec-10 Apr-10
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 167,839 164,445 156,104 120,496 2.1% 1.3% 39.3% 27.0%
 Monetary circulation 129,874 128,825 119,694 92,744 0.8% 0.0% 40.0% 27.7%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 114,374 113,094 107,145 82,391 1.1% 0.3% 38.8% 26.6%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 15,496 15,726 12,534 10,354 -1.5% -2.2% 49.7% 36.5%
 Cancellatory Checks 5 5 15 0 -2.8% -3.5% - -
 Current account in the BCRA 37,965 35,620 36,410 27,752 6.6% 5.7% 36.8% 24.7%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 13,385 12,948 9,376 14,766 3.4% 2.6% -9.4% -17.3%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 34,588 36,791 50,912 48,399 -6.0% -6.7% -28.5% -34.8%

 NOBAC 52,079 46,466 23,737 3,678 12.1% 11.2% 1,316.0% 1,191.2%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 51,637 52,287 52,132 47,552 -1.2% 8.6%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 331,787 323,895 297,283 233,236 2.4% 1.6% 42.3% 29.7%
 Current account (2) 94,301 92,202 88,303 72,913 2.3% 1.5% 29.3% 17.9%
 Savings account 60,146 58,797 56,626 43,915 2.3% 1.5% 37.0% 24.9%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 162,987 158,880 138,315 104,714 2.6% 1.8% 55.6% 41.9%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 10 10 14 18 -0.7% -1.5% -44.1% -49.0%
 Other deposits (3) 14,343 14,006 14,026 11,677 2.4% 1.6% 22.8% 12.0%

 Deposits of the private sector 223,613 216,261 204,037 164,019 3.4% 2.6% 36.3% 24.3%

 Deposits of the public sector 108,174 107,635 93,246 69,217 0.5% -0.3% 56.3% 42.5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,528 15,343 15,926 15,387 1.2% 0.9%
# Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 199.276 194.489 181.888 144.636 2,5% 1,6% 37,8% 25,6%

Loans to the private sector 177.371 173.017 161.677 125.955 2,5% 1,7% 40,8% 28,4%
Advances 23.494 23.150 22.036 17.266 1,5% 0,7% 36,1% 24,1%
Documents 37.469 36.254 33.756 24.173 3,3% 2,5% 55,0% 41,3%
Mortgage loans 21.092 20.930 19.944 18.160 0,8% 0,0% 16,1% 5,9%
Pledge loans 11.385 10.887 9.420 7.379 4,6% 3,7% 54,3% 40,7%
Personal loans 44.271 42.756 39.360 32.011 3,5% 2,7% 38,3% 26,1%
Credit cards 28.889 28.639 26.367 19.687 0,9% 0,1% 46,7% 33,8%
Others 10.771 10.401 10.793 7.279 3,6% 2,7% 48,0% 34,9%

Loans to the public sector 21.905 21.472 20.212 18.681 2,0% 1,2% 17,3% 6,9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.636 8.315 7.412 5.866 3,9% 47,2%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 208.680 205.301 195.463 155.304 1,6% 0,8% 34,4% 22,5%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 268.826 264.098 252.088 199.219 1,8% 1,0% 34,9% 23,0%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 446.165 436.994 404.443 315.627 2,1% 1,3% 41,4% 28,9%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 509.338 498.958 467.835 375.259 2,1% 1,3% 35,7% 23,8%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private 180.111 176.157 167.207 130.015 2,2% 1,4% 38,5% 26,3%
current account in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 235.392 230.566 220.558 170.039 2,1% 1,3% 38,4% 26,2%
M3 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 337.991 329.359 311.197 246.410 2,6% 1,8% 37,2% 25,1%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 388.042 378.178 357.178 286.295 2,6% 1,8% 35,5% 23,6%

Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.395 2,0% 5.120 3,1% 11.736 7,0% 47.343 28,2%
Financial sector -252 -0,2% -1.212 -0,7% -3.517 -2,1% 2.650 1,6%
Public sector 1.375 0,8% 2.337 1,4% 8.363 5,0% 19.552 11,6%
Private external sector 5.292 3,2% 13.516 8,1% 17.978 10,7% 54.979 32,8%
BCRA Securities -2.813 -1,7% -8.707 -5,2% -10.185 -6,1% -27.582 -16,4%
Others -206 -0,1% -813 -0,5% -905 -0,5% -2.256 -1,3%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -650 -1,3% -727 -1,4% -495 -1,0% 4.086 7,9%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.307 2,5% 3.365 6,5% 4.509 8,7% 13.916 26,9%
Payment to international organizations 56 0,1% -121 -0,2% 61 0,1% 331 0,6%
Other public sector operations -151 -0,3% 2.549 4,9% 6.741 13,1% 4.475 8,7%
Minimum cash -446 -0,9% -1.678 -3,2% -2.075 -4,0% -5.117 -9,9%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1.416 -2,7% -4.843 -9,4% -9.730 -18,8% -9.476 -18,4%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.5 15.8
 Integration 15.9 15.7 16.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.3
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.0 50.4 56.1
 30 to 59 days 24.6 26.2 25.5
 60 to 89 days 6.7 12.8 6.9
 90 to 179 days 5.5 5.2 6.1
 More than 180 days 5.1 5.3 5.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.9 20.9 21.1
 Integration (includes default of application of resources) 62.4 64.8 69.1
 Position (2) 41.5 43.9 48.0
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 57.6 58.3 55.8
 30 to 59 days 21.6 23.4 24.3
 60 to 89 days 9.7 8.3 10.3
 90 to 179 days 9.0 7.6 7.2
 180 to 365 days 2.1 2.4 2.4
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

 Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.65 9.82 9.68 9.70 8.53
 Amount operated 751 643 919 781 780

 Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.47 9.30 9.31 9.57 8.89
 60 days or more 10.47 10.73 10.64 10.67 10.08
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 9.78 9.64 9.69 10.25 8.99
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.15 11.14 11.06 11.08 9.26

 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.27 0.27 0.27 0.30
 60 days or more 0.57 0.57 0.62 0.60 0.53
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.37 0.37 0.38 0.36 0.38
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.52 0.56 0.53 0.53 0.63

 Active Interest Rates Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.69 11.44 12.04 11.97 10.54
 Amount operated (total of maturities) 216 223 191 216 193

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 19.00 19.18 18.46 19.23 19.74
 Documents on sole signature 15.12 15.27 15.29 14.81 15.43
 Mortgages 13.97 13.94 14.01 14.59 12.37
 Pledged loans 17.46 17.62 17.35 17.49 17.79
 Personal loans 29.15 29.32 29.09 29.10 30.73
 Credit cards 31.51 32.38 33.97 31.26 29.47

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.22 11.15 11.03 11.10 9.81

 International Interest Rates Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.22 0.25 0.26 0.26 0.26
 6 months 0.44 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.48

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.72 0.67 0.76 0.61 1.03
 10 years 3.43 3.39 3.56 3.27 3.81

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.83 11.72 11.25 10.75 8.86

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.08 9.22 9.27 9.20 9.00
 7 days 9.52 9.54 9.52 9.53 9.50

Amount operated of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 7,411 8,358 5,900 5,973 8,813

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 n/o
 2 months 10.92 10.98 10.96 10.93 n/o
 3 months 10.98 11.07 11.15 11.10 n/o
 9 months n/o 11.95 11.93 n/o 13.54
 12 months n/o 12.46 12.48 13.05 13.80

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 0.59 1.39 1.74 1.81 n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 1.13 1.68 1.92 2.07 2.20
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.29 2.52 2.73 2.52 n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.45 n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 548 673 533 341 313
## Foreign Exchange Market Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

Dollar Spot
 Exchange houses 4.07 4.04 4.02 3.98 3.88
 BCRA Reference 4.07 4.04 4.02 3.98 3.88

Dollar Futures
 NDF 1 month 4.09 4.06 4.05 4.00 3.89
 ROFEX 1 month 4.09 4.07 4.06 4.01 3.89
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 878 699 570 1095 698

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.56 2.43 2.41 2.35 2.21

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.88 5.65 5.50 5.26 5.20

 Capital Market Apr-11 Mar-11 Feb-11 Dec-10 Apr-10

MERVAL
 Index 3,418 3,359 3,518 3,429 2,436
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 55 59 63 94 67

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 100.94 100.65 98.74 95.27 90.45
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 93.88 90.91 90.60 93.34 77.33
 BODEN 2014 ($) 91.52 93.15 93.36 93.49 79.62
 DISCOUNT ($) 74.22 72.89 78.86 85.48 53.07

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 413 451 528 529 848
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 318 322 315 292 281

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 20. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-on-year.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Agreed Term Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | April 2011 | BCRA | 20
