# Monthly Monetary Report
May of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
May 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 8
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 9
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Market | Page 11
   - Equities | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on June 8, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• The behavior of monetary variables during May, as is customary, was influenced by the concentration of tax payments, fundamentally due to the income tax. This is reflected in the monetary market in an increase in public sector deposits and a decline in the growth of private ones, especially in fixed-term deposits. It also affects credit behavior, particularly commercial credit (overdrafts on current accounts and to a lesser extent, the discounting of documents). All of this resulted in a change and redistribution of liquidity between public and private banks.

• In effect, the broad monetary aggregate (M3) registered growth of 2.7% during May (40.5% year-on-year). Among its components, public sector deposits stand out, which showed a significant increase (4.6%), and in particular, public sector sight deposits, which grew 9%. For its part, private means of payment (private M2) grew in the month by 2.3% (38.6% year-on-year), with increases both in currency in circulation and in sight deposits. Thus, total means of payment (M2) reached an average balance of $277,200 million in May and registered monthly growth of 3.1% (37.9% year-on-year).

• Fixed-term deposits of the private sector moderated their monthly growth, presenting an increase of 1.8%, but accelerated their year-on-year expansion rate again (by 1.8 percentage points) until reaching 38.1%. The slower growth rate, seasonally expected, was observed fundamentally in the wholesale segment and was linked to the aforementioned tax payment.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector presented in May a substantial increase in their monthly growth rate, of 4.2% ($7,400 million), and maintained year-on-year growth above 40% for the fourth consecutive month. When differentiated by major lines, it is observed that since the last quarter of 2010 commercial loans continue growing above those destined to finance household consumption, a promising event that had not occurred since the exit from the 2001-2002 crisis.

• In May, a new auction of funds was conducted under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), which aims to improve the supply of credit for investment and productive activity with a fixed total financial cost in pesos. On this occasion, $280 million were awarded, bringing the total awarded since the beginning of PFPB to $1,537 million.

• Private banks reduced the balance of repos and LEBACs and NOBACs to meet the greater provision of loans to the private sector in a month with lower growth in private sector deposits. Meanwhile, public banks saw increases in public sector deposits as a result of the collection of the aforementioned tax, which was reflected, temporarily, in an increase in liquidity for such entities. As a result of both effects, the liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, bank balances in current account at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs in terms of total deposits in pesos) decreased by 0.5 percentage points with respect to April and was positioned at 41.7%.

• In May, the Central Bank did not modify the interest rates of its repo operations. Banks' passive interest rates remained relatively stable, while active rates registered disparate behavior, with declines, fundamentally in credit card financing, some slight increases, as in the case of secured loans, mortgages or unsecured promissory notes, and with the rest of the lines relatively stable.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.
# Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

**Graph 2.1**

**Monetary Aggregates** The broad monetary aggregate (M3) recorded during
(May 2011, in average) May a growth of 2.7% (40.5% y.o.y.) led by

Deposits in US$ the behavior of public sector deposits
Public Sector which showed a monthly increase of 4.6% originated
Private Sector in the significant tax collection characteristic
Other Deposits of the month. In particular, sight deposits of the public

M3* sector grew 9%, driving the growth of total means
Fixed-term Deposits M3 of payment (M2²) which reached in May
2.7% an average balance of $277,200 million and registered
Sight Deposits a monthly growth of 3.1% (37.9% y.o.y.). (see Graph

M2 2.1). For its part, private means of payment (private M2)
3.1% grew in the month 2.3% (38.6% y.o.y.), with
Banknotes and Coins increases both in currency in circulation and

-7 -5 -3 -1 1 3 5 7 in sight deposits.
thousands of millions of $
Source: BCRA The monthly growth of monetary aggregates was
explained mainly by the increase in peso-denominated
**Graph 2.2** loans to the private sector, which continued
thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates showing sustained dynamism (see Loans section).
millions of $ (May 2011, in average) Other factors that favored the monthly growth
9 of monetary aggregates were the Central Bank's
8 purchases of foreign currency in the market and,
7 to a lesser extent, public sector operations
6 (see Graph 2.2).
5
4 With respect to primary money creation, the monetary
3 base recorded a growth of approximately 2.2%
2 ($3,650 million), showing an average monthly balance
1 of $171,485 million.
0
Foreign Sector Public* Loans to Private Other M2 Fixed-term Dep. and Fixed-term Dep. and
Currency Purchases Sector Deposits Public Others Others For its part, the total of private deposits showed in
May an increase of 2.4% (37.6% y.o.y.). Sight placements
*Includes loans and other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base. grew 2.8%, observing increases in current account
Source: BCRA deposits and, to a lesser extent, in savings account

**Graph 2.3** placements. For its part, fixed-term deposits showed a
growth of 1.8% and accelerated again their year-over-
Fixed-term Deposits of the Private Sector Fixed-term Deposits Over $1
year expansion rate (by 1.8 p.p.) until reaching 38.1%
% (variations of monthly averages) % million - Private Sector
130 (Index base 100=average December) (see Graph 2.3). Likewise, increases were observed both
7 42 in the retail segment (less than $1 million) as in the
6 36 125 2006 wholesale segment (more than $1 million). In particular,
2007 regarding these latter, it should be mentioned that the
5 30 2010 moderation in the rate of monthly increase was essentially
120
4 24 2011 explained by the seasonal behavior characteristic
3 18 115 of May. In effect, firms tend to use part of their fixed-
2 12 term deposits in order to meet their tax obligations.
110
1 6 Additionally, it is expected that companies will continue
0 0 105 with this behavior during June, especially during the

-1 Monthly variation -6 second fortnight, as a consequence of fiscal obligations
100 and the proximity of the payment of the half annual
-2 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) -12 complementary salary.
-3 -18 95
Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May
Source: BCRA

² Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in current account and savings accounts of public and private non-financial sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 4
In the foreign currency segment, deposits (expressed in
Graph 3.1 dollars) showed growth of 2.1%, with reductions in public

% of Banking Liquidity in Pesos sector placements that were more than compensated by
 Private Banks Public Banks the increase in private sector deposits. With respect to
50
 CC BCRA Cash Net Repos Lebac and Nobac the latter, they registered an increase of 3.2%, es-
45
 sentially driven by sight placements. In this way, the
40
 broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in
35
 circulation in the public's hands, cancellatory checks
30
 and the total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
25
 (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of 2.7%
20
 (34.4% y.o.y).
15

 10

 5

 0 3. Banking Liquidity¹
 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11
Source: BCRA

 Banking liquidity in pesos of entities decreased slightly
 in May, although with disparate behavior according to
 the type of bank. In the case of private banks, they re-
 duced the balance of repos and LEBACs and NOBACs
 to address the greater granting of loans to the private
 sector in a month with lower growth of private sector
 deposits, due to both phenomena, to the expiration of
 the income tax. Meanwhile, public banks saw public
 sector deposits increase as a result of the collection of
 the aforementioned tax, which was reflected, transi-
Graph 3.2 torily, in an increase in the liquidity of such entities

 Minimum Cash Position (see Graph 3.1). As a result of both behaviors, the liquidity
 % of ratio (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the bal-
deposits ances of banks in current accounts at the BCRA, net
 Surplus Daily Position Quarterly Position repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and
 2.0 NOBACs in terms of the total deposits in pesos) was
 1.5 reduced by 0.5 p.p. with respect to April and was placed
 1.0 at 41.7%.
 0.5
 0.4 For its part, the Minimum Cash (MC) position in pesos
 0.0 ended with a surplus of 0.4% of the total deposits in
 -0.5 pesos. In particular, a slight reduction in the require-
 -1.0 ment was observed, due to an extension of the resid-
 -1.5 ual term of deposits with respect to the previous period.
 -2.0 Thus, in May, the reserve requirement was, on average,
 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 15.6% of total deposits in pesos. For the foreign cur-
Source: BCRA rency segment, the MC surplus increased slightly com-
 pared to the previous month (1.1 p.p.) given that part
 of the resources obtained from the placement of nego-
Graph 4.1 tiable obligations (ONs) had not yet been applied,
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector which temporarily increased the integration of private
 % % banks. In this way, the integration exceeded the re-
 5 (average monthly variation) 60 quirement³ in 42.7% of total deposits in dollars.

 Monthly Var. 4.2 4. Loans¹ 4

 4 Y.o.y. Variation (right axis) 50

 3 40 Loans in pesos to the private sector grew in May at
 a faster pace. The monthly increase was 4.2%
 2 30 ($7,400 million; see Graph 4.1), consolidating the
 incipient dynamism observed after the summer recess
 1 20 and maintaining year-over-year growth above 40% for
 the fourth consecutive month. When differentiated by
 0 10 major lines, it is observed that since the last quarter of
 2010 commercial loans continue growing above those
 -1 0 intended to finance household consumption (see
 May-05 May-06 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 Graph 4.2), something that had not occurred since
Source: SISCEN the 2001-2002 crisis.

 As occurs every year, given the greater need for liquid-
Graph 4.2 ity on the part of companies to face
# Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos

%
80 (year-on-year variation of monthly averages) current account advances accelerated in May their monthly expansion rate

Commercial Loans

60 Consumer Loans by exhibiting an increase of 8.7% ($2,050 mil-

Loans with Real Guarantee lion), one of the largest increases recorded for

May-11 the month of May during recent years (see Chart

40 May-11 4.3). Financings implemented through docu-
42.1
May-11 ments also grew more than in April, showing

29.5 an increase of 4.2% ($1,580 million) in their average

20 monthly balance. The rest of commercial finan-

cings recorded in the month an increase of 3.9% ($420
0
million).

-20
Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Regarding credit oriented mainly to consump-

Source: BCRA tion, personal loans registered in May a monthly

growth rate of 3.9% ($1,720 million), similar to

that of the previous month and higher than that
Chart 4.3
Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector 2005 registered on average during the first quarter of the year (3.1%). The year-on-year variation rate of personal

% (monthly variation of monthly averages) 2006
2007 loans stood at 40.2%, 1.7 p.p. more than that observed in

12 2008
10 2009 April. Meanwhile, credit card financings, which last

2010 8.7
8 2011 month had maintained their monthly average balance

6.0 relatively stable, accelerated in May their expansion

6
4 rate, registering a growth compared to April of 2.4% ($680 million).

2 1.5
0.6
0 Regarding loans with real guarantee, pawn loan

credits presented a monthly increase of 4.7%
-2 -1.4
($530 million), continuing with the dynamism of the

-4 previous months and accompanying the growth of vehicle

-6 sales. The year-on-year variation of this type of

January February March April May loans continues to accelerate and in May reached

Source: BCRA 58.4%. For their part, mortgage loans exhibited in

3 The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for default application of resources.
4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 6 May a growth of 1.8% ($380 million; see Chart 4.4),

Chart 4.4 accelerating their monthly expansion rate, although

without reaching the growth levels of the end of
% Loans with Real Guarantee 2010 (higher than 2% monthly).
(var. avg. monthly and year-on-year) %
7 70 For their part, loans in foreign currency to the pri-

6 Mortgage - var. avg. monthly 60 vate sector, destined mainly to financing the export

Pawn - var. avg. monthly sector, registered in May an increase in their monthly

5 Mortgage - var. y-o-y (right axis) 50 average balance of 0.9% (u$s 70 million), presenting a

Pawn - var. y-o-y (right axis) variation of 47.3% in year-on-year terms.

4 40

3 30 Finally, it is worth mentioning that in May a new auc-

2 20 tion of funds from the Bicentenary Productive Financing

1 10 Program (PFPB) was held, which has as its objective to

0 improve the supply of credit for investment and produc-

-1 0 tive activity, with a total fixed financial cost in pesos.

-2 -10 On this occasion $280 million were awarded, so that the

May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 total awarded since the beginning of the PFPB amounts

Source: BCRA to $1,537 million, and 11 banks have participated,

both public (Banco Nación, BAPRO, BICE and

Banco de La Pampa), and private (Credicoop,

HSBC, Santander Río, BERSA, Galicia, BBVA

Francés and Macro).

5. Interest Rates 5
# SECURITIES ISSUED BY THE BCRA6
## Chart 5.1
## Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC

In the primary market for LEBAC, both the interest rates and the terms of the awarded securities remained at similar levels compared to the previous month, while the amounts placed increased. The majority of LEBAC allocations were concentrated in securities with maturities close to three months, whose interest rate stood at around 11% without varying compared to April. It is noteworthy that in the last auction of the month, a small amount was awarded with a 2-year term, a fact that had not occurred since the end of 2009. For its part, and continuing with the trend of previous months, the allocation term for NOBACs increased again considerably, concentrating in securities with maturities exceeding one and a half years. Meanwhile, the margins paid over BADLAR of Private Banks for those most traded terms decreased slightly during the month (see Chart 5.1 and see Chart 5.2). Additionally, small placements of securities between 6 and 9 months term stand out, whose margins over the BADLAR rate of private banks turned out to be negative.

In May, the stock of securities issued by the BCRA increased slightly (0.6 percentage points), reaching a nominal value (NV) exceeding $87,600 million, of which NOBACs continue to represent more than 60%. With respect to the distribution of holders of LEBACs and NOBACs, no changes were observed compared to previous months, with the stock remaining concentrated in the hands of banks. Indeed, these continue to represent more than 85% of the total securities in circulation.

## Chart 5.2
## Amount Awarded by Term

With respect to the secondary market, an increase was recorded in the average daily amount traded, driven again by NOBACs, exceeding $630 million, almost $100 million higher than the previous month. The most notable operations were those carried out with securities of shorter residual term, mainly through instruments of up to 3 months.

# Interfinancial Markets

## Repo Market1

In May, the Central Bank did not modify the interest rates of its repo operations. In this way, the passive repo rate for operations at 1 and 7-day terms remained at 9% and 9.5% respectively. While those corresponding to active repos continued at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

The average stock of net repos (passive minus active) for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this Institution participates, registered an increase of $260 million. Thus, a level of approximately $13,650 million was reached, of which half corresponded to 1-day term repos.

## Interbank Market1

In May, the interest rates in the interbank market (call) averaged 9.5%, for both the total of operations

---

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 7
Source: BCRA operations, as well as those carried out at 1 business day
(see Chart 5.3), resulting, in the latter case, almost without
changes compared to April. The interest rate in the repo market between financial entities also averaged 9.5%
(excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day.

The average daily amount traded during the month in
the call market amounted to $880 million, $130 million
more than during April. For its part, in the repo market between financial entities for operations at 1 business day, the daily average of the amount traded was

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 8 $1,900 million, with an increase compared to April of
$350 million.

The measures of dispersion of interbank loan interest rates
were reduced slightly compared to April. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed each day was 4 p.p. in May, while the standard deviation of the operations was 0.6%.

Chart 5.4 Passive Interest Rates 1

TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
14 Like in previous months, the interest rates paid by private financial entities for deposits in pesos of up to 35 days, both for the wholesale and retail segment, did not register significant changes. In effect, despite the greater volatility recorded (reaching maximums of 11.6% and minimums of 10.9% during the month), the monthly average of the BADLAR interest rate of private banks remained around 11.2%. While the one corresponding to deposits of up to $100 thousand was positioned at 9.4% (with a monthly increase of 0.1 p.p.) (see Chart 5.4).

Up to $100 thousand Private Banks
13 BADLAR Private Banks
12 Avg. May
11.2
11 Avg. May 10 BADLAR for private banks
9.4
9
8

Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11
Source: BCRA

For its part, in the BADLAR futures market, significant amounts traded were registered, prioritizing those with maturity at month-end. The average rate of the same was positioned around 11.2%, without varying significantly compared to contracts with similar terms registered in the previous month. On the other hand, the longer term traded corresponded to contracts with maturity in September 2012, whose rate was positioned around 15%, while the rate for contracts with

Chart 5.5
Active Interest Rates
(monthly average)

Advances TNA Monthly Variation
TNA, % TNA, % Discounted Documents
35 0.4 0.4 0.545 Active Interest Rates 1
Documents at Sole Signature 0.5
0.0 0.1
Pawned Loans 0.0
Mortgage Loans -0.2
Personal Loans - right axis -0.5
30 40 The active interest rates showed disparate behavior during the month, highlighting the greater increases in those lines associated with longer-term loans. In effect, both the monthly average rate of pawned loans and the corresponding mortgage loans to families increased 0.5 and 0.4 p.p. in May. Consequently, they were positioned around 17.9% and 14.4% respectively (see Chart 5.5).

Credit Cards - right axis -1.0
-1.5 -1.2

Advances Sole Sig. Doc. Disc. Doc. Mortgage Pawned Personal Credit Cards
25 35
20 30
15 25
10 20
Feb-09 May-09 Aug-09 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11
Source: BCRA

In the same sense, the monthly average interest rate of
loans financed through documents at sole signature increased 0.4 p.p. compared to April, positioning itself at 15.5%. While the average rate of discounted documents remained unchanged around 13.5%. On the contrary, the monthly average interest rate of current account advances decreased
# Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 9

slightly (0.2 p.p.), reaching a level of 18.8%, and reflecting an increase, as expected due to tax concentration, in the negotiated amounts of these lines.

For its part, the interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts for companies, for more than $10 million, and up to 7 days, which is the most operated segment within the overdraft line (16% of the total amount), remained at 11.2%, with no variations.

Finally, the average monthly interest rates intended to finance consumption showed dissimilar variations in the month. Indeed, the largest negative variation was recorded in the average monthly interest rate on credit cards, which decreased 1.2 p.p. placing itself around 31.3%, while the one corresponding to personal loans was placed at 29.3%, almost without variations with respect to the April average.

**Figure 6.1**
**International Reserves of the BCRA**
*thousands of millions of US$ excluding 2009 SDR allocations*

[Chart showing reserves from May-07 to May-11, with May-11 marked]

Source: BCRA

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

**Figure 6.2**
**Nominal Reference Exchange Rate**
$/US$

Daily Quotation
Monthly Average Quotation
Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate

[Chart showing exchange rate trends from Dec-08 to May-11]

* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
Source: BCRA

The balance of international reserves was located at the end of May at U$S52,060 million (see Figure 6.1), remaining stable with respect to the previous month. In particular, the BCRA continued intervening in the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC), and in the month the net purchases of foreign currency increased international reserves by U$S861 million. In turn, this was compensated by the reduction in the balance of current accounts in foreign currency of financial entities at the BCRA, and the depreciation of other currencies with respect to the United States Dollar, among other factors.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect to the United States Dollar, but appreciated with respect to the Real and the Euro, in a context of depreciation of these currencies with respect to the United States Dollar. In this way, the average quotation in May was 4.08 $/U$S, which implied an increase of 0.5% with respect to April (see Figure 6.2), a variation similar to the monthly average of what has occurred in 2011 so far. Meanwhile, the Real quotation was 2.53 $/Real (-1.2% with respect to April) and 5.86 $/Euro (-0.3%) for the Euro (see Figure 6.3). For its part, in the forward market the operated amount continues to recover, and increased about 70% with respect to the lowest level of the year (January), although it still remains below (6.8%) the average of 2010.

**Figure 6.3**
**Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate**
$/Euro  $/Real

[Chart showing variations from Jan-10 to May-11]

* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
Source: BCRA

7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

---

# Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 10

## 7. Capital Market

**Stocks**
The most relevant stock markets for the Argentine economy showed a bearish performance that was relatively homogeneous throughout May. This occurred in the context of new fears regarding the situation of Greece's sovereign debt and its potential contagion to other economies. In this sense, the MSCI Global measured in dollars decreased 2.4% between April and May (see Graph 7.1). For its part, the MSCI Europe declined 6.7%, followed by the MSCI Latam which fell 3.2%, by the MSCI Japan which lost 1.7%, and by the S&P 500 (the main index of the North American market) which had a loss of 1.4%.

**Graph 7.1**
Stock Indices of the World
(base index 02/07/07 = 100)

During May, the main stock markets of Latin America, measured in dollars, experienced a generally bearish performance. The only index that rose was the IGBVL (Peru) with a variation of almost 12% driven, among other factors, by better perspectives regarding the level of activity of the Peruvian economy. The other indices in the region registered losses, the IPC (Mexico) 3.7%, the BOVESPA (Brazil) 2.6%, the MERVAL (Argentina) 4.7% and the IGPA (Chile) 0.4%, in some cases the negative results were associated with profit-taking. It should be mentioned that at the end of May the stock market indices of Chile, Colombia and Peru announced their merger, which will allow operators of these exchanges to buy securities registered in any of the three markets, which together have the second largest stock market capitalization in the region (almost U$S700 billion), only surpassed by the Brazilian stock market.

**Graph 7.2**
Sovereign Risk Indicators
5-year CDS spread in b.p. | EMBI spread in b.p. | spread in b.p.

During May, the MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local currency, closed the month at 3,251 points, registering a monthly decline of 4.6% and year-to-date of 7.7%. In contrast, in the last twelve months it increased 47.5%.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL – 22 trading days – in annualized terms and measured in dollars, decreased 5 p.p., ending the month at 13.9%. In the same context, the expected volatility of the S&P 500 (measured by the VIX) on average increased 0.7 p.p. closing at 16.9%.

For its part, the daily average trading volume on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $38 million, 21% below the amount traded during April and 25% below the amount for the same month in 2010. It is the sixth consecutive month that this amount has decreased.

**Public Securities**

**Graph 7.3**

---

*Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 11*
# Financing the Private Sector through Bonds*

During May, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging market economies remained almost unchanged, with a very slight deterioration for Argentina's indicators. The EMBI+, which measures the debt spreads in foreign currency of emerging countries as a whole, increased 11 b.p. to close the month at 288 basis points. Meanwhile, the debt spread for Latin America also increased 9 b.p., ending the month at 356 basis points. In the case of the EMBI+ for Brazil, it increased 6 b.p. to 175 points. For its part, the indicator for Argentina rose 37 b.p., concluding the month at 592 points.

(*) Includes issuances by companies listed on the domestic market that place bonds in international markets.
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg

In May, the trading volume of public securities (on a daily average) in the local market increased slightly from $1,760 million in April to almost $1,800 million. The traded volume continues to far exceed the amounts from the same period of the previous year ($1,180 million).

## Private Securities

During May, 10 issuances of negotiable obligations (ONs) were recorded in the private debt market. The total amount subscribed reached $665 million (see Chart 7.3), below the annual average, which continues to be above that of previous years. Nine of the month's issuances were issued in local currency for a total of $640 million and the remaining one was issued in foreign currency for an amount of US$ 6 million.

This month, issuances by Financial Entities stood out again, which accounted for 70% of the total amount, where five ONs corresponded to issuances by Banks (56% of the total) and only one ON to Financial Companies (14% of the total). In second place were two issuances (one in each currency) associated with Other Financial, Securities Brokerage and Insurance Activities, with 15% of the total amount issued. Additionally, there was one issuance related to Electric Power with 11% of the total issued and one corresponding to Retail Commerce with 4% of the total subscribed.

Within the segment of securities in pesos, eight ONs will pay interest equivalent to the Badlar rate of Private Banks plus a margin that ranged between 2.5% and 3.8%. The remaining title issued in pesos will pay a fixed interest rate of 13.5%, placing itself just below variable interest rates. For its part, the only title issued in foreign currency will pay a fixed interest rate of 5.25%.

In the case of titles in pesos with variable interest rates, the yield curve has been declining over recent months, in line with the behavior of the Central Bank Notes (see Chart 7.4).

## Investment Funds

The tax concentration associated with the expiration of income tax generated that, during May, the equity of Investment Funds (FCIs), in both pesos and foreign currency, decreased, for the first time in eleven months, ending with equity

---

**Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 12**
# Translation to English

3 total of $24,800 million. The aforementioned equity implied
 a monthly decrease of 3%, driven exclusively

 0 by the decline in Money Market funds in
 May-05 Feb-06 Nov-06 Aug-07 May-08 Feb-09 Nov-09 Aug-10 May-11
Source: BCRA and CAFCI pesos. Despite this, in the last twelve months the total
 equity of FCIs accumulates growth of 49.1%
 and an increase of 21.1% so far this year (see Chart
 7.5).

 On one hand, FCIs in pesos closed the month with total
 equity of $22,800 million, falling 3.5% with respect
Chart 7.6 to April but increasing 54.7% with respect to the same
 month of the previous year. As already mentioned, the
 Participation over the Total of FCIs in Pesos greatest variation was recorded in the Money Market
 (variations at the end of the month) segment, which decreased 8.3% in its equity and 2.2 p.p.
 100% in its participation over the total of common funds in
 pesos (41.4%). For its part, the fixed income segment
 decreased its equity by only 0.5%, and increased its
 75% participation by 1.3 p.p. to 42.6%, becoming for
 the first time the most representative segment of FCIs
 in pesos. In both cases, the declines were driven by
 50% decreases in the number of share units registered.
 For its part, the variable income segment also
 recorded a decline of 3.2% in its equity, although
 25% without varying its participation (7.7%). The only exception to the

 0% decline in equities was verified in the mixed income
 segment, which increased its equity by 8.3% and its
 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11participation to 8.4% (+0.9 p.p.), surpassing for the
 Fixed Income Mixed Income Variable Income Money Market first time the variable income segment. The last two
Source: CAFCI segments credit their movements to variations in their
 prices and in the number of share units registered. With
 respect to the distribution of FCIs in pesos, so far this
 year the trend registered during 2010 continues, in
 which variable income segments (-1.9 p.p.) and those
 of Money Market (-7.1 p.p.) continue ceding their
 participation to mixed income funds (+0.7 p.p.) and
 fixed income (+8.4 p.p.) (see Chart 7.6).

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 13 On the other hand, the equity of FCIs in foreign currency
Chart 7.7 increased 2.4%, reaching US$480 million
 Issuances of Financial Trusts millions of $ ($1,960 million). This increase was driven almost exclusively
 6,000 by increases in the equity of fixed income infrastructure
 FF funds (+4.8%) and, to a lesser extent, by mixed income
 5,000 funds (+2.7%). As a counterpart, the variable income
 Remainder segment decreased its equity 4.3% and the Money Market
 4,000 segment, barely 0.4%. With the exception of mixed
 5,063 -60% income funds that credit their equity increase to an
 3,000 increase in the number of share units registered, in all
 other segments the variations were driven by respective
 2,000 2,011 movements in their prices and in the number of share
 units registered.
 1,000 +50%

 704 1,055
 0
 Apr-11 May-11

 Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. Financial Trusts8

 The issuances of Financial Trusts (FF)
 totaled in May around $3,070 million,
 registering a decrease of 47% with respect to April, which
 is explained by the greater weight that infrastructure FF had
Chart 7.8 in that month. In effect, if this type of issuance were to be

 Settlors excluded, the total placed in the month
millions of $ (excludes infrastructure FF) would amount to $1,055 million, 50% more than in April and one of the largest amounts recorded in the year.

1,200 Mutual societies, Cooperatives and
1,000 126 Non-bank credit card issuers +128% More than $2,000 million of the total placed in May
800 245 Retail businesses corresponded to placements intended to finance
107 -1% infrastructure works (see Chart 7.7). In particular,
600 this month a new series of the FF NASA was issued
366 Financial Entities
(Nucleoeléctrica Argentina S.A.) for U$S 407 million
400 370 (approximately $1,660 million). The purpose of this FF is
+40% Other the financing of energy infrastructure works
200 227 318 linked to the Atucha II project. Additionally, within
0 the framework of the Federal Multi-Year Housing Program,
Apr-11 May-11 a placement was recorded for a value of $350 million,
Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. which aims at the construction of social housing in
Buenos Aires Province. The rest of the issuances
corresponded, mainly, to securitizations of personal
loans, whose originators were mostly retail businesses
Chart 7.9 and
% Cut-Off Rates of FF (Class A securities in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months - mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers
40 weighted monthly averages by amount) of financial entities (see Chart 7.8). Additionally, this month
35 commercial credits and chattel mortgage credits were
30 Fixed rate securitized (which had not been surveyed since April of
Variable rate 2010).
25 BADLAR private banks rate

20 The cut-off interest rates of senior securities in
15 pesos with a duration of less than 14 months continue
to remain stable. In effect, the cut-off rate
10 (weighted average by amount) of securities with
5 variable yield was located in May at 13.7%, 0.1 p.p.
Dec-06 Oct-07 Aug-08 Jun-09 Apr-10 Feb-11 above that recorded in the previous month. Meanwhile,
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others that corresponding to securities negotiated at a fixed
rate reached 12.9% in May, decreasing 0.1 p.p. with
8 Only trust funds with public offering are considered. respect to the previous month (see Chart 7.9).
Additionally, a placement in pesos with a relatively
Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 14 high duration was recorded in the month, corresponding
to the FF intended for the construction of housing in
Buenos Aires Province, whose cut-off rate was the
BADLAR Public Banks rate plus a spread of 2 p.p..

Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System May-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsApr-11Dec-10May-10
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 171,485 167,839 156,104 123,554 2.2% 1.4% 38.8% 26.4%
Monetary Circulation 131,576 129,874 119,694 94,856 1.3% 0.5% 38.7% 26.4%
Bills and Coins in public hands 116,302 114,380 107,145 84,070 1.7% 0.9% 38.3% 26.0%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 15,272 15,489 12,534 10,786 -1.4% -2.2% 41.6% 29.0%
Cancellation Checks 3 5 15 0 -31.4% -31.9% - -
Current Account at BCRA 39,909 37,965 36,410 28,698 5.1% 4.3% 39.1% 26.7%

Stock of Passes
Liabilities 13,645 13,385 9,376 16,088 1.9% 1.1% -15.2% -22.7%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include securities portfolio for passes)
In pesos 32,721 34,588 50,912 52,075 -5.4% -6.1% -37.2% -42.8%

NOBAC 54,676 52,079 23,737 2,573 5.0% 4.2% 2025.4% 1836.3%

BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 51,987 51,637 52,132 48,471 0.7% 7.3%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 342,141 331,849 297,283 242,171 3.1% 2.3% 41.3% 28.7%
 Current account (2) 98,917 94,297 88,303 73,001 4.9% 4.1% 35.5% 23.4%
 Savings account 61,979 60,155 56,626 44,004 3.0% 2.2% 40.8% 28.3%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 166,481 163,056 138,315 112,994 2.1% 1.3% 47.3% 34.2%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 10 10 14 16 0.3% -0.5% -38.4% -43.9%
 Other deposits (3) 14,755 14,332 14,026 12,157 3.0% 2.1% 21.4% 10.6%

 Deposits of the private sector 229,039 223,684 204,037 166,420 2.4% 1.6% 37.6% 25.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 113,102 108,165 93,246 75,751 4.6% 3.7% 49.3% 36.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,854 15,524 15,926 16,178 2.1% -2.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 206,440 199,358 181,888 148,730 3.6% 2.7% 38.8% 26.5%

 Loans to the private sector 184,598 177,449 161,677 130,228 4.0% 3.2% 41.8% 29.1%
 Advances 25,543 23,490 22,036 19,002 8.7% 7.9% 34.4% 22.5%
 Documents 39,053 37,473 33,756 24,823 4.2% 3.4% 57.3% 43.3%
 Mortgage loans 21,472 21,092 19,944 18,254 1.8% 1.0% 17.6% 7.2%
 Pledge loans 11,914 11,387 9,420 7,522 4.6% 3.8% 58.4% 44.3%
 Personal loans 45,830 44,324 39,360 32,693 3.4% 2.6% 40.2% 27.7%
 Credit cards 29,588 28,907 26,367 20,364 2.4% 1.5% 45.3% 32.4%
 Others 11,198 10,776 10,793 7,570 3.9% 3.1% 47.9% 34.8%

 Loans to the public sector 21,842 21,909 20,212 18,502 -0.3% -1.1% 18.1% 7.6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,702 8,636 7,412 5,988 0.8% 45.3%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 215,221 208,681 195,463 157,071 3.1% 2.3% 37.0% 24.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 277,200 268,836 252,088 201,075 3.1% 2.3% 37.9% 25.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 458,446 446,234 404,443 326,241 2.7% 1.9% 40.5% 28.0%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 523,223 509,391 467,835 389,361 2.7% 1.9% 34.4% 22.4%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current 184,407 180,114 167,207 133,513 2.4% 1.6% 38.1% 25.8%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 240,752 235,404 220,558 173,643 2.3% 1.5% 38.6% 26.3%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 345,344 338,069 311,197 250,490 2.2% 1.3% 37.9% 25.6%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 397,210 388,104 357,178 291,596 2.3% 1.5% 36.2% 24.1%

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3,646 2.1% 9,020 5.3% 15,381 9.0% 47,931 28.0%
 Financial sector 16 0.0% -1,980 -1.2% -3,501 -2.0% 3,878 2.3%
 Public sector 915 0.5% 4,247 2.5% 9,278 5.4% 20,656 12.0%
 Private external sector 2,770 1.6% 13,004 7.6% 20,749 12.1% 51,501 30.0%
 BCRA Securities 62 0.0% -5,671 -3.3% -10,123 -5.9% -25,736 -15.0%
 Others -117 -0.1% -580 -0.3% -1,022 -0.6% -2,368 -1.4%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 350 0.7% -440 -0.8% -145 -0.3% 3,516 6.8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 680 1.3% 3,214 6.2% 5,189 10.0% 12,988 25.0%
 Payment to international organizations 17 0.0% -44 -0.1% 78 0.1% 268 0.5%
 Other public sector operations -437 -0.8% -425 -0.8% 6,303 12.1% 3,970 7.6%
 Minimum cash 169 0.3% -1,225 -2.4% -1,906 -3.7% -4,482 -8.6%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -79 -0.2% -1,960 -3.8% -9,809 -18.9% -9,228 -17.8%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.62 15.7 15.5
 Integration 16.0 15.9 15.7
 Position (2) 0.4 0.2 0.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58.9 58.0 50.4
 30 to 59 days 20.5 24.6 26.2
 60 to 89 days 9.6 6.7 12.8
 90 to 179 days 5.9 5.5 5.2
 more than 180 days 5.1 5.1 5.3
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.6 20.6 20.9
 Integration (includes resource application default) 63.3 62.2 64.8
 Position (2) 42.7 41.6 43.9
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.9 57.6 58.3
 30 to 59 days 22.6 21.6 23.4
 60 to 89 days 10.3 9.7 8.3
 90 to 179 days 9.1 9.0 7.6
 180 to 365 days 2.1 2.1 2.4
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.54 9.65 9.82 9.70 8.79
 Amount traded 877 680 643 781 809

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 9.74 9.47 9.30 9.57 8.73
 60 days or more 10.84 10.47 10.73 10.67 9.63
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.13 9.78 9.64 10.25 8.83
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.19 11.15 11.14 11.08 9.37

 In dollars
 30 days 0.29 0.28 0.27 0.27 0.28
 60 days or more 0.59 0.57 0.57 0.60 0.56
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.37 0.37 0.36 0.40
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.52 0.56 0.53 0.55

 Active Interest Rates May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.28 11.69 11.44 11.97 10.46
 Amount traded (total terms) 229 216 223 216 210

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 18.84 18.99 19.18 19.23 19.08
 Documents on signature only 15.51 15.14 15.27 14.81 14.69
 Mortgages 14.45 14.03 13.94 14.59 12.47
 Pledge loans 17.92 17.44 17.62 17.49 17.47
 Personal loans 29.29 29.24 29.36 29.10 30.44
 Credit cards 31.28 32.50 32.52 31.26 29.25

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.21 11.22 11.15 11.10 9.69

 International Interest Rates May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.20 0.22 0.25 0.26 0.33
 6 months 0.41 0.44 0.46 0.46 0.65

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.54 0.72 0.67 0.61 0.82
 10 years 3.16 3.43 3.39 3.27 3.42

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.00 11.83 11.72 10.75 9.50

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total repurchase agreement rates REPO trading
 1 day 9.15 9.08 9.22 9.20 9.00
 7 days 9.51 9.52 9.54 9.53 9.50

Amount traded of repurchase agreements REPO trading (daily average) 8,064 7,411 8,358 5,973 9,295
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 10.86 n/a
 2 months 10.87 10.92 10.98 10.93 n/a
 3 months 11.03 10.98 11.07 11.10 11.15
 9 months 12.00 n/a 11.95 n/a 13.53
 12 months n/a n/a 12.46 13.05 n/a

NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a 0.59 1.39 1.81 2.15
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.76 1.13 1.68 2.07 2.36
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.14 2.29 2.52 2.52 n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.23 3.50 n/a n/a n/a

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 628 548 673 341 449

 Foreign Exchange Market May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 4.08 4.07 4.04 3.98 3.90
 BCRA Reference 4.08 4.07 4.04 3.98 3.90

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.11 4.09 4.06 4.00 3.93
 ROFEX 1 month 4.11 4.09 4.07 4.01 3.93
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 924 878 699 1095 1089

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.53 2.56 2.43 2.35 2.15

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.86 5.88 5.65 5.26 4.90

 Capital Market May-11 Apr-11 Mar-11 Dec-10 May-10

MERVAL
 Index 3.343 3.418 3.359 3.429 2.217
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 44 55 59 94 64

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 103.80 100.94 100.65 95.27 89.14
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 94.00 93.88 90.91 93.34 70.54
 BODEN 2014 ($) 90.47 91.52 93.15 93.49 74.43
 DISCOUNT ($) 70.07 74.22 72.89 85.48 45.74

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 472 413 451 529 1.120
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 340 318 322 292 344

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBS: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Share Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
BP: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | May 2011 | BCRA | 20
