# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2011 | Monthly Monetary Report
February 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 9
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 10
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Markets | Page 11
   - Stocks | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is acknowledged: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closure of this report was on March 14, 2011. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• Total means of payment (M2) reached an average balance of $261,430 million in February, registering a decline of 3.1% with respect to the January average and year-on-year growth of 28.6%. The monthly decline was associated with seasonal factors and specific operations by the public sector carried out fundamentally during January that impacted the average level of February. For its part, private means of payment (private M2) remained relatively stable, presenting a monthly increase of 0.3% (35.5% y.o.y.). The year-on-year variation of private M2 includes a "comparison base" effect, generated by the behavior of this aggregate in the first quarter of 2010. Both the variation of total M2 and that of private M2 are consistent with the annual target corresponding to the base scenario of the 2011 Monetary Program (27.9% for total M2 and 29.2% for Private M2).

• Continuing with its managed float policy, the Central Bank made purchases in the foreign exchange market for approximately u$s900 million. 70% of the average monetary effect of said operations was sterilized through available monetary regulation instruments.

• The total of private deposits increased 1.9%, driven mainly by fixed-term deposits (3.4%) and, to a lesser extent, by sight deposits (0.8%). Fixed-term deposits continued to register sustained growth, with an increase in both those belonging to the wholesale segment (4.8%) and those corresponding to the retail segment (2.4%).

• The broad liquidity ratio in pesos remained at elevated levels, standing at 40.5%. Financial entities adjusted the composition of their liquidity upon completion of the quarterly calculation of the Minimum Cash position (EM), reducing both computable assets as integration and net repurchase agreements with the BCRA (0.3 p.p. in each case) and increasing holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs (0.4 p.p.) in terms of total deposits in pesos.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed the highest monthly expansion rate of the last five years for the month of February, with growth similar to that of 2006. In effect, they registered an increase of 1.9% ($3,140 million) in their monthly average balance, presenting a year-on-year variation of 40.3%, 2.4 p.p. above that observed in the previous month. In particular, overdrafts on current account showed growth of 6% ($1,300 million), the highest of the last nine months and surpassing that observed for the same month during the six previous years. Personal loans continued to show good performance, growing at a similar rate to January (3.1%) and above the 2010 average. Also noteworthy were pledged loans, which reached record growth levels this month, registering a variation of 6% ($595 million).

• The interest rates paid by private financial entities for deposits in pesos of up to 35 days remained stable, both in the wholesale and retail segments. In this way, the BADLAR for private banks remained around 11.1%, while that corresponding to fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand stood at 9.2%.

• The majority of active interest rates registered decreases in February. The average monthly interest rate of the total of overdrafts on current account decreased 0.3 p.p., standing at 18.5%. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to discounted documents stood at 13.4%, while that associated with documents on first signature stood at 15.3%, decreasing in both cases 0.1 p.p. with respect to January. The interest rate for credit card financing stood at 31.2% in February after falling 1 p.p., while that for personal loans stood at 29.2% (0.1 p.p. below January).
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 thousands of M2 - 2011 Targets Total means of payment (M22) reached in Febru-
 millions of $ ary an average balance of $261,430 million (see Chart

 Monthly average (39.8% y.o.y.)2.1), registering a monthly decrease of 3.1% and a

 270 Monetary Program Range year-over-year growth of 28.6%. This reduction in the
 Feb-11 monthly average was associated with seasonal factors
 261.4
 250 (28.6% y.o.y.) 254.9 and specific operations by the public sector (29.1% y.o.y.) carried out during January.

 230
 The monthly variation of M2 was explained in large
 210
 part by public sector operations, in particular, by the

 190 significant increase in fixed-term deposits in mid-Jan-
 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 uary that left a negative statistical carryover for Feb-
 Source: BCRA ruary. Meanwhile, the growth exhibited by private sector
 fixed-rate placements during the month also generated
 a contractive effect on means of payment. Among the
 Chart 2.2 factors that presented an expansive monetary effect,
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of the BM with similar magnitude, the increase in loans to the
 millions of $ (February 2011, on average) private sector and the purchases of foreign currency
4 carried out by the Central Bank in the exchange market
 3 stood out.

 2
 1 For its part, private means of payment (private M23)
 0 remained relatively stable, presenting a slight monthly
 -1 increase of 0.3% (35.5% y.o.y.). The year-over-year
 -2 variation of private M2 includes a "comparison base"
 -3 effect, generated by the behavior of this aggregate in
 -4 the first quarter of 2010. Both the variation of total
 Foreign Sector Public LEBAC and Passes Other BM M2 and that of private M2 are consistent with the
 Currency NOBAC annual target corresponding to the base scenario of
 Purchases*
 *Includes Central Bank intervention the Monetary Program 2011 (27.9% for total M2 and
 Source: BCRA 29.2% for Private M2).

 The Monetary Base (BM) presented during February a
 Chart 2.3 slight reduction of 0.2% ($254 million, see Chart

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos thousands of
 (daily value and monthly average) 2.2), reaching an average balance of $162,465 million.
 millions of $ millions of $
40 millions of $ 50 The Central Bank continued with its managed float
 2,000
 More than $1M policies for the exchange rate, buying the surplus from
 1,750 Less than $1M the Unified and Free Exchange Market (MULC), and
38 48
 1,500

 1,250 control of monetary aggregates, sterilizing fundamentally
36 1,000 46 through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC. The ster-
 750 ilization amounted to 70% of the expansion generated by
34 500 44
 foreign currency purchases.
 250
32 42
 0 The broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) registered during
 -250
 February 2011 a growth of 1.4% (39.1% y.o.y.). In the
 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11
30 40 same sense, private M3 presented a monthly increase
 of 1.2% (34.2% y.o.y.).
28 38
 More than $1 million
 Less than $1 million (right axis) 36
24 34
 Oct-09 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11

 Source: BCRA

2 M2 is composed of currency in the hands of the public, the balance of settlement checks in pesos, the balances of deposits in current accounts and savings accounts, in pesos, of the non-financial public and private sector.
3 Private M2 is composed of currency in the hands of the public, the balance of settlement checks in pesos and the balances of deposits in current accounts and savings accounts, in pesos, of the non-financial private sector.

 Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 4
The total deposits in domestic currency increased 2%, with proportional increases in both private sector and public sector placements. The latter increased 2.2%, registering a strong increase in fixed-term deposits that more than offset the decline observed in sight deposits.

Meanwhile, total private deposits showed an increase of 1.9%, driven mainly by fixed-term deposits (3.4%) and also, although to a lesser extent, by sight deposits (0.8%). Regarding fixed-term deposits, they continued to register sustained growth, with increases across all amount brackets (see Chart 2.3). In particular, fixed-term deposits belonging to the wholesale bracket (placements of more than $1 million) presented an increase of 4.8%, while those corresponding to the bracket of placements of less than $1 million increased 2.4%.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits, expressed in dollars, showed a decrease of 2.9%, with reductions in public sector placements that were partially offset by the increase recorded in private sector deposits. Regarding the latter, they registered an increase of 0.8%, with increases essentially in sight deposits.

For its part, the broadest aggregate, M3*4, which includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of 1%.

## 3. Bank Liquidity1

During February, the broad liquidity ratio in pesos5 remained at elevated levels, positioning itself at 40.5% (see Chart 3.1), although it decreased 0.2 percentage points compared to January.

During the month, financial entities adjusted the composition of their liquidity at the conclusion of the quarterly calculation of the Minimum Cash (EM) position, reducing the participation of assets computable as integration, in order to close their position. Regarding the rest of liquid assets, and always in proportion to their peso deposits, they reduced net repos with the BCRA and increased their holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs (by 0.3 p.p. and 0.4 p.p., respectively).

Meanwhile, the quarterly EM position ended with a surplus of 0.3% of total peso deposits. In the characterization by bank type, private banks registered a surplus of 0.4%, which was relatively stable throughout the quarter (see Chart 3.2), especially in February. As is customary, for public banks the surplus was much tighter, at 0.1% of peso deposits, with periods of deficit compensated by other periods of surplus.

The foreign currency segment continued to exhibit a surplus in the EM position, which in February was 48.7% of total dollar deposits6. In the

---

**Footnotes:**

4 M3* is composed of currency in circulation held by the public, the balance of cancellatory checks in pesos and foreign currency and the balances of deposits in current accounts and savings accounts of the non-financial private sector.

5 The broad liquidity ratio is defined as the sum of cash in banks, balances in current account of entities at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs in terms of deposits.
-2 -2 compared to the previous month, the surplus turned out

-3 -3 to be 0.8 p.p. higher, largely as a result of the statistical

-4 -4 carryover recorded by the increase in the current account

-5 -5 in foreign currency at the BCRA at the end of
 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11
 (*) Includes Non-Bank Financial Entities January, and related to resources originated in the
 issuance of debt in dollars by a provincial government.

## 4. Loans¹ 7

As occurs during the first months of each year due to lower credit activity inherent to the summer downturn, loans in pesos to the private sector decelerated in February their growth rate. Nevertheless, they presented the highest monthly expansion rate of the last five years for the same month, with growth similar to that of 2006 (see Graph 4.1). In effect, they registered an increase of 1.9% ($3,140 million) in their average monthly balance, presenting a year-on-year variation of 40.3%, 2.4 p.p. above that observed the previous month.

The lines intended to finance mainly commercial activities showed disparate behavior. On one hand, financings instrumented through documents evidenced in the month a slight growth, in line with lower liquidity needs of companies. In this way, they registered an average monthly variation of 0.6% ($200 million) and reached a year-on-year expansion rate of 56.3%. On the other hand, advances on current account showed growth higher than expected by registering an average monthly increase of 6% ($1,300 million), the highest of the last nine months, and exceeding the variations

6 The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for resource application default.
7 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, principally caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 6 achieved for this month in the six previous years (see Graph 4.2). The year-on-year growth rate of advances reached 40.3%.

Regarding consumer credit, personal loans continued to show good performance, growing at a rate similar to that of January and above the 2010 average. In this way, they registered in February an increase of 3.1% ($1,250 million), presenting a year-on-year variation of 35%, 1.7 p.p. more than the previous month. Affected by factors associated with the calendar, credit card financings registered an increase of just 0.4% ($100 million), although they accelerated 1.5 p.p. their year-on-year expansion rate with respect to January, reaching 48.9%.

## Graph 4.1
Loans in Pesos to Non-Financial Private Sector
% (average monthly variation) %
5 60 Monthly var.
 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50
4
3 40 2.0 1.9
 2 1.6 30 1.5 1.3
 0.2
1 20
 -0.1
0 10
-1 0
 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11
 Source: BCRA

## Graph 4.2
Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (monthly variation of average monthly balances)
12
 10.1
10 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11
 8
 6.0
6 4.8 4.9
 4 2.7
 2 1.4
 0.6 0.5 0.2
0
-2 -1.4
-4
-6

With regard to loans with real guarantee, pawn credit loans reached record growth levels this month, registering a variation in their average monthly balance of 6% ($595 million). However, part of the growth
May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Febgrowth average monthly was explained by the important statistical carryover that January left. For its part, mortgage loans, which since October 2010 had been showing growth rates higher than 2%, in February grew 1.1% ($230 million), evidencing an expected decrease in their expansion rate due to the lower number of real estate operations that are usually completed in February.

Graph 4.3
% Consumer Loans
8 % 90 Personal - average monthly variation
Credit Cards - average monthly variation 80 It is worth mentioning that the cumulative growth of credit to the private sector in pesos in the first two
6 Personal - y-o-y variation (right axis)
Cards - y-o-y variation (right axis) 70 months of 2011 is consistent with what was projected in the Monetary Program for the current year.

4 60

50 Finally, in line with the evolution of foreign trade, loans to the private sector in foreign currency,
2 40 mainly aimed at pre-financing exports, continued with the momentum of the previous months, growing
0 30 4.1% (US$ 310 million) in the month and 49.2% in the last twelve months.

20

-2 10

-4 0
Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11
Source: BCRA 5. Interest Rates 8

Titles issued by the BCRA9

Just as occurred in the previous month, in the primary market of LEBACs and NOBACs, placements of more significant amounts were observed, highlighting the interest in variable rate instruments, in which a monthly decrease in margins was observed

8 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
9 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.1 paid on the BADLAR of private banks for all awarded terms (around 0.2 pp). NOBACs were placed at an average term similar to that of the previous

NOBAC - Primary Market month, preferring those securities with maturities
millions $ Amounts Placed by Term Margins paid on BADLAR p.p. of up to 9 months, which represented 60% of what was awarded in the month (see Graph 5.1). For its part, the interest rates of LEBACs awarded in the primary market did not show significant changes during February. However, lower interest rates were observed compared to those negotiated in the secondary market, mainly in the case of securities with more distant maturities (see Graph 5.2).

3,500 3.5
January 2011 26-Jan-11
3,000 3.0 As in the previous months, what was awarded by auctions was higher than what expired in the month,
February 2011 22-Feb-11
2,500 2.5 thus generating a contractionary monetary effect on the monetary base. The stock of securities in circulation grew 5% in the month, reaching approximately $81,400 million in nominal value (NV). It is worth highlighting the
2,000 2.0
growth in demand for NOBACs in recent months, which allowed them to represent more than 52% of
1,500 1.5 the total securities in February, gaining around 10 p.p. of participation in just one month. With respect
1,000 1.0 to the distribution of the total stock of securities by type of holder, no significant changes were observed in the month, with banks continuing to have a representation of 87% of the total in circulation.

500

0 0.5
Source: BCRA 6 Months 9 Months 1 Year 1.5 Years 2 Years and Driven mainly by an increase in NOBAC transactions, the amount traded in the secondary market
More
increased 30% compared to the previous month, exceeding $520 million daily average. The operations

Graph 5.2

Interest Rate LEBAC
%
14

13

12

11 22-Feb-Primary Market

26-Jan-11-Primary Market
January - Secondary Market

10
February - Secondary Market
Active Interest Rates¹¹
During February, decreases were evident in most interest rates, except in the case of longer-term loans, which registered slight increases compared to the previous month.

The average monthly interest rate for the total of overdrafts in current accounts decreased 0.3 percentage points, positioning itself around 18.5%. In the most operated segment within overdrafts in current accounts (rates agreed with companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity), a slight monthly decline was also registered (0.1 percentage points) placing said rate around 11%.

**Active Interest Rates** On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to discounted documents was positioned around 13.4%, while that associated with documents signed solely, was positioned at 15.3%, both decreasing 0.1 percentage points with respect to January.

(monthly average)

Overdrafts TNA
TNA, % TNA, % Doc. Discounted 35 32.3
Doc. Solely Signed Jan-11 Feb-11 29.3 29.2 31.2
Pawned 35 30 45
Mortgages 25 15.3
Personal - right axis 20 18.8 18.5 17.4
30 Credit Cards - right axis 15.3 15.3 17.0 40
15 13.5 13.4 14.0 13.7
10
Overdrafts Doc. Solely Doc. Disc. Mortg. Pawned Personal Credit Cards
25 Signed 35

Also, the interest rates on consumer financing were reduced. The interest rate on credit card financing was positioned at 31.2% in February after falling 1 percentage point, while that of personal loans was positioned at 29.2% (0.1 percentage points lower than January).

20 30

15 25

10 20
Feb-09 May-09 Aug-09 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11
Source: BCRA

In contrast, during the month the interest rates on loans with real collateral presented monthly increases. The rate for mortgage loans was positioned on average at 14%, 0.3 percentage points above the level of January. Meanwhile, the rate corresponding to pawned loans was positioned around 17.4%, increasing 0.4 percentage points during the month.

**Graph 6.1**

**thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA**

**millions of u$s excluding SDR allocations** 2009

**6. International Reserves and**

55

Feb-11
**Foreign Exchange Market**

50

45 The stock of international reserves reached u$s52,318 million at the end of February (see Graph 6.1), reducing u$s300 million compared to the previous month. Said

**thousands of** **Variation of International Reserves**
**millions of u$s** **(February 2011)**
1.0
40 0.8 decline is explained by the decrease in dollar current accounts
0.6
0.4
0.2 of entities at the BCRA, as a result of the greater application
35 0.0
-0.2
-0.4 of resources in foreign currency to the granting of loans in
-0.6
-0.8
30 -1.0 such denomination, and by the decrease in dollar deposits

-1.2
Intern. Currency Purchase Public Sector Minimum Effect Other belonging to the public sector. In turn, the BCRA continued
Reserves Buying Cash
35 Feb-07 Jun-07 Oct-07 Feb-08 Jun-08 Oct-08 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11

Source: BCRA with its intervention policy in the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC), and during the month currency purchases exceeded u$s900 million. Meanwhile, the revaluation of other currencies with respect to the United States dollar also slightly increased the reserves balance.

The average quotation in February of the United States Dollar was 4.02 $/u$s, implying a monthly variation of 1% (see Graph 6.2). This was reflected in the forward market, as the expected depreciation for

**Graph 6.2**

**$/US$** **Foreign Exchange Market** the rest of the year was slightly higher than expected in previous months. The amount operated in such market was around $570 million, a level similar to that of January. Meanwhile, with respect to the Real and the Euro, the peso also depreciated, in the already mentioned context of appreciation of

4.1 (United States dollar quotation)

4.0 Daily Quotation

---

11 This section was prepared with information on interest rates for loans for the entire country.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 10
3.9 Monthly Average Quote +1.0% such currencies. Thus, the average quotes for the month

3.8 were 2.41 $/Real (+1.5%) and 5.50 $/Euro (+3.2%), res-

3.7 pectively.

3.6

3.5

3.4 7. Capital Market

3.3

3.2 Stocks

3.1

3.0
Feb-08 May-08 Aug-08 Nov-08 Feb-09 May-09 Aug-09 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 During February, the most relevant stock markets for the

Source: BCRA Argentine economy showed relatively homogeneous behavior. In general, despite the upheavals in North African countries and the consequent increase in oil prices, the exchanges of the main markets registered positive results, driven by the publication of improvements in activity and employment levels in both the United States and Europe. In this sense, the variation between January and February of the MSCI Global measured in dollars registered an increase of

Chart 7.1 3.3% (see Chart 7.1). The largest increase was observed in the

World Stock Indices MSCI Japan which had an increase of 4.5%, followed

(index base 02/07/07 = 100) by the S&P500 (the main index of the North

90 4-Nov 125 American market) which increased 3.2%, and the MSCI Europe

25-Aug 15-Apr 120 which rose 2.7%.

80 115

70 110 In contrast, during February in the main stock markets of

105 Latin America, measured in dollars, they registered dis-

60 100 parate behavior. The index that registered the largest drop

MSCI Global was the MERVAL (4.5%) where profit-taking occurred, fol-

MSCI Europe 95
50 lowed by the IGPA (Chile) (3.1%) result partly offset by the

MSCI Japan 90 appreciation of the Chilean peso of 1.5% in February. The

MSCI Latam (right axis)
40 85 IGBVL (Peru) had an almost neutral result (-0.3%), as did

Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 the IPC (Mexico) (0.3%), while the BOVESPA (Brazil) regis-

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. tered a gain of 1.4%.

Measured in local currency, in February, the MERVAL

index registered its first negative result in six months

(see Chart 7.2), ending at 3,456 points (-3.8%). So far in

2011 the local stock index has registered a loss of 1.9%, while

in the last twelve months it accumulates an increase of 55.6%.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 11 The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading days-, in

Chart 7.2 annualized terms and measured in dollars, increased 1.6 p.p.

3,800 MERVAL Index Evolution compared to January, to end February at 19%. For its part, the

3,600 expected volatility of the S&P500 (measured by the VIX) on

MERVAL Index average in February was 17.2%, almost unchanged compared

3,400 to the previous month. In any case, this latter had different

Closing of the index on 31/12/2009 behavior throughout the month, with a decrease at the begin-

3,200 ning of the period and, due to the aforementioned upheavals

3,000 Closing of the index on 30/12/2010 in North Africa, an increase of almost the same magnitude toward

Increased 54% between the end.

2,800 September 2010

and January 2011 The volume traded daily, on average, on the Buenos Aires

2,600 Stock Exchange was $60 million, 13% below the amount traded

2,400 in January but 34% above the amount for the same month

2,200 in 2010.

2,000

Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Public Securities

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg
In February, the sovereign risk indicators of emerging

Chart 7.3 economies registered changes of little magnitude. The

Sovereign Risk Indicators EMBI+, which measures the spreads of debt in foreign

EMBI spread CDS spread 5-year spread 1950 currency of emerging countries did not register practically

in b.p. in b.p. in b.p.
5,000 Argentina 650 1750 any changes, closing the month at 272 b.p.

EMBI Argentina
4,000 Brazil (right 550 EMBI Latin 1550

axis) America 1350
# Translation to English

450 1150 Meanwhile, the EMBI+ Argentina rose 28 b.p., reaching
3.000
 350 950 at the end of the month 580 b.p.. The EMBI Latam, which measures the

2.000 750 spread of Latin American debt increased 6
 250
 550 b.p., concluding the month at 335 b.p.. For its part, the in-
1.000 150 dicator for Brazil showed a minor decline
 350

 0 50 150 of 2 b.p. to reach 177 b.p. With regard to the

 Source: Bloomberg Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11Jul-07 Abr-08 Ene-09 Oct-09 Jul-10spread of 5-year Credit Default Swaps (CDS)
 contracts for Argentina, this increased 33 b.p. with
 respect to the previous month, while the same segment for
 Brazil registered no changes. (see Chart 7.3).

 The traded volume of public securities (on average
 Chart 7.4 daily) in the local market increased from $990 million in

 Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds* January to $1,260 million in February, representing an in-

 Last 5 years crease of $540 million with respect to February 2010.
 millions of $ Outstanding Placements
 4.500 Month Placement Amount
 Total Amount May-07 TGS US$ 500M
 May-07 Petrobras US$ 300MPrivate Securities
 4.000 Apr-10 Pan American Energy US$ 500M
 Annual Average Jul-10 IRSA US$ 150M
 3.500 Oct-10 Autopistas del Sol US$ 243M
 Oct-10 Edenor US$ 140M
 Nov-10 Arcor US$ 200M
 3.000 Dec-10 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 US$ 300MIn the last month, in the private debt market, 4 place-
 Dec-10 Clisa US$ 200M
 Jan-11 Tarjeta Naranja US$ 200M
 2.500 ments of negotiable bonds (ONs) were registered.

 2.000 The total amount subscribed exceeded $500 million

 1.500 and although it is the lowest of the last 5 months, it
 1.000 stands out with respect to what occurred in the same period

 500 during the last 6 years. Of the issuances, only one
 was carried out in foreign currency, for a total amount

 (*) Includes issuances of companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets.of u$s 100 million, and the remaining three, in local
 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg currency, for a total amount exceeding $100 million.

 Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 12 During this period, standing out with almost 80% of
 the total amount issued, the only placement in foreign
 currency was located in the Real Estate Activities sec-
 tor. In second place and of lesser magnitude, is
 the Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities sec-
 tor, specifically in the Vehicles field, reaching 19% of
 the total, distributed between 2 ONs. Finally, the remain-
 ing 1% corresponds to 1 placement in the Food and
 Beverages sector.

 Investment Funds

 During February, the Investment Funds (FCIs), in
 pesos and in foreign currency, increased for the eighth
 consecutive month, registering on this occasion a monthly
 increase of 3.1% (43% year-on-year), and reaching a
 total equity of $21,600 million. In turn, it is the largest
 equity recorded in almost three years, with FCIs in pesos
 representing more than 90% (see Chart 7.5).

 On one hand, the FCIs in pesos closed the month with
 a total equity of $19,800 million, increasing 3.3% with
 respect to the previous month, with increases in all its
 segments, with the exception of equities. In effect, this
 Chart 7.5 last one was the only one to decrease its equity, with a
 setback of only 2.6%, explained by a decline in the
 Equity of Investment Funds and Participation value of quotashares. In this way, its participation

 Billions of $ in pesos, in dollars and in euros% fell to 9.2% (-0.6 p.p.). For its part, the mixed in-
 25 100 Mixed Income in Euros come funds experienced the largest increase of the month,
 95 Money Market in US$ increasing their equity by 4.5% and 0.4 p.p. their partici-
 20 90 Fixed Income in US$ pation. In second place were the Money
 85 Mixed Income in US$ Market funds, with a monthly increase of 3.2% in their
 15 80 equity
# Variable Income in US$
heritage although without variations in its participation
75
Money Market in $(45.5%). Finally and in a smaller magnitude, the mixed-
10 70
income funds increased 6.1% their heritage and 0.2
Mixed Income in $
65
percentage points their participation in the total heritage of FCIs in
Fixed Income in $
5 60
Variable Income in $pesos. All the increases were driven by increments
55
0 50 Participation of FCIs both in the value of the unit value of each type of
Jan-08 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 in Pesos over the fund as well as in the quantity of the same. For several
Total Heritage months, the level of these three types of funds has been at
Source: CAFCI its maximum values.

In the case of FCIs in foreign currency, a fall in total heritage was registered of 0.2% although measured in pesos, the depreciation led to these funds increasing 0.2%. In effect, the heritage at the end of the month was reduced to u$s 456 million. This variation was explained by decreases in the fixed income segments (-1.2%), variable income (-1.7%) and Money Market (-0.8%), almost completely offset by the increase in heritage of mixed income FCIs (5.6%). In all cases, the variations credit their evolution to the quantity of unit values registered and in the case of Money Market funds it was also due to the fall in their values.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.6

Emissions of Financial Trusts
millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
1,400

1,200 Financial Trusts12
Avg. $820M

1,000
Avg. $700M The emissions of Financial Trusts (FF) totaled in
Avg. $730M
800 Avg. $580M February $1,100 million, 70% more than in January.
Avg. $550M
600 In this way, the largest amount was registered since December 2007 and a record for the month of February if
400 the placements intended to finance infrastructure works
are excluded (see Chart 7.6).
200

0
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Like in January, the main underlying assets
Source: Preparation based on CNV data and others were those linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons), constituting practically the totality of the securitized assets in the month (96% of the total). Within this type of underlying asset, it is worth highlighting the important participation of personal loans (83% of the total), which since 2010 have been showing great dynamism, registering in February an increase in the securitized amount of 76% with respect to the previous month. The remainder corresponded to commercial loans linked to agricultural activity.

Among the trustees, retail businesses stood out again by being responsible for more than half of what was placed in the month (53% of the total). In line with the important increase in the securitizations of personal loans, such trustees registered an increase in their securitizations of 50% with respect to January, with this month registering one of the largest amounts securitized by retail businesses (see Chart 7.8). In order of importance, they were followed by financial entities (27% of the total), while mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers were trustees of 16% of the total. The remainder corresponded to an SME from the agricultural sector and to a supplier of inputs for said sector (agrochemicals), which issued FF in dollars.

The interest rates of the cut of the senior titles in
400 pesos, which in all cases presented a duration
$300 $290
avg. 2006: 350 of less than 14 months, showed signs of stability. In
$150M 53% $250
27% 300 effect, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount)

250 $200 of the securities awarded at variable rate was located in Fe-

200 $150 bruary at 13.8%, 0.2 p.p. above the one recorded the

16% 150 previous month. Meanwhile, the cut-off rate of the securities with
4%
100 fixed yield was located at 13.4%, a value similar to that of

50
December 2010, thus reversing the increase of the previous
0
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 month, when a single unrepresentative operation was recorded
Source: BCRA based on CNV and others.
(see Graph 7.9). For its part, the duration
(weighted average by amount) of the senior securities
12 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 14 Graph 7.9 remained around 6 months, in line with the pre-
dominance of underlying assets linked to

% Cut-off Rates of the FF (Class A securities in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months - consumption.

40 monthly averages weighted by amount)

35 Fixed rate

Variable rate
30 BADLAR rate private banks

25

20

15

10

5
Dec-06 Oct-07 Aug-08 Jun-09 Apr-10 Feb-11
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary and financial system variables Feb-11 Monthly Last 12 months
Jan-11 Dec-10 Feb-10
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 162,465 162,719 156,104 119,268 -0.2% -0.9% 36.2% 23.7%
Monetary Circulation 127,658 126,740 119,694 93,942 0.7% -0.1% 35.9% 23.4%
Bills and Coins in public hands 112,313 112,520 107,144 83,644 -0.2% -1.0% 34.3% 22.0%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 15,339 14,210 12,535 10,298 7.9% 7.1% 49.0% 35.3%
Cancellation Checks 6 10 15 0 -39.3% -39.8% - -
Current account at BCRA 34,807 35,978 36,410 25,325 -3.3% -4.0% 37.4% 24.8%

Stock of Passes
Liabilities 11,113 11,787 9,376 17,024 -5.7% -6.5% -34.7% -40.7%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for passes)
In pesos 40,813 45,913 50,912 39,163 -11.1% -11.8% 4.2% -5.3%

NOBAC 39,009 30,545 23,737 7,419 27.7% 26.7% 425.8% 377.6%

International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 52,427 52,365 52,132 47,959 0.1% 9.3%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 316,010 309,795 297,430 224,299 2.0% 1.2% 40.9% 28.0%
Current account (2) 90,877 99,427 88,311 75,263 -8.6% -9.3% 20.7% 9.7%
Savings account 58,230 57,829 56,589 44,360 0.7% -0.1% 31.3% 19.2%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 153,107 139,037 138,478 93,536 10.1% 9.2% 63.7% 48.7%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 10 13 14 18 -20.5% -21.1% -44.4% -49.5%
Other deposits (3) 13,786 13,489 14,038 11,122 2.2% 1.4% 24.0% 12.6%

Deposits of the private sector 212,896 208,852 204,182 158,759 1.9% 1.1% 34.1% 21.8%

Deposits of the public sector 103,115 100,943 93,248 65,540 2.2% 1.3% 57.3% 42.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,568 16,040 15,908 11,432 -2.9% 36.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 190,845 187,796 181,887 139,174 1.6% 0.8% 37.1% 24.6%

Loans to the private sector 169,377 166,373 161,676 120,702 1.8% 1.0% 40.3% 27.5%
Advances 23,018 21,721 22,036 16,401 6.0% 5.1% 40.3% 27.5%
Documents 35,581 35,376 33,755 22,770 0.6% -0.2% 56.3% 41.9%
Mortgage 20,692 20,464 19,945 17,840 1.1% 0.3% 16.0% 5.4%
Pledged 10,440 9,845 9,420 7,179 6.0% 5.2% 45.4% 32.1%
Personal 41,697 40,579 39,361 30,895 2.8% 1.9% 35.0% 22.6%
Credit cards 27,641 27,537 26,366 18,559 0.4% -0.4% 48.9% 35.3%
Others 10,308 10,852 10,792 7,058 -5.0% -5.8% 46.0% 32.7%

Loans to the public sector 21,469 21,423 20,211 18,471 0.2% -0.6% 16.2% 5.6%
Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 8.078 7.767 7.412 5.453 4.0% 48.2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 203.196 211.957 195.470 158.907 -4.1% -4.9% 27.9% 16.2%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 261.426 269.786 252.059 203.267 -3.1% -3.9% 28.6% 16.8%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 428.329 422.325 404.589 307.943 1.4% 0.6% 39.1% 26.3%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 490.980 486.218 467.910 351.979 1.0% 0.2% 39.5% 26.7%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 174.685 173.842 167.214 128.901 0.5% -0.3% 35.5% 23.1%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 228.990 228.257 220.529 169.035 0.3% -0.5% 35.5% 23.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 325.215 321.382 311.341 242.403 1.2% 0.4% 34.2% 21.9%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 372.746 368.050 357.250 281.036 1.3% 0.5% 32.6% 20.5%

 Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -254 -0.2% 17.054 10.5% 6.362 3.9% 43.197 26.6%
 Financial sector 784 0.5% 1.598 1.0% -1.521 -0.9% 7.109 4.4%
 Public sector -995 -0.6% 9.299 5.7% 5.031 3.1% 16.329 10.1%
 Private external sector 3.283 2.0% 11.690 7.2% 7.745 4.8% 47.886 29.5%
 BCRA Securities -2.974 -1.8% -4.697 -2.9% -4.452 -2.7% -26.060 -16.0%
 Other -350 -0.2% -836 -0.5% -442 -0.3% -2.067 -1.3%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 62 0.1% 191 0.4% 295 0.6% 4.468 8.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 832 1.6% 2.968 5.7% 1.975 3.8% 12.194 23.3%
 Payment to international organizations -60 -0.1% 309 0.6% 122 0.2% 281 0.5%
 Other public sector operations 2.536 4.8% 6.626 12.6% 6.728 12.8% 4.359 8.3%
 Minimum cash -283 -0.5% -1.699 -3.2% -681 -1.3% -810 -1.5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -2.962 -5.7% -8.012 -15.3% -7.849 -15.0% -11.511 -22.0%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change of valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Feb-11 Jan-11 Dec-10
 (1) (2) (2)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.8 15.9 15.8
 Integration 16.0 16.2 16.3
 Position (3) 0.3 0.3 0.5
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 56.1 56.1 56.1
 30 to 59 days 25.5 25.5 25.5
 60 to 89 days 6.9 6.9 6.9
 90 to 179 days 6.1 6.1 6.1
 more than 180 days 5.5 5.5 5.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.4 20.4 20.7
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 69.1 68.3 69.4
 Position (3) 48.7 47.9 48.8
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.8 56.7 59.4
 30 to 59 days 24.3 21.8 22.3
 60 to 89 days 10.3 11.5 8.4
 90 to 179 days 7.2 7.5 7.6
 180 to 365 days 2.4 2.3 2.2
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos

(3) Position= Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 17

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**Call in pesos (at 1 day)**
- Rate: 9.68 | 9.76 | 9.70 | 9.70 | 8.46
- Amount operated: 917 | 806 | 781 | 781 | 662

**Fixed Term**

*In pesos*
- 30 days: 9.31 | 9.53 | 9.57 | 9.57 | 9.18
- 60 days or more: 10.64 | 10.01 | 10.67 | 10.67 | 10.22
- BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 9.69 | 10.15 | 10.25 | 10.25 | 9.38
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 11.06 | 11.07 | 11.08 | 11.08 | 9.56

*In dollars*
- 30 days: 0.27 | 0.26 | 0.27 | 0.27 | 0.35
- 60 days or more: 0.62 | 0.53 | 0.60 | 0.60 | 0.72
- BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.38 | 0.29 | 0.36 | 0.36 | 0.41
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.53 | 0.47 | 0.53 | 0.53 | 0.53

## Active Interest Rates

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**Caucions in pesos**
- Gross interest rate at 30 days: 12.04 | 11.61 | 11.97 | 11.97 | 9.74
- Amount operated (total terms): 191 | 192 | 216 | 216 | 158

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
- Overdrafts on current account: 18.49 | 18.77 | 19.23 | 19.23 | 20.35
- Documents on sole signature: 15.26 | 15.31 | 14.81 | 14.81 | 15.80
- Mortgages: 14.00 | 13.73 | 14.59 | 14.59 | 12.69
- Pledges: 17.36 | 17.00 | 17.49 | 17.49 | 17.92
- Personal loans: 29.18 | 29.26 | 29.10 | 29.10 | 31.85
- Credit cards: 31.24 | 32.26 | 31.26 | 31.26 | 30.15

- Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million: 11.03 | 11.10 | 11.10 | 11.10 | 10.34

## International Interest Rates

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**LIBOR**
- 1 month: 0.26 | 0.26 | 0.26 | 0.26 | 0.23
- 6 months: 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.39

**US Treasury Bond**
- 2 years: 0.76 | 0.60 | 0.61 | 0.61 | 0.84
- 10 years: 3.56 | 3.36 | 3.27 | 3.27 | 3.68

**FED Funds Rate**: 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25

**SELIC (at 1 year)**: 11.25 | 10.96 | 10.75 | 10.75 | 8.75

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

---

# Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 18

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**BCRA repo rates**
- Passive 1 day: 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00
- Passive 7 days: 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50
- Active 7 days: 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50

**Total REPO round repo rates**
- 1 day: 9.27 | 9.31 | 9.20 | 9.20 | 9.00
- 7 days: 9.52 | 9.52 | 9.53 | 9.53 | 9.50

**Amount operated in REPO round repos (daily average)**: 5,900 | 5,709 | 5,973 | 5,973 | 9,122

**LEBAC rates in pesos (1)**
- 1 month: s/o | s/o | 10.86 | 10.86 | s/o
- 2 months: 10.96 | 10.99 | 10.93 | 10.93 | s/o
- 3 months: 11.15 | 11.07 | 11.10 | 11.10 | s/o
- 9 months: 11.93 | s/o | s/o | s/o | 13.80
- 12 months: 12.48 | 12.96 | 13.05 | 13.05 | 13.96

**NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)**
- 9 months BADLAR Private Banks: 1.74 | 1.89 | 1.81 | 1.81 | s/o
- 1 year BADLAR Private Banks: 1.92 | 2.13 | 2.07 | 2.07 | s/o
- 2 years BADLAR Private Banks: 2.73 | 2.59 | 2.52 | 2.52 | s/o
- 3 years BADLAR Private Banks: s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o

**Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average)**: 533 | 406 | 341 | 341 | 161

## Foreign Exchange Market

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**Spot Dollar**
- Exchange houses: 4.02 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.85
- BCRA Reference: 4.02 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.85

**Future Dollar**
- NDF 1 month: 4.05 | 4.01 | 4.00 | 4.00 | 3.87
- ROFEX 1 month: 4.06 | 4.01 | 4.01 | 4.01 | 3.86
- Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos): 570 | 548 | 1,095 | 1,095 | 820

**Real (Pesos per Real)**: 2.41 | 2.38 | 2.35 | 2.35 | 2.09

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)**: 5.50 | 5.33 | 5.26 | 5.26 | 5.27

## Capital Markets

| Feb-11 | Jan-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Feb-10

**MERVAL**
- Index: 3,518 | 3,598 | 3,429 | 3,429 | 2,277
- Amount operated (millions of pesos): 63 | 74 | 94 | 94 | 56

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$): 98.74 | 96.39 | 95.27 | 95.27 | 87.41
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law): 90.60 | 95.56 | 93.34 | 93.34 | 67.73
- BODEN 2014 ($): 93.36 | 95.71 | 93.49 | 93.49 | 69.95
- DISCOUNT ($): 78.86 | 87.14 | 85.48 | 85.48 | 46.41

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond: 528 | 552 | 529 | 529 | 1,123
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina): 315 | 282 | 292 | 292 | 339

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the monthly auctions.
# Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil)

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash Reserve.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3\*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment

**NDF:** Non Deliverable Forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**SCP:** Short-Term Debt Value

**FV:** Face Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2011 | BCRA | 20
