# Monthly Monetary Report
August of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
August 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities Issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repurchase Agreement Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 8
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 9
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Market | Page 11
   - Stocks | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on September 12, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In August, total payment means (M2) experienced a monthly growth of 1.3%, led by the behavior of sight deposits from the public sector and currency in circulation held by the public; while sight deposits from the private sector remained at levels similar to those of the previous month. As a consequence, private payment means (private M2) increased only 0.8%. Meanwhile, the broadest monetary aggregate in local currency (M3) presented a monthly increase of 1.9%.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to be the main engine of growth in monetary aggregates. In effect, these financings maintained a high and sustained rate of expansion, explaining more than 50% of M3 growth so far this year. In August, they grew 3.2% ($6,530 million), the largest increase in recent years for the month, with the performance of loans associated with commercial activity standing out since the last quarter of 2010, which have grown above the lines intended to finance household consumption. In particular, in the month under analysis, commercial loans reached a year-on-year growth rate of 54.8%, which exceeded by 8.3 p.p. the rate of variation of consumer financings.

• In August, a new auction of funds from the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB) was held, which aims to improve the supply of credit for investment and productive activity, with a fixed total financial cost in pesos. On this occasion, $835 million were awarded, bringing the total awarded since the beginning of PFPB to $2,664 million.

• Placements at fixed term in pesos from the private sector accelerated their monthly expansion rate to 3% ($2,850 million), the highest rate of the last 4 months. In August, increases were observed both in the wholesale bracket (of $1 million and more) and in those of less than $1 million. In this way, fixed-term deposits accumulated during the first eight months of 2011 the largest percentage increase for the same period in recent years.

• In August, financial institutions allocated the increase in peso deposits to the granting of loans in pesos to the private sector, while the level of their liquid assets remained stable compared to the previous month, with a substitution of LEBAC and NOBAC for repurchase agreements at the Central Bank. Consequently, the broad liquidity ratio (defined as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, in terms of total deposits in pesos) continues at high levels, standing at 38.4%.

• The interest rates on placements of LEBAC and NOBAC remained relatively stable during the first auctions of August, while towards the end of the month the rates corresponding to shorter-term LEBAC increased. On the other hand, the interest rates on repurchase agreement operations were not modified.

• Passive interest rates and most active rates registered slight increases in August. In particular, the BADLAR rate of private banks increased 0.7 p.p. and stood at 12.35%, while in the retail segment (placements of up to $100 thousand), the interest rate for deposits up to 35 days averaged 9.9%, 0.3 p.p. more than observed in the previous month. Among the interest rates applied to loans, the largest increase (0.7 p.p.) was observed in the one corresponding to discounted documents, which registered a monthly average of 14.6%. Meanwhile, financings through single-signature documents averaged August at 15.6% (0.2 p.p. more than in July) and the interest rate on total current account advances stood at 19%, after increasing 0.4 p.p. For its part, the interest rate on pawn loans registered a
monthly increase around 0.8 p.p. positioning itself at an average level of 18.9%. In contrast, the interest rate applied on personal loans decreased 0.4 p.p., to 29.9%.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates
 millions of $ (August 2011, in average)
 8 The broadest monetary aggregate in local currency

 6 (M32) presented a monthly increase of 1.9% while

 4 private M3 exhibited an increase of 1.4% in

 2 the period. Among the variation factors of M3,
 the rise in peso loans to the private sector contin-
 0 ued to stand out (see Chart 2.1). In effect, these

 -2 financings maintained a high and sustained expan-

 -4 sion rate (see Loans section), explaining more

 Foreign Currency Sector Loans to Other M2 Time Dep. andTime Dep. andthan 50% of M3 growth so far this year.
 Purchases Public* Private Sector Other Other
 Sector Public Sector Private
 The public sector operations also had an expansion-

 M3 ary monetary effect, while the Central Bank's inter-
 *Includes other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base and public sector loans.
 Source: BCRA vention in the foreign exchange market proved con-
 tractionary, within the framework of an increase in
 Chart 2.2 foreign currency demand by the private sector.

 Monetary Aggregates
 (August 2011, in average) For its part, total means of payment (M23) experi-

 Deposits in US$ enced a monthly growth of 1.3%, led by

 the performance of sight deposits of the public

 Other Deposits Private Sector M3* sector (4.9%) and currency in circulation held by

 Time Deposits the public (1.7%); while sight deposits of the private
 M3
 1.9% sector remained at levels similar to those of the
 1.9%
 previous month (see Chart 2.2). As a consequence of
 M2
 Sight Deposits these behaviors, private means of payment
 1.3%
 (private M24) grew only 0.8%.
 Bills and Coins
 Time deposits in pesos grew 2.9%, with similar growth
 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6
 thousands of millions of $ rates for both public and private sector deposits. With
 Note: percentages correspond to monthly variation. Source: BCRA respect to the latter, they accelerated their monthly
 expansion rate to 3% ($2,850 million), the highest rate
 Chart 2.3 in the last 4 months. In August, increases were observed
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos both in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more)
 thousands of thousands of and in the segment of less than $1 million. In this way,
 millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $ fixed-term deposits accumulated during the first eight
 49 % Monthly Average Variation 61
 3.0 2006 months of 2011 the highest percentage increase in recent
 2007
 2.5 2010 years. In effect, between January and August 2011, fixed-
 44 2011 56
 2.0 term deposits in pesos of the private sector totaled an
 1.5
 39 51 increase of 21.7%. This growth equaled an average
 1.0
 0.5 monthly increase of 2.5%, compared to an average
 34 0.0 46 monthly increase of 1.8% recorded for the same period
 January-August during 2006, 2007 and 2010 (see Chart 2.3).
 29 More than $1 million 41
 Less than $1 million (right axis)

 24 36
 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed

 Source: BCRA a growth of 1.2%, with reductions in
2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

3 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

4 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial private sector.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 4 positions in public sector placements that were more than offset by the increase recorded in private sector deposits. Driven by the collection of BODEN 2012 services and a portfolio shift towards foreign currency assets, private sector deposits recorded an increase of 4.2%,

Graph 3.1 mainly in savings account deposits. In this way, the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and

Bank Liquidity in Pesos the total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
% of deposits (monthly average) (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of 1.9%.
45
39.5 39.8 40.6 40.9 40.7 40.5 41.5 42.2 41.7 40.8
40 39.2 38.4
40.7 40.6
35

30

25
20 3. Bank Liquidity1

15

10
 In August, financial institutions allocated the increase
5 in deposits in pesos to granting loans in pesos to the pri-
0 vate sector, while the level of their liquid assets remained
Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11
Source: BCRA stable compared to the previous month. Consequently, the ratio of broad liquidity in pesos (defined as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities, in terms of total deposits in pesos) decreased slightly, although it continued at elevated levels.

Graph 3.2 In this way the liquidity ratio was positioned at 38.4%,
0.9 p.p. below that of July (see Graph 3.1). As for its
% of deposits Minimum Cash Position composition, a substitution of LEBAC and NOBAC
Accumulated Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration by repos with the Central Bank was verified, while
18.0 the assets intended to comply with the Minimum Cash requirement remained stable around 16% of deposits (see
17.5 Graph 3.2). As a consequence, the surplus of the Minimum Cash position was 0.4% of total deposits in pesos. By
17.0 bank group, both private banks and public banks recorded a surplus in their Minimum Cash position, of 0.5%
16.5 and 0.2%, respectively.

In the foreign currency segment, the surplus of the
16.0 16.0 Minimum Cash position was 39.4% of total deposits in dollars.5 Compared to July, the surplus was 1.2 p.p. higher, as a
15.5 15.6 result of greater integration by financial institutions of
the private sector. In particular, this was due to the fact
15.0 that at the beginning of August financial institutions
May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 collected maturities of public debt for a significant amount
Source: BCRA (see International Reserves Section). Nevertheless, part of the increase in total integration was reduced by the allocation of resources to granting loans in foreign currency to the private sector as well as by the decrease in deposits belonging to the public sector.

5 The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for default in resource allocation.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 4. Loans1 6
# Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

% (var. average monthly) %
6 60 Loans in pesos to the private sector grew in

Var. % monthly August 3.2% ($6,530 million; see Graph 4.1), the lar-
5 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50 gest percentage increase of recent years for the
4 2.6 3.0 month. As usually occurs in the eighth month of each
3,240 year, loans moderated their monthly expansion rate
2.2 2.4
3 30 due, fundamentally, to factors of a seasonal cha-

racter, reflected in the behavior of current account
2 1.5 0.4 20 advances. Nevertheless, the year-over-year variation

rate of loans to the private sector continued to in-
1 10 crease and was positioned at 48.6%, highlighting
0 since the last quarter of 2010 the performance of
-1 0 loans associated with commercial activity, which have
Ago-05 Ago-06 Ago-07 Ago-08 Ago-09 Ago-10 Ago-11 grown above the lines intended to finance household
consumption (see Graph 4.2).
Source: SISCEN

Graph 4.2 Regarding the main commercial lines, current account
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector advances decreased 2.2% ($620 million), as expected
% for this part of the year when the demand for liquidity
80 (var. y-o-y of monthly averages) by companies tends to decrease after payment of the
Commercial loans complementary mid-year bonus. For its part,
60 Consumer loans Aug-11 financings implemented through documents grew 4.7%
Real estate-backed loans 54.8 ($1,990 million) in the month, evidencing a decele-
Aug-11
40 46.4 ration compared to July, although registering a higher
Aug-11 increase in relation to the same month in previous years.
39.8

20 With respect to loans intended to finance family con-
sumption, personal loans registered an increase of 4.4%
0 ($2,130 million), the largest increase since May 2008.
-20 In this way, they more than compensated for the tran-
Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 sitory deceleration of July. Meanwhile, credit card
Source: BCRA financings showed an increase of 2.3% ($710 million)
in the month, lower than in previous months.

Graph 4.3

% Real Estate-Backed Loans %
7 80 For their part, loans with real estate backing conti-
6 Mortgage - monthly var. average 70 nued growing at a good pace. Accompanying the dy-
Pledge-backed - monthly var. average namism of automotive sales, pledge-backed credits
5 Mortgage - y-o-y var. (right axis) 60 registered a monthly increase of 4.9% ($640 million)
Pledge-backed - y-o-y var. (right axis)
4 50 and continued accelerating their year-over-year growth
rate, which in August was positioned above 70%. For
3 40 their part, mortgage loans accelerated their monthly
growth rate, registering an increase of 3% ($680 mil-
2 30
lion), the largest since December 2007 (see Graph 4.3).
1 20

0 10 Finally, it should be noted that in August a new tender
-1 0 of funds from the Bicentennial Productive Financing
-2 -10 Program (PFPB) was conducted, which aims to improve
Ago-07 Feb-08 Ago-08 Feb-09 Ago-09 Feb-10 Ago-10 Feb-11 Ago-11 the supply of credit for investment and productive ac-
Source: BCRA tivity, with a fixed total financial cost in pesos. On this
occasion $835 million were awarded, bringing the total

6 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused awarded since the beginning of the PFPB to $2,664
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary million, of which already
and Financial Indicators", loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for
financial trusts.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 6

Graph 4.4
# Bicentennial Advances

Bicentennial Advances disbursed $870 million (see Graph 4.4). In millions of $ %
3,000 (accumulated monthly amounts) 45 both public banks (Nación,
Provincia, La Pampa and BICE) and private banks (Galicia,
40.3 2,664 Français, Santander Río, HSBC, Credicoop, Macro,
Amounts Awarded 39.5 40
Amounts Disbursed 2,500 Nuevo Banco de Entre Ríos and Nuevo Banco de Santa
Ratio Disbursed/Awarded (right axis) 34.9 35
32.7 Fe) participated in the auctions.
2,000 1,829 30

1,537 1,537 25
1,500 1,257 1,257 On the other hand, foreign currency loans to the private
19.8 20 sector, intended fundamentally to finance the export sector,
1,025 1,025
1,000 870 15 registered an increase of 3.1% ($280 million) in August,
9.8 10.3 11.1 722
570 570 7.4 537 619 10 similar to that of the previous month.
500 3.1
230 1.5 140 249 5
8 56 76 105
0 0
Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11

Source: BCRA

# 5. Interest Rates7

## Securities Issued by the BCRA8

In the primary market of securities issued by the Central
Bank, a decrease was again observed in the average term
placed of NOBACs, while the margins paid above the
BADLAR rate of private banks did not register significant
changes compared to July (see Graph 5.1). For LEBACs, the
average term of the adjudicated securities increased compared
to July. With regard to the interest rates on letters, during
Graph 5.1 the first auctions of the month they remained at levels similar
to the previous month, while in the last August auction an
NOBAC - Primary Market increase was registered for the shorter terms (see Graph 5.2).

Margins over BADLAR Amount Awarded by Term

Up to 6 Months From 6 to 9 Months
% 27-Jul-11 31-Aug-11 From 9 to 1 Year From 1 to 1.5 Years 2% For the other part, the Central Bank sold securities in the
3.5 % 2 Years and More
100% secondary market, for an approximate amount of $200
3.0 32%
80% 43% million. As in the previous month, the maturities of the month
2.5 52% were higher than the amount awarded, for which reason
73% 5%
2.0 60% 3% the outstanding stock decreased around 5%, standing at
2%
1.5 4% 25% 28% approximately $81,800 million at the end of August.
40%
1.0 36%
20% 18% 32%
0.5 30% Finally, the amount traded in the secondary market of
0.0 0% 1% 5% LEBACs and NOBACs increased in the month, with
0 500 1000 1500May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 negotiations standing out at shorter terms in both instruments.
Source: BCRA The interest rates remained relatively stable; in particular,
LEBAC rates ended August aligned with those of the primary
market for the shortest-term securities and slightly above for
longer terms.

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 7 Interfinancial Markets

## Repo Market1

As in the previous months, in August, the interest rates on
the Central Bank's repo operations did not present modifications.
Thus, the rate of passive repos at 1 and 7 day terms remained
at 9% and 9.5%, respectively. For their part, those corresponding
Graph 5.2 to active repos continued at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

LEBAC - Primary Market
Rate Amount Awarded by Term

Up to 90 days From 91 to 120 From 121 to 180
TNA,%
15.5 27-Jul-11 31-Aug-11 % From 181 to 270 More than 271
100%
12%
21% 21% 4% During August, a strong growth was observed in the average
14.5 80%
4% 44% stock of net repos compared to July, which more than offset
15% 14%
13.5 60% the decline shown the previous month, when financial entities
10%
12.5 38% 84% had reduced their passive repos with the Central Bank to
40%
61% address the higher
11.5 20% 46% characteristic liquidity demand of the period. In the
 26%
 month under analysis, the balance of passive repos of the
10.5 0%
 days
 50 150 250 350 450 550 650 750 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Central Bank, considering all the modalities in which it

 Source: BCRA operates, increased more than 70%, placing itself around
 $12,000 million, a level similar to those registered in
 the first months of the year. On the other hand, given the
 adequate banking liquidity conditions that continued to
 prevail, the Central Bank did not grant active repos in
 August, maintaining a zero stock for this type of opera-
 tions.

 Interbank Market¹

 Chart 5.3 In August, the average interest rate in the interbank
 % A.N.R. Call Interest Rate market (call) was 9.5% for the total operations,
 % A.N.R.
16 13.0 and 9.4% for those conducted at 1 business day (see
 12.5
15 Chart 5.3). In this way, they accumulated a decline with
 12.0
 11.5 respect to July of 0.7 p.p. in the first case and 0.8 p.p.
14 11.0 in the second. For its part, the average interest rate
 10.5
13 in the repos market between financial entities (excluding
 10.0 the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.7%, 0.5 p.p.
 9.5
12 lower than the previous month.

 9.0
 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11
11
 1 Business Day Total Operations Said reduction of interest rates in the different
10
 segments of the interbank market had its counterpart
 9
 in smaller operated amounts. In this sense, the daily
 8
 average of the negotiated amount during the month in the
 Jan-09 May-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11
call market amounted to just over $900 million,
Source: BCRA almost $200 million less than during July. For its part,
 the daily average of the negotiated amount in the repos
 market between financial entities for operations at 1
 business day was $1,600 million, $1,400 million less
 than in July, when it had reached a maximum for the
 year.

 The dispersion measures of interbank loan interest rates
 decreased slightly with respect to July. In particular, in
 the call market, the difference between the monthly aver-
 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.4 age of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed
 each day was 3.3 p.p. in August, while the standard de-
A.N.R.,% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days viation of the operations was 0.5%.
16 p.p. Monthly Average Variation
 Up to $100,000 Private Banks 0.9
15 0.7
 BADLAR Private Banks
14 0.5
 0.3
13 0.1 12.4
 -0.1
12 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11

11 Passive Interest Rates¹

 9.9
10 During August, the average monthly interest rates paid
 by private financial entities for deposits of up to 35 days
9
 continued with an increasing trend. On one hand, after
8 an increase of 0.7 p.p., the BADLAR rate of private banks
 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 was positioned at an average monthly level of 12.35%.
Source: BCRA On the other hand, the interest rate for deposits up to
 $100 thousand was placed at 9.9% and registered an
 increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to July (see Chart 5.4).

 In the BADLAR futures market, higher negotiated amounts
 were registered with respect to the previous month, main-
 taining again the preference for shorter terms (one and
 two months). For its part, the interest rates of these con-
 Chart 5.5 tracts were placed at levels slightly higher than those
 Interest Rates of Loans with Real Guarantee registered in July, since in the contracts with maturities
 (monthly average) at year-end, the interest rate was placed around 14%,
A.N.R., % Monthly Variations approximately 0.8 p.p. above the same contracts nego-
22 p.p tiated in the previous month.
 1.0
 Pawn Mortgages
20 0.9 0.8
 0.8
 Active Interest Rates¹
18 0.7
 0.6
16 0.5
 0.4 0.3
14
 0.3
0.2 In August, in general terms, the interest rates
12 0.1 applied to different loan lines

10 - registered increases. The largest monthly increases
Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Mortgage Chattel
Source: BCRA were recorded in the interest rates associated
with long-term loans, followed by increases in
the interest rates of lines intended to finance
commercial activities.

On one hand, the interest rate on chattel
Graph 5.6 mortgage loans registered a monthly increase of around
0.8 p.p., positioning itself at an average level of 18.9%. For
Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities its part, the one corresponding to mortgage loans
(monthly average)

TNA, % Monthly Variation to families evidenced an increase of 0.3 p.p.
26 p.p Total Overdrafts in Current Account 1.0 compared to July, reaching a level of 15% (see Graph
24 Discounted Documents 0.9 5.5).
22 Single Signature Documents 0.8 0.7

0.7
20 Among the interest rates applied to commercial loans,
0.6
18 0.5 the largest increase (0.7 p.p.) was observed in the
0.4

16 0.4 one corresponding to discounted documents, which
0.3

14 0.2 0.2 registered a monthly average of 14.6%. Meanwhile,
12 0.1
0.0 financing through single signature documents ended
10
Total Ad.CC Disc.Doc. Single Sig. August at a monthly average level of 15.6% (0.2 p.p.
Source: BCRA Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Documents higher than July). Finally, the interest rate on total
overdrafts in current account positioned itself at 19%,
Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 9 after increasing 0.4 p.p. during the month (see Graph
5.6).
Graph 6.1

BCRA International Reserves - Monthly Variation The interest rate on personal loans evidenced
thousands of (excluding 2009 SDR allocations)
millions of US$ a monthly decrease of 0.4 p.p., positioning itself around
2.0 29.9%. On the other hand, the latest available data for
1.5 the interest rate on credit cards, corresponding to
1.0 July, indicates that it positioned itself at 33.1%, 1 p.p.
0.5 above that recorded in June.

0.0

-0.5 6. International Reserves and

-1.0 Foreign Exchange Market9

-1.5 BODEN 2012 Payment:
US$ 2,200 million
-2.0
Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 The balance of international reserves was US$49,990 mi-
Source: BCRA llion at the end of August (see Graph 6.1), which implied
a reduction compared to July. Among the main factors
explaining such decrease is the payment of public debt in
foreign currency (BODEN 2012), at the beginning of the
month, which was reflected in a reduction of the public
sector accounts at the Central Bank. Additionally, another
contractionary factor for international reserves was the
Graph 6.2 Central Bank's intervention in the Single and Free For-
eign Exchange Market (MULC), since during the month
Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate this Institution registered net sales of foreign currency.
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real For its part, the variation in the quotation of the United
8% States Dollar with respect to other currencies partially

6% compensated for the decreases generated by the men-
tioned factors.
4%

2% In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
0% with respect to the United States Dollar and with respect
to the Euro (in a context of appreciation of the European
-2% currency). Meanwhile, an appreciation of the peso was

-4% recorded with respect to the Real (in a month in which
the Brazilian currency depreciated against the United States
Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Dollar). Thus, the quotations for the monthly average
were 4.17 $/US$ (1% compared to July),
* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. 5.97 $/Euro (1.2%) and 2.61 $/Real (-1.1%) for each one
 Source: BCRA
 of the mentioned currencies. In the forward market
 (ROFEX) the average amount traded increased
 21% and reached $938 million, approaching the level of
 the previous year's average. Both the quantity of con-
 tracts traded and the quotations showed an
 increase.

9 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 10 7. Capital Market

 Stocks

 The most relevant stock markets for the Argentine
 economy had fairly homogeneous behavior during
 August. The evolution of the markets during the entire
 Chart 7.1 month was strongly influenced

 World Stock Indices by the reduction of the credit rating of the United
 (base index 02/07/07 = 100) States by Standard & Poor's on August 5.

 85 125 During the first week of the month, stock exchanges were
 affected by the final stage of negotiations by
 50 the United States Congress regarding the ceiling of
 75 115 American debt, which was taken as a reason, among
 others, for the downgrade in the sovereign debt rating
 65 105 already mentioned. The following two weeks were
 MSCI Global affected by the impact of said event, which generated
 MSCI Europe
 55 MSCI Japan 95 growing uncertainty in North American markets (until
 S&P 500 the Federal Reserve meeting) and expectations
 MSCI Latam (right axis) regarding the possibility of further rating reductions
 45 85 for some eurozone members.

 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 
 Faced with this scenario, the European Central Bank
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data.
 decided to restart the purchase of public securities.
 During the last 10 days of the month, Bernanke's
 announcement (the Federal Reserve president) at the
 Jackson Hole conference about the available alterna-
 tives to stimulate the economy again, drove all stock
 Chart 7.2 markets upward, although it was not sufficient to offset
 the previous declines.

Volatility Stock Market Volatility
 (%) In this sense, the MSCI Global measured in dollars de-
 22 days creased 7.3% during the last month although it reached a
 MERVAL (Argentina) maximum variation of -13.5% (see Chart 7.1). Likewise,
 60
 IPC (Mexico) the MSCI Japan declined 8.2% (fell to 11.8%),
 BOVESPA (Brazil) followed by MSCI Europe with 12.9% (-19.6%), MSCI
 S&P 500 (USA) Latin America with 5.9% (-17.7%) and, finally, the
 40 S&P500 (the main index of the North American market)
 with a decline of 5.7% (-13.4%).

 20 Measured in dollars, during August, the main stock mar-

 kets of Latin America also presented relatively homoge-
 0 neous behavior. On one hand, MERVAL (Argentina) fell
 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 12%, partially explained by a depreciation of 1.4% of its
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. local currency. For its part, BOVESPA (Brazil) decreased
 6.4% and IPC (Mexico) 5.6%, with depreciations in their
 local currencies of 2.6% and 5.1%, respectively. Despite
 an appreciation of 0.4% of the Peruvian sol, the
 IGBVL (Peru) contracted 5.4%. Finally, with a deprecia-
 tion of the Chilean peso of 0.7%, the IGPA (Chile) also
 fell 4%.

 The MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local cur-
 rency, closed the month at 2,965 points, decreasing

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 11 10.7% compared to July and, although it accumulated
 growth of 26.9% during the last 12 months, it has
 already declined 15.9% so far this year.
In the context of great international uncertainty, the
historical volatility of MERVAL –22 sessions–, in
annualized terms and measured in dollars, increased
36 p.p. compared to July to close the month at 54.5%. In
the same line, the expected volatility of the S&P 500
(measured by the VIX) on average increased 16.5 p.p. to
35.5%.

For its part, the daily trading volume, on average, at the
Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was reduced to $54.2
million, decreasing 8.1% compared to the amount traded
in July and 15.5% compared to the value of the same
month of the previous year.

Public Securities

During August, there were heterogeneous results among
the different segments of the fixed income market,
recording price declines in the most significant
segments. Chart 7.3 This behavior is in line with the
evolution of international stock markets (see Actions).

Sovereign Risk Indicators

5-year CDS spread EMBI spread in p.b. in p.b. in p.b.
2,500 550 950
Argentina EMBI Argentina

2,000 Brazil (right axis) 450 The sovereign risk indicators of
EMBI Latin America 750 emerging economies increased again, in part
explained by a 60 basis point (p.b.) reduction in
1,500 350 550 Treasury yields. Thus, the EMBI+, which measures
the spreads of foreign currency debt of emerging
1,000 250 countries as a whole, rose 48 p.b., ending the
350 period at 321 p.b.. In the same direction, the EMBI+
500 150 Latin America increased from 50 p.b. to 384 p.b., while,
in the particular cases of Argentina and Brazil, the
0 50 150 indicators rose 146 p.b. to 738 p.b. and 37 p.b. to 194
Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 p.b., respectively (see Chart 7.2).

Source: Bloomberg

The trading volume of public securities (on average
daily) in the local market increased from $1,420 million
to $1,740 million. In this way, the volume traded
exceeded the amount corresponding to August 2010
($1,500 million).

Private Securities

Throughout August, nine negotiable obligations (ONs)
placements were recorded in the private debt market, for
a total subscribed amount of $700 million. Although this
value exceeds what was placed during the three previous
months, it fails to reach the level of the monthly average
for 2011. Of the nine ONs subscribed, seven were made
in local currency for $470 million and the remaining
two, in foreign currency, for US$55 million. It is
necessary to highlight that one of these ONs issued in
foreign currency (for US$45 million) corresponded to a
securities exchange. Furthermore, two subscription
notices for ONs in local currency at a fixed rate were
declared deserted due to lack of offers; in both cases,
the companies involved chose to issue larger amounts in
ONs with variable interest rates.

During this period, placements corresponding to
Financial Entities accounted for 63% of the total
subscribed amount and were distributed among six
placements (five issued in local currency and one in
foreign currency). In turn, two of them belong to Non-
Banking Entities. Furthermore, there was a single
issuance in foreign currency (that of the exchange)
belonging to the Electrical Energy sector that
encompassed 27% of the total issued, followed by an
issuance in local currency of Other Financial,
Brokerage and Insurance Activities with 8% and, finally,
an issuance in pesos of other issuers, which encompassed
the remaining 2%.

All issuances in local currency will pay interest
equivalent to the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a
margin that varies between 3.9 p.p. and 5.5 p.p.. For
their part, placements in foreign currency will pay a
fixed rate of 7% and 9.75%, respectively.

Common Investment Funds
In August, the assets of the Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, increased once again. On this occasion, the assets of the FCIs increased 6.5%, reaching $26,100 million and totaling a growth of 45.5% during the last 12 months and of 27.5% so far this year. For the third consecutive month, the monthly variation was driven exclusively by the increase in Money Market funds and fixed income funds in pesos.

The FCIs in pesos closed the month with total assets of $24,200 million, 7.1% higher than the level of the previous month and 50.7% above the same month of 2010. Money Market funds, with an increase in their assets of 10%, and fixed income funds, with an increase of 6.9%, concentrated almost all of the variation in FCIs in pesos. In this way, the former recovered 1.1 p.p. of their participation (41.6%) in the total of FCIs in pesos, while fixed income funds decreased their participation 0.1 p.p. (42.3%). Among the segments with lower participation, the increase in the mixed income segment was 9.1%, while variable income FCIs decreased 9.4%. Thus, the former increased their participation in the total assets of FCIs in pesos by 0.2 p.p. (9.6%) while the latter ceded 1.2 p.p. (6.4%), reaching in both cases their maximum and minimum historical level, respectively. All increases in assets were driven by increases in prices and in the quantity of fund shares registered. For its part, the decline in variable income funds corresponded only to a decrease in their prices.

**Graph 7.4**
**Financial Trust Emissions**

*millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)*

On the other hand, FCIs in foreign currency ended the month with assets of US$460 million, decreasing 2.5% with respect to their level in July and 4.5% with respect to the same month of the previous year. As a consequence of uncertainty at the international level, all segments presented declines. According to the magnitude of the variations, the strongest decline was recorded in variable income funds (-6.8%), followed by mixed income funds (-2.8%), fixed income funds (-1.1%) and, lastly, Money Market funds (-0.9%). All these variations originated from decreases in their prices and in the quantity of fund shares.

All these variations originated from decreases in their prices and in the quantity of fund shares.

**Financial Trusts**

The emissions of FF, without considering those intended to finance infrastructure works, totaled in the month $1,290 million, marking a historical record and registering an increase of 52% with respect to July (see Graph 7.4). In this way, the average monthly amount so far this year reached $980 million, surpassing that recorded in previous years. Among the settlors, financial entities stood out, which placed around $470 million in August, more than doubling the amount issued in July. In addition to assets linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card installments), financial entities also securitized leasing contracts. For its part, retail stores were settlors of a similar amount ($480 million), registering an increase in their securitizations of 17% with respect to the previous month. The rest

**Graph 7.5**
**Settlors**
*(excludes FF from infrastructure)*

*millions of $*

- Retail Stores
- Financial Entities
- Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers
- Others
Jul-11 Aug-11 corresponded to securitizations of mutuals, cooperatives
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and others.
 and non-banking credit card issuers (see
 Graph 7.5).

 During the month, two placements from the public sector were recorded linked to infrastructure works financing. In particular, a FF was issued intended to finance railway works ($600 million) and a new placement was registered within the framework of the Pluriannual Federal Housing Program for a value of $60

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 14 million, which has the purpose of constructing social housing in the Province of Entre Ríos.

Graph 7.6 Cutoff Rates of FF (senior titles in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months - The cutoff interest rate (weighted average by
 40 monthly weighted averages by amount) amount) of senior titles in pesos with a duration
 35 of less than 14 months awarded at variable rate recorded a slight increase (0.2 p.p.), placing itself at 14.8% (see
 30 Fixed rate Graph 7.6). Meanwhile, the corresponding to fixed-yield
 Variable rate titles in private banks increased almost 2 p.p. and reached
 25 BADLAR rate private banks 15.4%. It is worth mentioning that this increase was explained
 20 in large part by the placement of a leasing FF, which usually have a greater duration.
 15

 10 With respect to the duration (weighted average by
 5 amount) of senior titles, it was located at approximately 28
 Dec-06 Aug-07 Apr-08 Dec-08 Aug-09 Apr-10 Dec-10 Aug-11months in August, although if infrastructure FF are excluded, the same is reduced to 6.7 months.

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others.
 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Variables Aug-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsJul-11Dec-10Aug-10
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 188,973 186,025 156,104 135,535 1.6% 0.8% 39.4% 27.1%
 Monetary Circulation 147,649 145,175 119,694 104,858 1.7% 0.9% 40.8% 28.3%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 130,187 128,011 107,145 93,441 1.7% 0.9% 39.3% 27.0%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 17,460 17,162 12,534 11,417 1.7% 0.9% 52.9% 39.4%
 Cancellation Checks 3 3 15 0 -5.8% -6.5% - -
 Current Account at the BCRA 41,324 40,850 36,410 30,678 1.2% 0.4% 34.7% 22.8%

Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 12,034 6,970 9,376 13,267 72.7% 71.3% -9.3% -17.3%
 Assets 0 59 0 0

Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 32,311 34,643 50,912 55,673 -6.7% -7.5% -42.0% -47.1%

 NOBAC 51,277 53,860 23,737 9,632 -4.8% -5.5% 432.4% 385.2%

BCRA International Reserves (5) 50,388 51,852 52,132 50,210 -2.8% 0.4%

Deposits from private and public sector in pesos (1) 365,387 358,477 297,283 264,918 1.9% 1.1% 37.9% 25.7%
 Current Account (2) 98,713 95,522 88,303 75,082 3.3% 2.5% 31.5% 19.8%
 Savings Account 71,179 72,818 56,626 48,821 -2.3% -3.0% 45.8% 32.9%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 179,880 174,895 138,315 128,613 2.9% 2.0% 39.9% 27.5%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 10 10 14 15 0.7% -0.1% -33.0% -39.0%
 Other deposits (3) 15,606 15,233 14,026 12,387 2.4% 1.6% 26.0% 14.8%

 Deposits from private sector 245,130 242,213 204,037 179,791 1.2% 0.4% 36.3% 24.3%

 Deposits from public sector 120,258 116,264 93,246 85,127 3.4% 2.6% 41.3% 28.7%

Deposits from private and public sector in dollars (1) 15,910 15,717 15,926 14,399 1.2% 10.5%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 233,535 227,307 181,888 159,954 2.7% 1.9% 46.0% 33.1%
Loans to the private sector 208.261 202.059 161.677 140.164 3.1% 2.3% 48.6% 35.4%
 Advances 28.071 28.692 22.036 20.311 -2.2% -2.9% 38.2% 25.9%
 Documents 44.675 42.683 33.756 27.887 4.7% 3.8% 60.2% 46.0%
 Mortgage loans 23.254 22.573 19.944 18.515 3.0% 2.2% 25.6% 14.5%
 Pledge loans 13.792 13.152 9.420 7.975 4.9% 4.0% 72.9% 57.6%
 Personal loans 50.451 48.650 39.360 34.358 3.7% 2.9% 46.8% 33.8%
 Credit cards 32.257 31.544 26.367 22.127 2.3% 1.5% 45.8% 32.9%
 Others 15.761 14.765 10.793 8.990 6.7% 5.9% 75.3% 59.8%

 Loans to the public sector 25.274 25.248 20.212 19.790 0.1% -0.7% 27.7% 16.4%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.451 9.174 7.412 6.333 3.0% 49.2%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + canceling checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 228.902 223.535 195.463 168.522 2.4% 1.6% 35.8% 23.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 300.081 296.353 252.088 217.344 1.3% 0.5% 38.1% 25.8%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + canceling checks in pesos + 495.577 486.491 404.443 358.359 1.9% 1.1% 38.3% 26.0%
total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + canceling checks in foreign currency) 561.928 551.398 467.835 415.052 1.9% 1.1% 35.4% 23.4%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + canceling checks in pesos + private current 200.910 196.597 167.207 146.351 2.2% 1.4% 37.3% 25.1%
account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 266.251 264.113 220.558 191.390 0.8% 0.0% 39.1% 26.8%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + canceling checks in pesos + 375.319 370.227 311.197 273.232 1.4% 0.6% 37.4% 25.2%
total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + canceling checks in foreign currency) 433.202 425.225 357.178 317.359 1.9% 1.1% 36.5% 24.4%

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.949 1.6% 17.488 9.3% 32.870 17.4% 53.438 28.3%
 Financial sector -5.032 -2.7% 2.118 1.1% -1.383 -0.7% 2.855 1.5%
 Public sector 4.747 2.5% 7.283 3.9% 16.561 8.8% 25.330 13.4%
 Private external sector -2.559 -1.4% 2.042 1.1% 22.791 12.1% 38.467 20.4%
 BCRA securities 5.849 3.1% 6.460 3.4% -3.662 -1.9% -10.724 -5.7%
 Others -57 0.0% -415 -0.2% -1.437 -0.8% -2.489 -1.3%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.465 -3.0% -1.599 -3.2% -1.745 -3.5% 178 0.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -615 -1.2% 511 1.0% 5.700 11.3% 9.660 19.2%
 Payment to international organizations 39 0.1% 305 0.6% 383 0.8% 577 1.1%
 Other public sector operations -1.360 -2.7% -1.521 -3.0% 4.782 9.5% 2.423 4.8%
 Minimum cash balance 161 0.3% -1.223 -2.4% -3.130 -6.2% -3.340 -6.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 310 0.6% 330 0.7% -9.479 -18.8% -9.141 -18.1%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.7 15.7
 Integration 16.0 16.0 16.0
 Position (2) 0.4 0.3 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.5 56.2 55.4
 30 to 59 days 25.2 24.6 22.9
 60 to 89 days 8.2 8.2 11.1
 90 to 179 days 6.0 5.5 5.4
 more than 180 days 5.2 5.5 5.2
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.4 20.5 20.5
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 59.8 58.8 59.9
 Position (2) 39.4 38.3 39.4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.7 57.1 56.6
 30 to 59 days 23.4 21.5 22.9
 60 to 89 days 9.8 10.4 9.2
 90 to 179 days 9.5 9.1 9.0
 180 to 365 days 1.4 1.9 2.1
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.49 10.18 9.53 9.70 9.23
 Amount traded 907 1,101 982 781 846

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 10.30 9.83 9.69 9.57 9.27
 60 days or more 11.31 10.69 10.49 10.67 10.14
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.59 10.17 10.21 10.25 9.54
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.35 11.62 11.27 11.08 10.44

 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.27 0.30
 60 days or more 0.64 0.57 0.58 0.60 0.70
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.43 0.41 0.36 0.38
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.58 0.53 0.53 0.51

 Active Interest Rates Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.07 12.72 11.76 11.97 10.28
 Amount traded (total maturities) 226 222 224 216 183

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 19.02 18.58 18.36 19.25 18.91
 Single signature documents 15.62 15.44 15.01 14.81 15.18
 Mortgage 14.76 14.89 14.89 14.68 14.56
 Pledge 18.94 18.12 18.10 17.49 17.26
 Personal 29.92 30.36 29.22 29.10 29.08
 Credit cards 32.37 33.11 32.08 31.26 32.97

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 12.60 12.31 11.32 11.10 10.60

 International Interest Rates Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.21 0.19 0.19 0.26 0.27
 6 months 0.46 0.41 0.40 0.46 0.58

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.23 0.40 0.41 0.61 0.52
 10 years 2.30 2.99 2.99 3.27 2.69

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.48 12.35 12.19 10.75 10.75

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and montos in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total round REPO repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.07 9.63 9.17 9.20 9.08
 7 days 9.53 9.76 9.56 9.53 9.51

Amount traded in round REPO repurchase agreements (daily average) 8,177 6,066 7,200 5,973 8,077

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 11.30
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.93 11.85
 3 months n/o n/o 11.07 11.10 12.22
 9 months n/o n/o 11.96 n/o n/o
 12 months 12.39 12.50 12.59 13.05 13.94

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o 0.20 1.81 2.10
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.61 0.75 0.70 2.07 2.39
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.78 2.00 2.07 2.52 3.20
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.91 2.99 3.04 n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 538 463 573 341 404
Foreign Exchange Market Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 4.17 4.13 4.10 3.98 3.94
 BCRA Reference 4.17 4.13 4.10 3.98 3.94

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.21 4.16 4.12 4.00 3.96
 ROFEX 1 month 4.21 4.16 4.12 4.01 3.97
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 938 774 876 1095 1325

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.61 2.64 2.58 2.35 2.24

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.97 5.90 5.91 5.26 5.08

Capital Market Aug-11 Jul-11 Jun-11 Dec-10 Aug-10

MERVAL
 Index 2,980 3,364 3,246 3,429 2,391
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 59 62 55 94 79

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 100.37 100.73 103.39 95.27 90.98
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 86.90 90.48 94.04 93.34 81.35
 BODEN 2014 ($) 89.98 89.91 90.76 93.49 86.01
 DISCOUNT ($) 67.00 67.07 70.16 85.48 60.89

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 436 345 413 529 744
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 374 328 347 292 315

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | August 2011 | BCRA | 20
