# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2011 | Monthly Monetary Report
June 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 8
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 9
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Market | Page 11
   - Equities | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Common Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on July 13, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In June, total means of payment (M2) were positioned within the targets established
in the Monetary Program, in an environment close to the base scenario. With a monthly average
balance of $283,730 million, M2 accumulated growth of 12.6% compared to December, 0.9 p.p.
above that projected in the base scenario of the Monetary Program and 3.5 p.p. below its upper
limit. In turn, throughout 2011 the accumulated growth of private M2 shows a trajectory compatible with the annual target established for December of this year.

• As in May, the monthly growth of monetary aggregates during the month of June was
driven mainly by loans in pesos to the private sector, which continued showing sustained and
high expansion rates. Other factors that contributed to explaining the monthly increase in monetary
aggregates were Central Bank purchases of foreign exchange in the market and, to a lesser extent,
public sector operations.

• Fixed-term deposits of the private sector showed growth of 0.5%, explained mainly by
the segment of placements of less than $1 million. This behavior of fixed-term deposits of the
private sector is analogous to that observed in previous years during the month of June. Nevertheless,
if the performance of fixed-term deposits during the first half of the year is considered, it can
be verified that in 2011 the highest growth rate of recent years was achieved.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued showing great dynamism. In June they
increased 4.1% ($7,500 million) and reached a year-on-year variation of 43.4%, 1.6 p.p. more
than that recorded in May. Although increases were observed across all lines, commercial financing
stood out again, which since the last quarter of 2010 have grown above the lines intended to finance
household consumption.

• Peso liquidity of financial entities totaled 40.8% of total deposits in pesos, 0.9 p.p.
less than in May, in line with the increase in lending in pesos. In particular, among the components
of bank liquidity it was observed that the level of assets intended to meet reserve requirement
and LEBAC and NOBAC, in terms of deposits, remained practically unchanged in relation to May,
while net repos with the BCRA decreased.

• Interest rates on LEBAC and NOBAC placements remained relatively stable, while
interest rates on repo operations were not modified. In this context, passive interest rates remained
relatively stable while active rates showed limited variations. In particular, the monthly average
of the BADLAR rate for private banks stood at 11.3%, while the corresponding rate for deposits
of up to $100 thousand averaged 9.5% for the month. For their part, among active rates, the average
monthly interest rate for overdrafts on current accounts stood at around 18.4%, declining 0.5 p.p.
compared to May, while the average monthly interest rate for promissory notes stood at 15%, 0.6
p.p. below the previous month.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional
and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Graph 2.1 In June, total means of payment (M22) were again
Targets of the 2011 Monetary Program positioned within the targets established in the Monetary
% (Growth rates of M2 compared to December 2010) Program (PM). With a monthly average balance of
35 $283,730 million, the monetary aggregate M2 accumulated
30 Observed Values 27.9 growth of 12.6% compared to December, 0.9 p.p.
25
 Base Scenario PM 2011 above what was projected in the PM base scenario and

 20 Range PM 2011 3.5 p.p. below its upper limit (see Chart
 17.9
 15 2.1). For its part, private means of payment (M2 pri-

 11.7 vate) presented an increase of 3.5% in the month and,
 10
 in the first semester of 2011 exhibited a trajectory
 5 5.3 consistent with the December 2011 target.

 0
 30-Dec-10 28-Feb-11 29-Apr-11 28-Jun-11 27-Aug-11 26-Oct-11 25-Dec-11 Broad monetary aggregates in local currency

 Source: BCRA also continued growing. M33 registered an increase
 of 2.3% during June, while M3 private
 Chart 2.2
 thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates showed a monthly increase of 2.6%.
 millions of $ (June 2011, on average)
 8 Like in May, the monthly growth of monetary

 6 aggregates was driven mainly by loans in pesos to the
 private sector. These financings continued showing a

 4 sustained and high rate of expansion (see Loans section).
 Central Bank purchases of foreign exchange in the market
 2
 constituted the second explanatory factor of the monthly

 0 increase in monetary aggregates (see Chart
 2.2). To a lesser extent, operations of the public sector
 -2
 were the third factor of variation in broad monetary
 Foreign Sector Loans to Other M2 Time Deposits and Time Deposits aggregates. Nevertheless, the increase in time deposits
 Exchange Purchases Public* Private Sector Others Others Others M3 of this sector far exceeded the expansionary effect it
 generated on the monetary base.
 *Includes other public sector operations with effect on monetary base and public sector loans.
 Source: BCRA Consequently, the total operations of the public sector
 continued showing a net contractionary effect on M2
 Chart 2.3 throughout 2011.

 Fixed Time Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos 2006
 % Regarding primary money creation, the monetary base
 4 (average monthly variation) 2007
 2008 registered growth of approximately 3.2%
 3 2.7 2009
 2010 ($5,450 million), showing an average monthly
 2011
 2 1.8 balance of $176,931 million.

 1 0.5
 For its part, the total of deposits in local currency

 0 increased 1.8% in June, with increases in both private
 sector placements and those belonging to the public
 -1
 sector. The latter smoothed their growth after the

 -2 seasonal boost provided by May tax collection. In this

 -3 way, they grew

 January-June May June

 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancelled checks in pesos and current account deposits and savings accounts of non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation, cancelled checks in pesos and current account deposits, savings accounts and time deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 4 1.3%, essentially through fixed-term deposits that more than compensated for the drop in sight deposits.

 Private deposits increased 2.1% in the month. Sight deposits grew 3.3%, observing increases in both current account deposits and savings account placements. Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits presented growth of 0.5%, explained mainly by the segment of deposits of less than $1 million, although the wholesale segment (more than $1 million) also rose. This behavior of fixed-term deposits of the private sector

Chart 3.1

 % Banking Liquidity in Pesos*
 deposits (average monthly)
 43

 42

 41
40
 similar to that observed in previous years during June.
 39 % Bank Liquidity in Pesos
 deposits 38 24 (monthly average)
 37 23 Cash + CC BCRA + Net Repos
 22 Cash + CC BCRA
 36 21 in part, to the payment of the complementary half-year
 35 20
 19 salary. On the other hand, if we consider the performance
 34 18 Repos of fixed-term deposits during the first half of the year,
 33 17 it can be verified that in 2011 the highest growth rate
 16
 32 15 of recent years was achieved (see Chart 2.3).
 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11
 31
 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs.

 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits decreased
 Source: BCRA
 1.3%, with reductions observed in public sector placements
 that were partially offset by the increase recorded in
 private sector deposits. With respect to the latter, they
 registered an increase of 2.3%, driven both by placements
 in savings accounts and fixed-term deposits. In this way,
 the broader aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in
Chart 3.2
 circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
 the total deposits in pesos and foreign currency, showed
 % of
 deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position a monthly increase of 1.9%.

 2.5

 2.0

 1.5 3. Bank Liquidity1

 1.0

 0.5 0.4 In June, the liquidity in pesos of financial entities totaled

 0.0 40.8% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1), 0.9 p.p.

-0.5 less than in May in line with the increase in peso loan

-1.0 origination. In particular, among the components of bank
 liquidity, it was observed that the level of assets destined
-1.5
 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 to meet the reserve requirement, in terms of deposits,
 remained practically unchanged in relation to May.
Source: BCRA
 However, the June surplus with respect to the reserve
 requirement was 0.4% of deposits (see Chart 3.2), slightly
 above the previous month. For its part, longer-term assets
 (LEBACs and NOBACs) also remained stable in terms of
 deposits, while entities financed the sustained increase in
 peso loan origination with the reduction in shorter-term
 assets (net repos with the BCRA) and with the increase in
 peso deposits.

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.1
 Meanwhile, for the foreign currency segment, the
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector integration exceeded the requirement4 in 39.5% of
 % (avg. monthly variation) % total deposits in dollars, which implied a reduction of
 5 60 2.7 p.p. of the surplus compared to the previous month.
 4.0 Monthly Var. 4,1 The cause of that reduction can be associated both
 4 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 50 with the application of resources to private sector loan
 3.4 3,2 origination, as well as the decrease in deposits belonging
 3 2,8 40 to the public sector.

 2 30 1,3 1,3
 4. Loans1

 1 20
 After the period of strong deposit maturities, loans in
 0 10 pesos to the private sector continued showing great
 -1 0 dynamism. In June they registered a monthly increase of
 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 5 4.1% ($7,500 million) and a year-on-year variation of
 Source: BCRA 43.4%, 1.6 p.p. more than that recorded in May (see Chart
 4.1). Although increases were observed across all lines,
 Chart 4.2
 they again stood out among the most significant ones.
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 %
 80 (year-on-year var. of monthly averages)
 Commercial Loans
**Consumer Loans** - It is worth highlighting the financings mainly commercial ones, which since the last quarter of 2010 have grown above the lines intended to finance household consumption (see Graph 4.2).

**Loans with Real Guarantee** Jun-11
60 48.3
Jun-11
40 43.7
Jun-11
32.4
20

0

-20
Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10
Source: BCRA

The lines with mainly commercial destination continued to register high levels of expansion. Current account advances showed an increase of 7.5% ($1,920 million), while financings implemented through documents grew 2.8% ($1,080 million). In both cases, the largest increase of the last five years was recorded for the month of June (see Graph 4.3).

**Graph 4.3**
Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector | Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (variation of monthly averages) | (variation of monthly averages)
12 | 10.1
10 | 8.7 8.8
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 | 7.5
8 | 7.1
6.1
6 | 5.0
4.8
4 | 4.2 4.1 3.6
2.8 3.0
2.8 2.7
2 | 1.7 2.1
1.2
0.7 0.6
0 | 0.0

-0.7
-2 | -1.6
-2.4
-4 |
May | June May | June

Source: BCRA

Regarding credit intended mainly for consumption, personal loans maintained their monthly growth rate at 3.9% ($1,800 million) for the third consecutive month. Meanwhile, financings with credit cards continued accelerating their monthly growth rate, recording an increase in June of the monthly average balance of 3.4% ($1,020 million).

As for loans with real guarantee, pawn loans continued accelerating their monthly growth rate, presenting an increase of 5.3% ($640 million).

The year-over-year variation of these loans also continued to accelerate, reaching 64.4% in June, 6 p.p. more than in May. For their part, mortgage loans registered a monthly increase of 2.3% ($485 million), reverting to the growth levels of late 2010.

On the other hand, it is worth mentioning that during June the Central Bank continued disbursing part of the funds auctioned under the Financing Program for the Productive Sector, aimed at strengthening credit to productive activity. The funds whose transfer has already been effectualized were destined to diverse industrial, construction, commercial or transport companies, with projects located in seven jurisdictions. Through this procedure, $1,537 million have already been awarded.

For their part, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, essentially to the export sector, grew at a faster pace than in May, registering a monthly increase of 2.3% (US$200 million). In year-over-year terms, these loans presented growth of 52.2% in June, almost 5 p.p. more than observed in May.

**Graph 5.1**
Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC

TNA,% LEBAC - TNA | % NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR
14.5 | 3.5

3.0
13.5 | 2.5

2.0
12.5 | 31-May-11
31-May-11 | 1.5
11.5 | 1.0 28-Jun-11
28-Jun-11
| 0.5
10.5 | 0.0
days | days
50 150 250 350 450 550 650 | 7500 500 1000 1500

Source: BCRA

**5. Interest Rates**

**6. Securities Issued by the BCRA⁷**

In the primary market of LEBAC and NOBAC, both the interest rates and the margins paid over BADLAR of private banks remained at levels

**Graph 5.2**
Amount Awarded by Term

---

**Footnotes:**

⁴ The requirement in foreign currency considered does not include the additional requirement for default application of resources.

⁵ The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

*Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 6*
# LEBAC NOBAC

similar to those observed during the previous months. Up to 60 From 61 to 90 From 91 to 120 Up to 6 Months From 6 to 9 Months From 9 to a Year From 1 to 1.5 Years (see Chart 5.1). On the other hand, the maturity of the LEBAC From 121 to 270 More than 271 2 Years and More
% %
100% placed increased slightly during June. In effect, 100%
21% 21% 60% of the amount placed of these instruments was 29% 28%
80% 80% concentrated in securities of between 90 and 120 days of 16% 18%52%
maturity, with no adjudications found with maturities 60% 23% 60% 73%
less than 3 months. Meanwhile, the maturity of the 38% 47% 4%
40% 40% NOBAC adjudicated decreased compared to the previous month

61% although 52% adjudicated was placed with securities 48% 36%
20% 20% 13% 18% of more than 2 years maturity (see Chart 5.2).
22%
6% 2%9%
4% 0% 6% 1% 5%
0%
Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 In June, the Central Bank participated again in the SWAP

Source: BCRA round, a mechanism that it had not used since the beginning of 2007. In effect, the entity exchanged approximately $60 million of short-term LEBACs (with maturities in August of this year) for others of longer maturity (one and two years until maturity). In turn, it purchased in the secondary market for an amount of $5 million. In short, after increasing 3.6% in the month, the stock of securities in circulation exceeded $90,800 million at the end of

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 7 June. When comparing this level with other variables, it is observed that the ratios are below those reached before the international financial crisis (see Chart 5.3).

With respect to the secondary market for LEBAC and NOBAC, an average daily amount traded of $570 million was recorded, elevated in historical terms, although slightly lower than that recorded in the previous month. The largest number of operations were carried out
Chart 5.3 through LEBAC (65% of total traded), highlighting

Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC mainly those with maturities of less than 30

thousands of average monthly balances % days. For its part, interest rates remained at millions $
100 80 levels similar to those at the close in the primary market.

Stock Securities 72.1 89.6
90 70

80 LyN / Monetary Base - right axis
 60 Interfinancial Markets
70
 60.3 50
60 50.6

50 40 Repo Market1

40 30

30 33.5 In June, the interest rates on Central Bank repo operations 20
20 showed no changes. In this manner, the passive repo rate

10 10 at 1 and 7 days maturity remained at 9% and 9.5%

0 0 respectively. For its part, those corresponding to active
Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 repos, continued at 11% and 11.5% for the same periods.

Source: BCRA

The average stock of net repos (passive less active) for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this Institution participates, registered a decrease of around $3,300 mi-
Chart 5.4 llion. Consequently, the stock was positioned at $10,300

% T.N.A. millions, reaching a minimum level in 2011. Unlike % T.N.A. 11.0 Call Interest Rate
16 the previous months, in which 7-day operations accounted

10.5
15 for the largest part of the stock, in June almost 60% of it

14 10.0 corresponded to 1-day repos.

13 9.5

12 9.0

Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Interbank Market1

11

10 In June, interest rates in the interbank market (call) 1 Business Day averaged 9.5% for the total of operations, as well as 9 for those conducted at 1 business day (see Chart 5.3), Total Operations without changes compared to May in both cases.
8
Jan-09 May-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11
Source: BCRA. For its part, the average interest rate in the
repo market between financial entities
(excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.5%,
also equal to the previous month.

Regarding the amount traded in the month in the
call market, the daily average amounted to $1,030
million, $150 million more than in May. For its part,
the daily average of the amount traded in the
repo market between financial entities for operations at 1

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 8 business day was $2,000 million, with an increase with respect
to May of just under $100 million.

**Chart 5.5 The dispersion measures of the interest rates of**

TNA, % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
14 interbank loans were reduced slightly with respect to

Up to $100,000 Private Banks May. In particular, the difference between the monthly

13 BADLAR Private Banks average of the maximum and minimum interest rates

12 Jun Average negotiated each day was 3.6 p.p. in June, while the
11.3 standard deviation of the operations was 0.4%.

11

**Passive Interest Rates 1**

10 Jun Average
9.5
In June, the average monthly interest rates paid
9
by private financial entities for deposits of

8 up to 35 days remained relatively stable. In

Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 effect, both for the wholesale segment (more than $1 million)
Source: BCRA
as for the retail segment (up to $100 thousand) a
slight monthly increase of 0.1 p.p. was recorded. As a consequence, the
monthly average of the BADLAR rate was positioned at
11.3%, while that corresponding to deposits
up to $100 thousand was positioned around 9.5% (see Chart
5.5).

**Chart 5.6**
**Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits**

TNA, % (Private banks in pesos - monthly average)

20 On the other hand, when breaking down the interest rates of the
Participation in total amount traded
19 fixed-term deposits of private banks by type of de-

18 Natural Persons 8% positing party, it is observed that the interest rate paid to families

17 Other Companies was positioned at 10.1%, while that corresponding

16 Financial Services 41% 51%
to companies (non-financial service providers)
15 Total Depositors
14 was positioned around 11.3% (see Chart 5.6).

13

12 For its part, in the BADLAR interest rate futures market

11 the amounts traded doubled with respect to the

10 previous month due, in part, to the entry of an important financial

9 entity as an operator. Additionally, the most

8
Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 traded contracts were again those of
Source: BCRA shorter terms, with 60% of the total amount being traded in
contracts of up to 3 months term. For its part, the interest
rates of these contracts were positioned at lower levels with respect to the previous month. In effect, at the end of
June the implicit rate in the contracts with maturities
at year-end was positioned around 13%, with a decrease
of 0.3 p.p. in the month.

**Chart 5.7**
**Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities**
**(monthly average)**

**Active Interest Rates 1**

TNA, % Monthly Variation
26 Advances in Current Account to companies over $10 million - up to 7 days p.p.
0.2
24 Total Advances in Current Account 0.1
Discounted Documents 0.1
22 Documents at Sole Signature 0.0
0.0
During June, the average active interest rates

20 monthly registered dissimilar behaviors, standing out the decreases in the lines associated with commercial loans.

18 -0.1 In effect, the average monthly interest rate

16 -0.2 of advances in current account was positioned around

14 -0.3 18.4%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. in the month. The decrease

12 -0.4 was reflected mainly in the interest rates

10 -0.5 -0.5 of advances in current account to small companies

-0.6 -0.6
8 -0.7
 Ad CC moreAd.CC Doc.Desc. Doc.to alone and to families. However, in particular, the interest rate on advances to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity, registered a monthly increase (0.1 p.p.), standing at 11.3%. For its part, the monthly average interest rate on documents payable to a single signature, stood at 15%, declining 0.6 p.p. with respect to the previous month. While the one corresponding to discounted documents remained unchanged monthly around 13.5% (see Chart 5.7)

 Chart 5.8

 Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee

 (monthly average)

 TNA, % Monthly Variations
 22 On the other hand, the interest rate on loans intended
 p.p
 0.5
 to finance consumption also registered a slight
 20 Pawn Mortgage
 0.4 monthly decline. In fact, the rate of personal loans
 18 0.3 stood at around 28.8%, 0.2 p.p. below that
 0.3 registered in May.
 16
 0.2 0.2
 14 With regard to interest rates on longer-term loans,
 0.1 a monthly increase was registered both for pawn
 12
 loans (0.2 p.p.) and for mortgage credit for families
 10 - (0.3 p.p.), with the respective interest rates standing
 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Mortgage Pawn at 18% and 14.8% (see Chart 5.8).
 Source: BCRA

 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market⁸

 The balance of international reserves was US$ 51,695 mil-
 Chart 6.1 lion at the end of June (see Chart 6.1), which meant
 Thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA a decline of US$ 365 million (0.7%) in the month. In
 millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009 particular, in June the Central Bank's intervention in
 55 the Single Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) increa-
 Apr-11
 May-11 sed international reserves by US$ 619 million. Said
 50 Jun-11
 increase was more than offset by the decrease in
 45 public sector accounts at the Central Bank (Debt
 40 Relief Funds and for Payments to Agencies) at the
 35 end of facing payments in foreign currency, and of
 30 the current accounts of financial entities in this
 Institution (in a context in which foreign currency
 25 loans continued to increase while deposits from
 this segment decreased as a result of the reduction
 Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 in public sector placements).
 Source: BCRA

 In the foreign exchange market, the peso once again slowed
 its depreciation with respect to the US Dollar. Meanwhile,
 in the forward market (ROFEX) the contracts negotiated
 for the coming months reflected an expected depreciation
 lower than that registered in previous months. For its part,
 in relation to the Real and the Euro, the peso also deprecia-
 ted, reversing the appreciation registered in May. In fact,
 the average quotation in June was 4.10 $/US$, which
 implied an increase of 0.3%

⁸ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 10 with respect to May (see Chart 6.2), and 3% in the se-
 mester. Meanwhile, the average quotation for the Real was
 2.58 $/Real (1.9% with respect to May) and 5.91 $/Euro
 (0.8%) for the Euro. For its part, in the forward market,
 the amount traded remained relatively stable with respect
 to May (approximately $875 million, with a decline of
 5.1% due to the decrease in the volume traded).

 Chart 6.2

 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
 8% 7. Capital Market
 6%
 Stocks
 4%

 2% The stock markets most relevant to the Argentine
 0% economy had a relatively homogeneous behavior
 throughout June. The entire month was characterized
 -2% by the uncertainty associated with the evolution
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real
-4% tion of the debt crisis in the Eurozone, more specifi-
-6%
 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11cally the debate over the new financial assistance
 package for Greece, which required an additional five-

* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. year fiscal austerity plan approved by the Greek Parliament
Source: BCRA at the end of the month. In addition, the weakness of economic
 indicators from the United States, below expected
 levels, had a negative influence on all markets.

 In this sense, the MSCI Global measured in dollars fell
 1.7% between May and June (see Chart 7.1). The S&P 500
 (the main index of the North American market) regis-
 tered the largest monthly decline, of 1.8%, followed by
 MSCI Latam (0.5%) and MSCI Europe (0.3%). If the
Chart 7.1 variation were measured through June 24 (prior to the
 World Stock Indices approval by the Greek Parliament), these indices would
 (base index 02/07/07 =100) reveal declines of 5.7%, 4.6% and 6.7%, respectively. In
 90 130 the case of MSCI Japan, it registered a monthly increase
 of 1.4%, which occurred entirely during the last week.
 80 120

 70 110 During June, the main stock markets of
 60 100 Latin America, measured in dollars, experienced very
 MSCI Global different behavior. On one hand, increases were
 MSCI Europe registered in the Merval (Argentina) and the IPC (Mexico)
 50 90 of 2.8% and 0.8% respectively, where depreciations
 S&P 500
 MSCI Japan of their currencies partially affected them (0.6% and
 MSCI Latam (right axis)
 40 80 1.2%). On the other hand, the IGPA (Chile) fell 1.7%,
 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 the BOVESPA (Brazil) decreased 2.4% and the IGBVL
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg data. 11.8%. In the first case, the decline was amplified by a
 depreciation close to 0.4%, while in the other two, the
 declines were reduced by appreciations of their local
 currencies (1.1% the Brazilian real and 0.7% the
 Peruvian sol).

 The MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local cur-
 rency, ended the month at 3,361 points, totaling a month-
 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 11 ly growth of 3.4% and year-over-year growth of 53.8%. In
 any case, it accumulated a decline of 4.6% for what has
 gone by of the year.

 The historical volatility of MERVAL – 22 trading days –,
 in annualized terms and measured in dollars, increased 5.2
 p.p. with respect to May, closing the month at 19.1%. In the
 Chart 7.2 same sense, the expected volatility of the S&P 500
 (measured by the VIX) on average grew 2.3 p.p., clos-
 Sovereign Risk Indicators ing at 19.2%.

 5-year CDS spread EMBI spread in spread in
 in b.p. b.p. b.p.

2,500 550 950 For its part, the volume traded daily, on average, on
 Argentina EMBI Argentina the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange increased for the
2,000 Brazil (right axis) 450 EMBI Latin America first time in the year. It reached $51.9 million, 34.2%
 750 above the amount traded during May and 35.2% higher
1,500 350 than that of the same month in 2010.

 550
1,000 250 Public Securities

 350
 500 150 During June, there was very erratic behavior in the
 quotations of public securities, influenced by the evolu-
 0 50 150 tion of international markets and by greater risk aver-
 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 sion at the international level.

 Source: Bloomberg The sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies
 registered declines, which were explained, in part, by the
 increase in the yield of 10-year Treasuries in b.p.. The
 EMBI+, which measures the spreads of foreign currency
 debt of emerging countries as a whole, decreased 26 b.p.,
 closing the month at 262 b.p.. In line with this variation,
 the debt spreads for Latin America, Brazil and Argentina
 fell 31, 27
 Chart 7.3

 Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds*
Last 6 years and 24 b.p. respectively, ending the month at 325,

**Outstanding Placements**

| Month | Placement | Amount |
|-------|-----------|--------|
| May-07 | TGS | US$ 500M |
| May-07 | Petrobras | US$ 300M |
| Apr-10 | Pan American Energy | US$ 500M |
| Jul-10 | IRSA | US$ 150M |
| Oct-10 | Autopistas del Sol | US$ 243M |
| Oct-10 | Edenor | US$ 140M |
| Nov-10 | Arcor | US$ 200M |
| Dec-10 | Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 | US$ 300M |
| Dec-10 | Clisa | US$ 200M |
| Jan-11 | Tarjeta Naranja | US$ 200M |
| Mar-11 | Capex | US$ 200M |
| Apr-11 | Galicia | US$ 300M |

and 568 basis points (see Chart 7.2). Said variations correspond mainly to the evolution of the indicators during the last days of the month, following Greece's fiscal austerity plan (see Actions).

In June, the volume traded of public securities (on a daily average) in the local market decreased from $1,800 million to $1,670 million. In any case, the volume traded continues to far exceed the amount corresponding to the same period of the previous year ($957 million).

(*) Includes emissions from companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets.

Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg

**Private Securities**

In June, 5 placements of negotiable obligations (ONs) were registered in the private debt market for a total subscribed amount of $515 million (see Chart 7.3), below the annual average which, in turn, continues to be above that of previous years. On this occasion, all placements were issued in local currency.

After more than a year, a negotiable obligation corresponding to the Oil and Gas sector was placed again, which captured 58% of the total amount. In second place were two emissions associated with Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities, with 19% of the total amount issued. Furthermore, there was a placement related to Financial Entities and another to Retail Commerce, which accounted for 15% and 8% of the total subscribed, respectively.

Among the issued securities, four ONs will pay interest equivalent to the Badlar rate of Private Banks plus a margin that ranged between 2.6% and 3.8%. The remaining security will pay a fixed interest rate of 13.5%. Likewise, the maturities of the variable rate securities ranged between 12 and 21 months, while the remaining ON was placed for a period of 9 months.

**Investment Funds**

**Chart 7.4**

**Thousands Heritage of FCI in pesos**
**of millions $**

| Participation in Total FCI in pesos | Money market | Variable Income |
|-------------------------------------|--------------|-----------------|
| 27 | | |
| 24 | 39.8% | 8.2% | 9.5% |
| 21 | Mixed Return | Fixed Income | |
| 18 | 42.5% | |
| 15 | | |
| 12 | | |
| 9 | | |
| 6 | | |
| 3 | | |
| 0 | | |

Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11

Source: BCRA and CAFCI

The Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, decreased during June for the second consecutive month influenced by the withdrawal of funds for the payment of bonuses. In this way, they ended the month with a total patrimony of $23,500 million. This decline, of 5.3% of the patrimony, was driven almost exclusively by decreases in fixed income and Money Market funds in pesos. Despite this, the total patrimony of the FCIs accumulates growth of 45% in the last 12 months and of 14.7% so far this year (see Chart 7.4).

On one hand, the FCIs in pesos closed the month with a total patrimony of $21,500 million, 5.8% lower than that recorded in May although 50.3% higher compared to the same month of the previous year. For the second consecutive month, the Money Market segment concentrated the decline.

**Chart 7.5**

**Financial Trusts Emissions**

**millions $ (excluding those destined to finance infrastructure works)**

1,400 | 
1,200 | Avg. $820M
1,000 | 
800 | Avg. $730M | Avg. $700M
600 | Avg. $580M | Avg. $550M
400 | 
200 | 
0 | 

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 12
200 of the patrimony of the FCIs, as it decreased 9.2% with respect to May and resigning 1.5 p.p. in its participation in the total amount of FCIs in pesos. Said variation was
 
 Ene-06 Jul-06 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others a product of a decrease in the quantity of quotas. In turn, the fixed income segment reduced its patrimony by 6% and its participation by 0.1 p.p.. Despite the appearance of 9 new funds within this segment, its fall was also driven by a smaller quantity of quotas. For its part, mixed income and variable income mutual funds registered increases in their patrimony of 6.3% and 1%, respectively, with corresponding increases in their participations: 1.1 p.p. and 0.6 p.p., respectively. In the first case it was due to an increase in the quantity of quotas whereas in the latter it corresponded to an increase in their prices.

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 13

With respect to FCIs in foreign currency, a decrease in their patrimony of 0.5% was registered, reaching almost US$480 million although, when expressed in local currency, it reflects an increase of 0.2% as a product of the variation in the exchange rate. The reduction of patrimony in foreign currency was driven primarily by variations in the variable income segments (-2.6%), mixed income (-1.8%) and, to a lesser extent, the Money Market segment (-0.5%). The aforementioned decreases were partially compensated by an increase in the patrimony of fixed income funds of 0.5%. In all cases, the variations were
 
 Chart 7.6
 driven by changes in the quantity of quotas, although in the case of variable income funds it was also due to the variation in their prices.

% Cut-off Rates of FFs
 (securities A in pesos with a duration of less than 14 months - Financial Trusts9
 40 average monthly rates weighted by amount)

 35

 30 Fixed Rate The emissions of FF totaled in June around $1,110 million, one of the largest monthly amounts
 Variable Rate
 BADLAR Rate private banks emitted in the year if the emissions destined to finance infrastructure works are
 25
 not considered (see Chart 7.5). Practically all of the securitized assets in the month were linked
 20 to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons), although leasing contracts were also
 securitized for $40 million, which had not occurred since January.
 15

 10 In line with the important concentration of underlying assets in consumer credit, the principal
 5
 Dec-06 Oct-07 Aug-08 Jun-09 Apr-10 Feb-11 Fiduciaries originating these securitizations were retail stores, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit
 card issuers (45% of the total), followed by financial entities (30% of the total). For their part,
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data mutuals, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other providers of financial services were
 fiduciaries of the remaining 25%.

 Chart 7.7
 millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF by type of Fiduciary The interest rates of cut-off of the senior securities in pesos of lower duration registered a disparate
 24,000
 behavior according to their type of yield. In the case of securities awarded at variable rate (which
 Fiduciaries linked to FF of infrastructure concentrated around 80% of the operations) the cut-off rate
 Financial Entities (weighted average by amount) continues showing signs of stability, placing itself at 13.6%. Meanwhile, in
 20,000
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Issuers of the fixed rate segment an increase of 1 p.p. was observed in the cut-off rate, which placed itself at 13.9% (see
 non-bank credit cards
 Retail Stores Chart 7.6).
 16,000
 Others

 12,000

 8,000

 4,000

 0
 2007-I 2007-III 2008-I 2008-III 2009-I 2009-III 2010-I 2010-III 2011-I
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data

9 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 14

According to the latest balance information, corresponding to March 2011, the stock of assets in circulation of the FFs with public offering amounts to around $22,530 million. Said stock, slightly lower than that of the previous quarter, represents an increase of more than 70% compared to March 2010, as a result of the expansion in the third quarter of that year of the stock of assets of the FFs intended for the financing of infrastructure works (see Graph 7.7).

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages | Average percentage variations
Main monetary variables and financial system | Jun-11 | May-11 | Dec-10 | Jun-10 | Monthly | Last 12 months | Nominal | Real

Monetary base | 176,931 | 171,485 | 156,104 | 126,748 | 3.2% | 2.4% | 39.6% | 27.2%
Monetary circulation | 137,194 | 131,576 | 119,694 | 97,868 | 4.3% | 3.4% | 40.2% | 27.7%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public | 120,542 | 116,304 | 107,145 | 86,822 | 3.6% | 2.8% | 38.8% | 26.5%
Bills and Coins in financial entities | 16,649 | 15,269 | 12,534 | 11,046 | 9.0% | 8.2% | 50.7% | 37.3%
Cancellatory Checks | 3 | 3 | 15 | 0 | -17.1% | -17.7% | - | -
Current account at the BCRA | 39,737 | 39,909 | 36,410 | 28,880 | -0.4% | -1.2% | 37.6% | 25.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 10,311 | 13,645 | 9,376 | 15,802 | -24.4% | -25.0% | -34.8% | -40.6%
Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | |

Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 35,534 | 32,721 | 50,912 | 52,560 | 8.6% | 7.7% | -32.4% | -38.4%

NOBAC | 54,063 | 54,676 | 23,737 | 4,315 | -1.1% | -1.9% | 1153.0% | 1041.5%

BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 52,094 | 51,987 | 52,132 | 49,229 | 0.2% | 5.8% | |

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) | 348,476 | 342,194 | 297,283 | 248,941 | 1.8% | 1.0% | 40.0% | 27.5%
Current account (2) | 100,100 | 98,918 | 88,303 | 73,618 | 1.2% | 0.4% | 36.0% | 23.9%
Savings account | 63,090 | 61,977 | 56,626 | 45,836 | 1.8% | 1.0% | 37.6% | 25.4%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER | 170,183 | 166,484 | 138,315 | 117,173 | 2.2% | 1.4% | 45.2% | 32.3%
Fixed term adjustable by CER | 10 | 10 | 14 | 15 | 0.3% | -0.5% | -33.3% | -39.3%
Other deposits (3) | 15,094 | 14,805 | 14,026 | 12,299 | 2.0% | 1.1% | 22.7% | 11.8%

Deposits of the private sector | 233,788 | 229,010 | 204,037 | 169,654 | 2.1% | 1.3% | 37.8% | 25.5%

Deposits of the public sector | 114,688 | 113,184 | 93,246 | 79,287 | 1.3% | 0.5% | 44.6% | 31.8%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) | 15,650 | 15,854 | 15,926 | 15,693 | -1.3% | -0.3% | |

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) | 214,757 | 206,452 | 181,888 | 152,588 | 4.0% | 3.2% | 40.7% | 28.2%

Loans to the private sector | 191,817 | 184,611 | 161,677 | 133,788 | 3.9% | 3.1% | 43.4% | 30.6%
Advances | 27,452 | 25,536 | 22,036 | 19,912 | 7.5% | 6.7% | 37.9% | 25.6%
Documents | 40,138 | 39,056 | 33,756 | 25,350 | 2.8% | 2.0% | 58.3% | 44.2%
Mortgage | 21,957 | 21,472 | 19,944 | 18,419 | 2.3% | 1.4% | 19.2% | 8.6%
Pledged | 12,521 | 11,914 | 9,420 | 7,616 | 5.1% | 4.3% | 64.4% | 49.8%
Personal | 47,352 | 45,825 | 39,360 | 33,101 | 3.3% | 2.5% | 43.1% | 30.3%
Credit cards | 30,628 | 29,612 | 26,367 | 21,151 | 3.4% | 2.6% | 44.8% | 31.9%
Others | 11,769 | 11,196 | 10,793 | 8,239 | 5.1% | 4.3% | 42.8% | 30.1%

Loans to the public sector | 22,940 | 21,840 | 20,212 | 18,800 | 5.0% | 4.2% | 22.0% | 11.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) | 8,894 | 8,700 | 7,412 | 5,931 | 2.2% | 49.9% | |

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account) | 220,644 | 215,226 | 195,463 | 160,440 | 2.5% | 1.7% | 37.5% | 25.3%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 283,734 | 277,203 | 252,088 | 206,276 | 2.4% | 1.5% | 37.6% | 25.3%
M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + | 469,021 | 458,502 | 404,443 | 335,763 | 2.3% | 1.5% | 39.7% | 27.3%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) | 533,148 | 523,279 | 467,835 | 397,377 | 1.9% | 1.1% | 34.2% | 22.2%
## Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current 190.488 184.343 167.207 138.072 3.3% 2.5% 38.0% 25.7%
 private accounts in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 248.992 240.686 220.558 179.169 3.5% 2.6% 39.0% 26.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 354.333 345.317 311.197 256.475 2.6% 1.8% 38.2% 25.9%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 407.552 397.183 357.178 298.599 2.6% 1.8% 36.5% 24.3%

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date Last 12 Months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 5.446 3.1% 12.486 7.1% 20.827 11.8% 50.183 28.4%
 Financial sector 3.629 2.1% 3.393 1.9% 128 0.1% 7.109 4.0%
 Public sector -437 -0.2% 1.852 1.0% 8.841 5.0% 20.170 11.4%
 Private external sector 3.811 2.2% 11.873 6.7% 24.560 13.9% 50.973 28.8%
 BCRA Securities -1.315 -0.7% -4.067 -2.3% -11.438 -6.5% -25.555 -14.4%
 Others -242 -0.1% -566 -0.3% -1.264 -0.7% -2.514 -1.4%

 BCRA International Reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 107 0.2% -193 -0.4% -38 -0.1% 2.865 5.5%
 Foreign exchange market intervention 932 1.8% 2.920 5.6% 6.121 11.8% 12.812 24.6%
 Payments to international organizations 90 0.2% 163 0.3% 167 0.3% 384 0.7%
 Other public sector operations -4 0.0% -592 -1.1% 6.299 12.1% 3.623 7.0%
 Minimum cash -873 -1.7% -1.150 -2.2% -2.779 -5.3% -4.755 -9.1%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -38 -0.1% -1.533 -2.9% -9.847 -18.9% -9.198 -17.7%

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting Regime.

 ## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11
 (1) (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.7 15.7
 Integration 16.0 16.0 15.9
 Position (2) 0.4 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.4 58.9 58.0
 30 to 59 days 22.9 20.5 24.6
 60 to 89 days 11.1 9.6 6.7
 90 to 179 days 5.4 5.9 5.5
 more than 180 days 5.2 5.1 5.1
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.6 20.5 20.6
 Integration (includes application of resources default) 60.1 62.7 62.2
 Position (2) 39.5 42.2 41.6
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 56.6 55.9 57.6
 30 to 59 days 22.9 22.6 21.6
 60 to 89 days 9.2 10.3 9.7
 90 to 179 days 9.0 9.1 9.0
 180 to 365 days 2.1 2.1 2.1
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 ## Passive Interest Rates Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.53 9.54 9.65 9.70 8.89
 Amount operated 1.026 838 680 781 859

Fixed-term
 In pesos
 30 days 9.69 9.74 9.47 9.57 9.04
 60 days or more 10.49 10.84 10.47 10.67 10.14
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.21 10.13 9.78 10.25 9.39
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.27 11.19 11.15 11.08 10.12
In dollars
 30 days 0.27 0.29 0.28 0.27 0.29
 60 days or more 0.58 0.59 0.57 0.60 0.59
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.41 0.37 0.36 0.43
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.55 0.52 0.53 0.55

 Active Interest Rates Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.76 12.28 11.69 11.97 10.89
 Amount traded (total terms) 224 229 216 216 205

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 18.37 18.83 18.99 19.25 18.25
 Documents on signature alone 14.97 15.53 14.70 14.81 14.97
 Mortgage loans 14.87 14.35 14.88 14.68 13.86
 Pledge loans 18.05 17.89 17.44 17.49 17.29
 Personal loans 28.85 29.05 29.01 29.10 29.78
 Credit cards 30.99 32.17 32.51 31.26 29.63

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 11.32 11.21 11.22 11.10 10.09

 International Interest Rates Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.19 0.20 0.22 0.26 0.35
 6 months 0.40 0.41 0.44 0.46 0.75

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.41 0.54 0.72 0.61 0.71
 10 years 2.99 3.16 3.43 3.27 3.19

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.19 12.00 11.83 10.75 10.04

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the
daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total repurchase agreement rates REPO round
 1 day 9.17 9.15 9.08 9.20 9.00
 7 days 9.56 9.51 9.52 9.53 9.50

Amount traded in repurchase agreement round REPO (daily average) 7,200 8,064 7,411 5,973 9,097

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 n/o
 2 months n/o 10.87 10.92 10.93 n/o
 3 months 11.07 11.03 10.98 11.10 11.11
 9 months 11.96 12.00 n/o n/o 13.53
 12 months 12.59 n/o n/o 13.05 13.93

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 0.20 n/o 0.59 1.81 2.00
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 0.70 0.76 1.13 2.07 2.52
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.07 2.14 2.29 2.52 n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 3.04 3.23 3.50 n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 573 628 548 341 368

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.10 4.08 4.07 3.98 3.93
 BCRA Reference 4.10 4.08 4.07 3.98 3.93

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.12 4.11 4.09 4.00 3.96
 ROFEX 1 month 4.12 4.11 4.09 4.01 3.95
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 876 924 878 1,095 1,061

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.58 2.53 2.56 2.35 2.17

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.91 5.86 5.88 5.26 4.79

 Capital Markets Jun-11 May-11 Apr-11 Dec-10 Jun-10

MERVAL
 Index 3,246 3,343 3,418 3,429 2,260
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 55 44 55 94 44

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 103.39 103.80 100.94 95.27 91.89
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 94.04 94.00 93.88 93.34 69.51
 BODEN 2014 ($) 90.76 90.47 91.52 93.49 74.72
 DISCOUNT ($) 70.16 70.07 74.22 85.48 45.58

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 413 472 413 529 1,018
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 347 340 318 292 363

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

U.S.A.: United States of America.

NBFE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-on-year.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation among the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

STV: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | June 2011 | BCRA | 20
