# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
March 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 7
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 7
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 8
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 9
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10
7. Capital Markets | Page 11
   - Stocks | Page 11
   - Public Securities | Page 12
   - Private Securities | Page 12
   - Investment Mutual Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16
9. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on April 13, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• The total means of payment in pesos (M2) was positioned in the center of the range established in the Monetary Program for this month. Indeed, the quarterly growth rate of M2 was 4.7%, 0.6 p.p. lower than projected in the base scenario of the Monetary Program (5.3%). For its part, private means of payment (private M2) showed in March a monthly increase of 0.7%. This variation is consistent with the base scenario of the Monetary Program, which establishes an annual target for December 2011 of 29.2%.

• Following the policies of control of monetary aggregates and managed floating of the exchange rate, in the month the Central Bank sterilized, through LEBAC and NOBAC and Repurchase Agreements, almost 70% of the primary expansion generated by its foreign currency purchases in the market and the monetary effect of the public sector.

• The strengthening of private money demand was reflected in significant growth of time deposits. The private sector's deposits currently reach a monthly average balance close to $90,000 million and have accumulated in the last twelve months the largest expansion since the exit from convertibility, with year-on-year growth of 33.3%. This strong increase is evident both in the placements of the wholesale segment and in those of the retail segment.

• Once the effects of the summer recess dissipated, peso loans to the private sector showed in March an acceleration in their monthly expansion rate. In this way and with generalized increases in all of its lines, peso credit to the private sector registered in March an increase of 2.2% ($3,730 million), while its year-on-year growth rate continued to increase, reaching 41.6% in the last month, a value similar to the maximum levels reached at the beginning of 2008. This growth continues to be led by commercial credits, which since September 2010 have been growing above the lines intended to finance household consumption.

• In the primary market of LEBAC and NOBAC, the average maturity of placements was extended, prioritizing notes with maturities between one year and one and a half years. The margins over BADLAR of Private Banks continued with their declining trend of recent months, while the cut-off interest rates of LEBAC did not register significant changes compared to the previous month. The Central Bank maintained the interest rates on passive repurchase agreement operations at 1 and 7-day terms at 9% and 9.5% respectively. For their part, those corresponding to active repurchase agreements continued at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

• The interest rates in the interbank market, as well as the main passive interest rates, remained stable. In contrast, active interest rates behaved differently in March, registering increases in some lines (such as advances whose rate increased 0.8 p.p. in the month) and decreases in others (such as credit card financing, whose interest rate was reduced by 1 p.p.).

• During March, in the private debt market there were 10 placements of negotiable obligations (ONs), for a total subscribed amount of $1,290 million, becoming the largest amount recorded for a first quarter in recent years.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1

thousands of M2 - 2011 Targets 2. Monetary Aggregates¹
millions of $

360
Monthly average 335.3

(33% y.o.y.) The total means of payment in pesos (M2²) reached
340 Monetary Program Range
in March $264,020 million, registering a monthly
309.1
320 (39.7% y.o.y.) growth of 1% and, in this way, was positioned in the
292.8 center of the range established in the Monetary Program
300 (41.9% a.a.) 309.5
276.1 (22.8% a.a.) for this month (see Chart 2.1). In effect, the quarterly
(39.8% a.a.) 285.3
280 (29% a.a.) growth rate of M2 was 4.4%, 0.6 percentage points lower
264.1 270.2
(33.7% a.a.) (31% a.a.) than projected in the base scenario of the Monetary
260 252.1 254.9
(29.1% a.a.) Program (5.3%).

240
Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11
Source: BCRA For its part, private means of payment (private M2)
showed a monthly increase of 0.7% in March. This
variation is consistent with the base scenario of the
Monetary Program, which establishes an annual target
for December 2011 of 29.2%.

With respect to primary money creation, the monetary
Chart 2.2 base registered a growth of approximately 1.2%
($1,980 million), showing an average monthly balance
Factors Explaining the MB of $164,445 million. Continuing with its policies of
thousands of controlling monetary aggregates and managed
millions of $ (March 2011, on average) floating of the exchange rate, in the month the Central
6 Bank sterilized, through LEBACs and NOBACs and
5
4 Repos, almost 70% of the expansion generated by its
3
2 foreign currency purchases in the market due to
1 public sector operations (see Chart 2.2).
0
-1
-2 For its part, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3)³
-3 registered a growth of 2.1% during March (41% a.a.).
-4 69%
Currency Purchases Public Sector LEBACs and Repos Other In the same way, private M3 showed a monthly increase
Divisas* NOBACs BM of 1.3% (35.6% a.a.).

*Includes Central Bank intervention
Source: BCRA The dynamism shown by loans in pesos to the private
sector (see Loans section) also contributed to the
Chart 2.3 monthly growth of total M3, in addition to the
already mentioned primary creation factors (Central
thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates Bank purchases of foreign currency in the market and
millions of $ (March 2011, on average) public sector operations; see Chart 2.3). A large part
6
5 of monetary expansion was channeled toward fixed-
4
3 term deposits, which exhibited strong growth, whether
2
1 those made by the public sector or those made by the
0
-1 private sector.
-2
-3 Indeed, total fixed-term deposits increased 3.8%. In
Currency Purchases Public Sector Loans to Other M2 Fixed-Term Fixed-Term particular, private sector fixed-term deposits reached
Divisas Privado* Sector Others Deposits and Others in March an average monthly balance close to
Public Deposits Privados $90,000 million and have accumulated in the last

*Includes loans and other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base.
Source: BCRA M3

² Includes currency in public hands, canceled checks in pesos and current account and savings account deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.
³ Includes currency in public hands, canceled checks in pesos and current account, savings account and fixed-term deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.4 twelve months the largest expansion since the exit
from convertibility, with an annual growth of 33.3%
% Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector % (see Chart 2.4). This strong increase was evidenced
(variations of monthly averages) both in wholesale deposits and in retail deposits,
6 36 which are currently growing at a rate higher than that
5 30
4 24 observed during recent years.

3 18 In the foreign currency segment, total deposits
2 12 (expressed in dollars) showed a decrease of 1.7%,
1 6 with reductions in public sector placements that were
0 0 partially offset by the
-1 -6
-2 Monthly variation -12
 Year-over-year variation (right axis) increase recorded in deposits of the private

 -3 -18 sector. With respect to the latter, they registered an increase
 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11
 Note: 2008 deposits were adjusted for the transfer of funds due to pension reform. of 2.1%, essentially driven by sight deposits. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes cash in the hands of the public, canceled checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of 1.6% (40.3% year-over-year).

 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity¹

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos*
deposits (monthly average) In March, the broad liquidity ratio⁴ in pesos of the enti-
42
 ties increased 0.9 p.p., which represented one of the
41
 largest increases in the last year. In particular, in the
40
39 month, it was observed that the entities applied the growth
 Bank Liquidity in Pesos
38 (monthly average) of deposits in pesos to both an increase in lending to the
 % of
 deposits Cash CC in BCRA
37 45 Net Repo LEBACs and NOBACs private sector and to the strengthening of the liquidity level.
 40
36 35 In effect, repo operations with the BCRA and LEBACs and
 30
35 25
 NOBACs (always as a percentage of deposits in pesos) in-
34 20
 15 creased 0.5 p.p. in both cases and in this way the ratio averaged
32 0

 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11in March 41.5% (see Chart 3.1). In turn, assets
31
 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11that are computed as part of the minimum cash requirement
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts in the BCRA, net repo with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs.
Source: BCRA
 regime decreased slightly, averaging 15.7% of total deposits
 in pesos (see Chart 3.2), and exceeding the requirement by 0.3%.
 Chart 3.2 With respect to the previous computation period (quarterly
 December 2010 – February 2011), the reserve requirement
 % of Minimum Cash Position – Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration Accumulated was reduced given that, as is seasonally expected, the
 deposits 18.5 Quarterly Position proportion of time deposits in pesos in total deposits in
 18.0 domestic currency increased, which are the ones that have a
 17.5 lower reserve requirement.
 17.0
 In the foreign currency segment, the surplus was notably
 16.5 reduced in March (4.2 p.p.), and ended at 43.8% of dollar
 16.0 deposits. This was a consequence of the decrease in the
 15.7 integration that occurred both in private banks and in public
 15.5 15.4 banks, as a consequence of the application of resources to
 15.0
 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 lending in foreign currency.
 Source: BCRA

 4 It is composed of bank reserves in pesos (constituted by cash in banks and the current account of entities
 in the BCRA), and holdings of monetary regulation instruments (net repo with the BCRA and their holdings of LEBACs
 and NOBACs) and is calculated in terms of total deposits in pesos.

 Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 5 cia of the application of resources to the granting of
 credit in foreign currency.
 4. Loans¹ 5

 Chart 4.1 With the effects of summer recess dissipated, loans in
 Loans in Pesos to the Non-Financial Private Sector pesos to the private sector showed in March an accelera-
 % %
5 (monthly average variation) 60 tion in its monthly expansion rate. In this way and with
 Monthly % variation widespread increases in all its lines, credit in pesos to the
4 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50 private sector registered in March an increase of 2.2%
 ($3,730 million), while it continued to increase its year-
3 2.8 40 over-year growth rate, reaching in the last month 41.6%, a
 2.2 2.2 value similar to the highs reached at the beginning of 2008
2 1.8 30 (see Chart 4.1). This growth continues to be led by

1 20 16
 1.4 1.3
 1.0
0 10 commercial credits, which since September 2010 have been
 growing above the lines intended to fi-

-1 0 nance household consumption (see Chart 4.2).
Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11
Source: BCRA

 The lines intended to finance mainly commercial acti-
 vities grew, as a whole, at a pace similar to that of the
 previous month (1.3%), and registered in March a year-
 on-year variation rate of 49.2% (see Chart 4.3). After a
 period of marked stability, financings carried out through
 documents resumed their expansion phase, exhibiting an
 Chart 4.2 increase in their average monthly balance of 1.9% ($675
 million).

 Private Sector Loans in Pesos Meanwhile, advances on current account continued

 % growing, although at a slower rate than in February, the
80 (year-on-year var. of monthly averages) month in which they had recorded a growth significantly

 Commercial loans higher than expected for the period. Thus, said finan-

60 Consumption loans cings registered an increase of 0.6% ($140 million) in

 Loans with real guarantee
 Mar-11 their average monthly balance.

 49.2
40 Mar-11 Loans mainly oriented toward consumption accele-

 42.2 rated their monthly expansion rate, presenting a year-
 Mar-11
 26.1 on-year increase of 42.2%. Financings with credit cards

20 presented the largest growth of the last 6 years for the
 month of March. In fact, they registered an average

 0 monthly growth of 3.4% ($940 million). For their part,
 personal loans continued growing at a good pace; in

-20 March they increased 2.6% ($1,130 million) and conti-

 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 nued accelerating their year-on-year growth rate, presen-
Source: BCRA ting in the last twelve months an increase of 36.6%.

 With respect to credits with real guarantee, pledged
 loans continued showing great dynamism, registering in
 March a growth of 4.3% ($440 million), and presenting
 a year-on-year variation of 50.1%, which

 5 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by
 transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.3 implies an acceleration of 4.7 percentage points with res-
 pect to the previous month (Chart 4.4). In this way, the

 % Commercial Loans % year-on-year growth rate reached the highest value obser-
12 100 ved since July 2008. Meanwhile, mortgage loans grew in

10 Advances - monthly var. average 80 the month 1.5% ($320 million), showing an acceleration
 Documents - monthly var. average with respect to February, although without reaching the
8 Advances - year-on-year var. (right axis) 60
 Documents - year-on-year var. (right axis) growth levels of late 2010 and January 2011 (exceeding

6 2% monthly). In year-on-year terms, the growth rate is
 40
 4 positioned at 16.3%, the highest since May 2009.

 20
 Loans in foreign currency to the private sector regi-
2 stered an increase in their average monthly balance of
 0
 3.1% (u$s 250 million), presenting a year-on-year va-
0 -20 riation rate of 49.4%.

-2
-4 -40 Finally, it is worth mentioning that in March the fourth
-6 -60 tender for funds from the Bicentennial Productive
 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Financing Program (PFPB) was carried out, which aims
Source: BCRA to improve credit supply for investment and productive
 activity with a total fixed financial cost in pesos. On
 this occasion, $232 million were awarded, bringing the
 Chart 4.4 total awarded since the

 Loans with Real Guarantee
 % %
7 (monthly var. average and year-on-year) 70
Mortgage Loans - avg. monthly var. beginning of PFPB amounts to $1,257 million.
6 60
 Pledge Loans - avg. monthly var.
5 Mortgage Loans - var. y.o.y. (right axis) 50
 Pledge Loans - var. y.o.y. (right axis)
4 5. Interest Rates 6
 40
3
 30
2 Securities issued by BCRA7

 20
1

0 10 In the primary market of LEBAC and NOBAC, as in the
 previous month, NOBACs were the most representative
-1 0 securities, explaining 66% of the amounts placed. For
 its part, the average term of said securities extended
-2 -10
 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11compared to the previous month, prioritizing those

Source: BCRA instruments with maturities around one to one and a
 half years. Meanwhile, the margins over BADLAR of
 Private Banks maintained their declining trend of recent
 months (see Chart 5.1). With respect to LEBACs, no
 significant changes were recorded in the interest rate
 Chart 5.1 level compared to the previous month. In effect, the most

 NOBAC - Primary Market traded species were those with maturities around 75 days,

millions $ Amounts Placed by Term Margins paid over BADLAR where their rate remained at 11%.

3,500 p.p.
 3.5
 Feb 2011 For its part, the amounts placed exceeded the total of
22-Feb-11
3,000 Mar 2011 3.0 maturities that occurred in the month, so the stock of
2,500 2.5 30-Mar-11
 securities in circulation recorded a new monthly increase
2,000 2.0 of around 5%, accumulating an increase of 14% in the
 year. As a result, the stock reached a nominal maximum
1,500 1.5 value of $85,100 million since they began to be issued.
1,000 However, if said level is related to other variables, it is
 1.0
 observed that the resulting ratios are below those

 500 0.5 achieved before the international financial crisis. The ratio
 of LEBAC and NOBAC with respect to the Monetary
 0 - Base (MB) increased slightly in the last month, placing
 6 Months 9 Months 1 Year 1.5 Years 2 Years and0 200 400 600 800 1000 itself at a value close to 51%, 21 p.p. below the maximum
More
Source: BCRA achieved in June 2007 (see Chart 5.2).

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.2 reached before the international financial crisis. The ratio

 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC As in the previous months, strong dynamism was

 thousands of average monthly balances % recorded in the secondary market, where the average
 millions $ monthly amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC
 90 80
 Stock Securities 72.1 83.3 reached a new historical record (exceeding $555 million).

 80 70
 The interest rates of the species traded in the secondary
 70 LyN / Monetary Base - right axis 60.3 60 market recorded levels similar to those at the cut-off of
 50.6
 50 the primary market (see Chart 5.3).
 50
 40
 40 Interfinancial Markets

 30
 30 Repo Market1

 20 20 During March, the Central Bank did not modify the
 interest rates for repo operations. In this way, the
 10 10 interest rate on passive repos for operations of 1 and 7
 0 0 days term remained at 9% and 9.5% respectively.
 Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11
 Source: BCRA For its part, those corresponding to active repos
 continued at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

 Interfinancial Markets With respect to the average stock of net repos (passive

 Repo Market1 minus active) for the Central Bank, including all modalities

 Chart 5.3 of operations in which this Institution participates, a

 strong increase of around $1,800 million was observed.
 Interest Rates of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Primary and Thus, a level was reached
 Secondary Market
 % (data from 30-Mar-11)

 14

 13

 12
 LEBAC - Secondary Market

 11 LEBAC - Primary Market

 NOBAC - Primary Market

 NOBAC - Secondary Market
 10 Logarithmic (NOBAC - Secondary Market)
Logarithmic (LEBAC - Secondary Market) of $13,000 million, of which 51% corresponded

to 7-day term repurchase agreements.

0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
Source: BCRA. In NOBAC, the margin plus the BADLAR Rate of Private Banks is considered.

Interbank Market1

In March, interest rates in the interbank market (call) averaged 9.8% for the total of operations, while for those conducted at 1 business day the monthly average was 9.7% (see Graph 5.4), with an increase with respect to February of 0.1 and 0.2 p.p., 

Graph 5.4 respectively. At the same level was the average interest rate in the repurchase agreement market between financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day, remaining at 9.7%, unchanged with respect to February.

% Call Interest Rate
14

11.0

13 The average amounts negotiated in the call market and repurchase agreements between entities were reduced in relation to February. The average daily amount of call traded

10.5

10.0 amounted to $780 million ($140 million less than during February while in the repurchase agreement market between financial entities at 1 business day the average daily amount

12 9.5

11 9.0 traded was slightly higher than $2,000 million ($130 million less than the previous month).

Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11

10 1 Business Day The dispersion measures of interbank loan interest rates continued relatively stable. In particular, the difference between the monthly average of the maximum and minimum interest rate agreed

9 Total Operations each day was in March of 3.1 p.p., while the standard deviation of operations was 0.5%.

8
Jan-09 May-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.5

% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
14 Passive Interest Rates 1

13 Until $100 thousand Private Banks

BADLAR Private Banks
12 The interest rates paid by private financial entities for fixed-term deposits in pesos of up to 35 days continued to remain stable. The average monthly BADLAR remained around 11.1%, while the interest rate corresponding to the retail segment (deposits under $100 thousand) stood at 9.2%

11 (see Graph 5.5).

10 Regarding the BADLAR futures market, a higher traded amount was registered with respect to February, although significantly lower than what was negotiated in March of the previous year. For its part, interest rates for

9 Prom. Mar-11
9.2 contracts with the same expiration dates did not show significant monthly changes. Indeed, the rate for those maturing at the end of September 2011 remained at 12.5%. Unlike the previous month, the longest term negotiated corresponds to a new contract with maturity at the end of August 2012 and whose rate stood at around 14.9%.

8
Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11
Source: BCRA

Graph 5.6

Active Interest Rates 1

Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities
(monthly average)

The active interest rates behaved differently in March. On one hand, the average monthly interest rate of total advances in current account registered an increase of 0.8 p.p. with respect to February, standing at 19.2%. The increase was concentrated mainly in advances without agreement (0.9 p.p.). On the other hand, the average interest rate of the lines associated with advances with agreement, to companies, for more than 10 million

TNA, % Monthly Variation p.p Advances to companies for more than $10 million - up to 7 days 1.0
Total Advances
24 Discounted Documents
0.8 0.75
Sole Signature Documents
22
20 0.6

18 0.4

16

14 0.2
0.12
12 0.02 0.03
0.0
10

8
Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 More than Adv. Total Doc. Disc. Doc. Sole
Adv. $10M Signature
Source: BCRA

Graph 5.7

Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and
those destined for Consumption and up to 7 days term, was located at 11.1%, increasing
(monthly average)
TNA, % Monthly Variations by only 0.1 p.p..

34 0.5p.p

32 0.3 0.2
0.3 The interest rates linked to financing
30
28 0.1 via documents did not register monthly increases
26 -0.1 in their average level. Thus, the one corresponding to
24 -0.3
22 Personal Cards Pawned Mortgages discounted documents remained at 13.4% and that of
-0.5 documents on sole signature at 15.3%.
20
-0.7
18 -0.9

16 -1.0
-1.1
14 Among the interest rates destined to finance con-
12 -1.3
10 -1.5 sumption also evidenced uneven movements in the

Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Mortg. Pawned Pers. Cards month. On one hand, the average interest rate associated with
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 9 credit cards registered a monthly decrease of 1
p.p., placing itself at 31.2%, while the one corresponding
to personal loans increased slightly
(0.2 p.p.), placing itself around 29.3%.

Graph 6.1
Also registered dissimilar movements the interest rates
thousands of BCRA International Reserves associated with longer-term loans. On one
millions of u$s excluding SDR allocations 2009 hand, the average interest rate of loans with
55 pawned guarantee increased 0.3 p.p., reaching
Mar-11
50 17.6%, while the one corresponding to mortgage
45 loans destined to families was reduced by 0.1
40 p.p., placing itself around 13.9%.

35

30 6. International Reserves and

25 Foreign Exchange Market

Mar-07 Jul-07 Nov-07 Mar-08 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11
Source: BCRA International reserves reached a balance of US$ 51,298 million
at the end of March (see Graph 6.1). Although
purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Single
and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) totaled around
US$ 1,400 million in the month, during March there were
cancellations of public debt denominated in foreign
currency for approximately US$ 1,500 million, whose
holders were, in large part, residents abroad. Additionally,
and as a counterpart to the granting of loans in foreign
currency, the balance of current accounts in dollars of
entities at the BCRA was reduced. Finally, in the month
a transfer of US$ 2,121 million was recorded to a Treasury
account destined for payments to international organizations,
although this operation did not initially affect the balance
of international reserves, due to being movements between
accounts constituted in this Central Bank.

Graph 6.2

Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
8% In the foreign exchange market, the average quotation of the

$/US$ $/Euro $/Real US Dollar was 4.04 $/US$, which implied
6% an increase of 0.4% with respect to February (see Graph

4% 6.2) and of 1.5% in the first quarter of the year. In particular,
2% the monthly variation was lower than that of February, as
0% well as that registered for the quotations of the Real and

-2% the Euro. In those cases, the quotations were 2.43
-4% $/Real (0.9%) and 5.65 $/Euro (2.8%). Meanwhile, in the

-6% forward market, the amount traded was approximately
Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 $ 700 million, 23% higher than February,
* A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
Source: BCRA although 30% lower than the 2010 average.

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 10 7. Capital Market

Shares
The most relevant stock markets for the Argentine economy showed changing behavior throughout March. During the month, the performance of all markets was marked by socio-political conflicts in North Africa, and the consequent increase in oil prices, and by the impact that the worst earthquake and tsunami in its history could have on the Japanese economy, which took place on March 11. Additionally, during the month there is the announcement by the European Central Bank about a possible increase in interest rates in April, which indeed occurred, and the mention by the FED that it would complete the Quantitative Easing 2 program within the established timeframe without the need to expand it to a third stage.

The main characteristic of the evolution of stock indices was an abrupt decline following the March 11 earthquake in Japan, and a rapid subsequent recovery. In this sense, the MSCI Global measured in dollars decreased 1.2% between February and March (see Chart 7.1). As mentioned, the MSCI Japan fell 10.1% in the same period, although it reached a decline of up to 14.7% in the days following the catastrophe. For its part, the MSCI Europe and the S&P500 (the main index of the North American market) remained unchanged when comparing the end of February and March, although they reached declines of 8% and 5.3% respectively during the week following the earthquake. On the other hand, the MSCI Latam increased 3.3% during the period, although it is necessary to highlight that this increase was achieved only in the last 2 days of the month.

During the month, the main stock markets in Latin America, measured in dollars, experienced very disparate behavior. On one hand, there are increases in the BOVESPA (Brazil), the IPC (Mexico) and the IGPA (Chile) with 3.8%, 2.8% and 2.7% respectively. In the first two markets, more than half of the variation is due to the appreciation of their local currencies (2% and 1.6% respectively), while in the remaining market a depreciation of 0.3% was recorded. On the other hand, the IGBVL (Peru) and the MERVAL (Argentina) fell back 4.9% and 2.5%, partly driven by the depreciation of their respective local currencies (1.1% and 0.5%).

During March, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured in local currency declined again, closing the month at 3,388 points. This is the second month that the index has declined, after having reached in December the maximum value (measured in dollars) since June 1992. Indeed, the MERVAL fell 2% during the last month, registering an annual growth of 42.7%. The monthly evolution is in line with the declines in the main international financial markets and uncertainty about Japan's recovery.

The historical volatility of the MERVAL –22 trading sessions–, in annualized terms and measured in dollars, increased again compared to the previous month, this time by 2.1 percentage points, ending March at 21.1%. In the same March, the expected volatility of the S&P500 (measured by the VIX) on average increased 3.4 percentage points closing at 20.6%.

For its part, the volume traded daily, on average, at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was $54.2 million, 8.8% below the amount traded during February although 30% above the amount for the [text continues]
Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11Jul-07 Jun-08 May-09 Abr-10 Mar-11same month of 2010.
Source: Bloomberg

Public Securities

Although the traded volume increased considerably, the month of March was characterized by very disparate behaviors in asset prices, with yield cuts for dollar bonds and mixed variations among peso-denominated securities (with CER or nominal). A profit-taking was also recorded.

Sovereign risk indicators for emerging economies registered slight declines, highlighting the evolution of the index for Argentina above all the rest. The EMBI+, which measures the debt spreads in foreign currency of emerging countries as a whole,

Chart 7.3 decreased 11 b.p. to close the month at 261 basis points. Meanwhile, the spread of Latin American debt fell 9 b.p., concluding the month at 326 basis points.

For its part, the EMBI+ Argentina was reduced 41 b.p., fi-
Financing of the Private Sector through Bonds* nalizing the month at 539 points. Finally, the indicator
Last 5 years for Brazil showed a slight decline of 4 b.p. to close
millions of $ Highlighted Placements at 173 b.p..
Month Placement Amount
4,500 May-07 TGS US$ 500M
Total Amount May-07 Petrobras US$ 300M In March, the traded volume of public securities (on a
4,000 Abr-10 Pan American Energy US$ 500M
Annual Average Jul-10 IRSA US$ 150M daily average) in the local market increased from $1,260
3,500 Oct-10 Autopistas del Sol US$ 243M
Oct-10 Edenor US$ 140M million to $1,680 million. This is the maximum value
3,000 Nov-10 Arcor US$ 200M reached since September 2010. Furthermore, it far
Dic-10 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 US$ 300M
2,500 Dic-10 Clisa US$ 200M exceeds the volume traded in March of the previous year
Ene-11 Tarjeta Naranja US$ 200M
2,000 Mar-11 Capex US$ 200M ($925 million).

1,500

1,000 Private Securities
500
0 During March, in the private debt market there were
10 placements of negotiable obligations (ONs), for a
(*) Includes emissions from companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets. total subscribed amount of $1,290 million,

Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg becoming the largest amount registered for a
first quarter in recent years (see chart 7.3).
Of these placements, seven ONs were issued in
pesos for a total of $340 million, while the
remaining three were issued in foreign currency for

Chart 7.4 a total of US$ 235 million.

Emission of Private Securities by Sector

Accumulated Amount 2011 Total Issued March 2011 In the month, the Electric Power sector stood out,
3.4% 3.7% 3.9% which with one emission captured 63% of the total
13.3%
30.5% 6.4% amount issued, becoming the sector that has been most
9.7% financed so far this year through ONs. In second place
19.9%
15.2% 62.9% are the three placements of the Agricultural Sector
30.3% with 20% of the total issued and, finally, there are
Food and Beverages Others the placements of Financial Entities corresponding
Financial Entities Financial Entities Non-Banking - Automotive to the remaining 17% (see Chart 7.4).
Financial Entities Non-Banking
Agricultural Sector
Real Estate Activities Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities
Electric Power

Source: BCRA based on data from IAMC and BCBA. On this occasion, within the national currency securities segment, 5 of them will pay interest equivalent
to the BADLAR of Private Banks plus a margin that
ranges between 3 p.p. and 6 p.p., another will pay the
BAIBOR plus a margin of 2 p.p. and the remaining
emission will do so at a fixed rate (14.3%). With respect
to securities issued in foreign currency, 2 of them will
pay interest at a fixed rate (7.5% and 10%) and the
remaining emission will pay a fixed rate of 4% plus a
premium associated with the evolution of the price per
ton of soybeans.
Among the highlighted aspects of the month, there were 2 emissions (one in each currency) with a 7-year term. Additionally, there was a placement declared unsuccessful due to the absence of proposals which, because of an underwriting contract, was completely subscribed by the placement company.

**Graph 7.5 - Common Investment Funds Patrimony in Pesos | Common Investment Funds**

Thousands of Thousands of
millions $ millions $
Fixed income (Variation Mar-11 vs. Feb-11)
Mixed income 2,400
Variable income During March, Common Investment Funds
Money Market 1,900 (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, increased
1,235 for the ninth consecutive month, registering on this
1,400 occasion a total patrimony of $23,900 million, getting
900 123 increasingly closer to the values recorded prior to the
863 subprime crisis. This patrimony level implied a strong
400 monthly increase of 10.3%, driven in large part
123 (55%) by the evolution of fixed income funds in
0 -100 -38 pesos, and a year-over-year variation of 36.5%.

Jul-04 Jul-05 Jul-06 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10
Source: CAFCI and BCRA

On one hand, FCIs in pesos ended the period with a total patrimony of $22,000 million, increasing 11% compared to the previous month and 42.2% compared to the same period of the previous year, once again with increases in all its segments except for variable income. Indeed, the latter decreased its patrimony by 2.1%, due to the closure of a fund. Furthermore, together with the decline in its prices, it lost 1.1 p.p. of its participation (8.1%). For its part, the fixed income segment increased its patrimony by 16.7% and its participation in the total amount in pesos rose to 39.3% (+1.9 p.p.), reaching new historical highs for the third consecutive month. Money Market funds increased their patrimony by 9.6%, although they ceded 0.6 p.p. in their participation (44.9%) to reach their minimum value in almost 3 years.

**Graph 7.6 - Financial Trust Emissions (monthly amounts and accumulated in the quarter)**

Finally, mixed income funds in pesos saw their patrimony increased by 7.8%, although the increase is partly explained by a reclassification of a variable income fund previously denominated in foreign currency. The increases in these 3 segments are due to both the behavior of prices and the increase in the quantity of quotashares.

millions $ $7,390 M
thousands of millions $ Infrastructure
3,500 Rest
3,000 -90% 94
2,500
2,000 900
1,500
1,500 +67%
1,000 2,809
1,000 1,679
500
500
0 0
Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Q1-10 Q1-11
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

In the case of FCIs in foreign currency, their patrimony increased 2% to US$ 465 million ($1,900 million). This variation was explained by increases in the fixed income segments (+2.9 p.p.), mixed income (+0.8 p.p.) and variable income (0.4 p.p.). In the first two segments, their evolution is associated with the increase in prices and the quantity of quotashares registered, while in the latter, only with the increase in its prices. As a counterpart, the Money Market segment decreased 0.2 p.p. as a consequence of a lower quantity of quotashares registered.

**Financial Trusts⁸**

Financial Trust emissions totaled $1,150 million in March, an amount similar to that of the previous month, and accumulated in the first quarter of the year $2,900 million, 13% more than in the same period of 2010 and, if Financial Trusts for infrastructure are excluded, the increase would be 67% (see Graph 7.6). In total, 19 operations were registered throughout the month, three of which were linked to the financing of infrastructure works (for about $100 million).

**Graph 7.7 - Underlying Assets (amounts issued)**

100% 4 
11
13
80% 11
3
16
60% Mortgage Loans
96% Future Flows of Funds

In particular, two FFs were placed with the objective of financing...
40% 83 Commercial Credits
 finance the construction of homes in the Provinces of
 Credit Card 59 75% Chaco and Mendoza, while the other corresponded to an
 Coupons
 20% Personal Loans issuance by the Municipality of General Pueyrredón
 intended to finance the execution of public works. These
 0% FF are backed by future cash flows9.
 Feb-11 Mar-11
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others Finally, it is worth mentioning that this month a
 mortgage FF was placed, which had not occurred since November
8 Only trusts with public offering are considered.
9 In the case of FF intended to finance housing programs in the Provinces of Chaco and Mendoza, future cash flows consist of 2010, and the Cotton I FF was launched10 ($34 million). In this
collections from the collection of credits granted by the corresponding Provincial Housing Institutes, derived from the allocation of way, the underlying assets showed in March
homes as of the date of issuance and generated after the same. Meanwhile, in the case of the FF of the Municipality of Gral. a lower concentration in those linked to consumption
Pueyrredón the flows come from municipal tax revenue sharing.
 (personal loans and credit card coupons) than what had
 Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 14 Graph 7.8 been observed in the previous months
 2010 and the Cotton I FF was launched10 ($34 million). In this (see Graph 7.7).
 Fiduciaries
 way, the underlying assets showed in March
 (issued amounts)
 a lower concentration in those linked to consumption The main fiduciaries of the month were financial entities,
 millions $ (personal loans and credit card coupons) than what after several months in which retail businesses occupied
 1,250 25% 47 94 had been observed in the previous months that position. In fact, financial entities
 1,000 +33 68 (see Graph 7.7). were fiduciaries of 40% of the total issued
 179
40% 238 in March, with an increase in the amount placed of
 750 -51% 57% compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.8). To this
 583 288
 The main fiduciaries of the month were financial entities, substantial increase contributed the placement by
 500
 21% +57 after several months in which retail businesses occupied Banco Hipotecario of the new series of Argentine
 6% 8%
250 462 that position. In effect, financial entities Mortgage Coupons, having placed the previous one
 293 were fiduciaries of 40% of the total issued in November 2010. For its part, retail businesses,
 0 in March, with an increase in the amount placed of which were fiduciaries of 25% of the total, securitized
 Financial Entities Feb-11 Mar-11 57% compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.8). To this half of assets compared to February. Meanwhile,
 Retail Businesses substantial increase contributed the placement by the mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit
 Mutual Societies, Cooperatives and Non-Bank Credit Card Issuers Banco Hipotecario of the new series of Argentine card issuers were responsible for 21% of the total
 Fiduciaries linked to substantial infrastructure FF
Others Mortgage Coupons, having placed the previous one issued in the month, registering an increase of 33% in
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data in November 2010. For its part, retail businesses, their securitizations. The remainder corresponded to
 which were fiduciaries of 25% of the total, securitized fiduciaries belonging to the public sector (8% of the total)
 half of assets compared to February. Meanwhile, linked to infrastructure FF, among others.
 Graph 7.9 the mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit
 Cut-off Rates of FF card issuers were responsible for 21% of the total
 (senior titles in pesos - weighted monthly averages by amount) issued in the month, registering an increase of 33% in
% their securitizations. The remainder corresponded to
40 Variable Yield 40 Fixed Yield fiduciaries belonging to the public sector (8% of the total)
 Duration up to 13 months Duration between 14 and 30 months linked to infrastructure FF, among others.
 Duration greater than 30 months Duration up to 13 months
35 BADLAR Private Banks 35 BADLAR Private Banks The interest rates cut-off of senior titles in pesos
 remained stable. When considering the most representative
30 30 tranche of senior titles (those with a duration of up to 13
 months concentrated 80% of the issuances), the cut-off
25 25 rates remained unchanged compared to the previous month.
 In fact, the rate
20 20

15 15
10 cut-off date (weighted average by amount) of the securities
awarded at variable rate remained at 13.8% and that of
5 5
Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 securities agreed at fixed rate at 13.4% (see Chart
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others 7.9). Additionally, and in line with the securitization of
longer-term assets, the duration (weighted average by
amount) of senior securities went from 6 months
Chart 7.10 in February to 21 months in March.

millions of $ Stock of Underlying Assets of FF by type of Trustor
24.000

Trustors linked to FF of infrastructure
According to the latest balance information corresponding
20.000 Financial Entities
Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-banking Credit Card Issuers to December 2010, the stock of assets in circulation of
Retail Stores the FF was located at around $23,070 million, increasing
16.000 Others 13% with respect to September 2010, registering
widespread increases by type of trustor, especially those
12.000 linked to FF of infrastructure (see Chart 7.10)

8.000

4.000

0
 2006-IV 2007-II 2007-IV 2008-II 2008-IV 2009-II 2009-IV 2010-II 2010-IV
Source: own elaboration based on CNV data

10 Launched within the framework of the "Chaco produces" Program, through which it seeks to improve the financing
possibilities of Chaco producers

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary and financial system variables Mar-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-11Dec-10Mar-10
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary Base 164,445 162,465 156,104 120,224 1.2% 0.3% 36.8% 24.6%
Monetary Circulation 128,825 127,658 119,694 93,297 0.9% 0.0% 38.1% 25.8%
Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public 113,063 112,269 107,145 82,999 0.7% -0.2% 36.2% 24.1%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 15,758 15,384 12,534 10,298 2.4% 1.5% 53.0% 39.4%
Settlement Checks 5 6 15 0 -25.5% -26.2% - -
Current account at the BCRA 35,620 34,807 36,410 26,927 2.3% 1.4% 32.3% 20.5%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 12,948 11,113 9,376 13,535 16.5% 15.5% -4.3% -12.8%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 36,791 40,813 50,912 43,202 -9.9% -10.7% -14.8% -22.4%

NOBAC 46,466 39,009 23,737 6,089 19.1% 18.1% 663.1% 595.2%

International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations 52,287 52,427 52,132 47,682 -0.3% 9.7%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 323,983 315,950 297,283 226,904 2.5% 1.6% 42.8% 30.1%
Current account (2) 92,196 90,878 88,303 70,318 1.5% 0.5% 31.1% 19.5%
Savings account 58,757 58,258 56,626 44,188 0.9% 0.0% 33.0% 21.1%
Fixed term non-adjustable by CER 158,787 153,031 138,315 101,183 3.8% 2.8% 56.9% 43.0%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 10 10 14 18 0.6% -0.3% -44.1% -49.1%
Other deposits (3) 14,233 13,773 14,026 11,198 3.3% 2.4% 27.1% 15.8%

Deposits of the private sector 216,402 212,826 204,037 160,051 1.7% 0.8% 35.2% 23.2%

Deposits of the public sector 107,581 103,123 93,246 66,853 4.3% 3.4% 60.9% 46.6%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,323 15,582 15,926 11,800 -1.7% 29.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 194,495 190,970 181,888 140,942 1.8% 0.9% 38.0% 25.7%

Loans to the private sector 173,018 169,503 161,677 122,229 2.1% 1.2% 41.6% 29.0%
Advances 23,154 23,016 22,036 16,427 0.6% -0.3% 40.9% 28.4%
Documents 36,254 35,579 33,756 23,212 1.9% 1.0% 56.2% 42.3%
Mortgages 20,949 20,691 19,944 18,016 1.2% 0.3% 16.3% 5.9%
Pledges 10,886 10,440 9,420 7,250 4.3% 3.3% 50.1% 36.8%
Personal loans 42,760 41,785 39,360 31,313 2.3% 1.4% 36.6% 24.4%
Credit cards 28,626 27,686 26,367 18,873 3.4% 2.5% 51.7% 38.2%
Others 10,389 10,306 10,793 7,137 0.8% -0.1% 45.6% 32.6%
Loans to the public sector 21.478 21.467 20.212 18.713 0,0% -0,8% 14,8% 4,6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.315 8.079 7.412 5.636 2,9% 47,5%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 205.263 203.152 195.463 153.317 1,0% 0,1% 33,9% 22,0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 264.020 261.410 252.088 197.505 1,0% 0,1% 33,7% 21,8%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 437.050 428.224 404.443 309.904 2,1% 1,2% 41,0% 28,5%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 498.930 490.931 467.835 355.484 1,6% 0,7% 40,4% 27,9%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public+ cancellatory checks in pesos+ private 176.138 174.636 167.207 128.769 0,9% 0,0% 36,8% 24,6%
 current account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 230.543 228.969 220.558 168.257 0,7% -0,2% 37,0% 24,8%
 M3 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 329.469 325.101 311.197 243.050 1,3% 0,4% 35,6% 23,5%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency 378.236 372.689 357.178 282.251 1,5% 0,6% 34,0% 22,1%

 Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 1.979 1,2% 8.341 5,1% 8.341 5,1% 44.221 26,9%
 Financial sector -1.744 -1,1% -3.264 -2,0% -3.264 -2,0% 1.768 1,1%
 Public sector 1.957 1,2% 6.988 4,2% 6.988 4,2% 19.001 11,6%
 External private sector 4.942 3,0% 12.687 7,7% 12.687 7,7% 52.439 31,9%
 BCRA Securities -2.920 -1,8% -7.371 -4,5% -7.371 -4,5% -26.821 -16,3%
 Other -256 -0,2% -698 -0,4% -698 -0,4% -2.167 -1,3%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -140 -0,3% 155 0,3% 155 0,3% 4.605 8,8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.226 2,3% 3.201 6,1% 3.201 6,1% 13.320 25,5%
 Payment to international organizations -117 -0,2% 5 0,0% 5 0,0% 224 0,4%
 Other operations of the public sector 163 0,3% 6.891 13,2% 6.891 13,2% 366 0,7%
 Minimum cash -948 -1,8% -1.629 -3,1% -1.629 -3,1% -1.581 -3,0%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -465 -0,9% -8.314 -15,9% -8.314 -15,9% -7.679 -14,7%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month in relation to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar-11 Feb-11 Jan-11
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15,4 15,8 15,9
 Integration 15,7 16,0 16,2
 Position (2) 0,3 0,3 0,3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 50,4 56,1 56,1
 30 to 59 days 26,2 25,5 25,5
 60 to 89 days 12,8 6,9 6,9
 90 to 179 days 5,2 6,1 6,1
 more than 180 days 5,3 5,5 5,5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21,2 21,1 20,4
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 65,1 69,1 68,2
 Position (2) 43,8 48,0 47,8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 58,3 55,8 56,7
 30 to 59 days 23,4 24,3 21,8
 60 to 89 days 8,3 10,3 11,5
 90 to 179 days 7,6 7,2 7,5
 180 to 365 days 2,4 2,4 2,3
 more than 365 days 0,1 0,1 0,1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.

Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 17

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**Call in pesos (at 1 day)**
- Rate: 9.82 | 9.68 | 9.76 | 9.70 | 8.58
- Amount traded: 778 | 917 | 806 | 781 | 790

**Fixed Term Deposits**

*In pesos*
- 30 days: 9.30 | 9.31 | 9.53 | 9.57 | 9.01
- 60 days or more: 10.73 | 10.64 | 10.01 | 10.67 | 10.15
- BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 9.64 | 9.69 | 10.15 | 10.25 | 9.16
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 11.14 | 11.06 | 11.07 | 11.08 | 9.43

*In dollars*
- 30 days: 0.27 | 0.27 | 0.26 | 0.27 | 0.32
- 60 days or more: 0.57 | 0.62 | 0.53 | 0.60 | 0.68
- BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.37 | 0.38 | 0.29 | 0.36 | 0.46
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 0.56 | 0.53 | 0.47 | 0.53 | 0.60

## Active Interest Rates

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**Repurchase Agreements in pesos**
- Gross interest rate at 30 days: 11.44 | 12.04 | 11.61 | 11.97 | 10.04
- Amount traded (total terms): 223 | 191 | 192 | 216 | 178

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
- Overdrafts on current account: 19.21 | 18.46 | 18.77 | 19.23 | 20.12
- Unsecured promissory notes: 15.28 | 15.26 | 15.32 | 14.81 | 15.32
- Mortgages: 13.89 | 14.01 | 13.73 | 14.59 | 13.06
- Pledged loans: 17.62 | 17.36 | 17.00 | 17.49 | 17.38
- Personal loans: 29.31 | 29.08 | 29.22 | 29.10 | 31.55
- Credit cards: 31.17 | 32.14 | 32.27 | 31.26 | 29.68

- Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million: 11.15 | 11.03 | 11.10 | 11.10 | 10.20

## International Interest Rates

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**LIBOR**
- 1 month: 0.25 | 0.26 | 0.26 | 0.26 | 0.24
- 6 months: 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.41

**US Treasury Bond**
- 2 years: 0.67 | 0.76 | 0.60 | 0.61 | 0.94
- 10 years: 3.39 | 3.56 | 3.36 | 3.27 | 3.71

**FED Funds Rate:** 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25

**SELIC (at 1 year):** 11.72 | 11.25 | 10.96 | 10.75 | 8.75

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

---

# Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 18

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**BCRA repurchase agreement rates**
- Passive 1 day: 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00
- Passive 7 days: 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50
- Active 7 days: 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50

**Total REPO floor rates**
- 1 day: 9.22 | 9.27 | 9.31 | 9.20 | 9.01
- 7 days: 9.54 | 9.52 | 9.52 | 9.53 | 9.50

**Amount traded in REPO floor (daily average):** 8,358 | 5,900 | 5,709 | 5,973 | 7,276

**LEBAC rates in pesos (1)**
- 1 month: s/o | s/o | s/o | 10.86 | s/o
- 2 months: 10.98 | 10.96 | 10.99 | 10.93 | s/o
- 3 months: 11.07 | 11.15 | 11.07 | 11.10 | 12.20
- 9 months: 11.95 | 11.93 | s/o | s/o | 13.73
- 12 months: 12.46 | 12.48 | 12.96 | 13.05 | 13.87

**NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)**
- 9 months BADLAR Private Banks: 1.39 | 1.74 | 1.89 | 1.81 | s/o
- 1 year BADLAR Private Banks: 1.68 | 1.92 | 2.13 | 2.07 | s/o
- 2 years BADLAR Private Banks: 2.52 | 2.73 | 2.59 | 2.52 | s/o
- 3 years BADLAR Private Banks: s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o

**Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average):** 673 | 533 | 406 | 341 | 222

## Foreign Exchange Market

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**Spot Dollar**
- Exchange houses: 4.04 | 4.02 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.86
- BCRA Reference: 4.04 | 4.02 | 3.98 | 3.98 | 3.86

**Future Dollar**
- NDF 1 month: 4.06 | 4.05 | 4.01 | 4.00 | 3.88
- ROFEX 1 month: 4.07 | 4.06 | 4.01 | 4.01 | 3.88
- Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos): 699 | 570 | 548 | 1,095 | 871

**Real (Pesos per Real):** 2.43 | 2.41 | 2.38 | 2.35 | 2.16

**Euro (Pesos per Euro):** 5.65 | 5.50 | 5.33 | 5.26 | 5.25

## Capital Markets

| Mar-11 | Feb-11 | Ene-11 | Dec-10 | Mar-10 |

**MERVAL**
- Index: 3,359 | 3,518 | 3,598 | 3,429 | 2,355
- Amount traded (millions of pesos): 59 | 63 | 74 | 94 | 52

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- BODEN 2012 (US$): 100.65 | 98.74 | 96.39 | 95.27 | 90.26
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law): 90.91 | 90.60 | 95.56 | 93.34 | 73.09
- BODEN 2014 ($): 93.15 | 93.36 | 95.71 | 93.49 | 74.29
- DISCOUNT ($): 72.89 | 78.86 | 87.14 | 85.48 | 50.60

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread: 451 | 528 | 552 | 529 | 878
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina): 322 | 315 | 282 | 292 | 298

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Term Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Futures Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | March 2011 | BCRA | 20
