# Monthly Monetary Report
September of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
September 2011

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3
2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4
3. Banking Liquidity | Page 6
4. Loans | Page 6
5. Interest Rates | Page 8
   - Securities issued by the BCRA | Page 8
   - Interfinancial Markets | Page 8
   - Repo Market | Page 8
   - Interbank Market | Page 9
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 9
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 10
6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11
7. Capital Market | Page 12
   - Shares | Page 12
   - Public Securities | Page 13
   - Private Securities | Page 14
   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 15
   - Financial Trusts | Page 16
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 18
9. Glossary | Page 19

Queries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on October 12, 2011. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 2 1. Synthesis
• In September, the target of the Monetary Program (MP) was met in an environment close to the base scenario.
With an average balance of $298,380 million, total means of payment (M2) accumulated growth of 18.4% compared to December, 0.5 percentage points above the base scenario projected in the MP. Likewise, so far this year, the trajectory recorded by private means of payment (private M2) is consistent with the annual growth target (29.2% in December) established for this aggregate in the MP.

• M2 presented a monthly decrease of 0.6%, with a decline in savings account deposits that was partially offset by increases in current account placements and currency in public circulation. The persistent and elevated dynamism of peso loans to the private sector, especially commercial financing, continued to promote the growth of means of payment. The increase in fixed-term deposits from the public sector exceeded the expansionary monetary effect that its operations had on the monetary base, so the net effect of the public sector on M2 was contractionary. In the same direction, net sales of foreign currency carried out in September by the Central Bank operated, which, nevertheless, accumulates a positive balance of approximately US$ 2,900 million so far this year from its intervention.

• In September, peso loans to the private sector accelerated their monthly expansion rate, registering an increase of 5.1% ($10,530 million). In this way, they continued to increase their year-on-year rate of change, which reached 52%. Likewise, the performance of loans associated with commercial activity continued to stand out, which since the last quarter of 2010 have grown above the lines intended to finance household consumption.

• In September, an auction of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB) was carried out, through which $253 million was awarded. Thus, the total awarded since the beginning of the PFPB amounts to $2,917 million, of which $1,364 million have been disbursed so far.

• The broad liquidity ratio in pesos of financial entities (defined as the sum of current accounts at the Central Bank, reverse repurchase agreements for this Institution, cash in banks and LEBAC and NOBAC; as a percentage of total deposits in pesos) decreased 1.2 percentage points and moved to 37.2%. Such decrease occurred in a context in which peso loans to the private sector continued to grow at a higher rate than total deposits in the same currency.

• In order to promote savings in pesos, the Central Bank approved increases in the interest rates of LEBAC placements. In particular, the interest rates corresponding to LEBAC with shorter terms (up to 6 months) registered a monthly increase of approximately 1.5 percentage points, which added to the increase recorded since late August places them at levels similar to those prevailing at the beginning of 2010. In contrast, the margins paid for longer-term securities at variable rates decreased slightly.

• In line with the behavior of the interest rates of Central Bank securities, the main interest rates in the money market showed increases during the month. The monthly average of the private bank BADLAR rate stood at 13.1%, showing an increase of 0.8 percentage points compared to August. On the other hand, the interest rate of private banks in the segment of up to $100 thousand and short-term also increased, although more slightly than the wholesale rate (0.4 percentage points), averaging 10.3% in September. Regarding active interest rates, the rate corresponding to discounted documents registered a monthly increase of 0.7 percentage points, standing at around 15.3%, while the average monthly interest rate for advances on current account stood at 19.3%.
after increasing 0.3 p.p. with respect to August. Likewise, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 30.3% for the month, after having risen 0.4 p.p.. Regarding the interest rates on longer-term loans, the one corresponding to pledge loans increased 0.5 p.p. during the month, and was positioned at 19.4%.

• During September, fifteen placements of negotiable bonds were registered (the largest amount recorded in a single month in 2011), for a total subscribed amount just below $1,000 million. This amount, which became the third highest of the year, was distributed among nine placements in local currency, for a total of $550 million, and the remaining six for US$100 million. It is also noteworthy that five of these issuances (three of them in local currency) belong to SMEs, for a total subscribed amount of $40 million.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In September, the target of the Monetary Program (PM) was met in an environment close to the base scenario. In Graph 2.1
Targets of the Monetary Program 2011 effect, with an average balance of $298,380 million, total means of
% (M2 growth rates with respect to December 2010) payment (M22) accumulated growth of 18.4% with respect
35 to December, 0.5 p.p. above the base scenario projected
in the PM and 4.2 p.p. below its upper limit (see Graph 2.1).
30
27.9 Likewise, throughout the year, the trajectory recorded by
25 Observed Values private means of payment (private M23) proved to be con-
Base Scenario PM 2011 sistent with the annual growth target established in the
Range PM 2011 PM for December of this year (29.2%).
20
17.9 In September, M2 registered a decline of 0.6% explained
15 by a decrease in savings account balances that was par-
11.7 tially offset by increases in current account balances
10 and in currency in circulation held by the public. On the
5.3 supply side, the persistent and high dynamism of loans
5 in pesos to the private sector, especially commercial
0 financing, continued to be the predominant factor in
30-Dec-10 28-Feb-11 29-Apr-11 28-Jun-11 27-Aug-11 26-Oct-11 25-Dec-11explaining the behavior of means of payment. In contrast,
the rest of the factors in the variation of monetary aggre-
Source: BCRA gates in pesos totaled a contractionary effect that more
than offset the expansion due to loans (see Graph 2.2). In
particular, the increase in time deposits of the public sec-
tor exceeded the expansionary monetary effect that this
sector's operations had on the monetary base, so the net
effect of the public sector on M2 was contractionary. The
demand for foreign currency by the private sector oper-
ated in the same direction. Consequently, and in an inter-
Graph 2.2 national context that notably deteriorated, during the
month of September the Central Bank was a net seller of
Factors Explaining the Variation of M2 foreign currency; nevertheless, accumulating a positive
in thousands of balance for the year of approximately US$ 2,900 million.
millions of $ (September 2011, on average)
In this context and in order to guarantee balance in the
12 monetary market, the Central Bank supplied the demand
10 for money through different operations, among them are
8 the partial renewal of LEBAC and NOBAC maturities,
6 the reduction in the balance of reverse repos with finan-
4 cial entities and operations of the public sector. The latter
2 were associated with the transfer of earnings from the Bank

0
-2
-4
-6
-8
Purchases of Public Loans to Private Time Deposits Others M2
Sector* Sector and Others Private

*Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base, loans and fixed-term deposits and other deposits.

Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, canceled checks in pesos and savings account deposits and current accounts in pesos of non-financial public and private sectors.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, canceled checks in pesos and savings account deposits and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 4 corresponding to fiscal year 2010 and the granting of
temporary advances, both carried out within the framework of what is provided in the Institution's
Organic Charter. The effect of these factors combined more than compensated for the contraction generated by the Central Bank's foreign currency sales. Consequently, the monetary base recorded growth of 0.8% ($1,600 million), reaching an average balance of $190,570 million.

**Chart 2.3**

Index Stock of Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector
100 = average December % Change Monthly Average

2006
2007 The broadest monetary aggregate in local currency
2008 (M34) presented a monthly increase of 1.2%, while
2009 the private M3 increased 0.3%. Total deposits in
2010
2011 domestic currency presented during the period an
increase of 1.6%, explained fundamentally by the
behavior of public sector deposits (4.1%) and, to a
lesser extent, by those of the private sector (0.3%).
Public placements grew 4.1%, with declines in sight
deposits that were more than offset by the increase in
31-Dec 31-Mar 30-Jun 30-Sep January-September fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

For their part, peso deposits of the private sector were also driven by fixed-term placements given that sight deposits maintained their balance at August levels.

Fixed-term deposits of the private sector presented growth of 0.8%, moderating its expansion rate. It is worth mentioning that although increases were recorded in both wholesale and retail placements, the increase in fixed-term deposits of the private sector was motivated mainly by the segment of less than $1 million. Fixed-term deposits accumulated during the first nine months of 2011 the largest percentage increase in recent years. In effect, this growth was equivalent to an average monthly increase of 2.3%, compared to an average monthly increase of 1.7% recorded for the same period between 2006 and 2010 (see Chart 2.3).

**Chart 3.1**

% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos
(monthly average)

45

40 37.2

35

% of Deposits Reserve Accounts % of Deposits Net Repos % of Deposits LEBACs and NOBACs

30

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed a decline of 1.5%, with reductions in public sector placements that were partially offset by the increase recorded in private sector deposits. The latter registered an increase of 3.3%, observing increases in savings account and fixed-term deposits. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation, cancelable checks and the total deposits in pesos and foreign currency, showed a monthly increase of 1%.

18 4.0 25

16 3.5

25 3.0 20

20 12 2.5 15

10 2.0

15 1.5 10

8 1.0

10 5 0.5

6

4 0.0 0

2

0 0 5

Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11

Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11

Source: BCRA

4 Includes currency in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of non-financial public and private sectors.

Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 5 3. Bank Liquidity1
In September, the broad liquidity ratio in pesos of financial entities (defined as the sum of current accounts at the Central Bank, reverse repos for this Institution, cash in banks, and LEBAC and NOBAC; as a percentage of total deposits in pesos) decreased by 1.2 percentage points. This decrease occurred in a context in which loans in pesos to the private sector continued growing at a higher rate than total deposits in national currency. In this way, the broad liquidity ratio in pesos was 37.2% (see Graph 3.1).

Regarding the components of liquidity and compared to what was observed in August, there was a decline in the position of net repos with the BCRA (0.5 p.p.) and in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by financial entities (0.8 p.p.). For its part, assets that can be computed as integration of the Minimum Cash regime (that is, bank reserves composed of cash in banks and the current account of entities at the Central Bank) remained stable and exceeded the reserve requirement by the equivalent of 0.4% of deposits (see Graph 3.2).

For the foreign currency segment, the surplus of the Minimum Cash position decreased by 2.1 p.p., averaging 37% of total deposits in dollars.⁵ In particular, a reduction was verified in the integration due to the greater application of resources to the granting of loans in foreign currency to the private sector as well as by the decrease in deposits belonging to the public sector.

## 4. Loans¹⁶

In September, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their expansion rate, registering an increase of 5.1% ($10,530 million), significantly higher than what is usually observed in this part of the year (see Graph 4.1). In this way, they continued increasing their year-on-year rate of change, which reached 52% (3.4 p.p. more than in August). Likewise, the performance of loans associated with commercial activity continued to stand out, which since the last quarter of 2010 have grown above the lines intended to finance household consumption (see Graph 4.2).

With the objective of promoting credit supply for investment and productive activity, promoting medium and long-term fixed-rate loans, the Central Bank continued auctioning funds within the framework of the Bicentenary Productive Financing Program (PFPB). In September, a PFPB auction was held, through which $253 million was awarded. On this occasion, the following financial entities were successful bidders: Banco de la Nación Argentina ($150 million), Banco Credicoop ($100 million), and Santan-

---

**Footnotes:**

⁵ The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for default in resource application.

⁶ Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
49.5 of Río ($3 million). Thus, the total awarded since the
40 42.7 beginning of the PFPB amounts to $2,917 million, of which
20 up to now $1,364 million have been disbursed.

0

-20 Among the main commercial lines, the dynamism of fi-
 Dic-04 Dic-05 Dic-06 Dic-07 Dic-08 Dic-09 Dic-10 nancings implemented through documents stood out, which
Source: BCRA grew 7.1% ($3,190 million) in September, accelerating
 their monthly growth rate and registering the largest in-
 crease since October 2005. In this sense, as has been
 happening since May, the increase for the month was the
 highest of the last six years. However, the gap existing
 with other periods increased substantially (see Graph 4.3).
 For its part, current account advances registered a month-
 ly increase of 2.2% ($620 million), after showing a de-
 cline of similar magnitude in August.

 During the month under analysis, loans intended to fi-
 nance family consumption also accelerated their expansion
 pace. In effect, personal loans grew 5.3% ($2,690 million),
 registering the largest increase of the year, as did credit
 Graph 4.3 card financings, which showed a monthly increase of 5.7%
 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector ($1,860 million).
 (monthly variation of monthly averages) 2006
 % 2007
8.0 2008
 7.1
 6.3 2009
 2010 Regarding loans with real guarantees, pawn loans contin-
6.0
 4.8 4.7 2011 ued growing at elevated rates, in line with the dynamism
 4.2
4.0 3.4 of automotive sales. In September they registered an in-
 2.8
1.9 crease of 5.6% ($780 million) and a year-on-year varia-
2.0
 0.6 tion rate of 76.5%, which represents the most important
0.0 increase of all lending lines. For its part, mortgage credits
 continued accelerating their monthly expansion pace, evi-

-2.0 dencing an increase of 3.4% ($800 million), which is
 above the average growth of recent years.
-4.0
 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11

Source: BCRA Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
 intended mainly to finance the export sector, moderated
 their expansion pace, registering a monthly increase of
 2.1% ($195 million).

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates 7
 Yield Curve

 LEBAC - TNA NOBAC - Margins over BADLAR
Securities issued by the BCRA

 % p.p.
 16 4.0
 In order to promote peso savings, the Central Bank
 14 validated increases in LEBAC interest rates in the prima- 3.0
 ry market. The interest rates that increased the most were
 12 2.0 those of shorter-term notes (4 to 6 months), which accu-
 mulated an increase of 1.5 p.p. for the month, which
 10 1.0 when added to that recorded since late August, places
 them at levels similar to those prevailing at the beginning
 8
 31-Aug-11 27-Sep-11 of 2010. In contrast, it slightly reduced the margins paid
 - days
 0 500 1000 1500 over the BADLAR of private banks of longer-term NOBAC
 6 days (see Graph 5.1).
 0 200 400 600 800 1000-1,0
31-Aug-11 27-Sep-11

Source: BCRA As in the previous month, the maturities for the month
 were slightly higher than the awarded amount, for which
 reason the outstanding stock of notes and letters de-
 Graph 5.2 creased, standing at approximately $80,800 million at
 Interest Rates in the Secondary Market the end of September.
 % (data from last auction September)
 20 Finally, in the secondary market of LEBAC and NOBAC,
 larger traded amounts were recorded, driven by variable
 16 income securities. As in the previous month, the most
 traded terms turned out to be the shortest for each in-
 strument. With respect to interest rates, they increased in
 line with what occurred
12 LEBAC secondary NOBAC secondary in the primary market, until reaching levels similar
to those observed in Central Bank auctions

LEBAC primary NOBAC primary (see Graph 5.2).

8
Source: BCRA0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Interbank Markets

Repo Market1

The interest rates on Central Bank repo operations remained at the same values observed
since October 2009: the rates for passive repos at 1 and 7 day terms were located at 9% and 9.5%, respec-
tively; while for active repos they remained Graph 5.3
Call Operations at 1 and 7 day terms at 11% and 11.5% for identical terms.
millions of $ (monthly averages) %
1.800 35 Meanwhile, the average stock of passive repos, inclu-
Amount of op. at other terms (up to 15 calendar days)
1.600 Amount of op. at 7 calendar days 30 ding all modalities in which the Central Bank
1.400 Amount of op. at 1 business day operates, decreased 12% compared to the previous month,
Tasa de interés de op. a 7 días 25
1.200 Interest rate of op. at 1 day placing itself around $10,600 million. As in the previous
20 month, approximately 70% corresponded to 1-day repos,
1.000
800 15 while almost 80% of the total was operated by
10 banks. During the month, no active repos were arranged
600
400 for the Central Bank and its stock remained null.
200 5
0 0 1 Interbank Market1
Sep-03 Sep-04 Sep-05 Sep-06 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11
Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.4 In September, the average of the interest rates of the
interbank market registered slight increases compared to Graph 5.4
Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day
% 12 August. Nevertheless, the increase in average value was
12.0
11.5 11 due to transitory increases in mid-month, which
11.0 10 were completely reversed after a few days. Thus, at the
10.5 9 end of September, the interest rates of interbank loans
8 again registered levels similar to those at the end of
10.0 01-Ago 16-Ago 31-Ago 15-Sep 30-Sep
9.5 August. The interest rate in the call market averaged
9.0 9.7%, marking an increase of 0.2 p.p compared to the
8.5
8.0 Monthly average level registered the previous month. In the segment of
7.5 Average ± 1 Std Deviation 1-day operations (representing 81% of average stock),
7.0 the rate was placed at 9.6%, 0.3 p.p above the level
Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11
Source: BCRA registered in the previous month. Meanwhile, the rates
for 7-day operations registered an increase of 1.3 p.p,
reaching 12% (see Graph 5.3).

Graph 5.5 Despite the evolution registered in interest rates, the
Call Market dispersion measures in the call market continued to be
millions of $ (monthly average net position by group of entities)
relatively stable. Indeed, the standard deviation of
400
300 1-day operations was situated at 0.5%, the same value
200 it had in August (see Graph 5.4).

100
0 In this context, the daily average of the amount traded
-100 Foreign during September in the call market was $1,160
-200 Priv. Nat. million, 28% higher than the amount operated in August.
Public When considering the different groups of banks, it is
-300 EFNB observed that private entities of domestic origin resulted
-400 as net borrowers of funds, public banking and non-
Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 banking financial entities resulted as net lenders, while
Source: BCRA foreign entities registered an almost neutral position
(see Graph 5.5).
In line with what occurred in the call market, the average interest rate in the repo market between financial entities (excluding the Central Bank) at 1 business day was 9.6%, 0.2 percentage points higher than the level registered in August. Meanwhile, the daily average of the amount traded in this market was $1,923 million, registering an increase of $463 million compared to the previous month.

**Passive Interest Rates 1**

In the month of September, short-term passive interest rates showed increases, both for the wholesale and retail segments. These increases are explained by the combined action of the increase in loans, the relative reduction in bank liquidity and the behavior of money market interest rates that showed slight increases. Indeed, the monthly average of the BADLAR rate of private banks stood at 13.1%, showing an increase of 0.8 percentage points with respect to August. On the other hand, the interest rate of private banks in the segment of up to $100 thousand and short-term also increased, although more slightly than the wholesale rate (0.4 p.p.), averaging September at 10.3% (see Chart 5.6).

When differentiating the interest rates of private banks (for all terms) for different types of depositors, it is observed that there was a generalized monthly increase of around 0.6 p.p. Thus, the rate paid to individuals was positioned at 11.2%, accumulating an increase of 1.4 p.p. during the year. On the other hand, interest rates for legal entities registered an increase of almost 2 p.p. in 2011, standing at around 14% and 13%, for financial services and other companies, respectively (see Chart 5.7).

Finally, in the BADLAR rate futures market, lower amounts traded were registered compared to the previous month, maintaining the preference for shorter terms (one and two months). In line with what occurred in the month, forward contracts indicated an increase in interest rates expected for the coming months. Thus, interest rates on contracts maturing in one month were around 14.5%, more than 1 p.p. higher than those for contracts with the same maturity traded in August.

**Active Interest Rates 1**

Similarly to what was observed for passive interest rates, increases were evidenced in most of the interest rates applied to loans to the private sector.

The interest rates of the different lines implemented via documents showed dissimilar movements. Indeed, the one corresponding to discounted documents registered the largest monthly increase in active rates (0.7 p.p.), standing at around 15.3%. Conversely, the interest rate of documents on sole signature was the only active rate that declined in the month,
0.0
10 although slightly (0.1 p.p.) to position itself at a level
 -0.2 -0.1
 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Doc.Desc. Doc.Single Signature
Source: BCRA average of 15.5% (see Chart 5.8). It should be noted that
 the financing line through documents with single
 signature includes loans granted under the
 PFPB framework, which in recent weeks gained participation
 in the amounts operated and which are granted with longer
 terms and relatively low interest rates (see Section
 Loans). On the other hand, the average monthly rate of

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 10 advances on current account stood at 19.3% after
 increasing 0.3 p.p. with respect to August.

 Among the interest rates on loans with longer
 terms, the one corresponding to collateral loans
 Chart 5.9 increased 0.5 p.p. during the month, and came to stand at 19.4%

 Active Interest Rates accumulating an increase of 2 p.p. in the year. For its part, the
 (monthly average) interest rate on mortgage loans to
 
 TNA, % Advances on Current Account Collateral Mortgages to families families increased slightly (0.1 p.p.) to close
 36 Personal Credit Cards
 34 September at 15.1%.

 32
 30
 28 Finally, the interest rate on personal loans

 26 averaged the month at 30.3%, after having risen 0.4 p.p..
 24 Meanwhile, the latest available data on the rate
 22
 20 corresponding to credit card financings
 18 showed an increase of around 0.3 p.p.
 16 monthly, standing at 33.2% in August (see Chart
 14
 12 5.9).
 Source: BCRA Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11
 
 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market⁹

 The balance of international reserves at the end of
 September was US$ 48,590 million, 6.9% lower than
 December 2010 and 2.8% lower than at the end of August.
 The annual reduction includes the payment of foreign currency debt of the public sector through the Argentine Debt Reduction Funds and the International Financial Organizations Payment Fund (US$ 6,900 million). If instead of having used those resources, recourse had been had to the international market (although it would not have been prudent, due to the excessive cost that it
 Chart 6.1 would have implied, in the current context), reserves would

 Latin America. Selected Economies. Annual Variation of have increased by US$ 3,300 million. Meanwhile, the
 Nominal Exchange Rate
 40 monthly decline is explained in part by the intervention of the
 (currency/US$)
 32.5 BCRA in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange
 30 29.0 Argentina Brazil Chile
 26.9 Market (MULC), selling foreign currency. Additionally, the
 DEPRECIATION Mexico Peru Colombia
 20 strengthening of the US dollar with respect to other

 11.5 13.1 12.6
 9.6 9.9 11.1 currencies and the decrease in Minimum Cash
 10 4.9
 2.7 4.7 5.8 accounts of entities at the Central Bank also
 0.5 1.3
 0 defined the decrease in the stock of international

 -4.8 -2.8 -1.2
 -10 -6.5 -6.3 -5.4 -5.7 -7.8 -6.7 reserves.
 -9.9 -8.1 -9.1

 -20 -17.7 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated during the month
 -21.0
 -25.1
 -30 with respect to the US dollar at a similar pace to that of
 * With data as of 30/09/11 2007 2008 2009 2010 Accumulated the two previous months. However, it appreciated again
 Source: Bloomberg and BCRA 2011* in relation to the real although at a greater rate. With respect to the
 euro, September was the second month, so far this
 year, in which an appreciation was recorded, although more
 intense than what was observed on that occasion (May).
 This occurred in a context of depreciation of these

⁹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.
# Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 12 currencies relative to the US dollar. Thus, the
quotations for the monthly average were 4.20
$/US$ (0.9% compared to August), 5.79 $/euro (-3.2%) and
2.41 $/real (-7.7%). So far this year, the increase in the
US dollar quotation was 5.8%, with the peso being
Chart 6.2 one of the region's currencies that depreciated the least. It should be noted that the Argentine currency had
not previously appreciated either, unlike what
Foreign Exchange Futures Market occurred in other countries in the region (see Chart 6.1).
$/US$
4.70 (average monthly price)

4.65 In the forward market (ROFEX) the average amount

4.60 traded set a record and was $1,330 million. In

4.55 particular, the expected quotations for contracts

4.50 with maturity during the remainder of the year declined

4.45 slightly compared to August (see Chart 6.2).

4.40
 Jun-11
4.35
 Aug-11
4.30 7. Capital Markets
 Sep-11
4.25

4.20
4.15 Equities

 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12
Source: own elaboration based on ROFEX.
 During September the international markets relevant
 to the Argentine economy registered homogeneous
 behavior, mostly negative and with increasing volatility,
 affected by the debt crisis in the eurozone and fears of a
 recession in the US and Europe. The evolution of stock
 markets was strongly influenced by speculation regarding
 the announcement of new economic policy measures in
 response to the current situation. Despite the announcement
 of a set of measures, including US plans for US$ 447
 million aimed at tackling unemployment, signals of support
 for Greece from the most important governments in the
 eurozone, the Twist operation10 announced by the Fed and
 Chart 7.1 the progress in approving the Stabilization Fund in Europe,
 investor expectations did not improve and showed, during
 Global Stock Indices the month of September, a clear selling position.
 100 (Base Index 02/07/07 = 100) 130

 90 In this context, declines were recorded in the main
 120
 markets. The MSCI Global measured in dollars fell back
 80 MSCI- World 8.8% in September. The largest declines were observed in
 MSCI-Europe
 MSCI-Japan 90 the MSCI Europe and MSCI Latin America indices, which
 50 S&P 500
 MSCI Latam (right axis) registered declines of 12.4% and 17.5%, respectively (see
 40 80 Chart 7.1). Meanwhile, the S&P 500 (the main index
 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11of the North American market) registered a decline of 7.2%
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data and the MSCI Japan fell 2.5%. The month was characterized by
 highly volatile behavior. In this sense, the VIX Index,
 which measures the expected volatility of the S&P

10 The Twist operation consists of a mechanism whereby it seeks to reduce long-term interest rates without increasing the size of
the Fed's balance sheet. It is a change in the composition of the balance sheet, resulting from the sale of bonds with shorter
remaining maturity (up to 3 years) and the purchase of bonds with longer maturities (6 to 30 years) for US$ 400,000 million, to
be carried out before the end of June 2012.

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 12 Chart 7.2 500, exceeded the 40-point barrier again, registering at the
 end of September a level of 43 p.p (see Chart 7.2).
 S&P 500 Volatility
 % (VIX Index)
 90
 80 The main Latin American markets, measured in dollars,
 70 deepened their deterioration, recording losses greater
 60 than those verified in the stock exchanges of advanced
 50 economies. The Bovespa (Brazil) and the IGPA (Chile)
 40 fell back 21.7% and 18.6%, respectively. Meanwhile,
 30 the IPC (Mexico) closed the month with a decline of
20 16.8%. In these cases, the depreciation of their currencies
 10 S&P 500 Volatility
 0
 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 increased the decline. In Brazil the real depreciated 18.2%.

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data For its part, the Chilean peso and the Mexican peso de-

preciated 12.8% and 12.7%, respectively. On the other
 hand, the MERVAL (Argentina) and the IGBVL (Peru) re-
 corded declines of 17% and 12.9%, mainly as a conse-
 quence of the decline in stock market indices measured
 in local currency.

 The MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local cur-
Graph 7.3 rency, fell back 16.9% with respect to August after clos-
 ing the month at 2,464 points, this being the largest
 Volatility in Stock Markets since October 2008 when it fell 36.8%. Following this
 % (Historical 22 trading sessions) performance the MERVAL accumulated a decline of 30.1%
 70
 so far this year. For its part, the historical volatility
 60 Merval (Argentina) of the MERVAL -22 trading sessions- in annualized terms and
 IPC (Mexico)
 50 Bovespa (Brazil) measured in dollars closed the month at 32.4%, marking a
 40 IGPA (Chile) decline of 22.2 p.p with respect to August levels (see
 Chart 7.3).
 30

 20 For its part, the average daily volume traded in stocks

 10 during September at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange
 0 was $42.1 million, 25.7% less than the average registered
 in August and becoming the lowest registration of 2011.
 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Public Securities

 The sovereign risk indicators of emerging economies
 increased again, as a result of a cut in Treasury yields and
 Chart 7.4 the increase in yields required by investors for emerging

 Quotation of Argentina's Public Securities markets in a context of greater risk aversion. On one
 5.0 % (Monthly Variation) hand, the EMBI+, which measures the spreads of foreign
 currency debt of emerging countries as a whole, rose 100
 0.0 basis points (b.p.), ending the period at 422 b.p. Like-
 wise, the EMBI+ Latin America increased from 96 b.p.
 -5.0 to 480 b.p..

-10.0
 In line with the evolution of international financial
-15.0 markets, Argentine sovereign bonds increased their
 yields. The IAMC bond index, measured in pesos, regis-
-20.0 tered a decline of 8.69% with respect to August. This
 Short bonds Short bonds Long bonds Long bonds General Index performance is explained mainly by the performance of
 in US$ in $ in US$ in $
Source: BCRA based on IAMC data bonds in the middle and long portions of the curve (see
 Chart 7.4). The bonds issued in pesos registered a set-
 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.5 back of 18.29%, while bonds in dollars fell 5.27%. In
 this context, the EMBI+ Argentina registered an increase
 Sovereign Risk Indicators of 255 b.p. up to 993 b.p and the 5-year CDS increased
 5-year CDS spread EMBI spread by 312 b.p to 1,084 b.p. (see Chart 7.5). For its part,
 in b.p. in b.p.
2,500 550 950 decoupled from the general trend, the dollar bonds in
 Argentina EMBI Argentina the short portion of the curve registered an increase of
2,000 Brazil (right axis) 450 1,084 b.p. 3.55%.
 EMBI Latin America 750
1,500 350
 550 During September, the volume traded in public
 securities (on a daily average) in the local market was
1,000 250
 350 situated at $1,647 million, 5.3% below the level regis-

500 150 tered in August. Likewise, the volume traded was 25%
 150 lower than the amount corresponding to August 2010
 0 50
 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 ($2,196 million).
 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Private Securities
During September, fifteen placements were registered (the largest amount recorded within a single month in 2011) of negotiable obligations (ONs) in the private debt market, for a total subscribed amount just below $1,000 million. This amount, which became the third highest of the year, was distributed between nine placements in local currency, for a total of $550 million, and the remaining six for US$100 million. It is also noteworthy that five of these issuances (three of them in local currency) belong to SMEs, for a total subscribed amount of $40 million.

During this period, issuances corresponding to Financial Entities (four ONs in local currency) represented 38% of the total subscribed amount, of which 16% of the total are associated with the automotive sector (see Graphic 7.6, "Financial Entities and Non-Banking Financial Entities – Automotive"). Additionally, three placements belonging to the Agricultural Sector (all in foreign currency) captured 31% of the total amount, followed by those related to Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities (one in local currency and two in foreign currency) with 22% participation. The remaining issuances (four in local currency and one in foreign currency), which do not reach 10% of the total amount, are distributed among the sectors of Retail Trade, Food and Beverages, Real Estate Activities and Others.

All issuances in local currency will pay interest equivalent to the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin that varies between 7.8 p.p. and 10.1 p.p. for SME ONs and 3.8 p.p. and 5.3 p.p. for the remainder. For their part, placements in foreign currency will pay interest only at a fixed rate, in a range between 6% and 10% in the case of SME ONs and between 7.5% and 8.5% for the others.

## Mutual Investment Funds

After registering an advance in August, the assets of Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, fell 3.1% to reach a total of $25,300 million. Despite the performance in September, FCIs have accumulated growth of 23.5% thus far in the year (see Graphic 7.7).

In September, FCIs in pesos closed the month with total assets of $23,500 million, 2.7% lower than the level recorded the previous month. Money Market funds, with a decline in their assets of 2.8%, and variable income funds, with a decrease of 17%, concentrated almost all of the variation in FCIs in pesos. To a lesser extent, the performance of fixed income funds also contributed negatively, registering a decline of 1.3%. Meanwhile, the variable income segment grew 1.3%.
Within the determinants of this behavior, in the equity segment the evolution of the stock markets had a negative impact (see Shares), as well as the decline in the number of fund units. Meanwhile, in Money Market funds and fixed income funds, the decline in the number of fund units would explain the decrease in assets in the majority of funds. Particularly in the case of Money Market funds, performance was partially compensated by a strong increase recorded in one particular fund, which represents 14% of the market. Had this behavior not been registered, the decline in the assets of the segment would have been even greater (Graph 7.9 Financial Trust Emissions, millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)). In contrast to the general trend, the number of fund units in mixed income funds increased, driving assets upward.

Despite the evolution in September, FCIs in pesos have accumulated a growth of 26% so far this year, driven by fixed income funds that registered an increase of 58%, and to a lesser extent by mixed income funds (64.3%) and Money Market funds (8%). In this way, the fixed income segment represented 42.9% of the total assets of peso funds, followed by Money Market funds (41.6%), mixed income funds (10%) and equity funds, which represented 5.5% of the total in pesos (see Graph 7.8).

On the other hand, FCIs in foreign currency ended the month with assets of US$ 423 million, decreasing 7.9% compared to their level in August and have accumulated a decline of 7.2% so far this year. Although all segments registered a downward trend, the sharpest decline was recorded in equity funds (-17.3%) which continue to be the main contributors to the decline in the assets of funds in foreign currency during 2011. Meanwhile, assets in the Money Market segment were reduced by 10.2%, followed by those in mixed income (7.1%) and fixed income (5.2%). With the exception of mixed income funds in dollars, the variations were driven by decreases in their prices and in the number of fund units registered.

## Financial Trusts

Through 23 operations, Financial Trust emissions totaled around $1,415 million in September (10% more than in August), reaching a new record if placements intended to finance infrastructure works are excluded. In this way, the average monthly amount of the year is above $1,000 million, surpassing that of any other year (see Graph 7.9).

Loans linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card vouchers) constituted around 90% of the securitized assets in the month. The financial entities that securitized exclusively consumption-linked loans were the main settlors by placing around $620 million (44% of the total), the largest amount in recent years. For their part, retail businesses were settlors of 32% of the total, issuing an amount similar to that of the previous month (around $450 million). Meanwhile, mutual societies and cooperatives
billions and non-bank credit card issuers placed around $260 million (18% of the total), 25% less
 Nominal Value of FF in Circulation
32 than in August.
 Fiduciants linked to FF of infrastructure
28 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-bank Credit Card Issuers

24 Financial Entity
 Retail Trade In line with the increase that has been evident in
20 Others passive interest rates of the money market, the interest

16 rates cut of senior titles in pesos were

12 located at higher levels than in recent months.

 8 In particular and considering titles with a duration
 of less than 14 months, those awarded at variable rate
 4 registered a cut rate (weighted average by

 0 amount) of 15.7%, reflecting an increase of 1 p.p.
 2005-I 2005-IV 2006-III 2007-II 2008-I 2008-IV 2009-III 2010-II 2011-I 31/08/2011
 Source: own elaboration based on CNV and Bolsar. compared to the previous month. For its part, the corresponding
 one for titles with fixed income, which last month had
 increased to 15.4%, remained in September
 at that value (see Graph 7.10).

11 Only fiduciaries with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 16 The nominal value of the FF with public offering in
circulation was located at around $30,550 million
in June (see Graph 7.11), which represents an
increase of 30% compared to March. This increase is
explained by the issuance of more than $7,000 million in FF
of infrastructure between March and June. In this way,
the future cash flows associated with this type of FF
were the main underlying assets of the species in circulation (68% of the total), while personal loans and credit card
coupons represented together 21% of the total. In July and
August, the stock of FF in circulation registered slight
increases, reaching in the last month around
$31,850 million, and maintaining a similar composition to that of June both by type of fiduciary and underlying asset.

Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 17

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Sep-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsAug-11Dec-10Sep-10
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary Base 190,570 188,973 156,104 137,879 0.8% 0.1% 38.2% 25.9%
 Monetary Circulation 148,677 147,649 119,694 106,245 0.7% 0.0% 39.9% 27.5%
 Banknotes and Coins in public hands 130,633 130,205 107,145 94,958 0.3% -0.4% 37.6% 25.4%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 18,041 17,442 12,534 11,288 3.4% 2.7% 59.8% 45.6%
 Cancellation Checks 2 3 15 0 -7.8% -8.5% - -
 Current Account at the BCRA 41,894 41,324 36,410 31,633 1.4% 0.7% 32.4% 20.7%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 10,590 12,034 9,376 13,087 -12.0% -12.6% -19.1% -26.3%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Titles (in nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 29,815 32,311 50,912 59,142 -7.7% -8.4% -49.6% -54.1%

 NOBAC 51,547 51,277 23,737 11,520 0.5% -0.2% 347.5% 307.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 49,421 50,388 52,132 50,920 -1.9% -2.9%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 371,185 365,564 297,283 273,458 1.5% 0.8% 35.7% 23.7%
 Current Account (2) 100,072 98,689 88,303 76,622 1.4% 0.7% 30.6% 19.0%
 Savings Account 67,700 71,183 56,626 49,646 -4.9% -5.6% 36.4% 24.3%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 187,720 180,142 138,315 134,585 4.2% 3.5% 39.5% 27.1%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 10 10 14 14 0.6% -0.1% -28.6% -34.9%
 Other deposits (3) 15,683 15,540 14,026 12,590 0.9% 0.2% 24.6% 13.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 245,876 245,199 204,037 184,948 0.3% -0.4% 32.9% 21.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 125,309 120,365 93,246 88,509 4.1% 3.4% 41.6% 29.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,676 15,910 15,926 14,616 -1.5% 7.2%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 243.373 233.578 181.888 163.538 4.2% 3.5% 48.8% 35.6%

 Loans to the private sector 218.558 208.313 161.677 143.805 4.9% 4.2% 52.0% 38.5%
 Advances 28.684 28.061 22.036 20.418 2.2% 1.5% 40.5% 28.0%
 Documents 47.868 44.678 33.756 29.114 7.1% 6.4% 64.4% 49.8%
 Mortgage loans 24.051 23.254 19.944 18.802 3.4% 2.7% 27.9% 16.6%
 Secured loans 14.568 13.792 9.420 8.253 5.6% 4.9% 76.5% 60.8%
 Personal loans 52.849 50.450 39.360 35.515 4.8% 4.0% 48.8% 35.6%
 Credit cards 34.175 32.317 26.367 22.693 5.7% 5.0% 50.6% 37.2%
 Others 16.363 15.761 10.793 9.010 3.8% 3.1% 81.6% 65.5%

 Loans to the public sector 24.816 25.265 20.212 19.733 -1.8% -2.5% 25.8% 14.6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.639 9.451 7.412 6.563 2.0% 46.9%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 230.708 228.897 195.463 171.580 0.8% 0.1% 34.5% 22.5%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 298.407 300.080 252.088 221.226 -0.6% -1.2% 34.9% 22.9%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 501.821 495.772 404.443 368.415 1.2% 0.5% 36.2% 24.1%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 567.778 562.123 467.835 426.167 1.0% 0.3% 33.2% 21.4%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Bills and coins in the hands of the public+ cancellation checks in pesos+ private current 202.717 200.908 167.207 148.925 0.9% 0.2% 36.1% 24.0%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 266.574 266.255 220.558 195.013 0.1% -0.6% 36.7% 24.6%
 M3 ((Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 376.512 375.407 311.197 279.906 0.3% -0.4% 34.5% 22.6%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 436.844 433.288 357.178 324.299 0.8% 0.1% 34.7% 22.7%

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 18 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 1.597 0.8% 13.640 7.2% 34.467 18.1% 52.692 27.6%
 Financial sector 1.809 0.9% 298 0.2% 426 0.2% 4.397 2.3%
 Public sector 2.962 1.6% 10.682 5.6% 19.523 10.2% 25.567 13.4%
 Private external sector -5.888 -3.1% -7.657 -4.0% 16.903 8.9% 28.540 15.0%
 BCRA securities 2.992 1.6% 10.767 5.7% -670 -0.4% -3.192 -1.7%
 Others -277 -0.1% -450 -0.2% -1.714 -0.9% -2.620 -1.4%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -967 -2.0% -2.673 -5.4% -2.711 -5.5% -1.499 -3.0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.402 -2.8% -1.823 -3.7% 4.298 8.7% 7.234 14.6%
 Payment to international organizations -19 0.0% 197 0.4% 364 0.7% 588 1.2%
 Other public sector operations 1.195 2.4% -322 -0.7% 5.977 12.1% 3.848 7.8%
 Minimum cash -895 -1.8% -1.246 -2.5% -4.025 -8.1% -4.014 -8.1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 154 0.3% 521 1.1% -9.325 -18.9% -9.155 -18.5%

1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month in relation to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 15.7 15.7
 Integration 16.0 15.9 16.0
 Position (2) 0.4 0.3 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 56.5 55.5 56.2
 30 to 59 days 24.6 25.2 24.6
 60 to 89 days 7.1 8.2 8.2
 90 to 179 days 6.2 6.0 5.5
 more than 180 days 5.6 5.2 5.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.6 20.5 20.5
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 57.5 59.6 58.8
 Position (2) 37.0 39.1 38.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 57.6 55.7 57.1
 30 to 59 days 22.1 23.4 21.5
 60 to 89 days 9.2 9.8 10.4
 90 to 179 days 9.4 9.5 9.1
 180 to 365 days 1.7 1.4 1.9
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 19 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
 Rate 9.71 9.49 10.18 9.70 9.37
 Traded amount 1,160 868 1,101 781 914

Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 10.22 10.30 9.83 9.57 9.44
 60 days or more 11.22 11.31 10.69 10.67 10.33
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 10.70 10.59 10.17 10.25 9.56
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.08 12.35 11.62 11.08 10.52

 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.30
 60 days or more 0.59 0.64 0.57 0.60 0.66
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.41 0.41 0.43 0.36 0.41
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.53 0.58 0.53 0.57

 Active Interest Rates Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 12.62 12.07 12.72 11.97 10.88
 Traded amount (total maturities) 226 226 222 216 194

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 19.31 19.03 18.58 19.25 18.68
 Documents at sole signature 15.52 15.62 15.44 14.81 15.39
 Mortgage 15.02 14.76 14.89 14.68 15.23
 Chattel mortgage 19.44 18.98 18.12 17.49 17.11
 Personal 30.26 29.88 30.37 29.10 29.38
 Credit cards 31.38 33.22 32.94 31.26 32.33

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 12.98 12.60 12.31 11.10 10.65

 International Interest Rates Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.23 0.21 0.19 0.26 0.26
 6 months 0.52 0.46 0.41 0.46 0.48

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.20 0.23 0.40 0.61 0.48
 10 years 1.96 2.30 2.99 3.27 2.64

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.00 12.48 12.35 10.75 10.75

(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 20 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO trading session repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.22 9.07 9.63 9.20 9.06
 7 days 9.59 9.53 9.76 9.53 9.51

Traded amount of REPO session repurchase agreements (daily average) 7,414 8,177 6,066 5,973 7,491

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.93 n/o
 3 months n/o n/o n/o 11.10 12.12
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 13.35
 12 months n/o 12.39 12.50 13.05 13.85

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks 0.17 n/o n/o 1.81 2.10
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o 0.61 0.75 2.07 n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks 1.56 1.78 2.00 2.52 n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks 2.82 2.91 2.99 n/o n/o

Traded amount of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 589 538 463 341 468
Foreign Exchange Market Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 4.21 4.17 4.13 3.98 3.95
 BCRA Reference 4.20 4.17 4.13 3.98 3.95

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.26 4.21 4.16 4.00 3.98
 ROFEX 1 month 4.23 4.21 4.16 4.01 3.99
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 1330 938 774 1095 1007

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.41 2.61 2.64 2.35 2.30

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.79 5.97 5.90 5.26 5.17

 Capital Market Sep-11 Aug-11 Jul-11 Dec-10 Sep-10

MERVAL
 Index 2,687 2,980 3,364 3,429 2,494
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 46 59 62 94 51

Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 94.97 100.37 100.73 95.27 91.43
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 74.71 86.90 90.48 93.34 82.07
 BODEN 2014 ($) 79.60 89.98 89.91 93.49 88.30
 DISCOUNT ($) 55.46 67.00 67.07 85.48 66.70

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 626 436 345 529 727
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 425 374 328 292 331

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 219. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days 
maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock Index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Market.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial 
public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the 
non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign 
currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unique and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | September 2011 | BCRA | 22
