# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2011 | Monthly Monetary Report
November 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 11

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 12

 Stocks | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 13

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Investment Common Funds | Page 14

 Financial Trusts | Page 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on December 13, 2011. All figures are provisional and are
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• Total means of payment (M2) registered a monthly growth of 0.8% in November, while private means of payment (private M2) increased 1.7%. In this way, both total M2 and private M2 exhibit a trajectory that is compatible with the targets established for December in the 2011 Monetary Program. The expansion of M2 continued to be driven mainly by the increase in peso loans to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, by the expansion generated by public sector operations. Part of these expansionary effects was attenuated by the growth of fixed-term deposits from the private sector. These placements continued to accelerate their monthly expansion rate by showing a growth of 4.2% in the month, being the highest for the month of November since 2002 and one of the largest of recent years.

• The Central Bank continued to intervene in the foreign exchange market to limit exchange rate volatility and facilitate the necessary liquidity for the proper functioning of the monetary market, renewing only partially the LEBACs and NOBACs that were maturing, and carrying out repurchases in the secondary market. During November there were no new variations in the interest rates of LEBACs, remaining stable for the different terms. In turn, the margins paid on BADLAR of private banks in NOBAC placements continued to decrease throughout the month.

• Peso loans to the private sector showed an increase of 3.1% ($7,060 million) in November, presenting a year-on-year variation rate of 51.3%. In this framework, lines with essentially commercial purposes continued to increase, in year-on-year terms, above those aimed at financing household consumption, which allowed business financing to gain participation in the total loan balance, representing 42% of the total in the last month.

• The average level of short-term passive interest rates (up to 35 days) registered an increase, both in the wholesale and retail segments, while the amounts traded in the period remained at the high levels evidenced since the previous month. Nevertheless, when analyzing the daily evolution of the BADLAR of private banks, it can be seen that after reaching a peak in mid-month, it began to gradually decrease, ending at the end of November 1 p.p. below end of October. The active interest rates of the private sector also showed increases, although of different magnitudes, depending on the type of loan.
• In the foreign currency segment, the average monthly balance of total deposits showed a decrease of 10.9%, with reductions mainly in the placements of the private sector, although during the month of November reductions in public sector deposits were also observed. In November, private sector deposits accumulated a fall of US$2,700 million, which was verified both in fixed-term deposits and in savings accounts. However, the rate of decrease showed a marked downward trend throughout the month. In fact, more than 80% of the decline was recorded during the first half of November, with only 5% of the total decline concentrated during the last week of the month.

• In order to prevent the fall in foreign currency deposits from affecting the dynamism of credit destined for export activity, the BCRA ordered the exclusion of the default in the application of the calculation base for minimum daily integration, a measure effective as of November 1st. The daily balance of dollar current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA cannot be less than 50% of the Minimum Cash requirement of the previous month; whereas previously the total requirement was considered, which includes the default in the application of resources in foreign currency², as of November only the requirement for deposits is considered. This measure helped prevent the behavior of foreign currency deposits from affecting the dynamics of foreign currency loans, destined fundamentally to finance the export sector. On the contrary, in the last month, the average stock of foreign currency loans to the private sector registered an increase of 1.8% (US$ 175 million) compared to the October average.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.
2 The default in the application of resources in foreign currency is the part of foreign currency funding that entities did not apply to the financing of export activity, or other permitted purposes, and therefore must keep it deposited at the BCRA.

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

Total means of payment (M2³) showed in November a monthly growth of 0.8% (see Chart 2.1), reaching an average monthly balance of Chart 2.1 $303,570 million. For its part, private means of payment (Private M2) increased 1.7%, with increases in sight deposits, although mainly in currency in circulation held by the public. In this way, both total M2 and private M2 exhibit a trajectory that is compatible with the goals established for December in the 2011 Monetary Program.

Monetary Aggregates
(November 2011, on average)

Other Deposits
Public Sector
Private Sector
Fixed-term Deposits
M3
1.5%
Sight Deposits
M2
0.8%
Banknotes and Coins

-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6

Note: figures in percentage correspond to monthly variation.
thousands of millions of $
Source: BCRA

The expansion of M2 continued to be driven fundamentally by the increase in peso loans to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, by the expansion generated by public sector operations. Part of these expansionary effects were attenuated by the growth of fixed-term deposits of the private sector. In turn, the external sector generated a contractionary effect on average, but given that during the month the BCRA went from being a net seller to a net buyer of foreign currency in the market, the monetary effect between extremes ended up being expansionary.
Fixed-term deposits from the private sector continued accelerating their monthly expansion rate and showed growth of 4.2% in the month (see Chart 2.2). This increase is the highest for the month of November since 2002 and one of the largest of recent years. The increase was observed in both wholesale and retail placements, although deposits of more than $1 million explained most of the expansion. It should be noted that in the coming weeks term placements (especially wholesale) could reduce their expansion rate, as a consequence of the high seasonal liquidity demand from companies that, among other factors, is associated with the payment of the annual supplementary mid-year bonus.

Chart 2.2
% Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector %
(variations of monthly averages)

For its part, public sector deposits showed a decline of 1%, with a decrease in sight placements partially offset by the growth of their term placements.

The broadest monetary aggregate in local currency (M34) presented a monthly increase of 1.5%, while the private M3 increased 2.3%.

3 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.
4 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

The Central Bank continued providing the necessary liquidity to preserve equilibrium in the monetary market, and intervening in the foreign exchange market in order to moderate exchange rate volatility. The contractionary monetary effect of foreign exchange intervention was offset by the expansion generated through partial renewal of LEBAC and NOBAC maturities, and through repurchases of these same instruments in the secondary market, mechanisms through which the BCRA supplied the additional liquidity required.

Consequently, the monetary base registered growth of 2.2% ($4,160 million), reaching an average balance of approximately $196,050 million.

Chart 2.3
Foreign Currency Deposits of the Private Sector
millions of $ (monthly and weekly variation of balances)

In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average balance of total deposits showed a decrease of 10.9%, with reductions mainly in private sector placements although during the month of November reductions in public sector deposits were also observed. Private sector deposits accumulated a decline of US$2,700 million throughout November, which occurred in both fixed-term deposits and savings accounts. However, the rate of decrease showed a marked declining trend throughout the month (see Chart 2.3). In effect, more than 80% of the decline was recorded during the first half of November, with only 5% of the total decline concentrated during the last week of the month.

Although recent dynamics account for the fact that the episode of sharp decline in dollar deposits from the private sector would have already been overcome, it should be recalled that, as a result of the policies implemented in recent years (which restrict borrowers who are susceptible to receiving financing in foreign currency to those who have income in that currency), the Argentine financial system

Chart 3.1
% of Minimum Cash Position Argentina currently has a very low degree of dollarization
deposits
18.0 Accumulated Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration and is free from currency mismatch. In fact, foreign
 currency deposits, which represented on aver-
17.5 age (between 1995 and 2001) 56% of the total and which reached
17.0 in 2001 close to 66%, in recent years averaged barely 13%.

16.5
 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency
16.0 15.9
 in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and the
15.5 15.5 total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency (expressed in
 pesos), showed a slight monthly increase of 0.1%.
Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11
Source: BCRA
 3. Bank Liquidity1

 In November, financial entities continued to reduce their excess
 liquidity, in a context in which the dynamism of loan disbursement
 in pesos continued to exceed deposit growth. In particular, a

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 5 reduction was recorded in the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs
 equivalent to 1.4 p.p. of deposits in pesos.

 Chart 3.2 For its part, required reserve requirements averaged 15.9%
 of total deposits, which implied a slight reduction compared to
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos previous months, explained by the recovery of the participation
deposits
(monthly average) of fixed-term placements in total deposits5. Likewise, the mini-
45 mum cash position ended the month with a surplus of 0.4% of
40 deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1). Ultimately, the average liquidity
 34.9
% of ratio for November (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the
35 deposits Bank Reserves % of Net current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos
 30 Repos % of LEBACs and NOBACs with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and
deposits deposits
 18 4 25 NOBACs, in terms of total deposits in pesos) was 34.9%, 1.6 p.p.
25 16
 14 3 20 lower than October (see Chart 3.2).
20 12
 10 15
 8 2
15 6 10
 1 Foreign currency liquidity also decreased by 1.6 p.p. (calculated
 4 5
10 2 as the sum of cash in banks, the current account at the BCRA and
 net repos with the BCRA, all in foreign currency and in terms of
 0 0 0
 5 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 deposits in the same currency). This decrease was a consequence
 0 of the aforementioned fall in foreign currency deposits, which was
 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 mostly met with excess liquidity. Nevertheless, the liquidity ratio
Source: BCRA remained at elevated levels (58.2% of deposits in dollars for the
 November average). Likewise, entities that had a high surplus of
 the minimum cash position as a result of the application default
 (part of dollar deposits not applied to financing of export activ-
 ity or other permitted destinations, which entities must keep
 deposited at the BCRA), did not present any inconvenient situa-
Chart 3.3 tions to comply with the average monthly requirement6. As a con-
 sequence, the surplus was reduced by only 2 p.p. and averaged
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Foreign Currency 31.9% of deposits in dollars for the month (see Chart 3.3).
deposits in US$

85 Nevertheless, in order to prevent the fall in foreign currency
 Total Integration (Current Accounts at BCRA + Cash) deposits from affecting the dynamism of credit for export activ-
75 Integration in Current Accounts at BCRA ity, the BCRA established the exclusion of the application default
 Requirement in dollars from the calculation base of minimum daily integration, a measure
65 effective from November 1st7. The daily balance of

55

45

35

25
15 Current Account in Dollars of Financial Entities
 Nov-05 May-06 Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
Source: BCRA at the BCRA cannot be less than 50% of the Minimum Cash requirement of the previous month; whereas previously—

5 Demand deposits have a reserve coefficient of 19%, while for time deposits it varies between 14% and 0% according to the residual term.
6 The foreign currency requirement considered here does not include the additional requirement for default in the application of resources.
7 See Communication "A" 5246.

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.1 the total requirement was previously considered, which includes the default in the application of resources in foreign currency8; as of November, only the requirement for deposits is considered.

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % %
 6 (average monthly variation) 70 
 Monthly % Variation
 5 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 60
 
 4 3.9 50
 3.6 3.3 4. Loans1 9
 3.1
 3 40
 Loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited growth of
 2 30
 1.3 3.1% ($7,060 million) in November, presenting a year-
 over-year variation rate of 51.3%.
 0.4
 In this way, since September they have been growing
 0 10
 in year-over-year terms at more than 50% (see Chart
 
 -1 0 4.1). The lines with essentially commercial destination
 Nov-06 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA continued growing, also in year-over-year terms, above the lines oriented to finance household consumption. This trajectory allowed financing to companies to gain participation in the total balance of loans, representing in the last month 42% of the total (see Chart 4.2).

 Chart 4.2
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % (participation in average balance of December of each year)
 100
 
 24 21 18 18
 80 Advances in current account registered an increase of 2% ($590 million), somewhat less than observed in October and similar to that of September, and a year-over-year variation rate of 40.4%, 2.5 p.p. more than that of the previous month. For its part, financings instrumented with documents, which in year-over-year terms grew 59%, maintained their average monthly balance at a level similar to that of the previous month, by increasing 0.5%
 60
 39 40 41 40
 40
 20 37 39 41 42 ($260 million). When amounts granted through documents in November are analyzed, it is observed that they result higher than those of October and are, after those of August and September, one of the highest since July 2010 (see Chart 4.3).
 
 0
 2008 2009 2010 2011
 Commercial Loans Consumer Loans Loans with Real Guarantee
 
 Chart 4.3
 Note: the 2011 data corresponds to the average balance of November. Source: BCRA Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector Loans with real guarantee maintained the momentum of thousands of previous months. The mortgage segment continued accelerating (millions of $)
 its monthly growth rate, accumulating in the month an
 18 increase of 4.1% ($1,020 million), the highest since
 16 August 2007. For its part, chattel credit loans grew
 14 in the month 5.2% ($800 million), in line with the growth rates they have been registering since the end of 2010. Likewise, both mortgages and chattel credits continued increasing their annual growth rate, reaching in November 32.6% and 79.8%, respectively (see Chart 4.4).
 12
 10
 8
 6
 4
 2
 
 0
 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Ene-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA
8 The defect in the application of resources in foreign currency is the part of the foreign currency funding that entities did not apply to the financing of export activity, or other permitted destinations, for which reason they must keep it deposited in the BCRA.

9 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 7 Chart 4.4 With regard to loans intended to finance household consumption, credit card financings accelerated their monthly expansion rate, evidencing an increase of 4.1% ($1,460 million) with respect to October. Meanwhile, personal loans showed an increase of 4.3% ($2,360 million) in the month, moderating their growth rate compared to the three previous months.

In November the Central Bank conducted a new auction of funds under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), aimed at improving the supply of credit for investment and productive activity through the granting of loans at medium and long-term fixed rates. On this occasion, $498 million were awarded ($300 million to Banco de la Nación Argentina, $148.4 million to Citibank and $50 million to Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires). In this way, one year after the implementation of the PFPB, $3,415 million have been awarded, of which $1,839 million have been disbursed to date (see Chart 4.5). These resources were allocated to finance projects of various industrial, construction, timber, transportation, marketing, hotel, consulting and computer services companies, with projects located in the Provinces of Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Entre Ríos, Santa Fe, Neuquén, Mendoza, Tucumán, Corrientes, La Pampa, San Luis, Salta, San Juan and Jujuy, and in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires.

Regarding the foreign currency segment, it should be noted that the decrease in deposits from the private sector did not significantly affect the dynamics of loans intended to finance the export sector. On the contrary, the average balance of foreign currency loans to the private sector registered an increase of 1.8% (US$ 175 million) with respect to the October average, explained fundamentally by the statistical carryover from the previous month.

Chart 5.1 Total Amount Awarded by Term
Millions $ (LEBAC plus NOBAC)

Chart 4.4 Real Estate Secured Loans
%

Chart 4.5 Bicentennial Advances
millions of $ (monthly accumulated amounts)

5. Interest Rates 10

Titles Issued by the Central Bank11

During November there were no variations in the cut-off interest rates of LEBAC, remaining stable for the different terms. In turn, the margins paid over BADLAR of private banks in NOBAC placements continued to decrease throughout the month, along with a reduction in the average term placed, mainly driven by NOBAC
Source: BCRA 150 180 270 364 540 720

10 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.2 (given that no securities were awarded for periods longer than 6 months, see Graph 5.1).

Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC
%
(monthly average data)
80 Like the previous month, the Central Bank awarded
LyN / Monetary Base 72.1
70 smaller amounts to those maturing and carried out repurchases in

LyN / M3*Private the secondary market generating an expansive effect
60
on the monetary base. In this way, the balance of secu-
50
rities issued was reduced again (around 12%) reaching
40 37.3
an approximate level of $67,600 million at the end
30 31.4
of November. The decrease was concentrated mainly
20 17.1
in the holdings of banks, both public and private. With
10
this new reduction, the ratios of securities in circula-
0
Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11tion with respect to other monetary variables continued
Source: BCRA
to decline (see Graph 5.2).

In the secondary market for securities, a larger amount
traded was recorded compared to the previous month,
driven mainly by short-term NOBAC operations. The
interest rates of these instruments were reduced slight-
Graph 5.3
ly for shorter maturities, remaining in line with what
Interest Rates of NOBAC in the Secondary Market was recorded in October for longer maturities (see
(data from the last auction day in October and November) Graph 5.3). Meanwhile, the interest rates of LEBAC re-
%
23 mained at levels similar to those recorded in the previ-
ous month, slightly higher than those negotiated in the
19 primary market.

15 Central Bank Pass-Through Operations1

27-October The interest rates of Central Bank pass-through opera-
29-November tions remained at the same values observed since Oc-
11 tober 2009: the rates for passive passes at 1 and 7-day
maturities continued at 9% and 9.5%, respectively,
7 and at 11% and 11.5% for active passes at those same
Source: BCRA0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 maturities.

In turn, the average balance of passive passes, includ-
ing all the modalities in which the Central Bank oper-
Graph 5.4 ates, did not register significant changes in the month,
remaining at around $9,800 million. However, opera-
Interest Rates of Call and Pass-Through Operations tions at 1 business day continued to increase, which ex-
% (weighted average rate by amount) %
17 17 ceeded 80% of what was operated in the month.

16 BCRA Pass-Through Corridor at 7 days 16 Interbank Markets1
Call at 1 day
15 Pass-Through at 1 day total session REPO 15 In November, like in October, the interest rates of the

14 Passive Pass-Through BCRA at 1 day 14 interbank market registered transitory increases, which
Pass-Through between third parties reversed after a few days. Thus, at the end of the month
13 13
the rates converged once again at the lower limit of the
12 12 BCRA 7-day pass-through corridor (see Graph 5.4).
11 11
10 10 On average, the interest rate of the unsecured interbank
9 9 market (call), recorded a slight decline in the month
8 8 compared to October. The average interest rate for
7 7 1-day business day operations (representing 77% of
Sep-08 Ene-09 May-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Ago-11
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.5 the average daily balance) stood at 10.7%, 0.5 p.p. lower
than the level recorded in the previous month. Like-
Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day wise, in the guaranteed market (REPO session), the in-
%
21 18% terest rate
16
19 14
12
17 10
8
03-Oct 14-Oct 26-Oct 07-Nov 17-Nov 30-NovMonthly average
 15 average among financial entities (excluding the
 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation
 Central Bank) at 1 business day was 10.8%, 0.6 p.p. lower
 13
 than the level registered in October.
 11

 9 The decline in interest rates occurred in a context
 in which high variability between daily operations
 7
 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 continued (see Chart 5.5). In effect, the standard deviation
 Source: BCRA
 of interest rates for call operations agreed at 1 business
 day reached 1.4 p.p. in November, 0.1 p.p. higher
 than the average registered in October. While in
 repo operations between financial entities at 1
 day, the standard deviation of rates increased by 0.2 p.p.,
 reaching 0.7 p.p..

 Chart 5.6 The average daily amount traded in the repo market

 Interbank Market registered a decline of nearly $100 million, averaging $1,700
 (1 Business Day Operations)
in billions of $ % million daily, while in the call market it fell approximately
 4.5 12.0
 Amount traded Call $200 million compared to October, averaging $1,200 million
 4.0 11.5
 Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (see Chart 5.6). By bank group, foreign entities
 3.5 Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0
 Interest rate Call (right axis) 10.5 and non-bank financial entities were net borrowers of
 3.0
 10.0 funds in the call market, while domestic private entities
 2.5
 9.5 were net lenders. Unlike October, where public
 2.0
 9.0 banking was the main net lender of funds, in
 1.5 8.5 November it registered an almost neutral position.

 1.0 8.0

 0.5 7.5

 0.0 7.0
 Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11
Source: BCRA Passive Interest Rates 1

 In November, the average level of short-term passive
 rates (up to 35 days) registered an increase, both in
 the wholesale and retail segments, while the amounts
 traded in the period remained at the high levels
 
 Chart 5.7 evidenced from the previous month.

 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 28 Private Banks - Daily Data The average monthly interest rate for fixed-term

 Amounts Traded deposits of up to $100 thousand registered an increase
 millions $ (monthly average)
 BADLAR 1000 of 1.8 p.p., positioning itself around 13.5%, while the
 23 Up to $100 thousand 800
 BADLAR of private banks increased 2.3 p.p., averaging
 600
 400 19.9% in November (see Chart 5.4). However, when
 200 analyzing the daily evolution of the BADLAR of
 18 0
 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 private banks, it can be seen that after reaching a peak
 in mid-month, it began to decline gradually. Thus,
 13 when comparing the values registered at the end of
 October and November, it is verified that the BADLAR
 10.9
 8 decreased by 1 p.p..
 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 10 Chart 5.8 Regarding the BADLAR futures market,
 a higher amount traded was registered compared to
 Interest Rates on Current Account Advances the previous month, although concentrated entirely in
 (monthly average) instruments with terms of up to 3 months. In effect, 60%
 TNA, %
 34 of operations were carried out at 1 month with a
 32 Total Current Account Advances rate higher (almost 3 p.p.) compared to that of
 30 Current Account Advances Over $10 M and up to 7 days contracts of the same term negotiated the previous
 28 month. For its part, the rate of contracts with maturity
 26 25.6
 24 23.2 in December 2011 was positioned around 21.7%,
 22 without varying significantly from that registered in
 20 October for the same contracts.
 18
 16 Active Interest Rates 1

 14

 12
 10
8
 Source: BCRAMay-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11
 Active interest rates, in general, showed
 increases.

 Among commercial lines, the monthly average of the
 rates applied to the different lines implemented through
 documents was placed in November at 25%. In
 Chart 5.9 the case of discounted documents, the rate was placed

 Active Interest Rates around 26.1%, while for documents
 (monthly average)
 at sole signature it reached 20.5%. Also registered an in-
 TNA, %
 40 Pawn crease, the average monthly interest rate of advances
 38 Mortgage Families on current account, which was placed at 25.6% in No-
 36 Personal
 vember, driven mainly by the interest rate for advances
 34
 on current account to companies for more than
 32
 30 $10 million and up to 7 days, which was placed at 23.2%
 28
 26 (see Chart 5.8).
 24
 22
 20 Also registered increases, although more moderate,
 18
 16 in the average rates of loans intended for families. The
 14
 12 average monthly rate of mortgage loans to families was
 10 placed at 15.5%, that of pawn loans at 23% and that of
 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA personal loans 34% (see Chart 5.9).

 Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and

 International Reserves of the BCRA Foreign Exchange Market12
 thousands of (excluding SDR allocations 2009)
millions of US$

 55 Nov 2011 The balance of international reserves at the end of No-

 50 vember was US$ 46,062 million, US$ 1,461 million

 45 below the level observed at the end of October (see Chart
 millions Weekly Variation of International Reserves
 of US$ (November 2011) 6.1). The behavior was not homogeneous throughout
 200
 40
 96 the month, since in the second half of the period an
 0
 increase in reserves was registered, so that the stock
 35 -200 stabilized around US$ 46,000 million.
 -351
 -434
 -400 In particular, the decline for the month was related to the
 30
 fall in foreign currency deposits which, as was mentioned,
 -600
 had its correlate in a contraction of minimum cash
 -772
 25
 -800 accounts at the BCRA, since the intervention of the mone-
 1 to 7 8 to 14 15 to 21 22 to 30
 20 tary authority in the Single and Free Exchange Market
 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11
Source: BCRA (MULC) was, in net terms for the month, slightly buying
 (purchases in the second half more than offset sales in the
12 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
 first fortnight). For what has gone by in the year, interna-
 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 11 Chart 6.2 tional reserves decreased approximately US$ 6,100 million.

 Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate However, that behavior is due to the use of the Argentine
 6% Debt Relief Funds and for Payment to International Fi-
 Depreciation nancial Organizations. If those effects were not consid-
 4% ered, international reserves would have increased more
 than US$ 1,500 million since December 2010.
 2%

 0% In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 against the US Dollar, while its quotation remained
-2%
 relatively stable in relation to the Euro and the Real. The
-4% Appreciation quotations for the monthly average were 4.26 $/US$
 (0.9% with respect to September), 5.79 $/Euro (-0.2%)
-6%
 and 2.39 $/Real (0.1%) (see Chart 6.2). In turn, in the
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real forward market (ROFEX) the average amount traded was
-8%
 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 $1,210 million, 23% lower than in October (month in
Source: BCRA which a record had been registered),

 Chart 7.1

 Indices of Stock Markets in the World
# Translation to English

100 (Base index 02/07/07 = 100) 140 although 21% higher than the average of 2010. The expected quotations for the coming months did not change substantially with respect to what was observed in the October contracts.

90 130

80 120

70 110

60 100

MSCI- World Equities
MSCI-Europe
50 S&P 500 90

MSCI Latam (right axis)

40 80
Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

## 7. Capital Markets

Throughout November the dynamics in the equity markets were again influenced by the evolution of the debt crisis in the eurozone. Unlike October, throughout the month a mostly negative context was observed with an increase in global uncertainty and risk perceived by investors. In general lines, in the primary markets the main European countries placed debt at a higher cost. In contrast, the announcement of a coordinated response from the main Central Banks and mostly positive macroeconomic data in the United States managed to counteract part of this trend in the last week of the month.

**Graph 7.2**

Expected Volatility in the U.S. and Eurozone

% (VIX and VStoxx Index)

90

80

70 VIX Index (S&P 500)
60 VStoxx Index 50 (Eurozone)

50

40

30

20

10

0
Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 12

At the end of November, the main stock exchanges corrected part of the gains registered in October. The MSCI Global measured in dollars fell back 2.7%. The North American market was the one with the best relative performance despite the S&P 500 (the main index of the United States market) registering a decline of 0.5%. Meanwhile, the MSCI Europe index was reduced by 6% reversing almost half of the gains verified in the previous month (see Graph 7.1). The volatility indices continued to be at historically elevated levels, mainly in Europe where the expected volatility, measured through the Stoxx 5013, increased 6 p.p. to 37 p.p.. For its part, the VIX Index that measures the expected volatility of the S&P 500 was located at 28 p.p., 7 p.p. less than the level registered in the previous month (see Graph 7.2).

**Graph 7.3**

Evolution of the Local Equities Market

% Index

60 4,000

Historical volatility 22 sessions

50 MERVAL (right axis) 3,500

40

3,000

30

2,500

20

10 2,000

0 1,500
Nov-09 Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

In line with the performance registered in the stock markets of advanced economies, the MSCI Latin America index fell back 6.2%. In this context, the Bovespa (Brazil), the region's benchmark, was reduced by 7.5% and the IGPA (Chile) fell 7.7%, in both cases mainly as a consequence of the depreciation of their currencies. For its part, Mexico's IPC verified the best relative performance within the main Latin American markets registering a setback of 0.2%.

Broadening the general trend registered in the region, Argentine equity quotations ended the month with widespread losses. In this context, the MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local currency, registered a decline of 11.8% to 2,563 points, this being the second largest monthly decline observed this year. After this performance the MERVAL reversed more than half of the gain registered in October and accumulates a loss in what has been 2011 of 27.3% (see Graph 7.3).

Along with the decline registered in quotations, the average daily volume traded in stocks during November on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was reduced by 54.3% to $41 million, the lowest registration in what has been 2011.

**Graph 7.4**

Sovereign Risk Indicators

Spread in p.b Spread in p.b Public Titles

550 1,100

500 1,000 In November the yields on bonds were cut back...
# EMBI+

**450** EMBI+ Latin America **900** US Treasury bonds mainly in the long

**EMBI+ Argentina (right axis)** end of the curve. Thus, according to EMBI+, the differen-
**400** **800**
tials between emerging sovereign debt yields
**350** **700** and US Treasury bonds widened by 18 b.p.. Likewise, in Latin America, EMBI+ in-

**300** **600** creased by 11 b.p. to 419 b.p. (see Chart 7.4).

**250** **500**

**200** **400**
Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 In line with the evolution of emerging fixed
income markets, Argentine sovereign bonds fell
**Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg** across the board. In November, the bond index of the Argentine Capital Markets Institute
(IAMC), measured in pesos, declined 6.3% driven
by the fall in quotes of public securities in
dollars. The titles in the long end of the curve issued
13 Eurozone stock exchange reference index.

**Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.5** in dollars declined 10.4% and those in the short end
8.1%. For their part, bonds in pesos in the long end
**Argentina's Public Securities**
(Monthly Variation)
registered a decline of 7.2%. Meanwhile, short-term
%
**0** peso bonds showed the best relative performance
**-2** with a decrease of 1.4% (see Chart 7.5). In
**-4** this context, EMBI+ Argentina registered an increase
**-6** of 106 b.p. to 941 b.p..
**-8**
**-10** In November, the average daily volume traded of
**-12** public securities in the local market fell 26% to
**-14** $1,507 million.

**-16**

Short Bonds in Short Bonds in $ Long Bonds in Long Bonds in $ General Index
**US$** **US$**
**Source: BCRA based on IAMC data**

## Private Securities

Following the trend recorded in October, in a context
of increased financing costs, the total amount issued in
the private debt market fell 28% in November, reaching
$139 million (see Chart 7.6). This performance is explained
by the decline in the average amount issued, which went
from $64 million to
**Chart 7.6**
$35 million, since the number of issues increased
**Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds***
compared to the previous month.
**thousands of millions**
**of $** **Quantity**
**millions of $**
**4.5** **400** Average Amount per Placement
**16** In this period, the four issues were carried out
**350** Quantity of Placements (right axis)
**14**
**300** **12**
**4.0** Total Amount
**250** **10** in local currency and will pay a variable interest rate
**200** **8**
**3.5** Annual Average
**150** **6** equivalent to the private banks' BADLAR rate plus
**100** **4**
**3.0** **50** **2** a margin that stood between 3.5 p.p. and 3.9 p.p..
**0** **0**
Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11
**2.5**

**2.0** Issuances concentrated in the Financial Entities
**1.5** sector and other financial, stock market and
**1.0** insurance activities, representing 83% of the total
**0.5** amount subscribed ($115 million). The remaining
**0.0** 17% corresponds to the placement of two SME ONs
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11
linked to the pharmaceutical sector and to the agri-
(*) Includes issues by companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets.
cultural sector, for $10 million and $15
**Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg**
million, respectively. As of 2011, 11 SME securities
have been placed, for an accumulated amount
of more than $100 million.

## Investment Common Funds

**Chart 7.7**
**Equity of Investment Common Funds in Pesos**
The equity of Investment Common Funds
**thousands of millions of $**
(ICFs), in pesos and in foreign currency, increased
**Monthly Variation**
**30** by 2.3% in November to reach a total of $25,930
**400** Money Market
million pesos (November 2011).
**300**
**200**
**25** Fixed Income
**100** Mixed Income
**0** Driven by the increase in the quantity of quota
**-100**
Variable Income
**-200**
**20** **-300** shares, Money Market funds were the principal
# Variable Income Fixed Income Mixed Income Money Market Total

The main contributors to the increase in the equity of the FCIs in pesos were those of variable income, registering an increase of 1.9% ($190 million), followed by those of mixed income, with an advance of 6.1% ($175 million, see Chart 7.7). For their part, fixed income funds increased 1.6% ($145 million), but in this case the increase recorded was due to a rise in prices. In contrast, variable income funds verified a decline of 13.3% ($200 million), associated with the evolution of stock markets (see Section on Shares), as well as also the fall in the quantity of fund units.

On the other hand, FCIs in foreign currency ended the month with equity of US$486 million, registering an increase of 14.9% with respect to their October level. This performance was driven by the advance recorded in fixed income and mixed income funds in dollars which expanded 52.1% and 13.5% respectively, as a consequence of the increase in the quantity of fund units that more than offset the performance recorded in prices. For their part, the equity of variable income funds in dollars was reduced by 7.2%, followed by that of mixed income in euros which fell 1%. In both cases, the performance recorded was explained both by the decreases in their prices and in the quantity of fund units.

## Financial Trusts¹⁴

Through 20 operations, the emissions of FF totaled in November $1,760 million, almost three times the volume issued in October. Part of this increase was driven by two placements from the public sector, which together totaled $588 million (see Chart 7.8). One of them consisted of the seventh series of the Global Program "Trust Created by Decree 976/01", whose settlor is the National State and is intended for the financing of road infrastructure works. On this occasion $500 million were placed, thereby reaching the maximum emission amount under said program, which was set at $6,500 million. The other placement corresponded to a FF from the Provincial Housing Institute of the Province of Mendoza ($88 million) intended to finance the construction of social housing.

In any case, if the placements from the public sector are excluded, the amount issued in the month (around $1,170 million) is one of the highest of the year, reflecting an increase of 80% compared to October (see Chart 7.9). The main settlors were retail businesses, which securitized personal loans for around $600 million, the largest amount on record and more than double that in October. For their part, financial entities placed $360 million, 38% more than in October, while mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers were fiduciaries.

---

¹⁴ Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 15 fiduciaries of around $200 million, 72% more than
 the previous month.

 The interest rate cut of senior peso-denominated securities
 adjudicated at variable rate continued to increase in
 Graph 7.11 November, although less than the previous month. In effect,
 the cut rate (weighted average by amount) of the
 billions of pesos Nominal Value of FF in Circulation
 shorter duration securities with variable yield was
 $
32 (by type of fiduciary)
 located at 24.8%, registering an increase of 2.9 p.p. with
28 Public sector and other fiduciaries linked to infrastructure financing respect to October, in line with the increase that
 Mutual societies, Cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers
24 Financial Entity evidenced the BADLAR private banks (see Graph 7.10).
 Retail Commerce
20 Others Meanwhile, the cut rate of fixed rate securities remained
 relatively stable at 21.2%, having registered, as in
16 the previous month, a single operation under this
12 modality.

 8

 4 For its part, the nominal value of the FF with public

 0 offering in effect as of October 2011 was located at around

 2005-I 2006-I 2007-I 2008-I 2009-I 2010-I 2011-I Sep-11 $33,250 million, remaining stable with respect to

 Source: own elaboration based on CNV and Bolsar. the previous months (see Graph 7.11). When discriminating the
 stock of FF in circulation by type of fiduciary, it is
 verified from the second quarter of the year that around
 70% of the securities in circulation corresponded to
 FF linked to infrastructure works financing, while 20% of
 the total corresponded to FF that have consumer loans
 as underlying asset. The remainder was composed of FF
 backed by mortgage loans (4% of total), public securities
 (2% of total) and commercial credit (2% of total),
 among others.

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 168. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Nov-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsOct-11Dec-10Nov-10
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary Base 196,055 191,897 156,104 145,411 2.2% 1.4% 34.8% 22.7%
 Monetary Circulation 152,703 149,277 119,694 112,839 2.3% 1.5% 35.3% 23.1%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 135,351 131,516 107,145 99,517 2.9% 2.1% 36.0% 23.7%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 17,350 17,759 12,534 13,321 -2.3% -3.1% 30.2% 18.5%
 Cancellatory Checks 2 2 15 0 18.6% 17.7% - -
 Current account at the BCRA 43,352 42,620 36,410 32,572 1.7% 0.9% 33.1% 21.1%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 9,797 9,860 9,376 12,407 -0.6% -1.4% -21.0% -28.2%
 Assets 0 2,600

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 25,619 28,717 50,912 54,948 -10.8% -11.5% -53.4% -57.6%

 NOBAC 47,455 50,097 23,737 19,136 -5.3% -6.0% 148.0% 125.6%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 46,465 48,038 52,132 52,236 -3.3% -11.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 377,777 374,210 297,283 288,860 1.0% 0.2% 30.8% 19.0%
 Current account (2) 100,990 100,785 88,303 81,982 0.2% -0.6% 23.2% 12.1%
 Savings account 67,232 68,774 56,626 51,622 -2.2% -3.0% 30.2% 18.5%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 193,588 188,694 138,315 141,561 2.6% 1.8% 36.8% 24.4%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 10 10 14 14 0.0% -0.8% -29.6% -35.9%
 Other deposits (3) 15,957 15,947 14,026 13,680 0.1% -0.7% 16.6% 6.1%

 Deposits of the private sector 251,796 246,911 204,037 195,567 2.0% 1.2% 28.8% 17.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 125,980 127,299 93,246 93,293 -1.0% -1.8% 35.0% 22.9%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 14,144 15,872 15,926 15,865 -10.9% -10.8%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 261,625 252,855 181,888 174,628 3.5% 2.6% 49.8% 36.3%
Loans to the private sector 234.402 227.661 161.677 154.881 3.0% 2.1% 51.3% 37.7%
 Advances 30.137 29.549 22.036 21.460 2.0% 1.2% 40.4% 27.8%
 Documents 50.537 50.274 33.756 31.788 0.5% -0.3% 59.0% 44.6%
 Mortgages 25.990 24.969 19.944 19.607 4.1% 3.3% 32.6% 20.6%
 Pledges 16.188 15.388 9.420 9.001 5.2% 4.4% 79.8% 63.6%
 Personal loans 57.173 55.127 39.360 38.131 3.7% 2.9% 49.9% 36.4%
 Credit cards 36.905 35.443 26.367 24.572 4.1% 3.3% 50.2% 36.6%
 Others 17.472 16.911 10.793 10.323 3.3% 2.5% 69.3% 54.0%

 Loans to the public sector 27.224 25.194 20.212 19.747 8.1% 7.2% 37.9% 25.4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.893 9.726 7.412 7.069 1.7% 39.9%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 236.344 232.303 195.463 181.500 1.7% 0.9% 30.2% 18.5%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 303.575 301.076 252.088 233.122 0.8% 0.0% 30.2% 18.5%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 513.130 505.728 404.443 388.377 1.5% 0.7% 32.1% 20.2%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 573.397 572.758 467.835 451.329 0.1% -0.7% 27.0% 15.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current 207.500 203.265 167.207 156.909 2.1% 1.3% 32.2% 20.3%
 account. priv. in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 271.372 266.896 220.558 205.187 1.7% 0.9% 32.3% 20.3%
 M3 ((Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 387.150 378.429 311.197 295.085 2.3% 1.5% 31.2% 19.4%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 442.714 440.696 357.178 340.178 0.5% -0.3% 30.1% 18.4%

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 4.158 2.1% 7.082 3.6% 39.952 20.4% 50.644 25.8%
 Financial sector 339 0.2% 3.288 1.7% 1.906 1.0% 5.024 2.6%
 Public sector 2.601 1.3% 9.458 4.8% 26.020 13.3% 30.288 15.4%
 Private external sector -5.743 -2.9% -18.441 -9.4% 4.350 2.2% 8.295 4.2%
 BCRA securities 6.883 3.5% 13.316 6.8% 9.654 4.9% 9.408 4.8%
 Others 78 0.0% -540 -0.3% -1.977 -1.0% -2.371 -1.2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.573 -3.2% -3.923 -8.4% -5.668 -12.2% -5.771 -12.4%
 Intervention in the exchange market -1.356 -2.9% -4.374 -9.4% 1.326 2.9% 2.318 5.0%
 Payment to international organizations 46 0.1% 45 0.1% 428 0.9% 615 1.3%
 Other public sector operations 1.158 2.5% 3.090 6.6% 7.872 16.9% 7.770 16.7%
 Minimum cash -1.716 -3.7% -3.064 -6.6% -6.194 -13.3% -7.212 -15.5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 295 0.6% 380 0.8% -9.099 -19.6% -9.262 -19.9%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN recorded.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11
 (1)
Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.5 15.6 15.7
 Integration 15.9 16.0 16.0
 Position (2) 0.4 0.3 0.3
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 55.1 57.3 56.5
 30 to 59 days 22.9 20.4 24.6
 60 to 89 days 11.2 9.4 7.1
 90 to 179 days 5.3 7.3 6.2
 more than 180 days 5.5 5.6 5.6
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.1 20.3 20.4
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 52.1 54.2 56.6
 Position (2) 31.9 33.9 36.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 57.3 57.0 57.6
 30 to 59 days 23.0 22.0 22.1
 60 to 89 days 9.7 10.4 9.2
 90 to 179 days 8.4 9.0 9.4
 180 to 365 days 1.5 1.5 1.7
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 10.96 11.45 9.71 9.70 9.42
 Amount traded 1,268 1,452 1,167 781 908

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30 days 14.62 12.91 10.22 9.57 9.38
 60 days or more 16.33 14.32 11.22 10.67 10.39
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 15.84 13.95 10.70 10.25 9.71
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.87 17.59 13.08 11.08 10.79

 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.27
 60 days or more 0.72 0.60 0.59 0.60 0.62
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.39 0.40 0.41 0.36 0.36
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.56 0.52 0.55 0.53 0.51

 Active Interest Rates Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 17.89 14.96 12.62 11.97 11.27
 Amount traded (total terms) 251 232 226 216 191

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances in current account 25.60 21.85 19.33 19.25 19.31
 Documents at sole signature 20.53 18.20 15.61 14.81 14.69
 Mortgages 15.90 15.06 15.08 14.68 14.91
 Pledged property loans 23.04 20.47 19.50 17.49 17.32
 Personal loans 33.99 31.48 30.35 29.10 31.09
 Credit cards n/a 32.70 32.21 31.26 32.06

 Advances in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 23.21 18.18 12.98 11.10 11.57

 International Interest Rates Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.26 0.25
 6 months 0.68 0.60 0.52 0.46 0.45

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.25 0.27 0.20 0.61 0.45
 10 years 2.00 2.13 1.96 3.27 2.74

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.48 11.78 12.00 10.75 10.75

(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onward they correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total round REPO repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.60 9.88 9.18 9.20 9.04
 7 days 9.91 9.70 9.57 9.53 9.51

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 7,811 8,052 7,956 5,973 8,679

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 10.90
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.93 11.05
 3 months 13.97 13.97 n/o 11.10 11.05
 9 months 14.08 14.10 n/o n/o 12.05
 12 months 14.27 n/o n/o 13.05 12.68

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o 0.17 1.81 1.75
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o 2.07 2.02
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o 1.08 1.56 2.52 2.68
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o 1.50 2.89 n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 497 451 589 341 355
## Foreign Exchange Market Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 4.26 4.23 4.21 3.98 3.97
 BCRA Reference 4.26 4.22 4.20 3.98 3.97

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.40 4.32 4.26 4.00 3.99
 ROFEX 1 month 4.30 4.25 4.23 4.01 4.00
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1209 1581 1330 1095 1081

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.39 2.39 2.41 2.35 2.32

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.78 5.79 5.79 5.26 5.42

## Capital Market Nov-11 Oct-11 Sep-11 Dec-10 Nov-10

MERVAL
 Index 2,614 2,653 2,687 3,429 3,252
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 43 89 46 94 112

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 106.72 106.40 94.97 95.27 93.44
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 88.50 83.01 74.71 93.34 94.00
 BODEN 2014 ($) 84.97 84.72 79.60 93.49 93.06
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.46 52.59 55.46 85.48 83.23

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 624 673 626 529 628
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 415 414 425 292 297

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the bidding processes for each month.

 Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 209. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in public hands plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in public hands plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | November 2011 | BCRA | 21
