# Monthly Monetary Report
December of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
December 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Market | Page 11

 Stocks | Page 11

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Common Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was January 11, 2012. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• Throughout 2011 the Central Bank met the targets of the Monetary Program with money supply growth rates that practically coincided with those projected in the base scenario. At the close of December, the Central Bank presented its Monetary Program for the year 2012 which, in its base scenario, establishes an annual growth of 26.4% for Total M2 and 26.2% for private M2.

• Throughout 2011, the increase in credit to the private sector was the main driver of money supply growth, becoming the distinctive feature of the year. Thus, total loans to the private sector—in pesos and in foreign currency—represented in the last month of the year 13.9% of GDP, which implies an increase of 2.2 p.p. compared to December 2010. In this context, loans in pesos ended the year with a record year-on-year variation rate of 49.2%, 13.5 p.p. higher than that recorded in December 2010. Simultaneously, half of the increase in the loans/GDP ratio for the year was explained by the increase in commercial financing. With respect to performance in the last month of the year, financing in pesos grew 3% ($7,040 million) highlighting those granted through credit cards, which tend to increase following the characteristic spending patterns of year-end.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector also performed notably. They ended 2011 with an annual increase of 31.8% and reached the highest average monthly growth rate of recent years. In December, this type of deposit showed an average monthly growth of $1,700 million (a figure that rises to $5,000 million when comparing the balance at the end of December with that at the end of November) that was widespread, both in the retail deposit segment and in the wholesale segment.

• Foreign currency deposits from the private sector ended 2011 with a balance similar to what they presented at the end of November, since from mid-month onwards they reversed the declines they had been experiencing and increased about US$220 million. In this context, foreign currency liquidity (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the current account at the BCRA and net repos with the BCRA, as a percentage of deposits in said currency) increased 1.1 p.p., placing it at 59.4%.

• Liquidity in pesos of financial entities (which includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) remained relatively stable in December, and averaged 34.8% of total deposits in pesos. Thus, in 2011, in a context of vigorous increase in loans to the private sector, bank liquidity in pesos decreased 5.8 p.p.
• During December, the BADLAR of private banks continued the downward trajectory that it had begun to show in the middle of last month and ended the year at 17.2%, 1.8 p.p. lower than the level registered at the end of the previous month. For its part, the interest rate for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand remained around 14.1%.

• Similarly, short-term active interest rates continued to decline. In particular, interest rates on loans to commercial activities showed declines of more than 3 p.p. between the maximum values they had reached in mid-November and the level at the end of December.

• The balance of international reserves at the end of December was US$46,376 million, which implied an increase of US$314 million with respect to November. From mid-November the Central Bank once again became a net buyer of dollars, and in December it managed to increase international reserves by almost US$2,500 million, which made it possible to more than offset the decline associated with the payment of public debt in foreign currency, through the use of the Argentine Debt Reduction Fund and the Payment to International Financial Organizations Fund.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

Targets of the Monetary Program 2011 - M2 In December a new quarter was completed of compliance with the targets of the Monetary Program 2011 (PM) and, as occurred throughout the year, M2² was found close to the base scenario with an interannual variation of 29% (see Chart 2.1). In the same manner, private means of payment behaved (private M2), which accumulated growth of 30.7% in the last twelve months, barely 1.5 p.p. above the base scenario of PM 2011.

During the last month of the year, total M2 increased 7.1%, accelerating its monthly growth rate as a consequence of the seasonal increase in the demand for transactional money in the month of December. On the side of money supply, credit in pesos to the private sector continued to stand out as a factor explaining the increase in M2 and ended the year as the main driver of growth in means of payment (see Loans Section). On the other hand, from mid-November the Central Bank once again became a net buyer of foreign currency, so its operations in the foreign exchange market also contributed to the increase in monetary aggregates. Operations by the public sector also generated an expansionary effect, both in the month of December and in the year, but with an incidence in the total expansion of M2 much lower than that registered by the increase in loans (see Chart 2.2).

The total of deposits in local currency presented in December an increase of 1.4% (28.5% y.o.y.), with decreases in the public sector accounts that resulted in more than offset by the increase in those of the private sector. Deposits in pesos of the public sector presented a decline of 3.9%, explained by the behavior of time deposits, since demand deposits of this sector registered growth.

Chart 2.3
# INDEX

## Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector

**Average Dec. = 100 % Monthly Average Variation**

**Daily Balance**

In contrast, deposits in pesos from the private sector grew 4.1%, registering increases both in sight deposits (5.8%) and in those made at fixed term (1.6%).

The fixed-term deposits of the private sector ended 2011 with an annual increase of 31.8% and reached the highest average monthly growth rate of recent years (see Chart 2.3). The monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits in December was $1,700 million higher than the average for November, with a widespread increase, both in the retail deposit segment and in the wholesale segment. Comparing end-of-month figures, the balance at the end of December compared to the end of November shows an increase in fixed-term deposits of $5,000 million. This phenomenon was contributed to both by the increase in interest rates on deposits and, subsequently and to a lesser extent, by the repatriation of investments by insurance companies.

In the foreign currency segment, deposits from the private sector experienced a decline in December of an average 7.7%, which was essentially due to the negative statistical carryover left by November. These placements ended 2011 with a balance similar to that which they had at the end of November, since from mid-December onwards they reversed the decline and increased by approximately US$220 million.

In this way, the broadest aggregate (M3*) which includes currency in circulation, cancellation checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed a monthly increase of 1.8%.

At the end of 2011, the Central Bank presented its Monetary Program for 2012, which in its base scenario establishes an annual growth of 26.4% for Total M2 and 26.2% for private M2; in both cases, the growth rates are lower than those registered in 2011³.

---

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Chart 3.1**
**Bank Liquidity in Pesos**
**% of deposits (monthly average)**

The liquidity in pesos of financial entities (which includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs) remained relatively stable in December, after declining for seven consecutive months, and averaged 34.8% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1). In effect, in 2011, in a context of vigorous increase in loans to the private sector, bank liquidity in pesos decreased by 5.8 percentage points.

In particular, in December there was an increase in shorter-term assets in relation to deposits (bank reserves and net repos with the BCRA) of 1.1 p.p. and 0.5 p.p., respectively, and a decrease in longer-term ones (LEBACs and NOBACs) of 1.7 p.p.. This behavior is expected in a month in which there is greater demand from the public for assets

**Chart 3.2**
**% of deposits Cash Position Minimum**

**Accumulated Position Accumulated Requirement Accumulated Integration**

**Chart 3.3**
**% deposits Bank Liquidity in Foreign Currency**
**in US$ (prom 30 days)**

**31-Dec-11; 59.4%**

---

**Source: BCRA**

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

**Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 4**
40 more liquid.
 05-Jun-08 05-Dec-08 05-Jun-09 05-Dec-09 05-Jun-10 05-Dec-10 05-Jun-11 05-Dec-11
 Source: BCRA

3 The text can be accessed through which the PM 2012 was presented at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/polmon/pm010000.asp

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.1 Regarding the position of minimum cash in pesos, financial

 p.p. Total Loans to Private Sector Relative to GDP % entities accumulated in December (first

 3.0 16 month of the quarterly position) a surplus equivalent

 2.5 13.9 14 to 1 p.p. of deposits in said currency (see Chart

 2.0 11.7 0.3 3.2).
 12

 1.5 0.8
 10
 1.0 For the foreign currency segment, liquidity (calcu-
 8 lated as the sum of cash in banks, the current account
 0.5 1.1
 6 at the BCRA and net repurchase agreements with the
 0.0
 4 BCRA, as a percentage of foreign currency deposits)
 reversed the decline it had been registering and increased
 -0.5 Annual Var. of Loans with Real Guarantee / GDP
 Annual Var. of Consumer Loans / GDP 1.1 p.p. in December, as a result of the normalization that
 -1.0 Annual Var. of Commercial Loans / GDP 2
 Total Loans / GDP (right axis) occurred in the segment (see Monetary Aggregates Sec-

 -1.5 0 tion). In this way, liquidity averaged 59.4% of total dol-
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11
 Source: BCRA lar deposits (see Chart 3.3). Likewise, the surplus of the
 Minimum Cash regime increased again and averaged 31.4%
 of dollar deposits during the month4.
 Chart 4.2

 millions $ Loans in Pesos to Private Sector 4. Loans1 5
 (average monthly variation) %
 8,000 100
 Dec. vs. Nov.
 7,000 Annual Var. (right axis) 90 Total loans to the private sector, in pesos and in
 76.5 80 foreign currency (expressed in pesos), represented
 6,000 65.1
 70
 5,000 51.8 60 in the last month of the year 13.9% of GDP, which implies
 49.2
 4,000 39.4 50 an increase of 2.2 p.p. with respect to December 2010.
 47.7 51.1
 3,000 34.4 40 Half of the increase in loans in terms of GDP was
 30 explained by commercial financings (see Chart 4.1). In this
 2,000
 20 way, during 2011 one of the objectives set out in the PM
 1,000 10
 2011 regarding the gradual deepening of credit to the private
 0 0 sector was met.
 Source: BCRA
 In particular, loans in pesos ended the year with a
 record year-on-year rate of change of 49.2%, 13.5 p.p.
 13.5 p.p. higher than that recorded in December 2010. In Decem-
 ber, loans grew 3% ($7,040 million), highlighting credit
 Chart 4.3 card financings; these tend to increase following the
 Commercial Loans in Pesos to Private Sector spending patterns characteristic of year-end (see Chart
 thousands of thousands of
 millions $ Advances millions $ 4.2).
 Daily Balance 53 Daily Balance
 33 55 Documents
 32 51 Saldo promedio mensual Average Monthly Balance
 Saldo promedio mensual

 31 The main commercial lines also showed increases in
 49 December (see Chart 4.3). After a period of marked sta-
 30
 47 bility, financings arranged through documents registered
 29 an increase of 1.4% ($725 million), observing greater
 45
 dynamism in the last fortnight of the month. For its part,
 28
 43 advances in current account continued growing around
 27 2% monthly ($580 million).
 41
 30-Jun 30-Jul 30-Aug 30-Sep 30-Oct 30-Nov 30-Dec 30-Jun 30-Jul 30-Aug 30-Sep 30-Oct 30-Nov 30-Dec
 Source: BCRA

4 The requirement in foreign currency considered does not include the additional requirement for default application of resources.
5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
# MONETARY REPORT | DECEMBER 2011 | BCRA | 6

Consumer loans showed different behaviors depending on the line being analyzed, even though all showed increases. Indeed, while credit card financing accelerated its monthly expansion rate —as expected for this time of year—personal loans moderated their growth rate. Credit card financing registered an increase of 7.9% ($2,930 million), the largest in the last six years (see Graph 4.4) due, in part, to the boost from numerous promotions for its users. For their part, personal loans registered in the month an increase of 2.1% ($1,200 million), more than 1 p.p. below the average monthly growth of the last 12 months and about half of what they had grown during the two previous months.

## Graph 4.4 Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector
%
(monthly variation of monthly averages)
- January-September 7.9
- October 7.3
- November 7.0
- December

Loans with real collateral also moderated their monthly expansion rate. Mortgage loans grew 3.2%, 0.6 p.p. less than the previous 3 months, although they continued increasing their year-on-year variation rate, which in December reached 34.4%. For their part, loans with pledge collateral, which had been growing around 5% monthly, registered an increase of 2.7% in December (see Graph 4.5).

## Graph 4.5 Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (monthly and year-on-year variation)

The Central Bank continued auctioning funds within the framework of its Productive Sector Financing Program (PFPB) in order to improve the supply of credit for investment and productive activity through the granting of medium and long-term loans at fixed interest rates. In December, $700 million was awarded to Banco Nación, bringing the total awarded since the beginning of the PFPB to $4,115 million, of which $1,943 million has been disbursed.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, intended primarily to finance the export sector, decreased in the month 2.9% (US$ 280 million), although in the year they grew 31.3%.

## Graph 5.1 LEBAC Interest Rate - Primary Market
(weekly auction data)

# 5. Interest Rates

**Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁷**

During December the interest rates of LEBAC cutoff did not register variations and the margins paid by NOBAC continued decreasing. On the other hand, throughout 2011 the interest rates of the securities issued by the BCRA showed increases. For the shorter-term LEBAC the increase was up to 3 p.p. (see Graph 5.1). With regard to NOBAC, although the margins paid on the BADLAR of private banks were reduced by approximately 4.3 p.p. in the year, that rate

## Graph 5.2 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC
% (monthly average data)
- LyN / Monetary Base

---

⁶ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁷ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.
**LyN / M3*Private reference interest rate recorded an increase that exceeded 60**

The aforementioned decrease in margins is mentioned (see section Passive Interest Rates).

In a month in which the BCRA was a net buyer of dollars in the market, it sterilized part of the monetary effect of these operations through the net placement of securities. In this way, the outstanding balance in nominal value (V.N.) was located at $68,700 million at the end of 2011 (2% higher than in November). In relation to other variables of the monetary market, it reached levels well below the maximums observed in the series (see Graph 5.2).

**Graph 5.3**
**Lebac Interest Rate in the Secondary Market**

In the secondary market for securities, a lower amount was traded compared to the previous month, which continued being driven by short-term NOBAC operations. Both the interest rates of the LEBACs as well as those of the NOBACs were reduced compared to what was recorded in November (see Graph 5.3).

## Central Bank Repo Operations¹

The interest rates of Central Bank repo operations remained at the same values observed since October 2009: the rates for passive repos at 1 and 7 days maturity continued at 9% and 9.5%, respectively, and at 11% and 11.5% for active repos at those same maturities.

The average balance of passive repos increased in December by 23%, positioning itself around $12,100 million. Operations at 1 day maturity continued being the most representative (71% of total traded), although to a lesser extent than the previous month.

**Graph 5.4**
**Interbank Market**
**(Operations at 1 business day)**

## Interbank Markets¹

In December, the average of the interbank market interest rates fell by 1 p.p. compared to November with a relatively stable evolution throughout the month. Both in the unsecured market (call) as well as in the secured market (REPO round), the average interest rates of operations at 1 business day were located at 9.7%. Thus, in both cases, the values of December were similar to those recorded a year earlier (see Graph 5.4).

During the month, the performance recorded in the interbank market occurred in a context of declines in amounts. In call operations, the average of the daily amount traded was situated at $1,100 million, approximately $100 million below the level recorded the previous month. When breaking down the total amount traded at 1 business day by group of entities, it is observed that the most active groups in this market were foreign entities and non-banking financial entities (see Graph 5.5).

**Graph 5.5**
**Call Market at 1 Business Day**
**(participation in daily transactions)**

This performance in the call market occurred in a context where the levels of daily dispersion between operations continued being elevated. In effect, the average deviation of the interest rates of call operations agreed at 1 business day reached 1.5 p.p. in December (see Graph 5.6), as a result of specific operations and reduced amounts.

**Graph 5.6**

For its part, in line with the performance verified in the...

[Text appears to continue beyond the provided section]
# Interest Rate and Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations in the call market, in the REPO session the daily average

% of the negotiated amount recorded a fall of $130 mil-
21 lions after reaching $1,600 million.
19
17
19 15

13
11 Passive Interest Rates 1
17
9

7 Monthly average
15 03-Oct 18-Oct 01-Nov 15-Nov 30-Nov 16-Dec
Promedio ± 1 Std Deviation

13 Among passive interest rates, the BADLAR8 of private
banks continued the downward trajectory that had begun
11 to show in the middle of last month and ended 2011 at
17.2%, 1.8 p.p. below the level it had registered at the
9 end of November. For its part, the interest rate for fixed-
7 term deposits up to $100 thousand remained around
14.1%, accumulating an increase of 5 p.p. in the year
Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11
Source: BCRA (see Graph 5.7).

Graph 5.7 In the BADLAR futures market, interest rates showed a
downward evolution throughout the month, positioning
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days themselves at levels lower than the previous month.
28 Private Banks - Daily Data Indeed, the rate of contracts maturing in one month was
Operating Amounts positioned around 18.9%, 2.5 p.p. lower than the
millions $ (monthly average) BADLAR recorded for contracts with the same maturity
BADLAR 1000
negotiated in November.
800
23 Up to $100 thousand
600

400
Avg Dec-11
200 18.8
18 Active Interest Rates 1 9
0
Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11

Avg Dec-11 Short-term active interest rates continued showing the
14.1
13 Avg Dec-10 downward trajectory they had begun to follow in mid-
11.1
10.9 November. In particular, the interest rates of loans to
9.1 commercial activities showed declines of more than 3 p.p.
8
Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
Source: BCRA

8 Interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits greater than $1 million, 30 to 35 days.
9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and origination expenses
and other charges (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.8 between the maximum values that had been reached in mid-
Active Interest Rates of Short-term November and the levels at the end of December
Daily Data - Private Banks (see Graph 5.8). The average interest rate for advances
% TNA to companies of more than $10 million (up to 7 days
38 term) of private entities, in December, was positioned
around 22.9%, showing 1 p.p. of monthly reduction. In
33 Advances to Companies of more than $10M (1 to 7 days) turn, the rate corresponding to discounted documents
Discounted Documents to Companies (up to 90 days) up to 90 days of private entities averaged 25.7%, after falling
28 0.8 p.p. with respect to November.

23

18 6. International Reserves and
13 Foreign Exchange Market10
8
Source: BCRA Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11

The balance of international reserves at the end of
December was US$46,376 million, which implied an
Graph 6.1 increase of US$314 million with respect to November (see

International Reserves of the BCRA Graph 6.1). Since mid-November the Central Bank became
billions of a net buyer of dollars and in December, through these
US$
55 Dec-11 operations, it generated an increase in international
50 reserves of almost US$ 2,500 million that allowed to
45 more than offset the decline associated with the payment
thousands of of public debt in foreign currency produced through
40 millions u$s Factors of Variation of International Reserves the use of the Argentine Debt Repayment Fund and
(December 2011)
35 the Fund for Payment to International Financial
1.5
30 Organizations.
25
0.5
20 -0.5

 15 -1.5 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against

 10 -2.5 the US Dollar, while it appreciated in relation to the Euro

 5 International Divisas Sector Cash Other and the Real. For the first case, the average exchange rate
 Reserves Purchase Public Minimum
 0 for the month was 4.29 $/US$, which represented a monthly
 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 variation of 0.7% (see Chart 6.2), in line with the average
 Source: BCRA monthly variation of 2011 (0.6%). Thus, for the year the exchange
 rate increased 7.8%. For the other two aforementioned currencies,
 the exchange rates were 5.64 $/Euro (-2.6% monthly and -7.2%
 annually) and 2.33 $/Real (-2.5% and -0.7%), respectively.

 Chart 6.2

 $/US$ Nominal Reference Exchange Rate

 In the forward market (ROFEX), and as in the previous

 Daily Exchange Rate month, the average amount traded in dollar futures contracts
 4.5 decreased (25%), and was placed at $900 million, after having

 Monthly Average Exchange Rate increased throughout the entire year and reached its maximum
 +0.7% in October. In December, the expected exchange rates for
 4.0
 4.5% Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate the upcoming months showed a decline.

 4.0%
 3.5 3.5%

 3.0%

 2.5%
 2.0% 2009 Average: 0.9%

 1.5% 2010 Average: 0.4% 2011 Average: 0.6%

 1.0%
 3.0
 0.5%

 0.0%

 -0.5%
 2.5 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11

 Jan-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Apr-10 Sep-10 Feb-11 Jul-11 Dec-11

 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.
 Source: BCRA

10 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 10 7. Capital Market7

 Stocks

 As in recent months, in December equity markets were once
 again conditioned by the evolution of the debt crisis in the
 eurozone. The investors' attention focused again on the results
 of debt placements in the countries that comprise the Euro zone
 which, in turn, were affected for a good part of the month by

 Chart 7.1 World Stock Indices the risk of possible credit rating cuts and expectations regarding
100 (Base Index 02/07/07 = 100) 140 the economic policy response from major governments. Unlike
 what was observed in the eurozone, the United States economy
 90 130
 continued to present mostly positive macroeconomic data.

 80 120

 70 110 In a context of lower volatility, in December the global index
 measured in dollars declined 0.2%. Within the stock exchanges
 60 100 relevant to the Argentine economy, the MSCI Europe index
 MSCI- World decreased 3.9%. Meanwhile, the North American market contin-
 MSCI-Europe MSCI Global ued to be the best performer, after the S&P 500 (the main index
 50 S&P 500 90
 MSCI Latam (right axis) of the US market) registered an increase of 0.9% (see Chart 7.1).

 40 80
 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Within emerging markets, the MSCI Latin America index de-
 clined 1.9% and accumulated a loss of 21.9% in 2011. In this
 context, the Bovespa (Brazil) measured in dollars—the regional
 benchmark—extended the losses from the previous month and
 decreased 3.3%. For its part, Mexico's IPC fell 1.6% and Chile's
 IGPA decreased 0.5%. This performance was explained, mainly,
 by the depreciation of these countries' currencies against the
 Chart 7.2 Latin American Stock Indices dollar. Throughout 2011, the Bovespa (Brazil) lost 27.2%, fol-
 (In dollars; Base Index 02/07/07 = 100) lowed by the IGPA (Chile) which fell 21.1% and Mexico's IPC
180 which decreased 13.7% (see Chart 7.2).

 160

 140

 120
100
The MERVAL (Argentina), measured in dollars, registered
80 Merval (Argentina) IPC (Mexico)
Bovespa (Brasil) IGPA (Chile) a decline of 4.4%, showing worse performance with

60 respect to other indices in the region. Thus, in 2011 it

Dic-10 Ene-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Abr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Ago-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dic-11 accumulated a loss of 35.4%, a result that is explained by the
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
combination of a 30.1% decline in the index measured
in local currency and the depreciation of the peso.

The performance registered in the local equity market
occurred again in a context of low level of operations. During December, the average daily volume traded in shares on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange reached $39 million, and was 5.2% lower than the volume registered in the previous month.

Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 11 Public Securities

Chart 7.3 Like in the previous month, in December the returns
Evolution of the Local Stock Market Index
% (in pesos)
60 4,000 of United States Treasury bonds were reduced,
Historical volatility 22 sessions mainly in the long end of the curve. In
50 MERVAL (right axis) 3,500 this context, the spreads between the returns of
emerging sovereign bonds and treasuries (according to
40
3,000 EMBI+) remained relatively stable.

30

2,500 In line with the evolution of Latin American fixed
20 income markets, the returns of Argentine sovereign
10 2,000 bonds fell broadly. In December the bond index of
the Argentine Capital Markets Institute (IAMC),

0 1,500 measured in pesos, increased 7.3%, driven mainly by the
Dic-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dic-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dic-11 performance registered in the prices of long-term
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data bonds in dollars¹¹ and short-term bonds in pesos (see Chart 7.4).

Chart 7.4 The prices of the long end of the curve bonds
issued in dollars advanced 9.8%, thanks to the good
Quotation of Argentine Sovereign Bonds performance registered in the Boden 2015 and the Bo-
% % nar 2017. In particular the spreads of both bonds
10 30 with respect to treasuries were reduced on average by almost

9 Monthly Variation
Annual Variation (right axis) 20 150 basis points (see Chart 7.5). Likewise, the quotations
8
of short-term bonds in pesos expanded 7.5%, driven by
7 10 the recovery of the Bogar 2018 and the Bonar 2014
6 and 2015. Meanwhile, the quotations of short-term
5 0 bonds in dollars and long-term bonds in pesos increased
4 4.1% and 4.3% respectively.
-10
3
2
-20 Thus, the IAMC bond index measured in pesos ended
1 2011 with an increase of 5.1% compared to 2010. This
0 -30
Short-term bonds in Short-term bonds in $ Long-term bonds in Long-term bonds in $ General Index performance was explained as a consequence of the
US$ US$ increases registered in bonds in dollars and short-term
Source: BCRA based on IAMC data bonds in pesos, performance that was partially offset by
the decline in long-term bonds in pesos.

In December, the average daily volume traded of
public securities in the local market fell 4% to $1,450
Chart 7.5 million.

Return of Benchmark Sovereign Bonds in Dollars
% (long-term bonds)
B.p
16 1,600 Private Securities

14 Spread vs US Treasuries (right axis) 1,400 Following the poor performance registered in the two
BODEN 2015
BONAR 2017 previous months, corporate financing in the capital
12 1,200 market through negotiable obligations (ONs) recovered
in December, reaching $590 million (see Chart 7.6).
10 1,000 This performance occurred in a context of a slight
decline in interest rates of
6 600 market and was explained by the increase in both the average amount issued and the quantity of issuances.
 4 400
 Dec-09 Feb-10 Apr-10 Jun-10 Aug-10 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

11 According to IAMC methodology, bonds whose modified duration exceeds 3 years are considered long-term.

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 12 Of the total issuances, eight were carried out in
 Graph 7.6 local currency, with those placements standing out
 Corporate Bond Issuance
 billions corresponding to non-bank financial entities
 of $
 millions of $ Amount (mostly associated with the automotive sector), that
 4.5 400 Average amount per placement16

 Number of placements (right axis)
 350 14
 300 12 totaled $427 million. Likewise, the placement of two
 4.0
 250 10 SME ONs belonging to the agricultural and construction
 200 8 sectors stood out for a total of $12 million. Most of
 3.5 Total Amount
 150 6 the placements will pay a variable interest rate equivalent
 Average Annual 100 4 to the BADLAR rate of private banks plus a margin that
 3.0 50 2
 0 0 was situated between 3 p.p. and 4.7 p.p., depending on
 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 the risk rating and maturity of the security. For its part,
 2.5
 2.0 two placements were made in foreign currency
 1.5 corresponding to the same issuer for approximately
 1.0 US$35 million, paying a fixed interest rate that
 0.5 averaged 8.1%.
 0.0
 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11
 In a more adverse international context, affected by
 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg the increase in volatility in the markets and increased
 risk perceived by investors, in 2011 corporate financing
 Graph 7.7 through ONs reached $9,000 million, marking a decline
 Corporate Bond Issuance of nearly 17% compared to the total amount issued in
 % of GDP billions $ 2010. The amount placed represented 0.5% of GDP,
 3.0 12 SME ON 0.3 p.p. less than the level verified in 2010 (see Graph
 Large Companies ON 2.5 10 7.7). In particular, the decline in issuances in the oil
 Total amount as % of GDP and gas, infrastructure, transport and services, and
 2.0 8 food and beverages sectors stood out, performance that
 1.5 6 was mainly compensated by the performance recorded
 1.0 4 in the sector of financial entities, other financial,
 0.5 2 stock market and insurance activities (which represented
 0.0 0 64% of the total amount subscribed). In second place
 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 was the electrical energy sector, representing 18% of
 Source: IAMC, CNV and BCBA the total (see Graph 7.8).

 On the contrary, in 2011 the increase in financing for
 SME companies reached a value of $124 million,
 constituting a historical maximum.

Graph 7.8 Mutual Investment Funds
 Corporate Debt Issuances
 (broken down by economic sectors)

 Year 2010 Year 2011 In December, the assets of the Mutual Investment
 Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency,
 increased 11.6% ($3,000 million) to reach a total of
 $28,960 million.

 Driven mainly by the increase in the number of shares,
 fixed income and Money Market funds in pesos were the
 main contributors to the increase in FCI assets in pesos,
 registering increases of 13.3% ($1,260 million) and
 Real Estate Activities and Construction Food and Beverages 15.4% ($1,550 million), respectively (see Graph 7.9).
 Retail Trade Electrical Energy Behind it is the mixed income segment, which
 Financial Entities Non-Bank Financial Entities
 Infrastructure, Transport and Services Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities
 Oil and Gas Agricultural Sector
 Others
 Source: IAMC, CNV and BCBA
Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 13 verified an advance of 6.4% ($195 million), explained
 Chart 7.9 in greater measure by the rise in prices. In contrast,
 Net Worth of Investment Funds in Pesos
 millions of $ %

 3.500 20.0 the net worth of equity funds decreased
 Monthly variation in millions 4.1% ($50 million), again conditioned by the
 3.000 Monthly variation in percentage (right axis)
 15.0 behavior registered in prices.

 2.500
 Presenting a more moderate expansion, Investment
 10.0
 2.000 Funds in foreign currency ended the month with net worth
 of US$500 million, 3.1% higher than the level registered
 1.500 5.0 in the previous month. As in November, this behavior
 was driven by the advance in the mixed income and fixed
 1.000
 0.0 income segments in dollars, which exhibited increases
 of 13.6% and 1.7%, respectively. For their part, the net
 500 worth of equity and mixed income funds in euros showed
 -5.0 again a downward trend after registering declines of 3.5%
 0 and 1.7% respectively.
  Equity  Mixed Income  Fixed Income Money Market  Total
 -500 -10.0
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA

 Financial Trusts12

 Chart 7.10
 As usually occurs in December, due to greater typical
 Issuances of Financial Trusts end-of-year spending, which generates a greater volume of
 (excluding infrastructure Financial Trusts) quantity of
 millions of $ issuances
 1.800 50 assets prone to securitization, issuances of Financial
 October Trusts registered an increase (see Chart 7.10). Without
 1.600 41 November 45
 39 December 40 considering placements intended to finance infrastructure
 1.400 works, they totaled $1,530 million (30% more than in
 32 35 November), marking a new all-time record and also
 1.200 31
 28 30 registering the largest quantity of placements for the year
 1.000 26
 23 24 (24 operations).
 25
 800 20
 18 18 1920
 15 16 17 1815
 600 15
 12
 400 10
 The principal settlors were retail commerce (40% of
 200 5 the total), followed by financial entities (30% of the total);
 0 0 in both cases, they securitized loans linked to consumption
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (personal loans and credit card installments). For their
 part, mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card
 Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. issuers and other financial services providers placed 22%
 of the total, securitizing in addition to consumption loans,
 leasing contracts. The remainder corresponded to companies
 Chart 7.11 in the agricultural sector that, principally, securitized
 commercial credits, mostly denominated in dollars. On
 % Cut-off Rates of Financial Trusts (Class A titles in pesos with the other hand, a placement of $440 million (US$103
 a duration of less than 14 months - monthly averages million) was registered in the month which has as its
 weighted by amount) objective the construction and commissioning of the Loma
 40 Blanca Wind Farm in the Province of Chubut.
 35 Fixed rate
 Variable rate During the year, placements of Financial Trusts
 30 BADLAR rate private banks accumulated $23,415 million, 28% more than in 2010.
 Said amount was distributed in similar parts between
 25 infrastructure Financial Trusts and the rest, which reflected,
 20 respectively, an increase of 19% and 50% compared to
 last year.
 15

 10

 5
 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11

 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data

12 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
Monthly Averages and Average Percentage Changes
**Main Monetary and Financial System Variables**

| | Dec-11 | Nov-11 | Dec-10 | Dec-10 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
| **Monetary Base** | 210,100 | 196,055 | 156,104 | 156,104 | 7.2% | 6.2% | 34.6% | 22.8% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 165,181 | 152,703 | 119,694 | 119,694 | 8.2% | 7.2% | 38.0% | 25.9% |
| **Banknotes and Coins held by the public** | 144,314 | 135,346 | 107,145 | 107,145 | 6.6% | 5.7% | 34.7% | 22.9% |
| **Banknotes and Coins in financial entities** | 20,865 | 17,355 | 12,534 | 12,534 | 20.2% | 19.2% | 66.5% | 51.9% |
| **Cancellation Checks** | 2 | 2 | 15 | 0 | -4.5% | -5.3% | - | - |
| **Current Account at the BCRA** | 44,919 | 43,352 | 36,410 | 36,410 | 3.6% | 2.7% | 23.4% | 12.6% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 12,071 | 9,797 | 9,376 | 9,376 | 23.2% | 22.1% | 28.7% | 17.5% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | | |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 22,782 | 25,619 | 50,912 | 50,912 | -11.1% | -11.9% | -55.3% | -59.2% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **NOBAC** | 44,889 | 47,455 | 23,737 | 23,737 | -5.4% | -6.3% | 89.1% | 72.6% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009** | 45,983 | 46,465 | 52,132 | 52,132 | -1.0% | -11.8% | | |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 383,197 | 377,765 | 297,283 | 297,283 | 1.4% | 0.5% | 28.9% | 17.6% |
| **Current Account (2)** | 107,189 | 100,989 | 88,303 | 88,303 | 6.1% | 5.2% | 21.4% | 10.8% |
| **Savings Account** | 73,678 | 67,234 | 56,626 | 56,626 | 9.6% | 8.6% | 30.1% | 18.7% |
| **Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER** | 185,575 | 193,584 | 138,315 | 138,315 | -4.1% | -5.0% | 34.2% | 22.4% |
| **Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER** | 10 | 10 | 14 | 14 | 0.0% | -0.9% | -29.2% | -35.4% |
| **Other deposits (3)** | 16,745 | 15,948 | 14,026 | 14,026 | 5.0% | 4.1% | 19.4% | 9.0% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Private sector deposits** | 262,138 | 251,798 | 204,037 | 204,037 | 4.1% | 3.2% | 28.5% | 17.3% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Public sector deposits** | 121,059 | 125,967 | 93,246 | 93,246 | -3.9% | -4.8% | 29.8% | 18.5% |
| | | | | | | | | |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 13,157 | 14,145 | 15,926 | 15,926 | -7.0% | -17.4% | | |
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 268.464 261.627 181.888 181.888 2.6% 1.7% 47.6% 34.7%

 Loans to the private sector 241.192 234.404 161.677 161.677 2.9% 2.0% 49.2% 36.1%
 Advances 30.708 30.131 22.036 22.036 1.9% 1.0% 39.4% 27.2%
 Documents 51.260 50.536 33.756 33.756 1.4% 0.5% 51.9% 38.6%
 Mortgage loans 26.814 25.990 19.944 19.944 3.2% 2.2% 34.4% 22.7%
 Pledge loans 16.624 16.188 9.420 9.420 2.7% 1.8% 76.5% 61.0%
 Personal loans 58.116 57.169 39.360 39.360 1.7% 0.7% 47.7% 34.8%
 Credit cards 39.848 36.917 26.367 26.367 7.9% 7.0% 51.1% 37.9%
 Other 17.824 17.474 10.793 10.793 2.0% 1.1% 65.1% 50.7%

 Loans to the public sector 27.272 27.223 20.212 20.212 0.2% -0.7% 34.9% 23.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.606 9.893 7.412 7.412 -2.9% 29.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current acct.) 251.505 236.338 195.463 195.463 6.4% 5.5% 28.7% 17.4%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 325.183 303.572 252.088 252.088 7.1% 6.2% 29.0% 17.7%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 527.513 513.113 404.443 404.443 2.8% 1.9% 30.4% 19.0%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 583.945 573.383 467.835 467.835 1.8% 0.9% 24.8% 13.9%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current acct. 218.652 207.498 167.207 167.207 5.4% 4.4% 30.8% 19.3%
 in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 288.260 271.372 220.558 220.558 6.2% 5.3% 30.7% 19.3%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 406.454 387.146 311.197 311.197 5.0% 4.1% 30.6% 19.2%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 458.077 442.713 357.178 357.178 3.5% 2.5% 28.2% 17.0%

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 14.045 6.7% 19.530 9.3% 53.996 25.7% 53.996 25.7%
 Financial sector -2.004 -1.0% -525 -0.2% -99 0.0% -99 0.0%
 Public sector 4.551 2.2% 11.048 5.3% 30.571 14.6% 30.571 14.6%
 Private external sector 5.281 2.5% -7.272 -3.5% 9.631 4.6% 9.631 4.6%
 BCRA securities 6.323 3.0% 16.648 7.9% 15.977 7.6% 15.977 7.6%
 Other -107 -0.1% -370 -0.2% -2.084 -1.0% -2.084 -1.0%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -482 -1.0% -3.439 -7.5% -6.150 -13.4% -6.150 -13.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.234 2.7% -1.739 -3.8% 2.559 5.6% 2.559 5.6%
 Payment to international organizations 109 0.2% 173 0.4% 537 1.2% 537 1.2%
 Other public sector operations -1.141 -2.5% 753 1.6% 6.730 14.6% 6.730 14.6%
 Minimum cash -508 -1.1% -2.676 -5.8% -6.701 -14.6% -6.701 -14.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -176 -0.4% 51 0.1% -9.275 -20.2% -9.275 -20.2%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month in which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.
 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 16.0 15.6 15.6
 Integration 17.0 15.9 16.0
 Position (2) 1.0 0.3 0.3
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 60.0 55.1 57.3
 30 to 59 days 23.4 22.9 20.4
 60 to 89 days 5.8 11.2 9.4
 90 to 179 days 5.7 5.3 7.3
 more than 180 days 5.1 5.5 5.6
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.8 20.8 20.3
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 52.2 51.8 54.2
 Position (2) 31.4 31.0 33.9
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 59.5 57.3 57.0
 30 to 59 days 21.8 23.0 22.0
 60 to 89 days 8.4 9.7 10.4
 90 to 179 days 8.6 8.4 9.0
 180 to 365 days 1.5 1.5 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 10.07 10.96 11.45 9.70 9.70
 Amount traded 1,012 1,214 1,452 781 781

Fixed-term
 In pesos
 30 days 14.74 14.62 12.91 9.57 9.57
 60 days or more 16.50 16.33 14.32 10.67 10.67
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.76 15.84 13.95 10.25 10.25
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.75 19.87 17.59 11.08 11.08

 In dollars
 30 days 0.33 0.30 0.28 0.27 0.27
 60 days or more 0.69 0.72 0.60 0.60 0.60
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.43 0.39 0.40 0.36 0.36
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.63 0.56 0.52 0.53 0.53

 Active Interest Rates Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

Caucions in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 16.87 17.89 14.96 11.97 11.97
 Amount traded (total maturities) 239 251 232 216 216

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 26.84 25.67 21.85 19.25 19.25
 Documents on signature only 22.18 20.54 18.20 14.81 14.81
 Mortgages 16.55 15.78 15.06 14.68 14.68
 Pledges 24.82 23.06 20.47 17.49 17.49
 Personal loans 36.37 34.03 31.48 29.10 29.10
 Credit cards n/a 33.31 32.70 31.26 31.26

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 22.56 23.21 18.18 11.10 11.10

 International Interest Rates Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.28 0.25 0.24 0.26 0.26
 6 months 0.78 0.68 0.60 0.46 0.46

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.25 0.25 0.27 0.61 0.61
 10 years 1.96 2.00 2.13 3.27 3.27

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.00 11.48 11.78 10.75 10.75

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onward correspond to the
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.13 9.60 9.88 9.20 9.20
 7 days 9.56 9.91 9.70 9.53 9.53

Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 8,454 7,811 8,052 5,973 5,973

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 10.86
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.93 10.93
 3 months n/o 13.97 13.97 11.10 11.10
 9 months n/o 14.08 14.10 n/o n/o
 12 months 14.26 14.27 n/o 13.05 13.05

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o 1.81 1.81
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o 2.07 2.07
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o 1.08 2.52 2.52
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o 1.50 n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 378 497 451 341 341
Foreign Exchange Market Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.29 4.26 4.23 3.98 3.98
 BCRA Reference 4.29 4.26 4.22 3.98 3.98

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.36 4.40 4.32 4.00 4.00
 ROFEX 1 month 4.31 4.30 4.25 4.01 4.01
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 902 1209 1581 1095 1095

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.33 2.39 2.39 2.35 2.35

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.64 5.78 5.79 5.26 5.26

Capital Markets Dec-11 Nov-11 Oct-11 Dec-10 Dec-10

MERVAL
 Index 2,488 2,614 2,653 3,429 3,429
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 39 43 89 94 94

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 107.22 106.72 106.40 95.27 95.27
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 81.40 88.50 83.01 93.34 93.34
 BODEN 2014 ($) 86.93 84.97 84.72 93.49 93.49
 DISCOUNT ($) 51.96 50.46 52.59 85.48 85.48

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 469 624 673 529 529
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 409 415 414 292 292

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash Reserve.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
IFM: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligations.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
MP: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | December 2011 | BCRA | 20
