# Monthly Monetary Report
October of 2011 Monthly Monetary Report
October 2011

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 6

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Markets | Page 10

 Stocks | Page 10

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on November 9, 2011. All figures are provisional and are
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• Total means of payment (M2) registered in October a monthly growth of 0.9% (31.2% year-over-year). The
monthly increase was driven mainly by the high dynamism of loans in pesos to the private sector and, to a lesser
extent, by the monetary effect of public sector operations, which were partially offset by the contraction generated
by the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales.

• Among deposits, time deposits from the private sector stand out, which showed growth of 1.6%, accelerating
their monthly expansion rate compared to September. In particular, fixed-term deposits grew in the last two weeks
by more than $3,000 million (3%).

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 4.3% ($9,320 million) in October, with increases across all lines,
and with a year-over-year increase that remains around 52%. The year-over-year growth rate of commercial loans
(57.2%) has been above that recorded for those destined for consumption (49.0%) since the last quarter of 2010.

• Financial entities reduced their excess liquidity, due to decreases in their net repurchase balances with the
Central Bank and in their holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs (by the equivalent of 0.2 p.p. and 0.7 p.p. of
deposits in pesos, respectively). Meanwhile, the assets of the banks that are computed as integration of reserve
requirements (holdings of cash and current account balances at the BCRA) remained stable, exceeding the requirement
by 0.4 p.p. of deposits in pesos.

• The Central Bank continued intervening in the foreign exchange market to limit exchange rate volatility and
facilitate the necessary liquidity, only partially renewing the LEBACs and NOBACs that were maturing, or conducting
repurchases in the secondary market. In the same manner, and with the purpose of promoting savings in pesos, the
BCRA validated increases in the cutoff interest rates of the LEBACs that it auctions weekly, through an increase in
cutoff interest rates of around 0.6 p.p. for all terms.
• In line with the behavior of interest rates on Central Bank securities, the main interest rates in the money market continued their upward trend. Among passive interest rates, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 17.6% in October, showing an increase of 4.5 p.p. compared to September, while the interest rate of private banks in the segment of up to $100 thousand and short-term was positioned on average at 11.7%, 1.5 p.p. above that observed in the previous month. Regarding active interest rates, larger increases were recorded in commercial lines with shorter terms, the one corresponding to discounted documents registered a monthly increase of 5.7 p.p., reaching 21%, and that of advances in current account for amounts greater than $10 million and up to 7 days term increased 5.2 p.p. to reach 18.2%. In contrast, the interest rate on personal loans and that of financing with chattel mortgage guarantee rose 1.1 p.p. and 1 p.p. to reach levels of 31.4% and 20.5%, respectively.

• The interest rates in the interbank market showed greater volatility. As in July and September, transitory increases were recorded again in mid-month, which while more pronounced, reversed after a few days, converging to the levels established by the Central Bank in its repo operations.

• The MERVAL index registered an increase of 17.9% to 2,906 points, managing to reverse much of the decline recorded in August and September. Important improvements were also verified in the quotation of public securities. Bonds in the medium and long end of the curve were the best performers, with increases of 15.1% for securities denominated in dollars and 11.6% for bonds in pesos, while bonds in the short end of the curve, both in pesos and dollars, registered an increase around 9.6%.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data. All figures in this report are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Total means of payment2 (M2) registered in October
Chart 2.1 a monthly growth of 0.9% (31.2% a.a) and reached

thousands of Explanation Factors for M2 Variation a monthly average balance of $301,050 million.

millions of $ (October 2011, on average)

10 Among the factors explaining its increase, the high

8 dynamism of loans in pesos to the private sector stands

6 out, particularly commercial financing. Public sector
4
 operations influenced in the same direction (see Chart 2.1).
2
 The aforementioned expansionary effects were partially
0
 offset by the contraction generated by the Central Bank's
-2
 foreign exchange sales, in order to prevent the process
-4
 of portfolio dollarization from generating volatility in the
-6 foreign exchange market.

-8
 Foreign Exchange Loans to Private Dep. a Plazo and M2
 Sales Sector Other Others
 *Includes public sector operations with effect on monetary base, fixed-term loans and deposits and other deposits.

 Source: BCRA

The Central Bank continued facilitating the necessary liquidity so that the dynamism of credit growth would not be affected, through partial renewal of LEBAC and NOBAC maturities, and repurchases made in the secondary market which, together, constituted one of the factors that generated the greatest expansion of the monetary base in October. In the same sense, during October a reduction in the balance of passive repos was observed. Altogether, the monetary base registered a growth of 0.7% ($1,330 million), reaching an average balance of approximately $191,900 million.
The broadest monetary aggregate in local currency³ (M3) presented a monthly increase of 0.8% (see Graph 2.2), while private M3 increased 0.5%.

**Monetary Aggregates**
(October 2011, average)

The total deposits in pesos recorded in October a growth of 0.9%, with increases in public sector deposits (1.6%) and, to a lesser extent, in the private sector (0.5%). Regarding placements of the public sector, they registered declines in fixed-term deposits that were more than offset by the growth of sight deposits. Regarding private sector deposits, they were driven by fixed-term deposits, given that sight deposits reduced their balance slightly (0.4%).

Private sector fixed-term deposits presented a growth of 1.6%, accelerating their monthly expansion rate compared to September, showing an increase in fixed-term deposits in the last fortnight of October of more than $3,000 million (3%). Although increases were evident both in wholesale and retail placements, the increase was concentrated in deposits of more than one million pesos.

In the foreign currency segment, total deposits showed a growth of 1.3%, with reductions in public sector placements that were more than offset by the increase recorded in private sector deposits. The latter registered an increase of 2.8%, observing increases both in savings account deposits and in fixed-term deposits. Thus, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes circulation in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and the total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), increased 0.9%.

**3. Bank Liquidity¹**

The Central Bank continued facilitating the necessary liquidity to avoid affecting credit dynamism. In October, a reduction in financial entities' liquidity surpluses was observed, which registered decreases in net repo balances with the Central Bank and in holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs (equivalent to 0.2 p.p. and 0.7 p.p. of peso deposits, respectively). Meanwhile, the assets that are computed as reserve requirement integration (cash in banks and current account balances at the BCRA) remained stable, exceeding the minimum cash requirement by 0.4 p.p.. In short, the average liquidity ratio of October (calculated as the sum of cash...

---

**NOTES:**
2 Includes circulation in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and savings account deposits and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

3 Includes circulation in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.
millions $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector (average monthly variation) %
10,000 100 Oct. vs. Sep. 90
 Year-over-year var. (right axis)
 8,000 76.8 80
 64.6 77.7
 70
 6,000 51.6 60

 38.0 49.6 48.0 50
 4,000 40
 30.2
 30
 2,000 20
 10
 0 0
 4. Loans¹ 4

Source: BCRA The loans in pesos to the private sector grew 4.3%
 ($9,320 million) in October, showing increases in
 all lines (see Graph 4.1). Although they moderated their
 monthly expansion rate following the significant increase

---

4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. However, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 5 of the previous month, the year-over-year variation rate
 remained around 52%. Loans associated with commercial
 activity continued to be the main driver of growth. In fact, the year-over-year growth rate of commercial loans
 (57.2%) has been positioned since the last quarter of
 2010 above that recorded for those intended for
 consumption (49.0%; see Graph 4.2).

Graph 4.2
 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (year-over-year var. of monthly averages)
 80

 Commercial loans
 Consumer loans
 60 57.2
 Loans with real guarantees
 49.0
 45.0
 40

 20

 0

 -20
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10
Source: BCRA

 Regarding the main commercial lines, financings
 implemented through documents registered a monthly
 increase of 5% ($2,400 million), similar to that observed
 in October of last year, although with significant
 'statistical carryover' from the previous month. In this
 way, the monthly growth rate of these financings was,
 once again, one of the highest in the last six years for
 this month. For its part, current account advances
 accelerated their monthly growth rate, showing an
 increase of 3.1% ($880 million).

 The good performance of loans with real guarantees
 continued to be reflected both in the progress of
 mortgages and pledged loans. Mortgage loans increased
 in the month by 3.8% ($920 million; see Graph 4.3). In
 this way, they continued to show progressive dynamism,
 reaching growth rates similar to those of September-
 October 2007. For its part, pledged loans continued to
 grow at elevated rates, registering in October an increase
 of 5.6% ($820 million), similar to that recorded in the
 previous month.

Graph 4.3

 % Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % (average monthly and year-over-year var.)
 5 50 Monthly variation Oct-11
 Year-over-year var. (right axis)
 4 3.8 40
 Annual average monthly var.
 3 3.0 30
 2.1 2.3
 2 20
 1.2
 1 10
 0.2
 0 0

 For their part, loans intended to finance household
 consumption moderated their expansion rate in October,
 following the significant increase recorded in September.
 Personal loans grew 4.8% ($2,520 million), while
 financing with credit cards increased 3.7% ($1,260
 million).

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
 intended fundamentally to finance the export sector,
 showed an increase in the month of 1% (US$ 90 million),
 decelerating its expansion rate compared to previous
 months.
-1 -10
Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11
Source: BCRA 5. Interest Rates 5

In a context in which financial entities continued reducing their liquidity surpluses, as a consequence of loan growth greater

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 6 than that of deposits, interest rates, fundamentally short-term ones, continued showing greater volatility and upward pressures.

Securities Issued by the Central Bank6
Chart 5.1 In order to promote savings in pesos, the Central

LEBAC Interest Rate - Primary Market Bank continued endorsing the increase in market interest
(weekly auction data) rates, increasing the cut-off rates of
TNA,% LEBAC Rates of the last two months LEBAC. As a consequence, comparing the last
16 3 Months 4 Months auctions of September and October, an increase of
% 27-Sep-11
1815 25-Oct-11 5 Months 6 Months around 0.6 p.p. was evident for all maturities. As has
1714 9 Months 10 Months been occurring in recent months, the yield curve presents
1613 1 year greater flattening, and an extension of maturities was
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 also observed (see Chart 5.1). On the other hand, the

15 margins over BADLAR of private banks for NOBAC
14 placements decreased in the month for all maturities,
13 and the amounts placed were also strongly reduced.

12

11 The balance of securities issued in circulation decreased 5%,
10 reaching an approximate level of $77,100 million, in a
9 context in which the Central Bank awarded lower amounts
Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 than those that matured and conducted repurchases in
Source: BCRA the secondary market, facilitating the necessary liquidity
for the development of financial intermediation.

In the secondary market of LEBAC and NOBAC, a lower
traded amount than the previous month was observed,
driven again by shorter-term instruments. Regarding the
interest rates of LEBAC, they increased in all traded
maturities (see Chart 5.2 Chart 5.2), in line with what
occurred in the primary market.

Lebac Interest Rate in the Secondary Market
%
20 Central Bank Repo Operations1

19

18 The interest rates of Central Bank repo operations
17 remained at the same values observed since October 2009:
16 the rates for passive repos at 1 and 7-day maturities
15 continued at 9% and 9.5%, respectively; while for
14 active repos they were maintained at 11% and 11.5% for
13 identical maturities.

12
September - Secondary Market
11 The average balance of passive repos, including all
10 October - Secondary Market modalities in which the Central Bank operates, decreased
9 Days slightly (7%) compared to the previous month, standing
0 60 120 180 240 300
Source: BCRA around $9,800 million. As in the previous month,
approximately 70% corresponded to 1-day repos, while
6 In this section the figures correspond to data at end of month, except where otherwise specified. almost 80% of the total was operated by banks. In the
month, no active repos were arranged for the Central
Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 7 Bank and its balance remained null.

Interbank Markets1
**Graph 5.3 In October the interest rates of the interbank market**
Call Market showed greater volatility. As in July and September,
(net average monthly position by entity group) transitory increases were registered again mid-month,
millions of $ millions of $ Gross Position which while more pronounced, reversed after a few days.

600 800
600
400 Thus, the average interest rate of the unsecured inter-
200 bank market (call) at one business day registered an
0 increase of 1.6 percentage points, reaching a level of
-200 11.3%. Meanwhile in the secured interbank market, of
400 -400 repo operations between financial entities (excluding
-600 the Central Bank), the interest rate at 1 business day
-800 average was 11.5%, 1.9 percentage points higher than
Oct-10 Oct-11 that registered in September.

200
0 The dispersion measures also increased, of each one
-200 of the operations with respect to the average rate of
each day. In fact, the standard deviation of the interest
-400 rates of operations agreed at 1 business day reached
-600 in October 1.3%, 0.7 percentage points above the ac-
EFNB cumulated average through September. Likewise, in
Públicas (Public) repo operations between financial entities at 1 day,
Priv. Nac. (Private National) while significantly lower levels are observed compared
Extranjeras (Foreign) to those registered in the call market, the standard devia-
Oct-09 Ene-10 Abr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Ene-11 Abr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 tion of rates increased only 0.3 percentage points, reach-
Source: BCRA ing 0.3%.

The daily average of the amount negotiated during
October in the call market was $1,443 million, 24%
**Graph 5.4** higher than the level registered in September, while in
Participation of Amount Traded in BADLAR of Private Banks the repo market between entities a decline of 6% was
by Type of Depositor registered after reaching $1,835 million.
(October average)
By group of banks, private entities of national origin
Fin. Services Government and non-banking financial entities resulted as net takers
8% 13% of funds, while public banking resulted as net lender in
the call market. Meanwhile, while foreign entities contin-
Individuals ued to be important operators, they registered as a group
12% an almost neutral position (see Graph 5.3).

Companies
67% **Passive Interest Rates¹**

Source: BCRA During October the short-term passive interest rates ac-
centuated the growing trend, showing significant increases
both in the wholesale segment and in the retail segment.
In fact, the monthly average of the BADLAR of Private
Banks registered a monthly increase of 4.5 percentage
points, positioning itself at a level of 17.6%.

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 8

Upon disaggregating the BADLAR of Private Banks, it was
possible to appreciate an increase in spreads by type of
depositor. While significant increases were registered for
all types of depositor, those corresponding to financial
**Graph 5.5** services providers (Insurance Companies, ARTs, FCIs, etc.)
stood out mainly, whose interest rate increased 5.2 percent-
TNA,% Average Monthly Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits age points (reaching 19% monthly average) and that corre-
26 in Pesos of 30-35 days sponding to non-financial companies (representing almost
Up to $100 thousand Private Banks p.p. 70% of what is traded in this market, see Graph 5.4) which
24 5.0 Monthly Average Variation registered an increase of 4.6 percentage points (positioning
BADLAR Private Banks 4.0 itself at 17.8%). In contrast, both the interest rates cor-
22 3.0 responding to individuals and to the public sector reg-
2.0 istered more modest monthly increases, around 3 percent-
20 1.0 age points (positioning themselves at 15.8% and 14.4%
18 - respectively).
Ene-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 17.6
16 Regarding the short-term retail segment (deposits of 30-35
days and up to $100 thousand), the interest rate...
14
12 11.7

10

8
Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 average monthly interest rate registered a considerable
Source: BCRA
 increase of 1.5 p.p., placing it at 11.7%, (see Graph
 5.5).

 In the BADLAR futures market, a significantly lower amount was traded compared to the previous month, with preference remaining for shorter terms (two and three months). The futures contracts indicated a new and strong increase in interest rates expected for the coming months. Thus, the interest rates of contracts with maturity in one month stood around 17.3%, more than 4 p.p. higher than those corresponding to contracts with the same maturity traded in September.

 Graph 5.6 Active Interest Rates 1

 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities The majority of interest rates applied to loans to the private
 (monthly average)

 TNA, % Monthly Variation sector showed increases.
30 Total of Current Account Advances p.p
 6.0 5.2 5.7
28 Discounted Documents
 5.0
 Documents at Sole Signature
26 4.0 The main increase of the month (5.7 p.p.) was once again
 Current Account Advances for More than $10 M and up to 7 days 2.5 2.6
 3.0
24 2.0 recorded in the rate of discounted documents, whose monthly
22 1.0 21.9 average stood around 21%, accumulating an increase of
 0.0 21.0
20
 18.2 almost 8 p.p. For its part, the interest rate on documents at
18 18.2
 sole signature increased 2.6 p.p., reaching a level of 18.2%
16
14 on average in the month. The interest rate on current account
12 advances also increased, which for the total of operations
10 stood at 21.9% (+2.5 p.p.), while for operations of more
8 than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity, the interest
 Source: BCRA Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11
 rate increase amounted to 5.2 p.p., placing itself around
 18.2% on average in the month (see Graph 5.6).

 For their part, the interest rates on lines destined for families showed smaller increases or even

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.7 certain stability. In effect, the interest rates on personal
 Active Interest Rates in October loans stood at a level of 31.4% (+1.1 p.p.) while that of pawn
 (monthly average)
 loans stood at 20.5% (+1.1 p.p.). In contrast, the corresponding
40 TNA, % Pawned Mortgages for families Personal Credit Cards rate for mortgage credit of families remained around 15%
 38 (see Graph 5.7).
36
34
32 31.4
30
28 6. International Reserves and
26
24 Foreign Exchange Market 7
22
20 20.5

18
16 14.9 The balance of international reserves reached US$ 47.523
14
12 billion at the end of October. During the month there was
 a monthly decrease of US$ 1.066 billion, in a context of
 Source: BCRA Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 widespread declines in international reserves of other countries
 in the world, linked to increasing international financial
 volatility (see Graph 6.1). In particular, the decrease in the
 Argentine case was associated with the intervention of the
 BCRA in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market
 (MULC), and the use by the public sector of the Argentine
 Debt Relief Fund and that for Payments to International
 Graph 6.1 Financial Organizations, to meet debt services in foreign
 Variation in International Reserves
 currency.

 var. Sep - Aug 2011
-17.1% -8.5% Estonia foreign currency. The drop from this last concept explained
 Ukraine
 -8.3% Indonesia
 -6.2% Poland more than half of the total reduction in the month. In rela-
 -5.9% Singapore
 -5.6% Latvia
 -5.2% Russia tion to this, so far this year, the use of such
 -5.2% Czech Rep.
 -4.4% Thailand
 -4.1% Pakistan funds accumulated approximately US$ 7,500 million.
 -4.0% Egypt
 -3.9%-3.5% Malaysia
 Hungary
 -3.4%-2.8% India
 South Korea
 -2.8%-2.8% Argentina
 Taiwan The exchange rate with respect to the United States Dollar in-
 -2.4%-2.2% South Africa
 Israel
 -2.2%-1.8% Turkey creased 0.4%, a rate lower than the annual average, si-
 China
 -1.6%-1.0% Mexico
 Brazil milar to that of 2010. In turn, in the forward market
 -1.0% Philippines
 -0.9% Peru
 -0.7% Hong Kong (ROFEX) reached $1,581 million (19% higher than
 0.2% Colombia
 3.4% Saudi Arabia
 4.1% Chile that of September), the expected quotations for the

 -20% -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% next months decreased with respect to September. On the
 Source: BCRA based on IMF, BIS and pages of the respective central banks.
 other hand, in relation to the Euro the quotation remained es-
 table, while it appreciated again, although at a
 Graph 6.2 slower pace than in September, with respect to the Real.

 $/US$ Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
 4.5 The quotations for the monthly average were 4.22
 Daily Quotation
 $/US$ (0.4% with respect to September), 5.79 $/Euro (0.1%)
 Monthly Average Quotation
 4.0 +0.4%
 and 2.39 $/Real (-1%) for each of the aforementioned currencies (see Graph 6.2).

 4.5% Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate

 4.0%
 3.5 3.5% Stocks

 3.0%

 2.5%
 2.0% Average 2009: 0.9%
 Average 2011: 0.6% Although the basic causes that generate strong
 3.0 1.5% Average 2010: 0.4%
 uncertainty persist, during October the international

 1.0% stock markets most relevant to the Argentine economy
 0.5%
 0.0% registered a sharp correction with respect
 2.5 -0.5%
 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 to the trend recorded in the two previous months. Through-
 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11
 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. out the month a mostly positive context was maintained influenced, mainly, by speculation
 Source: BCRA

7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 10 Graph 7.1 regarding the response of European authorities
 regarding the debt crisis in the region. The main
 World Stock Indices
 (Base Index 02/07/07 = 100) guidelines, which were finally disclosed at the end
 100 130
 of the month, are based mainly on the need to

 90 carry out greater write-downs in the Greek debt swap with
 120
 private holders, in the capitalization of banking entities

 80 and the leveraging of the European Financial Stability
 110
 Fund (EFSF). Likewise, in the U.S. economic data

 70 were published with an impact that was rather positive and
 100 contributed to a better climate in global markets.

 60 MSCI- World
 MSCI-Europe 90
 S&P 500
 MSCI Latam (right axis) In this context, strong increases were registered in the main
 50 80 stock exchanges. The MSCI Global measured in dollars advanced 10.3% in October. The S&P 500 (the main
 40 Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 index of the North American market) registered an increase of 10.8%, managing to offset the losses registered
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data in the previous month. Likewise, the MSCI Europe index
 registered an increase of 12.8%, although it failed to reverse the September decline (see Graph 7.1). In the month, the in-
 Graph 7.2
 Expected Volatility in the U.S. and Eurozone
% (VIX Index and VStoxx) Expected volatility indices were reduced considerably,
 100
 although nonetheless they remain at historically elevated levels.
 90
 The VIX Index, which measures the expected volatility
 80 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 of the S&P 500, fell 30% to 50 p.p.. Meanwhile, the
 70 VStoxx 50 Index
 (Eurozone)
 expected volatility of the Stoxx 50 decreased 25% to 35 p.p.
 60
 (see Chart 7.2).
 50

 40
 In line with the performance recorded in the stock ex-
 30
 changes of advanced economies, the main markets of
 20
 Latin America, measured in dollars, also registered a sharp
 10
 correction in October. The MSCI Latin America index rose
 0
 17.1%, reversing part of the losses recorded in the two
 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11
 previous months. The Bovespa (Brazil), the region's bench-
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
 mark, advanced 22.1%, the IGPA (Chile) grew 16.6% and
 the IPC (Mexico) 12.3%. In these cases, the appreciation
 of their currencies contributed positively to the increase.
 In Brazil the real appreciated 8.7%. Meanwhile the Chilean
 peso and Mexican peso revalued 3.9% and 5.7% respectively.
 On the other hand, the MERVAL (Argentina) registered a
 monthly increase of 17.9% driven by the advance of the
Chart 7.3 Evolution of the Local Stock Market stock market index measured in local currency since the peso
 % Index depreciated against the dollar 0.7% in October.
 60 4,000

 Historical volatility 22 trading sessions The MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in local cur-

 50 MERVAL (right axis) rency, registered an increase of 17.9% to 2,906 points.
 3,500

 40 Following this performance, the MERVAL managed to re-
 3,000
 verse much of the decline recorded in August and Septem-
 30
 2,500 ber (see Chart 7.3). Throughout the month, the expansion
 20 2,000 of the index was led by the performance recorded in the
 10 quotations of energy sector stocks, followed by the banking
 1,500
 0 sector and to a lesser extent by the steel and metallurgy
 Jan-10 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 sector.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.4 The historical volatility of the MERVAL -22 trading
 sessions- in annualized terms and measured in dollars closed
 Quotation of Argentine Public Securities the month at 45%, marking an increase of 39 p.p. with respect
 18 % (Monthly Variation) to September levels.

 16
 For its part, the average daily volume traded in shares
 14
 during October on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was
 12 around $90 million, 114% more than the level recorded in
 10 September and became the highest record so far in 2011.

 8

 6
 Public Securities
 4

 2 Short-term Bonds Short-term Bonds Long-term Bonds Long-term Bonds General
 in US$ in $ in US$ in $ Index
Source: BCRA based on IAMC data

 Favored by the increase in risk appetite in global markets,
 in October the emerging fixed income markets registered
 positive performance. In this context, the spreads between
 the yields of emerging sovereign debt and US Treasury
 bonds, according to the EMBI+, were reduced by around
 70 b.p.. In Latin America, the EMBI+ was reduced by 72 b.p.
 Chart 7.5 to 408 b.p..

 Sovereign Risk Indicators
 Spread in b.p Spread in b.p In line with the evolution of emerging fixed income markets,
 550 1100 Argentine sovereign bonds advanced across the board, re-
 500 EMBI+ 1000 ducing their yields with respect to US Treasuries. In October
 450 EMBI+ Latin America 900 the IAMC bond index, measured in pesos, registered a
 400 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 800 monthly increase of 12%. Bonds in the medium and long
 350 700 end of the curve were the best performers (see Chart 7.4).
 300 600 Dollar-denominated securities recorded an advance of 15.1%,
 250 500 while peso-denominated bonds rose
150 300 11.6%. For their part, bonds in the short segment of the cur-

100 200 ve both in pesos and in dollars registered an increase
Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg of around 9.6%. In this context, the EMBI+ Argen-
tina registered a decrease of 158 b.p. to 835 b.p.
(see Chart 7.5) and the 5-year CDS was reduced 164 b.p.
standing at 920 b.p.

During October, the average daily volume traded of
public securities in the local market amounted to $2,035
Chart 7.6 million, a 25% higher than the average verified in

Financing to the Private Sector through Bonds* September and becoming the highest figure of the
last twelve months.
billions of
$ millions of $ Quantity

400 Average amount per placement16
4.5
350 Number of placements (right axis)14

300 12
4.0 Total Amount Private Securities
250 10

200 8
3.5 Annual Average 150 6

100 4
3.0 50 2 During October, three placements of negotiable obliga-
0 0 tions (ONs) were registered in the private debt market
Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11
2.5 for a total subscribed amount of approximately
2.0 $192 million. This amount represents a decline of 80%
1.5 ($960 million) compared to the previous month and would
1.0 consist of a reduction in the quantity of ONs issued, since
0.5 the average amount per placement remained around
0.0 $64 million (see Chart 7.6), in a context of
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11
(*) Includes emissions from companies listed in the domestic market that place bonds in international markets. increase in the cost of financing in line with the evolution
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg of market interest rates (see Section 5. Interest Rates).

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 12 In line with the performance registered in previous
months, emissions were concentrated in the Energy
Chart 7.7 sector and in Financial Entities.

Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos Participation in total FCIs in pesos
thousands of millions
of $ During this period, all emissions were carried out
30 October 2011
Fixed Income 6.3 12.2 in local currency and will pay a variable interest rate
25 Money Market 41.9 equivalent to the BADLAR rate of private banks plus
Mixed Income 39.6 a margin that stood, in all cases, at 3.5 b.p.. Likewise,
20 Variable Income in all emissions capital amortization will be at maturity.

15
Mutual Investment Funds
10

5 The equity of Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs), in
0 pesos and in foreign currency registered a slight
Oct-04 Oct-05 Oct-06 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 increase of 0.2% in October ($40 million) to reach
Source: CAFCI and BCRA a total of $25,340 million, after recording a decline
of 3.1% in September. The evolution of funds in pesos
that represent 93% of total equity explains to a greater
extent this performance. In October, FCIs in pesos
closed the month with total equity of $23,550 million,
marking an increase of 0.1% ($30 million) compared to
the level registered in the previous month (see Chart 7.7).

Although relative stability was observed in equity,
a change in composition could be appreciated. Driven
by both the increase in the number of shares as well as
prices, mixed income funds registered an increase of
Chart 7.8 21.7% ($510 million) compared to September. Variable

Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos income funds also increased, although to a lesser extent,
(Monthly Variation) which registered an increase of 14% ($180 million),
millions of $ followed by the segment
600
400 increase in Money Market the which verified an in-
 1% increase ($100 million) (see Chart 7.8). In the case of
 200
 variable income funds the expansion registered in Octo-
 0 ber would have been related to the increase in prices,
 while in Money Market funds, with the increase in the

 -200 quantity of shares. In contrast, fixed income funds re-
 duced their equity 7.6% ($760 million) during October,
 -400
 driven by the fall in the quantity of shares that more
 -600 than compensated for the increase in prices.
 
 -800
-1.000
  Variable Income  Mixed Income  Fixed Income Money Market  Total

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

 On the other hand, FCIs in foreign currency ended the
 month without variations with respect to September, pre-
 senting an equity of US$ 420 million.

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.9 Financial Trusts8

 Issuances of Financial Trusts The volatility of interest rates (see Section 5. Interest
 million $ (excluding those destined to finance infrastructure works) units
1.500 45 Rates) had an impact on the volume issued in the Finan-
 Amount issued cial Trusts (FF) market, awaiting more favorable market
 Number of operations (right axis) 40
1.200 35 conditions, or even because some prospectuses had to
 30 be readjusted to market conditions (for example in rela-
 900
 25 tion to the maximum yields of placements at variable
 20 interest rates).
 600
 15
 300 10 Thus, in this month only 12 operations were registered
 5 (11 fewer than in September), while in the first nine
 0 0 months of the year an average of 18 monthly operations
 Ene-07 Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others were registered (not including issuances linked to infra-
 structure works financing). In this way, the amount
 placed in October totaled around $650 million, less than
 half of what was registered last month (see Chart 7.9).

 Chart 7.10 The securitized assets were made up fundamentally of
 % Cut-off Rates of FF loans linked to consumption (class A titles in pesos
40 (weighted monthly averages by amount) with a duration less than 14 months—personal
 loans and credit card installments) and registered ho-
35
 mogeneous decreases for the different types of trustors.
 Fixed rate Financial entities issued in October around $260 million,
30
 58% less than in September, while retail stores placed
 Variable rate around $240 million, 48% less than the previous month,
25 BADLAR rate private banks and mutuals, cooperatives, non-banking credit
 card issuers and other financial service providers placed
20
 around $120 million, 54% less than in September. The
15 remainder corresponded to a placement by a company in
 the agricultural sector, which securitized commercial
10
 credits in foreign currency.
 5
 The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos showed
 Jan-07 Aug-07 Mar-08 Oct-08 May-09 Dec-09 Jul-10 Feb-11 Sep-11 a significant increase in October, in line with the increase
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others in interest rates in the monetary market. In effect, the
 cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of titles ad-
 Chart 7.11 judicated at variable rate increased 6.2 p.p. with respect
 to last month, reaching in October 21.9%. In the same
billions of pesos Nominal Value of FF in Circulation
 direction, the corresponding to titles with fixed yield
32
 (modality under which only one operation was registered)
 Trustors linked to FF of infrastructure was located at 21%, 5.6 p.p. more than in September
28 (see Chart 7.10).
 Mutuals, Cooperatives and Non-banking Credit Card Issuers
24 Financial Entity
 Retail Stores
20
 Others
16
12
 The nominal value of the FF with public offerings in force as of
 September 8, 2011 was located at $32,870 million, a value
 4 similar to that of the previous months (see Graph 7.11). Just
 0 as has been happening since the second quarter of the
 2005-I 2006-I 2007-I 2008-I 2009-I 2010-I 2011-I 30/09/201year, around 70% of the species in circulation
 Source: own elaboration based on CNV and Bolsar.

8 Only trusts with public offerings are considered.
 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 14correspond to FF linked to the financing of infrastructure
works, while the outstanding stock of FF that have loans
for consumption as their underlying asset represents 20% of the total. The remainder is composed of FF backed by mortgage loans (5% of the total), public securities (2% of the total) and commercial credits (2% of the total), among others.

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Oct-11 Monthly Last 12 monthsSep-11Dec-10Oct-10
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary base 191,897 190,570 156,104 142,096 0.7% -0.1% 35.0% 22.9%
 Monetary circulation 149,277 148,677 119,694 110,620 0.4% -0.4% 34.9% 22.9%
 Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 131,493 130,626 107,145 97,166 0.7% -0.1% 35.3% 23.2%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 17,782 18,048 12,534 13,454 -1.5% -2.3% 32.2% 20.3%
 Cancellation Checks 2 2 15 0 -19.2% -19.8% - -
 Current account at the BCRA 42,620 41,894 36,410 31,476 1.7% 0.9% 35.4% 23.3%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 9,860 10,590 9,376 12,224 -6.9% -7.6% -19.3% -26.6%
 Assets 26 0 0 3

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 28,717 29,815 50,912 59,348 -3.7% -4.4% -51.6% -55.9%

 NOBAC 50,097 51,547 23,737 14,317 -2.8% -3.6% 249.9% 218.6%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 48,038 49,421 52,132 51,607 -2.8% -6.9%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 374,200 371,018 297,283 283,312 0.9% 0.1% 32.1% 20.2%
 Current account (2) 100,792 100,052 88,303 80,823 0.7% -0.1% 24.7% 13.5%
 Savings account 68,764 67,692 56,626 51,462 1.6% 0.8% 33.6% 21.7%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 188,686 187,598 138,315 137,839 0.6% -0.2% 36.9% 24.6%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 10 10 14 14 0.0% -0.8% -28.6% -35.0%
 Other deposits (3) 15,948 15,667 14,026 13,174 1.8% 1.0% 21.1% 10.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 246,893 245,718 204,037 190,374 0.5% -0.3% 29.7% 18.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 127,308 125,300 93,246 92,938 1.6% 0.8% 37.0% 24.7%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,872 15,676 15,926 15,416 1.3% 3.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 252,871 243,387 181,888 169,934 3.9% 3.1% 48.8% 35.5%

 Loans to the private sector 227,669 218,580 161,677 150,165 4.2% 3.3% 51.6% 38.0%
 Advances 29,552 28,673 22,036 21,419 3.1% 2.2% 38.0% 25.6%
 Documents 50,274 47,874 33,756 30,544 5.0% 4.2% 64.6% 49.9%
 Mortgage loans 24,969 24,051 19,944 19,175 3.8% 3.0% 30.2% 18.6%
 Secured loans 15,388 14,568 9,420 8,661 5.6% 4.8% 77.7% 61.8%
 Personal loans 55,129 52,845 39,360 36,849 4.3% 3.5% 49.6% 36.2%
 Credit cards 35,447 34,191 26,367 23,955 3.7% 2.9% 48.0% 34.7%
 Others 16,910 16,378 10,793 9,562 3.2% 2.4% 76.8% 61.0%

 Loans to the public sector 25,203 24,807 20,212 19,770 1.6% 0.8% 27.5% 16.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,726 9,638 7,412 6,763 0.9% 43.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 232,287 230,680 195,463 177,989 0.7% -0.1% 30.5% 18.8%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 301.051 298.372 252.088 229.450 0.9% 0.1% 31.2% 19.4%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + 505.695 501.647 404.443 380.478 0.8% 0.0% 32.9% 21.0%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 572.726 567.605 467.835 441.477 0.9% 0.1% 29.7% 18.1%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + private 203.244 202.686 167.207 152.668 0.3% -0.5% 33.1% 21.2%
current accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 266.865 266.536 220.558 200.192 0.1% -0.7% 33.3% 21.4%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + 378.387 376.347 311.197 287.540 0.5% -0.3% 31.6% 19.8%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 440.655 436.680 357.178 332.245 0.9% 0.1% 32.6% 20.7%

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2011 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 1.327 0.7% 5.872 3.1% 35.794 18.7% 49.802 26.0%
Financial sector 1.141 0.6% -2.083 -1.1% 1.566 0.8% 4.589 2.4%
Public sector 3.896 2.0% 11.604 6.0% 23.419 12.2% 27.735 14.5%
Private external sector -6.810 -3.5% -15.257 -8.0% 10.093 5.3% 17.647 9.2%
BCRA securities 3.441 1.8% 12.282 6.4% 2.770 1.4% 2.603 1.4%
Others -341 -0.2% -675 -0.4% -2.055 -1.1% -2.772 -1.4%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.383 -2.8% -3.814 -7.9% -4.094 -8.5% -3.569 -7.4%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.474 -3.1% -3.490 -7.3% 2.824 5.9% 4.728 9.8%
Payment to international organizations 6 0.0% 26 0.1% 370 0.8% 598 1.2%
Other public sector operations 1.125 2.3% 961 2.0% 7.102 14.8% 6.575 13.7%
Minimum cash -773 -1.6% -1.508 -3.1% -4.798 -10.0% -5.720 -11.9%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -266 -0.6% 198 0.4% -9.592 -20.0% -9.749 -20.3%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation changes

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11
(1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 15.6 15.7 15.7
Integration 16.0 16.0 15.9
Position (2) 0.4 0.3 0.3
Structure of residual maturity of term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
Up to 29 days 57.3 56.5 55.5
30 to 59 days 20.4 24.6 25.2
60 to 89 days 9.4 7.1 8.2
90 to 179 days 7.3 6.2 6.0
more than 180 days 5.6 5.6 5.2
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 20.4 20.4 20.5
Integration (includes default in application of resources) 55.2 56.6 59.6
Position (2) 34.8 36.2 39.1
Structure of residual maturity of term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
Up to 29 days 57.0 57.6 55.7
30 to 59 days 22.0 22.1 23.4
60 to 89 days 10.4 9.2 9.8
90 to 179 days 9.0 9.4 9.5
180 to 365 days 1.5 1.7 1.4
more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

Call in pesos (at 1 day)
Rate 11.45 9.72 9.49 9.70 10.12
Amount traded 1.452 1.160 860 781 972
Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 12.91 10.22 10.30 9.57 9.33
 60 days or more 14.32 11.22 11.31 10.67 10.18
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.95 10.70 10.59 10.25 9.72
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 17.59 13.08 12.35 11.08 10.68

 In dollars
 30 days 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.28
 60 days or more 0.60 0.59 0.64 0.60 0.60
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.40 0.41 0.41 0.36 0.41
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.52 0.55 0.53 0.53 0.58

 Active Interest Rates Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 14.06 12.62 12.07 11.97 10.61
 Amount traded (total terms) 225 226 226 216 201

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 21.85 19.33 19.03 19.25 18.81
 Documents on sole signature 18.20 15.61 15.62 14.81 15.08
 Mortgages 15.06 15.08 14.76 14.68 14.71
 Pledged loans 20.51 19.50 18.98 17.49 17.40
 Personal loans 31.44 30.35 29.88 29.10 29.64
 Credit cards n/d 32.21 33.22 31.26 32.03

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 18.18 12.98 12.60 11.10 11.26

 International Interest Rates Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.23 0.21 0.26 0.26
 6 months 0.60 0.52 0.46 0.46 0.46

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.27 0.20 0.23 0.61 0.37
 10 years 2.13 1.96 2.30 3.27 2.51

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.78 12.00 12.48 10.75 10.75

(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

BCRA Repurchase Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO Round Repurchase Rates
 1 day 9.88 9.18 9.07 9.20 9.17
 7 days 9.70 9.57 9.53 9.53 9.51

Amount traded of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 8,052 7,956 8,177 5,973 8,591

LEBAC Interest Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 10.86 n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 10.93 n/o
 3 months 13.97 n/o n/o 11.10 n/o
 9 months 14.10 n/o n/o n/o 12.75
 12 months n/o n/o 12.39 13.05 13.03

NOBAC Margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o 0.17 n/o 1.81 1.67
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o 0.61 2.07 2.20
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR 1.08 1.56 1.78 2.52 n/o
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR 2.19 2.89 2.91 n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 451 589 538 341 438

 Foreign Exchange Market Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.23 4.21 4.17 3.98 3.96
 BCRA Reference 4.22 4.20 4.17 3.98 3.96

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.32 4.26 4.21 4.00 3.98
 ROFEX 1 month 4.25 4.23 4.21 4.01 3.99
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,581 1,330 938 1,095 943

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.39 2.41 2.61 2.35 2.35

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.79 5.79 5.97 5.26 5.50

 Capital Market Oct-11 Sep-11 Aug-11 Dec-10 Oct-10

MERVAL
 Index 2,653 2,687 2,980 3,429 2,769
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 89 46 59 94 84

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 100.62 94.97 100.37 95.27 92.25
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 78.13 74.71 86.90 93.34 89.07
 BODEN 2014 ($) 80.31 79.60 89.98 93.49 91.07
 DISCOUNT ($) 49.86 55.46 67.00 85.48 74.92

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 673 626 436 529 662
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 414 425 374 292 306

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

U.S.A.: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreements.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

STD: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | October 2011 | BCRA | 20
