# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
March 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 5

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 7

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 8

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 9

7. Capital Market | Page 10

 Stocks | Page 10

 Public Securities | Page 10

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Investment Mutual Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was April 18, 2012. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary1

• In March, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) which includes cash in circulation
and the total of peso deposits, registered growth of 1.5%. The main source of broad money creation was
loans in pesos to the private sector, followed by the Central Bank's purchases of foreign currency in the
foreign exchange market.

• The total of deposits in local currency showed growth of 1.9% during the month, driven essen-
tially by placements from the private sector, which grew 2.9%. In particular, fixed-term deposits from
the private sector continued showing remarkable dynamism, increasing 4.3% in March and accumulating
a year-over-year change of 38.9%, the highest of the last 6 years. When distinguished by amount bracket,
the increase was observed both in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and in the segment of
less than $1 million, a segment that showed monthly growth more than double that of the same month in
previous years.

• The financial system continued showing high liquidity levels. The ratio used as an indicator of
broad liquidity in local currency (sum of cash in banks, deposits in current account, repurchase agree-
ments from financial entities with the BCRA and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, over total deposits in
pesos), remained at 37.5%. However, a change was verified in the composition of the assets that comprise
it, in favor of current accounts at the Central Bank and to the detriment of net repurchase agreements with
the Central Bank.

• With the effects of the summer recess dissipated, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated
their monthly expansion rate, registering an increase of 2.2% in March ($5,530 million). Overdrafts on
current account, intended fundamentally to finance commercial activities, and consumer loans explained
most of the month's increase. The year-over-year change in peso credit to the private sector remained at a
similar value to that of the previous month at 46.9%, with commercial lines being those presenting the
highest growth rate.

• Short-term passive interest rates (up to 35 days) continued showing a downward trend, both in
the wholesale segment and in the retail segment. The BADLAR rate of private banks averaged 12.9% in
the month, declining 1.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month and accumulating a decline of 5.9 p.p.
with respect to the December average. In this way, with the decrease accumulated throughout the year,
the BADLAR rate is positioned close to the September levels. For its part, the interest rate paid by private
banks for their retail fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand) remained at 12.1%, accumulating a reduc-
tion of 2.1 p.p. in what has gone by so far this year.
• Interest rates on active operations also decreased during the month, led by those agreed upon for loans to the private sector intended to finance commercial activities. In particular, the average monthly interest rate on documents discounted to companies decreased 1.8 p.p. during the month. Thus it accumulated a decline of 6.4 p.p. compared to the December average, standing at 19.3%. Meanwhile, the average monthly interest rate charged by private entities for overdrafts on current account for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity stood at 14.1%, decreasing 1.6 p.p. compared to February and accumulating a decline of 8.4 p.p. so far this year. In turn, the interest rates of longer-term financing lines also registered declines that, in most cases, were close to 1 p.p.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

In March, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) which
Graph 2.1 includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos,
thousands Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates
of millions of $ (March 2012, on average) registered growth of 1.5% and reached $564,000
6 million. The main source of creation of broad money
4 were loans in pesos to the private sector (see Loans section), followed by purchases of foreign currency
2 by the Central Bank in the exchange market (see Graphic
0 2.1).

-2 Regarding the components of M3, total means of payment (M22) showed growth of 0.6% in the month.
Purchases of Sector Loans to Other M2 Time Deposits and
Foreign Sector* Private Sector Other Public Deposits and Time
Currency Public Other Private month. With an average monthly balance of $340,540
M3 million, M2 exhibited growth of 4.8% compared to
*Includes other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base and loans from the public sector.
Source: BCRA December, positioning itself between the base scenario and the lower limit of the range established as a target for the first quarter in the 2012 Monetary Program3.

The total of deposits in local currency showed growth of 1.9% during the month, motivated essentially by placements of the private sector, given that those of the public sector remained practically stable. Indeed, deposits of the private sector grew 2.9%, with increases in sight deposits and fixed-term deposits. The latter continued showing high dynamism, growing 4.3% in March and accumulating a year-on-year variation of 38.9%, the highest of the last 6 years. When distinguished by amount bracket, the increase was observed both in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more) and in that of less than $1 million. Although the percentage increase of both segments was similar, it was noted the accumulated increase for deposits of less than $1 million, which more than doubled that registered in the same month in previous years (see Graph 2.2).

Graph 2.2 In the foreign currency segment, deposits experienced a
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector slight decrease of 0.6%, with light declines in both place(variations of monthly averages) ments of the public sector and those of the private sec% % % tor. In particular, those corresponding to the private sec7 42 6 tor decreased 0.3%, remaining at levels similar to those
5 4.1 6 of last December. In this way, the broadest aggregate, 5 30 3 2007 M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the
4 24 2 2008 public, cancellatory checks,
3 18 1 0 2009
2 12 % More than $1 million
6 2010
1 6 5 4.5 Monthly variation 2
0 0 2011
4 Year-on-year variation (right axis)-121
-1 -6 3 2012
-2 -180

 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12-1
Source: BCRA Less than $1 million
laboratories and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
(expressed in pesos), showed an increase of
1.3%.

2 Includes currency in circulation in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current
accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.
3 According to information reported in the Monetary Program Monitoring Report for the first quarter for the year 2012, in accordance with
what is established by Law 25,562.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1

% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos
deposits
(monthly average) The financial system continued showing high levels
45
of liquidity. The broad liquidity ratio in local currency
40 (sum of cash in banks, deposits in current
35 37.5 account, repo operations of financial entities with the
30 % of % of Net Repos % of LEBACs and NOBACs BCRA and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, on
deposits Reserves Banking deposits deposits
20 7 25 total deposits), remained constant at 37.5% (see
25 6 Chart 3.1). However, a change was verified in the
15 20
5 composition of the assets that make it up, with an
20 15
4 increase in current accounts at the Central Bank,
10 15
3 10 to the detriment of net repos for this Institution.
2 5 5 This is explained by the end of the quarterly
15 1
0 0 0 computation (December 2011- February 2012) of the
5 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12
minimum cash position. In fact, the financial entities
0 had accumulated a surplus in their minimum cash
Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12
Source: BCRA position during the first two months of the quarterly
period, which had allowed them to increase their
Chart 3.2 repo balances to record levels during February. Then,
Minimum Cash Position in Pesos in March, when the new period of reserve computation
began (monthly), they canceled those repos and
% of Surplus Cumulative Position Daily Position
deposits transferred the funds to their current accounts at the
3.0 Central Bank. Thus, during the month under analysis,
2.5 the integration of the minimum cash regime exceeded
2.0 the requirement by 0.4 p.p., presenting surpluses both
1.5 public and private banks (see Chart 3.2). For its part,
1.0 the balance of LEBACs and NOBACs of the entities
0.5 0.4 remained stable.
0.0
-0.5 In the foreign currency segment, the surplus of the
-1.0 minimum cash regime was located at 39%4, increasing
-1.5 with respect to the previous month, as a result of the
-2.0 greater integration by debt placements of local
-2.5 governments, which was deposited in commercial banks.
Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12
Source: BCRA
Chart 4.1 4. Loans1 5

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
6 (average monthly variation) 70

% Monthly Variation Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 60 In March, dissipated the effects of the summer recess,
5 loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their
4 50 expansion rate, registering an increase of 2.2%
3 2.8 40 ($5,530 million; see Chart 4.1). Advances in current
2.2 2.2 2.2 account, intended to finance primarily commercial
2 1.8 30 activities, and consumer loans explained most of the
1.3 monthly increase. For its part, the year-over-year
1.0 20
variation of credit in pesos to the private sector
1 remained at a similar value to the previous month,
10
0 when it was located at 46.9%, with commercial lines
-1 0 being those that present the highest growth rate
Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 (see Chart 4.2).
Source: BCRA
4 The foreign currency requirement considered does not include the additional requirement for default application of resources.

5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 During the month of March the main commercial lines presented dissimilar behaviors. The advances in current account continued showing great dynamism, exhibiting an increase of 6.6% ($2,200 million), widely higher than that registered in the same month of previous years (see Chart 4.3). In this way, its year-over-year growth rate registered a significant increase (8.7 percentage points) and reached 52.8%. In contrast, financing instruments executed through documents registered a decrease of 0.8% ($400 million) in the month, influenced by statistical carryover resulting from the reduction shown during February. Regarding loans aimed at family consumption, credit card financing, which in February had not registered significant variations, grew in the month 3.2% ($1,330 million), while personal loans registered an increase of 2.7% ($1,620 million), above what was observed during the last three months (see Chart 4.4).

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (year-over-year variation by type of line)
Commercial Loans
Consumer Loans
Loans with Real Guarantee
Total Loans
46.9
41.5
36.9 38.0 40.7
30.0
15.9
12.6

Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12

Source: BCRA

Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgages grew in March at a similar rate to the previous month, evidencing an increase of 1.8% ($500 million). Meanwhile, loans with pledge guarantee decelerated their monthly growth rate and registered an increase of 1% ($180 million). Nevertheless, its year-over-year growth rate continued to maintain itself at elevated levels, positioning itself at 59.1%.

Chart 4.3 Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector
thousands of
millions $
Monthly variation of daily balances average monthly
38
36
Daily average balance %
34 8 2006
2007 6.6
32 2008 6
2009
2010 4
2011
30 2012
2
28
0
26
30-Jun 30-Sep 30-Dec 30-Mar-2 March
Source: BCRA

The Central Bank continued auctioning funds within the framework of the Bicentenary Productive Financing Program (PFPB) with the aim of improving credit supply for investment and productive activity through the granting of loans at medium and long term at fixed interest rates. In the last month $307.3 million were awarded. In this way, the total committed since the beginning of the PFPB amounted to $4,422 million, of which $2,357 million have been disbursed (see Chart 4.5).

Chart 4.4 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, destined fundamentally to finance the export sector, decreased 1.8% (US$ 175 million) in the month. Nevertheless, in the last twelve months they accumulated an increase of 15.8% (US$ 1,300 million).

% Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% 8 90 Monthly variation Year-over-year variation (right axis)
7 80 Annual average monthly variation
6 70
5.2 60
5 50
3.8
4 40
3.0
3 2.7 2.7 30
2 1.1 20
1 10
0 0
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.5 5. Interest Rates 6
thousands of Bicentennial Advances
millions of $ (accumulated monthly amounts) % Securities issued by the Central Bank7
5 60
 Awarded Amounts 4.4
 Disbursed Amounts 50 Following the accelerated decline recorded in February, in
4 Ratio Disbursed/Awarded
 March the interest rates of LEBAC registered a
 40 more moderate decline, which was not homogeneous along
3
 2.4 30 the yield curve. In the primary market,
 the shortest-term interest rate, which continued to be auc-
2
 20 tioned at a predetermined price, showed no changes
 
1 with respect to the previous month. Meanwhile the cut-off
 10 rates continued to decrease in the middle section of the curve.
 In relation to the interest rates from February, declines
0 0
 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 of 0.4 p.p were registered for terms between 11 and 12
Source: BCRA
 months (see Chart 5.1). Meanwhile the interest rates of
 NOBAC remained relatively stable in comparison with
 January levels, taking into account that in February
 Chart 5.1 no placements were registered.

 Lebac Interest Rate in the Primary Market The outstanding stock of LEBAC and NOBAC increased
 A.N.R. %
 15.0
 14.7 around 2%, reaching $81,000 million (see
 14.5 14.3 Chart 5.2). As in the previous month, the largest
 14.0 14.0 part of the amount awarded in March was LEBAC,
 14.0 13.8 so that at the end of March they represented 62% of
 13.6 13.7 13.8
 the total stock. Likewise, although short-term placements
 13.5 13.3 13.2
 continued to maintain an important participation,
 13.0 Auction of 01-30-2012 again longer-term securities were awarded (see Chart 5.3).
 12.8 February auctions In the case of NOBAC, the awarded amount resulted
 12.5 Auction of 02-24-2012 significantly below the balance that matured, so they lost
 12.2 12.3 March auctions participation in the total. In turn, the distribution by holders
 12.1 Auction of 03-27-2012
 12.0 12.1 12.1 showed no significant changes with respect to February,
 Days with the participation of banks in the total issued remaining
 11.5
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 at 89%.

Source: BCRA
 The amount traded in the secondary market of securities
 Chart 5.2 continued to grow, exceeding the level recorded the previous
 Nominal Stock of Lebac and Nobac in Circulation month. Operations with LEBAC concentrated the
 thousands of
 millions $ (monthly average) largest traded volume, with emphasis mainly on
 100 Jun-11
 $ 90.9 M securities between 60 and 180 days of maturity. Interest
 90 Mar-12
 $81 M rates showed almost no changes in securities
 80 NOBAC
 with terms of less than 90 days. Meanwhile
 70 LEBAC uneven movements were registered for the rest of the
 Jul-07
 $ 61.7 M segments throughout the month.

 60
 50 Central Bank Repo Operations1

 Jul-09
 40 $ 33.5 M

 30 The interest rates of the Central Bank repo operations
 showed no changes. In this way, the rates for passive
 20
 repos at 1 and 7 day terms continued
 10
 at 9% and 9.5%, respectively, and at 11% and
 0
 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 11.5% for active repos at those same terms.

Source: BCRA
 
 In March, the monthly average stock of passive repos
 Chart 5.3
 Awarded Amount of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market
 
 Millions $
14,000 More than 270 days

---

**Notes:**
- TNA = A.N.R. (Tasa Nominal Anual / Annual Nominal Rate)
- LEBAC = Central Bank Notes (Letras del Banco Central)
- NOBAC = Central Bank Bonds (Bonos del Banco Central)
- p.p = percentage points
From 271 to 360 days for the Central Bank, including all types of
12,000 From 181 to 270 days
 operations in which the institution participates, decreased
 From 91 to 180 days
10,000 Up to 90 days 20% compared to the level recorded in the previous month, in
 the context of the change in the composition of bank
 8,000
 liquidity observed in the month (see Bank Liquidity).

 6,000 Thus, the average balance of passive repos for the Central
 Bank was placed at $20,900 million. During the month of
 4,000
 March there were no active repos, in a context of high
 2,000 liquidity levels.

 0
 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Interbank Markets 1

Source: BCRA
 In March, interbank market interest rates remained stable.
 In the secured market (REPO round), the average interest
 rate on 1 business day operations showed no changes from
 February and was placed at 9.3%. On the other hand, in
 the unsecured market (call) the average interest rate on
 Chart 5.4
 1 business day operations showed an increase of 0.2 p.p., at
 Interbank Market
 (1 business day operations) 9.4% (see Chart 5.4).
 in billions of $ %
 4.5 12.0
 Amount traded Call
 Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA 11.5
 3.5 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0
 Interest rate Call (right axis) 10.5 The amount negotiated in the interbank market fell as a
 3.0
 10.0 consequence of the decline recorded in both the secured
 2.5
 9.5 and the unsecured market. In the REPO round, the daily
 2.0
 9.0 average of the amount negotiated at 1 business day
 1.5 8.5 showed a decline of $200 million, after reaching $1,740
 1.0 8.0 million. Likewise, in the 1 business day segment of call
 0.5 7.5 operations the daily average amount negotiated was
 0.0 7.0 placed at $1,100 million, $165 million below the level
 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12
Source: BCRA recorded in February.

 In line with the behavior recorded in previous months,
 when analyzing the behavior of the call market by bank
 group, it is observed that foreign entities and non-bank
 financial entities were net fund borrowers while domestic
 private entities and public entities were net lenders (see
 Chart 5.5).

 Chart 5.5

 Call Market
 (average monthly net position by group of entities)
 millions of $
 500

 400 Passive Interest Rates 1
 300

 200 In March, short-term passive interest rates (up to 35
 100 days) continued showing a downward trend. This decline
 0 was observed in both the wholesale and retail segments.
 -100 The BADLAR rate of private banks averaged 12.9% in the
 -200 month, declining 1.3 p.p. compared to the previous month
 EFNB and accumulating a decline of 5.9 p.p. compared to the
 -300 Public
 -400 Priv. Nat. December average. In this way, with the decline that
 Foreign
 -500 accumulates throughout the year, the BADLAR rate is at
 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 levels close to those observed in September last year.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.6 For its part, the interest rate paid by private banks for
 their retail time deposits (up to $100 thousand) at 30-35
 % Interest Rate for Time Deposits in Pesos days remained at 12.1%, with a decline of 2.1 p.p. so far
 (private banks - daily data) this year (See Chart 5.6).
29
 The amounts traded in the interest rate futures market
25 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
 showed moderation compared to February, when a
 noticeably high sum was negotiated. As in previous
21 BADLAR months, the shortest-term contracts (up to 3 months)
 were the ones that explained the
17
 Avg. Mar-12
 12.9
13
Avg. Mar-12 most of the amount traded. In line with what happened
 12.1 in the month, futures contracts indicated a decrease
 9 in the interest rates expected for the
 5 coming months. Thus, the interest rates of contracts
Source: BCRA Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12
 maturing at the end of April were located around
 13.6%, decreasing 0.6 p.p. with respect to contracts with
 the same maturity traded in February.

 Chart 5.7 Active Interest Rates 1 8

 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities
 (monthly average - private sector - total banks) The interest rates on loan operations to the

 TNA, % Total of Current Account Advances Monthly Variation

 p.p
 Discounted Documents 0.0 private sector agreed in the month also
36
 Single-Signature Documents decreased. As in recent months, the
32 Current Account Advances - More than $10 M and up to 7 days -1.0
 -1.0 larger declines were observed in the interest rates
 -1.3
 -2.0 -1.8 -1.6 aimed at financing commercial activities and,
28
 -3.0
24 fundamentally, in the lines with shorter terms. In
 particular, the average monthly interest rate on
20
 discounted documents for companies led the decline,
16 falling 1.8 p.p. in the month. Thus it decreased 6.4 p.p.

12 with respect to the December average, standing at

 8 19.3%. For its part, the interest rate on single-
Source: BCRA Jan-08 Aug-08 Mar-09 Oct-09 May-10 Dec-10 Jul-11 Feb-12
 signature documents fell back 1 p.p. in the month and also
 averaged 19.3% in March. Meanwhile, the interest rate
 on current account advances stood at 22% after
 falling 1.3 p.p. with respect to February and 4.8 p.p. with
 respect to December, while the rate charged by
 private entities for more than $10 million and up to 7
 Chart 5.8 days of term stood at 14.1%, decreasing 1.6 p.p. against
 February and accumulating a decline of 8.4 p.p. so far
 Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and this year (see Chart 5.7).
 those intended for Consumption
 (monthly average)
 TNA, %
 Personal Monthly Variation
 Credit Cards p.p
38 Chattel Mortgages 0.0 The average monthly interest rates on

 Mortgages Families
34 loans granted for longer terms registered a
 -0.5 -0.4 generalized decline, both for loans with
30
 real guarantee and for those intended to finance
26
 -0.9 consumption. Among the financing lines with
 -1.0
22 -1.1 -1.0 real guarantee, the decrease in the interest rate

 18 -1.5 on chattel mortgage loans stood out, which reached

 14 1.1 p.p. in the month. Thus, its average level stood at
 -2.0
10 24.2% in March. For its part, the interest rate on
 Jan-08 Aug-08 Mar-09 Oct-09 May-10 Dec-10 Jul-11 Feb-12 Chattel Mortgages Credit Cards Personal Mortgages
 family mortgage loans decreased 0.4 p.p.
 Source: BCRA

 8 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation
 and granting expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 9 and stood at 15.6%. Finally, the interest rate on
 personal loans averaged 35.7%, decreasing
 0.9 p.p. in the month, while the last available data
 on the interest rate corresponding to credit card
 financing stood at 33% for February, 1 p.p. below
 the January average (see Chart 5.8).

 Chart 6.1
 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009
 55
 6. International Reserves and
 Mar-12 Foreign Exchange Market9
 52
 International reserves totaled on the last day of
49 March US$47.291 million (see Chart 6.1), with an increase of US$623 million compared to the balance recorded at the end of February. The foreign currency purchases made during the month by the Central Bank in the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) exceeded those of January and February and reached US$1.564 million. The inflow of external assets generated by these operations was partially offset by the purchase of foreign currency by the Treasury for debt repayment.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the US Dollar, although to a lesser extent than in the last 14 months. The average quotation for the month was 4.36 $/US$, 0.2% higher than in February. Additionally, contracts concluded in the forward market (ROFEX) reflected a downward revision of depreciation expectations for the remainder of the year. The average amount traded was $850 million, decreasing in relation to the previous month (8.6%). For its part, with respect to the Real, the peso appreciated, and the average monthly quotation fell 4.2% to 2.42 $/Real.

In contrast, in relation to the Euro, the quotation remained stable, being 5.76 $/Euro, on average, for the month.

7. Capital Market7

Stocks

Continuing with the positive trend recorded in recent months, although with more modest and less homogeneous performance, the financial markets ended March with a positive balance. The MSCI Global measured in dollars grew 1%, mainly as a consequence of the performance recorded in the first half of the month (see Chart 7.1). Among the factors that would have influenced this behavior, the completion of the Greek debt swap with private holders with a high percentage of acceptance and the injection of liquidity by the European Central Bank (ECB) stand out. In the case of the Greek debt restructuring, it should be clarified that, despite the swap and in a context in which it is not clear what will be the growth drivers, the debt/GDP ratio target set for 2020 continues to be high (120.5%) and that, furthermore, doubts persist about that country's capacity to achieve that target ratio. Meanwhile, at the end of March, greater caution became evident in international markets, which moderated gains after economic indicators revitalized investors' fears regarding downside risks to global growth.

Among the stock exchanges relevant to the Argentine economy, the S&P 500 (the main index of the US market) continued to be the best performing market with a relative increase of 3.1%. Meanwhile, the MSCI Europe index measured in dollars fell back 0.6%, driven by the performance recorded in the second half of the month. For its part, volatility levels continued to decline, piercing the levels from last July. In this regard, the expected volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference index for the eurozone stock exchange) decreased 2.7 p.p. to a monthly average of 22.2%. Similarly,

9 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 10 Chart 7.2
Evolution of the Bovespa and Real
Index in Thousands R$/US$

[Charts 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3 contain visual data representations with axes and source citations to BCRA based on Bloomberg data]
3,000 the VIX Index, which measures the expected volatility of the S&P

30 500 was reduced by 2.3 p.p to an average of 16%.

2,500
20 In March, emerging equity markets

10 2,000 registered disparate behavior. In Latin America, the MSCI Latin America index measured in dollars

0 1,500 registered a loss of 3.5%, driven by the decline
Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data recorded on the Bovespa (Brazil), which measured in dollars
fell 7.8% (see Chart 7.2). This performance would
be explained mainly by the recent measures
applied by the Brazilian government (the increase in
tax on short-term capital inflows and the
reduction of the reference interest rate) aimed
at curbing the appreciation of the real. In this context, after
Chart 7.4 an appreciation against the dollar of 8% in the first

Sovereign Risk Indicators two-month period, in March the Brazilian real depreciated 6.4% and

Spread in b.p Spread in b.p the stock exchange fell 2% in local currency. For its part, the

550 1100
IPC (Mexico) had the best performance among the

500 EMBI+ 1000 main markets in the region, registering a monthly

EMBI+ Latin America 450 900 gain of 4.9%, followed by the IGPA (Chile) which

EMBI+ Argentina (right axis)
400 800 grew 1.2%, both measured in dollars.

350 700

300 600 Argentine equity market quotation registered a slight increase following the sharp decline recorded in

250 500 February. In this sense, the MERVAL index, measured in

200 400 dollars, registered an increase of 0.8%, mainly

Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 as a consequence of the performance of the index measured in local currency. This performance occurred in a
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg
Chart 7.5 scenario of increased volatility. Indeed, the
Monetary Report | March of 2012 | BCRA | 11
historical volatility of Merval 22 sessions increased
Yield of Sovereign Bonds in Dollars 4.5 p.p, reaching 26.5% (see Chart 7.3).
% %
35 14

12 The average daily volume traded in shares
30 10
8 during March on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange
Par Argentine Law
25 6 Par New York Law was $46 million, marking a decline of 11.3%

4 Discount Argentine Law
2 Discount New York Law compared to the level recorded in the previous month.
20 0
10-year U.S. Treasury Bond
May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12
15

Public Securities

10

5 In March the sovereign risk differentials of emerging economies over U.S. Treasury bonds
were reduced by approximately 15 b.p.,
0
Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg in a context in which the yields of U.S. Treasury

bonds (treasuries) at 10 and 30 years widened by around 25 b.p..

In this context, the risk differentials of Argentine
bonds in dollars of long-term maturity with foreign law
Chart 7.6 over U.S. Treasury bonds, according to the

Corporate Bond Issuance EMBI+, grew 37 b.p, positioning itself at 880 b.p.,

billions of millions of $ Amount mainly as a consequence of the performance
400 Average amount per placement16 recorded in the second half of the month (see Chart
of $ Number of placements (right axis)
5.5 350 14
300 12 7.4). Among the most representative sovereign bonds the
5.0 250 10
200 8 yield of the Discount in dollars New York law
4.5
150 6
4.0 widened by approximately 75 b.p., while the Par with
100 4
3.5 50 2 the same conditions did so by around 30 b.p. (see Chart

0 0
3.0 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-127.5). For its part, the average daily volume traded

2.5
2.0 of public securities in the local market grew 16% in

1.5 March, positioning itself at $1,570 million.

1.0

0.5 Private Securities

0.0

Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg Driven by the increase in the number of placements, corporate financing through debt issuance reached $640 million in March, 27% more than the amount recorded in the previous month (see Chart 7.6). Most of the issuances were made in local currency and will accrue a variable rate equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin that averaged 3.3 p.p.. Among the main debt issuers of the month, Non-Bank Financial Entities and the Electricity Energy sector stand out.

**Chart 7.7**

**ON Issuances at Variable Rate BADLAR of Private Banks**

% (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $
- 25 700
- Placed amount (right axis)
- Cut-off rate for securities with rating above arg BBB+ 600
- 20 BADLAR rate of private banks 500
- 15 400
- 10 300
- 200
- 5 100
- 0 0
- Jan-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Jul-10 Dec-10 May-11 Oct-11 Mar-12

Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 12

The cost of financing in national currency continued to decrease in March in line with the performance recorded in money market interest rates. In fact, the cut-off rate of issuances in pesos with rating above arg BBB+ decreased 1.3 p.p. (see Chart 7.7). Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment in the secondary market, a widening of yields on corporate bonds in dollars was observed, mainly in the medium and long-term portion of the curve.

Thus, the total amount placed in the first quarter of 2012 stood at $1,800 million, 32% lower than that recorded in the first quarter of 2011. This performance is explained mainly by the reduction in the amounts of the Electricity Energy sector and Other Financial, Stock Exchange and Insurance Activities.

Likewise, throughout the year a decline has been observed in the number of placements in foreign currency, in the amount and in the average maturity of the issuances. Not so in the number of placements that show an upward trend driven by the peso segment.

**Mutual Investment Funds**

In March, the equity of the Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, registered growth of 9% with respect to the previous month ($2,600 million), reaching $35,900 million. This is the sixth month of consecutive expansions, which accumulate so far this year an increase of 24% ($6,900 million), showing an increase in the preference of agents towards this type of assets, either as a medium and long-term investment or as an instrument to manage their liquidity.

The increase recorded in March was driven again by FCIs in pesos, which expanded 9.7% ($2,970 million), thanks to the performance recorded in fixed-income funds, which grew 9.7% ($1,400 million) and Money Market funds, which increased 10.6% ($1,200 million). Likewise, contributing to the positive trend of the segment, mixed-income funds expanded 10.4% ($270 million). Meanwhile, variable-income funds showed no changes with respect to February (see Chart 7.8).

**Chart 7.8**

**Equity of SME Funds in Pesos**

millions $
- 1,100
- Distribution of SME Fund Investments (in percentage)
- 1,000
- 11 CPD
- 900 ON 13 Shares
- 800 FCI
- FF 6 Other
- 700 2 59
- 600 9
- 500
- 400
- 300

**Chart 7.9**

**Evolution of SME Fund Equity in Pesos**

millions $

Within the fixed-income and mixed-income fund segment in pesos, over the last few months the increase recorded in funds that invest an important percentage of their portfolio in SME instruments stood out, mainly deferred payment checks (CPD), financial trusts (FF) and obligations
negotiable securities (ON). In this sense, in March the

100
Oct-10 Dec-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 patrimony of the SME funds slightly exceeded

Source: CAFCI and BCRA $1,000 million (see Chart 7.9).

Finally, the patrimony of the FCIs in foreign currency almost did not register changes with respect to February, ending the month at US$540 million.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.10 Financial Trusts

Issuances of Financial Trusts Financial trust (FF) issuances

million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
1,600 totaled $850 million in March, 16% less than the

1,400 volume traded in February (see Chart 7.10). Said

Average decrease was due to the fact that this month registered a
1,200 Average $1,050M smaller number of operations (12 in total, 3 less than
$820M
Average Average in February). For its part, the average amount per
1,000 Average $730M Average $700M placement increased from $67 million in February to $71
800 $580M $550M million in March and since mid-2009 shows

600 an upward trend (considering only those FF

400 that have consumer loans as underlying assets;
see Chart 7.11)
200

0
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: BCRA based on CNV and other data Like last month, all of the securitized assets were linked to consumption (personal loans and, to a lesser extent, credit card vouchers). The main originators were retail businesses, with a participation in the total amount
Chart 7.11 issued of 40% (approximately $340 million),
showing an increase in their securitizations of
Average Amount per Placement 22% with respect to February. Meanwhile, mutual societies,
(FF with consumer loans as underlying asset)
million $ units cooperative units, non-banking credit card issuers and
80 50 Average amount per placement other financial service providers, on one hand, and financial
70 45 Number of operations (right axis) entities, on the other hand, were fiduciaries of approximately
40
60 30% of the total each one ($250 million). However, said
35
50 amount represented an increase of 13% in the first case and a
30 decrease of 50% for financial entities.
40 25

30 20 In line with the evolution of money market interest rates,
15 the interest rates at the cutoff of senior titles in pesos
20 continued to decrease (see Chart 7.12). The weighted
10 average by amount of the interest rate at the cutoff of titles
10 5 awarded at variable rate decreased 1.6 p.p. with respect to
0 0 February and was located at 14%, while the one corresponding
Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: BCRA based on CNV and other data to titles with fixed return registered a decrease of 2 p.p.
with respect to last month, locating itself at 13.3%.

Chart 7.12 Finally, the nominal value of FF with public offering
in circulation as of February was located at approximately
Cutoff Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos $37,500 million, without registering significant variations
TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - weighted monthly average by amount) with respect to the previous month. It is worth mentioning that

40 approximately 70% of the balance in circulation corresponded
Fixed rate to FF whose purpose is the financing of infrastructure
35 Variable rate works.
Private banks BADLAR rate
30

25

20

15

10

5
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 148. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations on average
Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-12 Monthly Last 12 monthsFeb-12Dec-11Mar-11
Nominal Real Nominal Real
Monetary base 216.343 207.845 210.100 164.445 4.1% 2.9% 31.6% 19.5%
Monetary circulation 168.755 168.651 165.181 128.825 0.1% -1.1% 31.0% 19.0%
Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 149.189 148.605 144.288 113.096 0.4% -0.8% 31.9% 19.8%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 19.564 20.045 20.891 15.724 -2.4% -3.6% 24.4% 13.0%
Cancellation Checks 2 1 2 0 86.2% 83.9% - -
Current account at the BCRA 47.589 39.194 44.919 35.620 21.4% 20.0% 33.6% 21.3%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 20.860 27.506 12.071 12.948 -24.2% -25.1% 61.1% 46.3%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 46.642 39.439 22.782 36.791 18.3% 16.9% 26.8% 15.1%

NOBAC 33.941 38.411 44.889 46.466 -11.6% -12.7% -27.0% -33.7%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 47.168 46.811 45.983 52.287 0.8% -9.8%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 414.762 407.010 382.886 323.918 1.9% 0.7% 28.0% 16.3%
Current account (2) 113.974 113.218 106.893 92.200 0.7% -0.5% 23.6% 12.3%
Savings account 77.376 76.537 73.673 58.795 1.1% -0.1% 31.6% 19.5%
Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 207.279 200.983 185.534 158.905 3.1% 1.9% 30.4% 18.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 9 9 10 10 0.0% -1.2% -10.0% -18.3%
Other deposits (3) 16.124 16.262 16.776 14.007 -0.8% -2.0% 15.1% 4.6%

Deposits of the private sector 285.683 277.607 262.112 216.285 2.9% 1.7% 32.1% 20.0%

Deposits of the public sector 129.080 129.403 120.774 107.633 -0.2% -1.4% 19.9% 8.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 13.200 13.278 13.158 15.343 -0.6% -14.0%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 283.051 276.930 268.587 194.482 2.2% 1.0% 45.5% 32.2%

Loans to the private sector 254.118 248.898 241.211 173.010 2.1% 0.9% 46.9% 33.4%
Advances 35.344 33.149 30.930 23.144 6.6% 5.4% 52.7% 38.7%
Documents 50.344 50.744 51.144 36.254 -0.8% -2.0% 38.9% 26.1%
Mortgage loans 28.472 27.976 26.835 20.930 1.8% 0.6% 36.0% 23.6%
Pledge loans 17.325 17.147 16.397 10.887 1.0% -0.2% 59.1% 44.5%
Personal loans 61.229 59.920 58.115 42.755 2.2% 1.0% 43.2% 30.1%
Credit cards 43.053 41.720 39.942 28.640 3.2% 2.0% 50.3% 36.5%
Others 18.350 18.242 17.847 10.401 0.6% -0.6% 76.4% 60.2%

Loans to the public sector 28.933 28.032 27.377 21.471 3.2% 2.0% 34.8% 22.4%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.526 9.713 9.607 8.315 -1.9% 14.6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 263.165 261.824 251.183 205.300 0.5% -0.7% 28.2% 16.4%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 340.541 338.361 324.857 264.096 0.6% -0.5% 28.9% 17.1%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 563.953 555.615 527.177 437.018 1.5% 0.3% 29.0% 17.2%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 621.456 613.348 583.612 498.982 1.3% 0.1% 24.5% 13.1%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current 228.453 225.594 218.627 176.158 1.3% 0.1% 29.7% 17.8%
account of private sector in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 299.633 296.023 288.231 230.566 1.2% 0.0% 30.0% 18.0%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 434.873 426.213 406.402 329.385 2.0% 0.8% 32.0% 19.9%
total deposits of private sector in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits of private sector in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency 487.083 478.484 458.029 378.205 1.8% 0.6% 28.8% 17.0%

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2012 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary base 8.498 3.9% 6.243 2.9% 6.243 2.9% 51.899 24.0%
 Financial sector 6.878 3.2% -8.052 -3.7% -8.052 -3.7% -4.886 -2.3%
 Public sector -1.521 -0.7% 5.326 2.5% 5.326 2.5% 28.909 13.4%
 Private external sector 4.586 2.1% 18.127 8.4% 18.127 8.4% 15.071 7.0%
 BCRA Securities -1.152 -0.5% -8.504 -3.9% -8.504 -3.9% 14.844 6.9%
 Other -293 -0.1% -654 -0.3% -654 -0.3% -2.040 -0.9%

 BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 357 0.7% 1.186 2.5% 1.186 2.5% -5.119 -10.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.054 2.2% 4.197 8.9% 4.197 8.9% 3.555 7.5%
 Payment to international organizations -57 -0.1% 88 0.2% 88 0.2% 620 1.3%
 Other public sector operations -373 -0.8% -2.199 -4.7% -2.199 -4.7% -2.360 -5.0%
 Minimum cash 402 0.9% 776 1.6% 776 1.6% -4.296 -9.1%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) -669 -1.4% -1.677 -3.6% -1.677 -3.6% -2.638 -5.6%

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being carried out.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Informational Regime.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12
 (1)

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.6 16.0 16.0
 Integration 16.0 16.3 17.3
 Position (2) 0.4 0.3 1.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.3 60.0 60.0
 30 to 59 days 23.7 23.4 23.4
 60 to 89 days 11.1 5.8 5.8
 90 to 179 days 6.7 5.7 5.7
 More than 180 days 3.2 5.1 5.1

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21.0 21.0 21.0
 Integration (includes resource application default) 60.0 56.2 55.5
 Position (2) 39.0 35.2 34.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 57.3 54.8 57.0
 30 to 59 days 22.8 25.0 21.7
 60 to 89 days 8.9 10.1 11.3
 90 to 179 days 9.6 8.6 8.4
 180 to 365 days 1.3 1.4 1.6
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.70 9.43 9.63 9.99 9.82
 Amount traded 1.241 1.172 1.291 1.126 643

 Fixed-term deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 12.08 12.52 13.21 14.74 9.30
 60 days or more 12.64 12.49 14.84 16.50 10.73
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.12 11.95 12.41 14.76 9.64
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.87 14.13 16.06 18.75 11.14

 In dollars
 30 days 0.31 0.31 0.30 0.33 0.27
 60 days or more 0.77 0.77 0.69 0.69 0.57
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.48 0.43 0.45 0.43 0.37
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.83 0.64 0.65 0.63 0.56

 Active Interest Rates Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.56 12.43 13.30 15.98 11.44
 Amount traded (total maturities) 197 218 207 226 223

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 22.11 23.31 24.74 26.49 19.22
 Documents on single signature 19.28 20.25 21.55 22.15 15.27
 Mortgage loans 15.69 16.12 15.93 16.52 14.02
 Pledge loans 24.21 25.28 26.32 25.10 17.62
 Personal loans 35.52 36.55 37.70 36.46 29.55
 Credit cards n/a 33.01 34.02 33.15 30.77

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14.08 15.75 18.70 22.56 11.15

 International Interest Rates Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.25 0.28 0.28 0.25
 6 months 0.74 0.76 0.80 0.78 0.46
# US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.34 0.27 0.23 0.25 0.67
 10 years 2.16 1.95 1.94 1.96 3.39

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 9.89 10.50 10.76 11.00 11.72

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total repo session rates
 1 day 9.05 9.07 9.06 9.13 9.22
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.54

 Amount traded in repo session (daily average) 11,230 13,426 10,130 8,454 8,358

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 10.98
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.07
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.95
 12 months 12.89 13.52 n/o 14.26 12.46

 NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.39
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.68
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.52
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 713 520 494 378 673

 Exchange Market Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.36 4.35 4.33 4.29 4.04
 BCRA Reference 4.36 4.35 4.32 4.29 4.04

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.41 4.39 4.37 4.36 4.06
 ROFEX 1 month 4.39 4.38 4.35 4.33 4.07
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 850 930 1,075 904 699

 Real (Pesos x Real) 2.42 2.53 2.42 2.33 2.43

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.76 5.75 5.58 5.64 5.65

 Capital Market Mar-12 Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Mar-11

 MERVAL
 Index 2,701 2,764 2,806 2,488 3,359
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 49 51 52 39 59

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 113.60 107.73 106.37 107.22 100.65
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 91.43 87.98 83.27 81.40 90.91
 BODEN 2014 ($) 96.55 92.56 90.45 86.93 93.15
 DISCOUNT ($) 53.56 54.98 54.50 51.96 72.89

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 325 355 447 469 451
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 352 365 405 409 322

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-on-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Agreed Term Operations.

ON: Negotiable Bond.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | March 2012 | BCRA | 19
