# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
June 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Pg. 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Pg. 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Pg. 4

4. Loans | Pg. 5

5. Interest Rates | Pg. 5

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Pg. 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Pg. 7

 Interbank Markets | Pg. 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Pg. 8

 Active Interest Rates | Pg. 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Pg. 9

7. Capital Market | Pg. 10

 Shares | Pg. 11

 Public Securities | Pg. 11

 Private Securities | Pg. 12

 Investment Funds | Pg. 12

 Financial Trusts | Pg. 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Pg. 15

9. Glossary | Pg. 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on July 11, 2012. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• During the month of June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed a growth of
29.5% y.o.y., 1.1 p.p. above the previous month. The monthly increase of this aggregate was explained
mainly by the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases and loans in pesos to the private sector.

• Fixed-term deposits of the private sector grew 1.8% in the month, showing one of the highest
increases in recent years. This increase was driven essentially by placements in the wholesale segment
(which correspond to deposits of $1 million and more).

• Loans in pesos to the private sector registered an increase of 3.9% in June ($10,400 million),
well above the growth observed in the first five months of the year (1.9% on average). Thus, the year-
on-year rate of change, which had shown a gradual deceleration since October 2011, remained at 42.9%
in the last month. When decomposing the month's growth into the percentage points explained by each
of the major lines, it is verified that those destined to finance commercial activities contributed most to
growth with 2.3 p.p., while consumer loans contributed 1.3 p.p. and loans with real guarantees 0.3 p.p..

• In this context, broad liquidity (defined as the sum of balances in current accounts at the Central
Bank, cash in banks, holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC and balances maintained in repurchase operations
at the Central Bank) decreased 1.3 p.p., to 37.2% of deposits in pesos, mainly due to the decrease in
passive repurchase operations for the Central Bank.

• Short-term passive interest rates increased in the wholesale segment, while remaining relatively
stable for smaller deposits. The BADLAR rate of private banks – fixed-term deposits of more than $1
million and 30-35 days maturity – averaged 12.2% in June, registering a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p..
Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits
(up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) remained at 11.1%, unchanged from the May average.
• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector continued to decline.
The decline was led by the rates of the lines intended to finance commercial activities and, principally those of shorter terms, as has occurred in recent months. In particular, the monthly average interest rate on documents discounted to companies stood at 16.7%, declining 0.8 p.p. in the month; while that of documents on single signature averaged 17.3% in June, standing 0.5 p.p. below the average recorded in May. In turn, the interest rate on current account advances stood at 20.4%, retreating 0.6 p.p. in the month. Meanwhile, the interest rate on personal loans recorded a decline of 1.2 p.p. in June, averaging 33.5%.

• In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average balance of total deposits decreased 16.3% with respect to the May average, mainly due to the decline in placements by the private sector. It should be noted that the daily decline in this type of placements reduced gradually throughout June and that liquidity in foreign currency remained elevated, at a level equivalent to 62.9% of total deposits in dollars. It is important to recall that, as a result of prudential policies implemented in recent years (which restrict debtors who are susceptible to receiving financing in foreign currency to those who have income in that currency), the Argentine financial system possesses a low degree of dollarization and a very reduced level of currency mismatch.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Chart 2.1
% Monetary Aggregates - M3 During the month of June, the broader peso aggregate
(variation of monthly averages) % (M3) showed a monthly growth of 3.2%, which implies an
5 50 year-on-year increase of 29.5%, 1.1 p.p. above the previous
Monthly variation
4 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 40 month (see Chart 2.1).

3 30 Among the components of M3, total means of payment
2 20 (M2) grew 5.3% in the month. In turn, among the means
1 10 of payment, cash in the hands of the public and sight
0 0 deposits of the private sector stood out, which is ex-
-1 -10 plained in part by their seasonal behavior.

-2 -20
Jun-07 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12
Note: M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA
 For its part, fixed-term deposits of the private sector
 grew 1.8%, also showing one of the highest increases in
 recent years for the months of June (see Chart 2.2). This
Chart 2.2 increase was driven essentially by placements of the
 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector wholesale stratum (of $1 million and more). Thus, placements
 (variations of monthly averages) June - Monthly Avg. Var. at term of the private sector accumulated an increase of
 % % More than $1 million 38.8% in the last 12 months.
 7 42
 8 38.8%
 6 36 6 With respect to the factors of variation of M3, these
 5 30 4 3.4 continued to be the Central Bank's purchases of foreign
 4 24 2 2006 currency and loans in pesos to the private sector (see
 0 Chart 2.3).
 3 18 -2 2007
 2 12 -4 2008 In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average
 1 6 -6 2009 balance...
 % Less than $1 million
 0 0 6 2010
-1 -6 4 2011
-2 Monthly variation -12 0 2 2012
-3 Year-on-year variation (right axis) -18-2 monthly of the total deposits decreased 16.3%, ob-
Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 -4 serving reductions mainly in private sector placements,
Source: BCRA -6 although reductions in public sector placements were also observed. Regarding the former, although they continued to show declines throughout June, a gradual and significant moderation in their daily rate of decrease was verified. It is important to recall that, as a result of the prudential policies implemented in recent years (which restrict borrowers who are susceptible to receiving financing in foreign currency, to those who have income in said currency), the Argentine financial system possesses a low degree of dollarization and a very reduced level of currency mismatch.

Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), increased 1.6% in the month.

Graph 2.3
thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates
millions of $ (June 2012, on average)
20

16

12

8

4

0

-4 Foreign Currency Sector Loans to Sector Other M2 Time Deposits and Time Deposits and
Purchases Public* Private Sector Other Other M3
*Includes public sector operations with effects on the monetary base and public sector loans.
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1

3. Bank Liquidity¹

Bank Liquidity in Pesos In June, financial institutions increased the balance
% of deposits (monthly average) of loans to the private sector. These credit operations
45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity were funded both through the use of the
42.1
39.9 39.8 38.6 increase in deposits in pesos and through the
40 36.9 37.5 37.3 38.2 38.5
36.8 37.2 reduction of their most liquid assets. Consequently,
35.1 35.0
35 broad liquidity (defined as the sum of balances
in current accounts at the Central Bank, cash in
30 banks, holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs and bal-
16.8
25 ances maintained in repos at the Central Bank) de-
20 creased 1.3 p.p., to 37.2% of deposits in pesos
3.9
15 (see Graph 3.1), mainly due to the decrease in
4.4
10 passive repos for the Central Bank. Meanwhile, hold-
5 12.1 ings of LEBACs and NOBACs remained relatively
0 stable, while cash in banks and the current account
Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 at the BCRA – with which the minimum cash requirement regime is integrated – experienced an increase. Thus, the
Source: BCRA
integration of Minimum Cash exceeded the requirement by the equivalent of 0.3% of total deposits in pesos.

Graph 3.2
Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos In the foreign currency segment, liquidity remained high
% of deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position and amounted to 62.9% of total deposits in dollars.

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0.3

0.0

-0.5

-1.0
Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12
4. Loans¹
Source: BCRA

Loans in pesos to the private sector registered in
June an increase of 3.9% ($10,400 million), well
Graph 4.1 above the growth observed in the first five months
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector of the year (of 1.9% on average; see Graph 4.1).
% (monthly average variation) Meanwhile, the year-on-year variation rate, which had
6 70 been showing a gradual deceleration since October 2011,
Monthly % variation remained at 42.9% in the last month. Upon breaking
5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 60 down the growth of the month into the percentage points
4 3.9 50 explained by each of the major lines, it is verified that
those aimed at financing commercial activities contributed 2.3 p.p., consumer loans contributed 1.3 p.p. and loans with
# Translation

3 40 real guarantee contributed 0.3 p.p. (see Graph 4.2).

 2 30 In this context, commercial lines showed a

 1 20 strong acceleration in their monthly expansion rate. In
 June, advances grew 8.1% ($2,990 million), the
 0 10
 largest increase in the last thirteen months. For their

 -1 0 part, financing instruments executed through docu-
 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12ments registered an increase in the average monthly
 Source: BCRA

2 In the calculation of banking liquidity, LEBACs and NOBACs are expressed in effective value.
3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from
entities to financial trusts. However, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," loan figures correspond to statistical information,
not adjusted for financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.2 balance of 3.4% ($1,700 million). In both cases, the
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector increases recorded in the month are among
 % (contribution by line to growth in June months)
 4.5 the highest in recent years for the month of June

 4.0 Consumption (see Graph 4.3). The great dynamism of these lines is
 3.5 explained, in part, by seasonal factors related
 1.3
 3.0 to the increased demand for liquidity by
 2.5 0.3 companies to face the payment of the half-year
 2.0 Guarantee complementary salary. Another factor that would be providing
 Real
 1.5 an additional boost to these lines is the decrease in
 1.0 2.3 foreign currency loans—generally associated
 0.5 with export pre-financing—which were
 0.0 Commercial partially replaced by domestic currency lines.

-0.5
-1.0
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Regarding loans oriented to consumption, personal
 loans showed improvement throughout the year,
Source: BCRA after the marked deceleration at the end of 2011. The
 relaxation of credit conditions observed since the
 beginning of the year contributed to this improvement.
 Graph 4.3 In particular, the extension of the terms of granted
 loans (the weighted average term by amount went
 Documents in Pesos Advances in Pesos from 37.9 months in January to 42.7 months in June) and
 to the Private Sector to the Private Sector the decrease in the interest rate charged for these
 (variation of monthly averages) (variation of monthly averages) operations (see Active Interest Rates Section). Thus,
 personal loans grew in June 2.6%
 % %
 5 12 ($1,640 million), a value around which their monthly
 4 3.4 9 8.1 growth rate seems to have stabilized in recent months.
 3 For their part, credit card financing showed greater
 6
 2 dynamism than previous months, registering an increase
 3 of 4.2% ($1,865 million), one of the highest so far this
 1
 0 0 year.

 -1 -3 Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgage loans
 June vs. May June vs. May grew in June 1.7% ($500 million), in line with growth
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in previous months. For their part, pledge loans accel-
Source: BCRA erated their expansion rate, registering a monthly increase
 of 2.1% ($380 million), still far from the record growth
 observed during 2011 (see Graph 4.4).

 Graph 4.4
 % Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % In June, a new auction was held within the framework
 7 (monthly and year-on-year average variation) 80 of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program
 (PFPB), through which $106.2 mi-
 6 70
 llions were adjudicated
 5 4.8 60
50 million. Thus, the total auctioned to date amounts to $4,616
40 million. Likewise, disbursements of funds awarded to financial entities in previous auc-
2,130
2,4 2,4
tions continued. In June, the delivery of $112
2
20
1 10 million was effectuated, bringing the total disbursed since the be-
-0.3
0 0 ginning of PFPB to $3,044 million.
Monthly Variation
-1 Var. y.o.y. (right axis) -10
Annual average monthly var. Continuing with its commitment to improve the supply of
-2 -20
Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 credit for investment and productive activity, the Central
Source: BCRA
Bank arranged, in the first days of July, the launch of

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 6 Chart 5.1 the "credit line for productive investment" (Communication
 A 53194). Thus, financial entities that have 1% or more of
Awarded Amount of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market total system deposits and government financial agent
Billions of $ Billions of $ banks of the national government, provincial govern-
16 More than 360 days 70 ments, municipal governments, or of the Autonomous
From 271 to 360 days
From 181 to 270 days City of Buenos Aires (which totals 31 entities) must
14 From 91 to 180 days
Up to 90 days 60 allocate, at a minimum, an amount equivalent to 5% of
Stock Evolution (right axis)
12 Maturities their deposits from the private sector in pesos from June
50
10 2012 for financing investment projects. At least half of
8 40 that amount must be granted to micro, small, and me-
6 30 dium-sized enterprises. This line comprises loans with
4 20 an average term equal to or greater than 24 months
2 and will be granted at a fixed interest rate of up to
0 10 15.01%.
Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12
Source: BCRA Foreign currency loans to the private sector, fun-
 damentally to the export sector, registered a monthly
 decline of 7.4% (US$ 680 million). This decrease oc-
 curred in a context of reduction in foreign currency
Chart 5.2 deposits (see Monetary Aggregates) and increase in in-
Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market terest rates charged for these financings, and as was
 noted, part of those loans were replaced by lines in
T.N.A. % local currency.
15.0
14.7
14.5
14.0 14.2
14.0
13.6
13.5
13.0 12.9
12.7 5. Interest Rates 5
12.5
12.5 12.3 12.5 12.7
12.0 12.4
12.0 11.8 12.2 Auction of 29-05-2012
Auctions of June
11.5 11.5
11.1 Auction of 26-06-2012 Securities issued by the Central Bank6
11.0
10.5 Days
Throughout the month only LEBAC securities were
10.0
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 awarded, where placements at short terms prevailed.
Source: BCRA Thus, the average maturity of the securities placed
 was around 6 months (see Chart 5.1). In the primary
 market, interest rates of medium and long-term secu-
 rities showed slight increases that did not exceed 0.5
Chart 5.3 p.p.. For their part, placements at shorter terms, which
Yield Curve of LEBAC in the Secondary Market(*) continued to be auctioned at a predetermined cut rate
 (weighted average rate by amount), were awarded at
T.N.A. % interest rates similar to those in May (see Chart 5.2).

15

14 At the end of June, the outstanding stock of LEBAC
13 and NOBAC was placed at $86,660 million, $130 mil-
12 lion below the level registered in the previous month.
11 Private banks and Common Investment Funds reduced
 their holdings, while public banks and insurance com-
29-06-2012
10 panies increased theirs.
9 31-05-2012
 27-04-2012 On the other hand, after two consecutive months of
Days growth, the amount traded in the secondary market
8
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
(*) Logarithmic trend curves
Source: BCRA
4 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/comytexord/A5319.pdf

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 7 of securities issued by the Central Bank was reduced

Graph 5.4 27.1%, reaching $640 million. The operations

Interbank and Pass Market with the BCRA with LEBAC concentrated the largest traded volume,
in billions of $ %
 18.0 12.0 where species under 180 days
 Amount operated with the BCRA REPO round stood out. The interest rates of LEBAC grew
 16.0 Amount operated Call 11.5 slightly during the month (see Graph 5.3). In NOBAC the
 Amount operated REPO round excluding BCRA
 14.0 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis) 11.0 traded volume decreased again, placing itself

 Interest rate Call at 1 business day (right axis) at an average of $55 million daily.
 12.0 10.5

 10.0 10.0
 9.5
 8.0
 9.0 Central Bank Pass Operations1

 6.0
 8.5

 4.0 8.0 The Central Bank pass corridor remained unchanged.

 2.0 7.5 The passive pass rates stood at 9% and 9.5% for

 0.0 7.0 operations at 1 and 7 days, while the active pass rates
 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12
Source: BCRA remained at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

In a context of greater dynamism in lending to the
 private sector, liquidity levels in the financial system
 Graph 5.5 were slightly reduced compared to May, mainly as a
 Call Market consequence of lower passive pass operations for the
 (average net position per month by group of entities)
 millions of $ Central Bank. Thus, the average monthly stock of
 500 passive passes with financial entities fell 30%,
 400 placing itself at $17,300 million.

 300

 200 Interbank Markets1

 100

 0 In June, the interest rates in the interbank market
 -100 increased by 0.2 p.p.. In the guaranteed market (REPO
 -200 round), the average interest rate of operations at 1
 EFNB business day among financial entities, which represent
 -300 Public the largest part of operations, was placed at 9.5%.
 -400 Priv. Nat. Likewise, in the unsecured market (call) the average
 Foreign interest rate of operations at 1 business day was set
 -500 at 9.4%, slightly below the REPO rate (see Graph 5.4).
 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12
Source: BCRA The performance recorded in the interest rates of the
 interbank market occurred together with an increase in
 Graph 5.6 traded amounts. In the REPO round, the daily average
 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-35 days term of the traded amount was $1,770 million, 32.9%
 % TNA (average monthly - Private Banks) higher than the May level. In the call segment, the
 24 amount grew 24.7%, placing itself at $1,480 million.
 p.p. Average monthly variation BADLAR
 22 0.8 With respect to the distribution of the amount traded
 0.3 Up to $100 thousand
 -0.2 in the call market by type of entity, non-banking
 20 -0.7 financial entities resulted as net fund providers, with
 -1.2
 18 -1.7 an average daily contribution of $190 million,
 financing mainly foreign entities that resulted as net
 -2.2 fund takers and private entities that at an aggregate
 16 -2.7 level recorded an almost neutral position. Likewise,
 -3.2 although with a more reduced position, public entities
 Ene-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Abr-12 May-12 Jun-12 resulted as providers, with a daily net fund contribution
 14 of $87 million (see Graph 5.5).

 12

 10 Graph 5.7 Passive Interest Rates1

 8
 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 8
# Interest Rates on Loans Financed via Documents
(monthly average) In June, the interest rates paid by private entities evidenced a slight increase in the wholesale segment, while those in the retail segment remained stable.

Distribution by term of the operated amount
TNA, % 100%
32 Discounted Documents More than 1 year
80% Single Signature Documents 60% From 90 to 364 days
From 60 to 90 days
28 40%
From 30 to 60 days remained stable.
20% Up to 30 days

24 0%
Doc.Disc. Doc. Single Signature
In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private

p.p Monthly Variation of the interest rate
20 0.0 banks – time deposits of more than $1 million and at

-0.2 30-35 days of term – averaged 12.2% in June, regis-

16 -0.4
-0.6 tering a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p.. In this way,

-0.6
-0.8 -0.8 it was located at levels similar to those observed in July-

12
May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 -1.0
Source: BCRA DD Doc ASF August 2011, although it accumulates, throughout 2012, a
decline of 6.6 p.p. (see Chart 5.6).

Regarding the BADLAR futures market, in June there was a lower operated amount, which was concentrated in instruments of up to 2 months of term. In line with what happened in the month, the futures contracts indicated an expected increase in rates for the coming months. Thus, the interest rates of the contracts with maturity at one month of term were located around 13.5%, 0.9 p.p. above the

Chart 5.8 Active Interest Rates corresponding rate to contracts with the same maturity

(monthly average)
Pawn Mortgage to families operated in May.
TNA, %
Personal Credit Cards
39 Current Account Advances Advances of more than $10 million and up to 7 days
36 Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate

33 paid by private banks for their time deposits

30 (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) remained

27
at 11.1%, unchanged from the May average and
24
21 3 p.p. below the December average.

18

15 Active Interest Rates 1 7

12

9
Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 The interest rates applied to loans to the private

Source: BCRA sector continued with the downward trend evidenced in recent months.

The decline was led by the interest rates of the lines intended to finance commercial activities and, mainly those of shorter terms, as has been the case in recent months. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate of the documents

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of the loans.

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 9 discounted to companies was located at 16.7%, declining 0.8 p.p. in the month and accumulating a decrease of 9 p.p. in the year. Likewise, the interest rate of single signature documents averaged 17.3% in June, being positioned 0.5 p.p. below the average registered in May and 4.9 p.p. below that of December. Although the decrease in the interest rate applied to discounted documents in recent months was more pronounced than that of single signature documents, it must be taken into account that the first experienced a larger increase at the end of 2011 (see Chart 5.7). Meanwhile, the interest rate of current account advances was located at 20.4%, declining 0.6 p.p. in the month and 6.4 p.p. in the year. For its part, the corresponding to current account advances of more than $10 million and up to 7 days of term accumulated a decrease of 10.1 p.p. in the year, averaging 12.4% in June.
In the same sense, the interest rates applied to loans with longer terms, in general, continued to decline. Within loans with real guarantee, the interest rate of pledged loans averaged 22.3% in June, declining 0.5 percentage points in the month, while that of mortgages intended for families was located at 15.2%, 0.2 percentage points above the average of May. Meanwhile, the interest rate of personal loans recorded a decline of 1.2 percentage points in the month, averaging 33.5% (see Graph 5.8).

**6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market⁸**

International reserves totaled US$46,348 million on the last day of June, US$630 million below the balance at the end of May. The purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Unified and Free Exchange Market (US$733 million) and the evolution of the US dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies generated an increase in international reserves, which was more than offset by the payment of public debt in foreign currency and by the decrease in dollar current accounts of financial entities in the Central Bank.

In the foreign exchange market, movements in the exchange rates of the currencies of the main trading partners were smaller than those recorded in previous months. Thus, the peso depreciated with respect to the US dollar, registering a monthly average exchange rate of 4.50 $/US$. This meant an increase of 1.1% with respect to May, an increase slightly smaller than that observed the previous month. With respect to the real and the euro, the peso appreciated to a lesser extent than in the previous months. Exchange rates decreased 2.2% and 0.9% respectively, reaching 2.19 $/real and 5.64 $/euro. In the forward market (ROFEX) the amount traded was $938 million, which implied a decrease with respect to May. In turn, the contracts showed an upward revision of the exchange rates expected for the coming months.

**7. Capital Market⁷**

**Equities**

In June, the situation of financial markets improved in the US and Eurozone following the strong declines of May. The MSCI Global, measured in dollars, advanced 4.9% (see Graph 7.1). The announcement of external assistance to Spain of €100,000 million to capitalize banks managed to contain the deterioration in the markets. Likewise, a summit of the main European nations took place to advance in the design and implementation of measures to address the situation of the countries most affected by the crisis. For its part, the Federal Reserve of the United States decided to extend the "twist operation," through which it commits to extend the maturity of its treasury portfolio without modifying its size, and the Central Bank of China cut its reference lending rate, both in the context of worse growth prospects and reduction of inflationary pressures.
In this context, the MSCI Europe index was the one with the best relative performance, advancing 8.7% in the month, which allowed it to offset part of the losses recorded in May. Likewise, the S&P 500 (the main index of the United States market) verified a gain of

**Chart 7.3 Merval Open Index by Economic Group** 4% (see Chart 7.1). Pari passu with the better

160 (Base index 30-12-11=100) stock market performance, a reduction was recorded in the

140 levels of expected volatility mainly in the

120 second half of the month (see Chart 7.2). Thus, at

100 the end of June the expected volatility of the S&P 500,
 Banks measured through the VIX index, was located at 17% similar

80 to the values recorded at the beginning of May and the index Oil that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference Index
 Industrial of the eurozone stock exchange) was located at 24.9%.
 Siderometallurgical

Telecommunications
 60 In line with the behavior recorded in the markets Electrical Energy of developed economies, emerging equities,

MERVAL measured through the MSCI index, finished the month
 40 with a monthly gain of 3.4% and the
 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 MSCI Latin America registered an expansion of 3.8%.
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg **Chart 7.4**
 **Emerging Countries Sovereign Risk Indicators**
 The IPC (Mexico) was the one with the best relative
 Spread in p.b. Spread in p.b. performance within the region and registered an increase
 550 1300 of 14.2% driven by an appreciation of 7.1% in the

500 1200 Mexican peso and an advance of 6.1% in the index in

1100 local currency. Meanwhile, the Bovespa (Brazil), regional
 450 benchmark, advanced timidly, registering an increase of
 1000 0.4% and the IGPA (Chile) gained 4.4%.
 400 900

350 800 In this context, the quotation of Argentine equities

 300 aligned itself with the general trend and gained 2.7% in
 EMBI+ 600 dollars, driven by the industrial and
 250 EMBI+ Latin America
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500 siderometallurgical sectors (see Chart 7.3).

 200 400
 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 The performance of the Argentine stock market took place
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg in a context where the average daily volume traded

on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange remained stable,
 **Public Securities** located at $42 million.

 **Chart 7.5**
 **Corporate Bond Issuance**
 As a consequence of the reduction in investors'
 thousands of Quantity of $ millions preference for assets of lower relative risk, in
 millions Amount per placement June the sovereign risk differentials of emerging
 400 5.5 16
 5.0 14 economies over United States Treasury bonds
 350
 300 Monto en Dólares 12 contracted approximately 60 basis points,
 250 Quantity of placements (right axis) Monto en Pesos 10
 200 8 in a context where Treasury yields widened slightly
 150 4.5 6
 100 4 (see Chart 7.4).
 3.5 50 2
 0 0 The risk differentials of Argentine bonds in
 3.0
 dollars with long-term maturity under foreign law over
 2.5
 2.0 United States Treasury bonds, according to the EMBI+,
 1.5
 1.0 were reduced by 150 basis points to 1,090 basis
 0.5 points. Likewise, the yields of benchmark sovereign
 0.0 bonds, Boden 2015 and Bonar 2013, were reduced by
 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 80 basis points in international markets.

 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg
 **Chart 7.6**
 **Variable Rate ON Issuances BADLAR of Private Banks** Corporate financing in the capital market through
 (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $ debt issuance continued showing favorable dynamics.
 % In June the
 25 1,200
Amount placed (right axis)
Cut-off rate of securities with rating higher than arg A- * 1,000 placement of Negotiable Obligations (ON) totaled
20
BADLAR rate of private banks $770 million (see Graph 7.5). The largest part of the
800
15
amount placed corresponded to the agricultural sector,
600
10 which represented 52% of the total, followed by financial
entities with 23.5%. For their part, SME companies
400
5 again turned to the capital market as a source of
200 funding. In June they raised $17 million through the
0 0 placement of ON and have accumulated a total of
$400 million so far in 2012.
Mar-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12

(*) Maturity less than 2 years.
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC

Following the trend recorded in the last 12 months, the
majority of emissions were carried out in local currency
Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 12 and will accrue a variable rate. Throughout the month the
Graph 7.7 cost of financing in national currency grew slightly in
line with the evolution recorded in the money market. In
Patrimony of Investment Common Funds in Pesos effect, the cut-off rate of ON in pesos at variable rate
Billions of $ (monthly variation) with rating higher than Arg A and maturity less than 2
3.5 years increased by 1 percentage point (see Graph 7.6).
 Fixed Income
3.0  Money Market
2.5  Mixed Income
 Variable Income
2.0  Total

1.5

1.0

0.5

0.0 Common Investment Funds

-0.5

-1.0 After seven months of consecutive increases, in June
-1.5 the patrimony of the FCIs in pesos and in foreign
-2.0 currency registered a decline of 1.9% ($750 million),
Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 placing it at $38,230 million.

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

The Money Market funds in pesos drove the monthly
decline after registering a decrease of 7.4% ($1,030
million). This decline would have a certain seasonal
character, as a consequence of the use of resources by
companies to meet the payment of the annual complemen-
tary salary. The trend of Money Market funds was partly
Graph 7.8 offset by the performance recorded by funds that invest
in mixed income assets, which expanded 4.7% ($210 mil-
Financial Trusts Emissions lion) and, to a lesser extent, by variable income funds,
millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) which registered an increase of 3.5% ($40 million).
Average Jan-May
1,600 $1,070M The latter were driven by the good performance
recorded in stock prices, which contributed with an
1,400 Average 2008 Average 2011
$1,050M average monthly return of 3.1%. Meanwhile, fixed
$820M income funds remained almost unchanged throughout
1,200 Average 2007 Average 2010
$730M Average 2009 $700M the month (see Graph 7.7).
1,000
Average 2006 $550M
800 $580M For their part, the patrimony of the FCIs in foreign
currency expanded 1.1% (US$5 million) reaching US$515
600 million, as a consequence of the behavior recorded in
mixed income and variable income funds.
400

200

0
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

Graph 7.9

Financial Trusts Emissions
millions of $ (accumulated amounts)
14,000  Financial Trusts9
12,000  Infrastructure FF
 Rest
10,000
7,168 In June there were few operations in the FF market. A total
8,000 of 8 placements were made, approximately half of those
6,000 1,249 that usually occur monthly. The decrease in the number
of emissions could be associated with operational pro-
4,000 blems in the routine procedures for launching the trusts.
5,629 5,881 Thus, the amount issued in June was $530 mi-
2,000
0 llones, approximately half of the average monthly amount
 Jan-Jun 2011 Jan-Jun 2012
 Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. of the first five months of the year ($1,070 million;

9 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 13 see Graph 7.8). Excluding FFs intended to finance infrastructure projects (mainly from the public sector), FF emissions accumulated in the first half of the year around $5,880 million, an amount similar to that issued in the same period of 2011 (see Graph 7.9).

 Securitized assets corresponded, almost in their entirety, to consumption-linked credits. Indeed, the securitizations of personal loans and credit card installments represented, together, 95% of the total. The remainder corresponded to commercial credits. On its
 Graph 7.10 part, the different types of fiduciaries issued similar amounts among themselves. Retail stores and financial entities placed, in both cases, around $180 million, while mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers emitted around $150 million.

 The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos showed dissimilar behaviors depending on the type of return. Indeed, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of titles awarded at variable rate showed a slight increase, in line with that registered by the BADLAR private banks, and was situated at
 40 13.8% (see Graph 7.10). Meanwhile, that corresponding to
 35 Fixed rate titles with fixed returns decreased 2 p.p., reaching 12%. However, it is worth noting that both in
 Variable rate June and in May only one operation was registered under
 30 BADLAR rate private banks this modality, which explains the greater volatility of this rate.

 25

 20

 15

 10

 5

 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV and other data

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary and financial system variables Jun-12 Monthly Last 12 monthsMay-12Dec-11Jun-11
 Nominal Real Nominal Real

 Monetary Base 236,884 223,779 210,100 176,931 5.9% 5.0% 33.9% 21.7%
 Monetary circulation 182,785 172,401 165,181 137,194 6.0% 5.2% 33.2% 21.1%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 163,276 154,275 144,288 120,498 5.8% 5.0% 35.5% 23.2%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 19,508 18,123 20,891 16,693 7.6% 6.8% 16.9% 6.2%
 Cancelatory Checks 2 2 2 0 -8.6% -9.4% - -
 Current account at the BCRA 54,098 51,378 44,919 39,737 5.3% 4.5% 36.1% 23.8%

 Stock of Repo Operations
 Liabilities 20,320 28,111 12,071 10,311 -27.7% -28.3% 97.1% 79.2%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repo operations)
 In pesos 54,580 55,802 22,782 35,534 -2.2% -3.0% 53.6% 39.7%

 NOBAC 27,307 28,974 44,889 54,063 -5.8% -6.5% -49.5% -54.1%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 46,604 47,436 45,983 52,094 -1.8% -10.5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 444,042 434,456 382,886 348,506 2.2% 1.4% 27.4% 15.8%
 Current account (2) 124,730 120,785 106,893 100,089 3.3% 2.4% 24.6% 13.3%
 Savings account 84,963 79,286 73,673 63,108 7.2% 6.3% 34.6% 22.4%
 Fixed term non-adjustable by CER 216,319 216,897 185,534 170,196 -0.3% -1.1% 27.1% 15.6%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 9 9 10 10 1.4% 0.6% -11.3% -19.4%
 Other deposits (3) 18,022 17,479 16,776 15,103 3.1% 2.3% 19.3% 8.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 310,090 301,150 262,112 233,815 3.0% 2.2% 32.6% 20.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 133,953 133,306 120,774 114,691 0.5% -0.3% 16.8% 6.2%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 10,532 12,575 13,158 15,659 -16.3% -32.7%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 303,910 293,689 268,587 214,671 3.5% 2.7% 41.6% 28.7%

Loans to the private sector 274,032 263,946 241,211 191,820 3.8% 3.0% 42.9% 29.9%
 Advances 39,953 36,966 30,930 27,420 8.1% 7.2% 45.7% 32.5%
 Documents 52,105 50,406 51,144 40,143 3.4% 2.6% 29.8% 18.0%
 Mortgages 29,866 29,466 26,835 21,962 1.4% 0.6% 36.0% 23.6%
 Pledges 18,159 17,778 16,397 12,522 2.1% 1.3% 45.0% 31.8%
 Personal loans 65,179 63,863 58,115 47,345 2.1% 1.3% 37.7% 25.2%
 Credit cards 46,274 44,409 39,942 30,663 4.2% 3.4% 50.9% 37.2%
 Others 22,496 21,059 17,847 11,765 6.8% 6.0% 91.2% 73.8%

Loans to the public sector 29,878 29,742 27,377 22,852 0.5% -0.3% 30.7% 18.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,509 9,214 9,607 8,893 -7.6% -4.3%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + checking cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 288,007 275,062 251,183 220,590 4.7% 3.9% 30.6% 18.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 372,970 354,348 324,857 283,697 5.3% 4.4% 31.5% 19.5%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + checking cancellation checks in pesos + 607,320 588,733 527,177 469,006 3.2% 2.3% 29.5% 17.7%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 654,675 644,682 583,612 533,171 1.6% 0.7% 22.8% 11.6%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + checking cancellation checks in pesos + private current 250,590 240,117 218,627 190,429 4.4% 3.5% 31.6% 19.6%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 328,757 313,566 288,231 248,935 4.8% 4.0% 32.1% 20.1%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + checking cancellation checks in pesos + 473,367 455,427 406,402 354,315 3.9% 3.1% 33.6% 21.5%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 516,416 506,733 458,029 407,559 1.9% 1.1% 26.7% 15.2%

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 13,104 5.5% 20,540 8.7% 26,784 11.3% 59,953 25.3%
 Financial sector 8,188 3.5% 1,639 0.7% -6,413 -2.7% -6,639 -2.8%
 Public sector 1,547 0.7% 3,271 1.4% 8,598 3.6% 30,328 12.8%
 Private external sector 4,086 1.7% 18,346 7.7% 36,474 15.4% 21,544 9.1%
 BCRA Securities -696 -0.3% -2,843 -1.2% -11,347 -4.8% 16,068 6.8%
 Others -19 0.0% 126 0.1% -528 -0.2% -1,348 -0.6%

 International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -832 -1.7% -565 -1.2% 621 1.3% -5,491 -11.8%
 Intervention in the exchange market 915 2.0% 4,157 8.9% 8,355 17.9% 4,793 10.3%
 Payment to international organizations -11 0.0% -135 -0.3% -46 -0.1% 323 0.7%
 Other public sector operations -364 -0.8% 273 0.6% -1,926 -4.1% -1,495 -3.2%
 Minimum cash -1,328 -2.9% -2,056 -4.4% -1,280 -2.7% -5,202 -11.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -44 -0.1% -2,804 -6.0% -4,481 -9.6% -3,909 -8.4%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.8 11.6 11.5
 Integration 12.1 11.7 11.7
 Position (2) 0.3 0.1 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 53.7 53.9 55.6
 30 to 59 days 27.0 23.0 23.4
 60 to 89 days 11.7 14.2 11.3
 90 to 179 days 5.4 6.6 7.0
 more than 180 days 2.2 2.3 2.6

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.0 20.4 21.1
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 51.3 52.6 53.0
 Position (2) 31.3 32.2 31.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.4 55.2 55.5
 30 to 59 days 23.2 22.8 22.9
 60 to 89 days 10.4 10.6 9.9
 90 to 179 days 9.4 10.0 10.3
 180 to 365 days 1.5 1.4 1.3
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.0 0.1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.54 9.30 9.42 9.99 9.53
 Amount traded 1,482 1,185 1,179 1,126 982

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 11.64 11.32 11.66 14.74 9.69
 60 days or more 12.08 11.89 11.95 16.50 10.49
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.27 11.08 11.45 14.76 10.21
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.15 11.71 12.18 18.75 11.27

 In dollars
 30 days 0.46 0.38 0.38 0.33 0.27
 60 days or more 0.98 0.84 0.84 0.69 0.58
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.62 0.42 0.53 0.43 0.41
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.78 0.62 0.74 0.63 0.53

 Active Interest Rates Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.68 11.41 11.24 15.98 11.76
 Amount traded (total maturities) 212 236 223 226 224

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 20.54 21.15 21.67 26.49 18.46
 Documents on sole signature 17.24 17.81 18.38 22.15 15.01
 Mortgage 15.82 15.11 15.44 16.52 14.89
 Pledged 22.32 22.78 23.10 25.10 18.10
 Personal 33.49 34.73 35.01 36.46 29.24
 Credit cards n/a n/a 34.93 33.15 29.97

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 12.39 12.49 12.88 22.56 11.32

 International Interest Rates Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.24 0.24 0.28 0.19
 6 months 0.74 0.73 0.73 0.78 0.40

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.28 0.27 0.28 0.25 0.41
 10 years 1.61 1.78 2.02 1.96 2.99

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 8.50 8.95 9.40 11.00 12.19

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
 the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.10 9.03 9.02 9.13 9.17
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.56

 Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 11,106 14,288 13,589 8,454 7,200

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months 11.10 11.10 n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 11.32 11.80 n/o n/o 11.07
 9 months 12.60 12.40 12.39 n/o 11.96
 12 months n/o n/o 12.83 14.26 12.59

 NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.20
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.70
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.07
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 3.04

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 639 878 806 378 573
## Foreign Exchange Market Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

**Dollar Spot**
- Wholesale 4.50 4.45 4.40 4.29 4.09
- Retail 4.51 4.46 4.41 4.29 4.11

**Dollar Forward**
- NDF 1 month 4.70 4.61 4.46 4.36 4.12
- ROFEX 1 month 4.55 4.50 4.43 4.33 4.12
- Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 938 1159 1266 904 876

**Real (Pesos per Real)** 2.19 2.24 2.37 2.33 2.58

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** 5.64 5.69 5.79 5.64 5.91

## Capital Markets Jun-12 May-12 Apr-12 Dec-11 Jun-11

**MERVAL**
- Index 2,249 2,255 2,416 2,488 3,246
- Amount traded (millions of pesos) 45 46 57 39 55

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- BODEN 2015 (US$) 107.05 110.64 111.36 98.40 101.24
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 93.68 86.15 89.52 81.40 94.04
- BODEN 2014 ($) 92.51 92.38 93.49 86.93 90.76
- DISCOUNT ($) 45.47 47.52 50.14 51.96 70.16

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- Spread BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,740 1,269 992 980 693
- EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 438 406 369 409 347

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 18 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Negotiated Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Bond.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Information Requirements of the BCRA.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STV:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**FV:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | June 2012 | BCRA | 19
