# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
July 2012

Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 5

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Markets | Page 11

 Stocks | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Common Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on August 10, 2012. All figures are provisional and are subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary

• During July, the broadest peso aggregate (M3) showed a monthly growth of 4.4%, accumulating in the last year an increase of 30.3%, 0.8 percentage points above that observed in the previous month. Among its components, the growth of currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits stands out, driven in part by seasonal factors related to the payment of the mid-year supplementary half-salary and greater demand for liquidity due to winter vacations.

• For its part, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector showed a growth of 2.7%, one of the highest in recent years for the month, with increases in both the retail segment and in operations of more than $1 million.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector once again registered a strong increase compared to the expansion levels exhibited in the first part of the year. The monthly growth was 4.2% ($11,540 million), which equals a year-on-year variation of 41.2%. Breaking down the monthly increase into the percentage points explained by each of the major lines, it is verified that commercial loans made the main contribution (3.6 p.p.), explaining around 85% of July's increase.

• The level of peso liquidity of the entities (including holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, net repos maintained at the Central Bank, current accounts at the Central Bank and cash) increased slightly in absolute terms, although in terms of deposits it was reduced by 0.8 p.p. and was equivalent to 36.4% of total deposits in pesos.

• An increase was observed in the interest rates paid by financial entities to the private sector. This increase was led by the interest rates in the segment of operations of more than $1 million, while in the retail segment – which is characterized by being more stable – the increase was more limited. In fact, the BADLAR rate of private banks averaged 13.2%, accumulating a monthly increase of 1 p.p.. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) averaged 11.6% in July, registering a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p..
• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed heterogeneous behavior in July. While interest rates on lines intended to finance commercial activities showed monthly increases, those applied to loans with real guarantees continued with the downward trend observed in recent months. The monthly average of the interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity showed an increase of 0.7 p.p., reaching 13.1%. On the other hand, among loans with real guarantees, the interest rate applied to mortgages intended for families remained at 15.2%, while that corresponding to those with pledged collateral was located at 22%, registering a decrease of 0.4 p.p. during the month. In the case of lines intended to finance consumption, the interest rate applied to personal loans averaged 33.8% in June, increasing 0.2 p.p. during the month.

• In the foreign currency segment, deposits decreased 8.2% during the month. This decline was explained essentially by placements of the private sector, given that those belonging to the public sector grew slightly. It is worth mentioning that although placements of the private sector continued to show declines throughout July, the daily decline was reducing. In turn, it is important to recall that, as a result of prudential policies implemented in recent years, the Argentine financial system has a low degree of dollarization and a very reduced level of currency mismatch that allowed it to handle the return of foreign currency deposits without difficulties.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates - M3
% (variation of monthly averages) %
5 50
Monthly variation During July the broader monetary aggregate in pesos (M32)
4 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 40 presented monthly growth of 4.4%, accumulating

3 30 in the last year an increase of 30.3%, 0.8 p.p. above

2 20 that observed the previous month (see Chart 2.1). The
monthly increase in M3 was explained by the growth
1 10 of loans to the private sector, operations of the public
sector and purchases of foreign currency by the Cen-
0 0 tral Bank.

-1 -10

-2 -20 Among the components of M3, the growth of currency

Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 in public hands and sight deposits stands out (see
Note: M3 includes currency in public hands and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA Chart 2.2), driven in part by seasonal factors, linked to
the payment of the mid-year supplementary salary and
Chart 2.2 greater demand for liquidity due to winter vacations.
Monetary Aggregates
(July 2012, on average) For its part, private sector deposits in pesos grew 4% in
July, with increases in sight placements and those
Public Sector agreed at fixed term. With respect to these latter, they

Other Deposits Private Sector presented growth of 2.7%, which is equivalent to a
year-on-year variation of 41.5%, which in turn repre-
Fixed-Term Deposits sents the largest increase in recent years (see Chart 2.3).

M3 This increase was driven both by operations in the
4.3%
Sight Deposits stratum of amounts exceeding $1 million (2.3%) and

M2 those of less than $1 million (3.2%).

7.1%
# Banknotes and Coins

In the foreign currency segment, the average balance...

-10-505101520

Note: the figures in percentage correspond to the monthly variation.
Source: BCRA

thousands of millions of $ monthly of the total deposits decreased 8.2%. This
decline was explained essentially by the placements
of the private sector, given that those belonging to the
public sector grew slightly. It is worth mentioning that
although the placements of the private sector continued
to show reductions throughout July, they continued

**Graph 2.3**

**Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector**
(variations of monthly averages)
% % July - Var. Monthly Avg.
7 42 % More than $ 1 million

6 36 6
4 2.3
5 30 2
4 24 0
3 18 -2 2006
-4 2007
2 12 2008
1 6 -6 Less than $ 1 million 2009
% 2010
0 0 4 3.2
2011
-1 -6 2 2012
-2 Monthly variation -12 0
-3 Year-on-year variation (right axis) -18 -2
Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12
Source: BCRA -4

to moderating their daily rate of decrease. In turn, it is
important to remember that, as a result of the
prudential policies implemented in recent years, the
Argentine financial system possesses a low degree of
dollarization and a very reduced level of currency
mismatch that allowed it to return without problems all
deposits that were requested from it.

Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes
cash in circulation, cancelable checks and the total of
deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in
pesos), showed an increase of 3.5% during the month
of July.

2 Includes cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos.

**Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 4**

**Graph 3.1**

**% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos***
(monthly average)

3. Bank Liquidity¹

The level of liquidity in pesos of the entities (inclu-
ding holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs, net repo
transactions maintained at the Central Bank, current
accounts at the Central Bank and cash) increased slightly
in absolute terms, although in terms of deposits it
decreased 0.8 p.p. and was equivalent to 36.4% of
total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.1). This reduction
was explained fundamentally by the decline of net repo
transactions with the Central Bank (0.4 p.p.) and of
holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs³ (0.6 p.p.), since

% of
deposits Components
45 36.4
Cash CC at BCRA
40 Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs

35
30 30
25
20
15 25 10
5
0
Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12
20
Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs.
Source: BCRA

the balance of the current account at the BCRA increased
in terms of deposits (0.3 p.p.), while cash in banks
remained relatively stable as a proportion of deposits.
In turn, the minimum cash position ended with a surplus
equivalent to 0.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph
3.2). Both public and private banks would have
complied with the reserve requirement in July.

**Graph 3.2**

**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos**

% of
deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position
2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5 0.2

0.0

-0.5

-1.0

-1.5
Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12

In the foreign currency segment, liquidity (which
includes current accounts at the Central Bank, cash
and repos with the Central Bank) remained elevated,
and was located at 67.5% of total deposits in dollars.
Compared to June it increased 4.6 p.p., given the
reduction in the rate of decline of deposits in dollars, and
the substitution of dollar financing for loans in national
currency (see section Loans).

**4. Loans¹ ⁴**
Source: BCRA

In July, loans in pesos to the private sector once again registered a strong increase compared to the expansion levels exhibited in the first part of the year (see Graph 4.1). The growth for the month was 4.2% ($11,540 million) and was located, together with that of June, markedly above that observed in the first five months of the year (between January and May the average monthly growth was 1.9%). In this way, loans to the private sector showed an increase of 41.2% in the last 12 months. On the other hand, decomposing the month's growth into the percentage points that each of the major lines explained, it is verified that commercial loans made the main contribution (3.6 p.p.; see Graph 4.2), explaining around 85% of the July increase and surpassing the contribution to growth that they had shown in other years of good loan performance (2006, 2007, 2010 and 2011).

**Graph 4.1**
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(var. average monthly) 
- Monthly Variation %
- Year-over-year Variation (right axis)
- 4.2%
[Data points shown for Jul-06 through Jul-12]

Source: BCRA

In fact, in those years the commercial lines explained on average, approximately, 62% of the growth.

Among the commercial lines, advances registered a monthly increase of 6.2% ($2,460 million) in the month, one of the highest in recent years for the month of July (see Graph 4.3). For its part, financing instruments evidenced through documents showed the largest increase in the last 10 years (9.7%; $5,070 million). Finally, other commercial loans grew 10.2% ($2,300 million), driven by certain operations linked to gas import financing, which are customary between the months of May and August.

**Graph 4.2**
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of July)
- Consumption: 0.4
- Real Guarantee: 0.3
- Commercial: 3.6

Source: BCRA

It is worth mentioning that the channeling to the peso segment of part of the financing in foreign currency constitutes another factor that is driving the growth of the predominantly commercial lines. In effect, since early May and more notably in June, a particular behavior began to be observed in other advances and in documents at sight only agreed in pesos, these two lines being those that would appear to be concentrating most of the financing that was previously channeled through foreign currency loans. This atypical behavior coincided with the moment when foreign currency loans accelerated their rate of decline significantly. The line of other advances in pesos was characterized by showing in recent years a gradual and moderate growth. However, in recent months its expansion rate has accelerated, registering an increase of

**Graph 4.3**
Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector (variation of monthly averages) | Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector (variation of monthly averages)
- 9.7% | 6.2%
- July vs. June | July vs. June

---

**Footnotes:**

3 In the calculation of banking liquidity, LEBACs and NOBACs are expressed in effective value.

4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. However, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 5
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Source: BCRA 11.7% ($560 million), well above its historical values. For its part, financing with documents signed alone, which always behaved in a manner analogous to the remaining loans granted in the form of documents (discounted and purchased), as of May significantly differentiated their trajectory (see Graph 4.4 Graph 4.4).

Other Advances in Pesos Documents in Pesos
thousands of to the Private Sector thousands of to the Private Sector
millions of $ millions of $ thousands of With regard to loans intended to finance family con-
millions of $ sumption, personal loans moderated their expansion
37 Sole Signature - daily balance 30 rate in July. After several months of growing around
6
35 Sole Signature - monthly average balance 28 2.5%, they registered an increase of 1.8%
Other documents - daily balance (right axis)
Other documents - monthly average balance (right axis) ($1.200 million). For their part, financing with credit
5 33 26 cards showed a reduction in the monthly average balance
4 31 24 of 1% ($460 million). The same is explained, in part, by
3 29 22 seasonal factors linked to the cancellation of balances in
Other advances - daily balance a month in which half of the annual complementary
2 27 20
Other advances - monthly average balance (right axis) salary is received and at the time when the greatest
1 25 18 maturities of certain cards associated with the agricul-
0 23 16 tural sector are concentrated.
 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12
Source: BCRA With regard to loans with real collateral, pawn loans
Monthly Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 6 grew 2.1% ($380 million), in line with the increase
Graph 4.5 registered in June and markedly above the observed
Bicentennial Advances between March and May (the monthly growth rate
millions of $ (accumulated monthly amounts) % averaged 1.2% in this period).
6.000 80
Awarded Amounts For their part, mortgage loans continued growing at a
Disbursed Amounts 4.772 70 similar rate to that of the previous months, registering
5.000 a monthly increase of 2% ($590 million).
Ratio Disbursed/Awarded 60
4.000 In July a new auction was held within the framework of
50 the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB),
3.276
3.000 40 through which $156 million was awarded, with three
30 entities being awarded the resources: BNA ($100 mil-
2.000 lion), BAPRO ($50 million) and BICE ($6 million). In
20
1.000 10 this way the total awarded since the beginning of the
program amounts to $4.772 million, of which $3.276
0 0 million were disbursed (see Graph 4.5).
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Graph 5.1
Source: BCRA
Awarded Amount of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market Finally, as was mentioned, loans in foreign currency
Thousands of millions $ Thousands of millions $ to the private sector, intended mainly for pre-financing
16 70 More than 360 days of exports, continued showing a marked deceleration. In a
From 271 to 360 days
14 From 181 to 270 days context of decline in foreign currency deposits (see
From 91 to 180 days 60 Monetary Aggregates section) and higher interest rates
12 Up to 90 days charged for these financings, they registered in the last
Balance at end of month (right axis) 50 month a fall of 10.7% (US$900 million). As was previ-
10 Maturities ously explained, during the month an increase in other
8 40 commercial lines in pesos has been observed that ap-
6 pear to be replacing foreign currency credits.
30
4
20 5. Interest Rates 5
2
10 Securities Issued by the Central Bank6
0
 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12
Source: BCRA
## Graph 5.2 - Interest Rates on Central Bank Securities Auctions

**Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary and Secondary Market**

A.P.R. % (weighted average rate by amount)

The interest rates of the Central Bank securities auctions grew slightly in July. LEBAC again concentrated the largest portion of placements, at terms longer than those recorded in the previous month (see Graph 5.1). Short-term securities continued to be auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate, with values similar to those in June. For their part, the interest rates of medium and long-term securities showed slight increases, ranging from 0.3 p.p. to 1 p.p. in the longer terms, so the yield curve steepened (see Graph 5.2). Likewise, a single NOBAC placement was recorded in mid-month at an interest rate 0.6 p.p. higher than the last adjudication that had been carried out at a similar term (in mid-May).

**Source: BCRA**

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (A.P.R.).
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

**Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 7**

## Graph 5.3 - Holdings of Central Bank Securities

**Billions of Pesos (monthly variation)**

When comparing end-of-month balances, the outstanding stock of LEBAC and NOBAC grew 1.3% and at the end of July was positioned at $86,780 million. Although the increase in holdings by public banks and, to a lesser extent, by Investment Funds contributed to the growth of the stock, the effect was partially offset by the slight decline recorded in private banks (see Graph 5.3).

**Source: BCRA**

In line with the behavior recorded in June, in the secondary market for securities the average amount traded decreased, reaching $480 million. Operations with LEBAC concentrated the largest volume traded, and again short-term securities operations stood out, mainly those under 90 days (which concentrated 80% of the volume traded). After recording an extremely low level of operations in June, the volume traded of NOBAC grew, positioning itself at an average of $77 million daily. The interest rates of LEBAC remained relatively stable during the month.

## Graph 5.4 - Interbank Market

**Thousands of millions of pesos (operations at 1 business day)**

## Central Bank Repo Operations¹

In July the Central Bank did not modify the interest rates of its repo corridor. The passive repo rates at 1 and 7 days remained at 9% and 9.5%, respectively; while those of active repos remained at 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.

The average monthly stock of passive repos, in all rounds in which the institution participates, decreased 6.8% positioning itself at $18,900 million. In the month of July no active repos were recorded with the entity.

## Graph 5.5 - Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day

**%**

## Interbank Markets¹

The interest rates of the interbank market remained stable in July. In the guaranteed market (REPO round), the average interest rate of operations...

**Source: BCRA**
01-Jun 15-Jun 02-Jul 17-Jul 31-Jul
 12 operations at 1 business day between financial entities (without in-

 11 cluding Central Bank operations) did not register

 10 changes and was located at 9.5% (see Graph 5.4). Like-

 9 wise, in the unsecured market (call) the average interest

 8 rate of operations at 1 business day grew 0.1

 7 p.p. and aligned with the level of the secured market
 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 rate, after being located at 9.5% (see Graph 5.5).

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 8 In the call market the volatility of interest rates in daily operations remained relatively contained, registering values similar to those observed in previous months. Indeed, the average deviation of the interest rates of call operations agreed at 1 business day reached 0.9 p.p. (see Graph 5.5).

 The performance registered in the interest rates of the
 Graph 5.6 Amount Operated in Call at 1 Business Day by Group interbank market occurred jointly with a

 Millions $ (monthly variation of daily average)
 400 decline of $350 million in the daily average negotiated

 Rest in said market. In the REPO trading session, the amount was
 300 Among Private National Entities
 Among Foreign Entities and EFNB located at $1,600 million, 9.7% lower than the level
 200 Total registered in June. Likewise, in the call segment the

 100 amount decreased 12% to $1,300 million, as

 0 a consequence of the decline registered in operations
 between foreign entities and non-banking financial entities
-100
 and among private national entities (see Graph 5.6).
-200

-300 Passive Interest Rates 1
 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12

Source: BCRA
 In July an increase was observed in the interest rates
 paid by financial entities to the private sector.
 This increase was led by the interest rates of the
 segment of operations of more than $1 million, while
 in the retail segment – which is characterized by
 being more stable – the increase was more limited.

 Graph 5.7 Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days Indeed, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest
 % TNA (daily data - private banks) rate for fixed-term deposits of more than $1 million and

 28 BADLAR Fixed-Term Deposits of up to $100 thousand 30-35 days maturity – averaged 13.2%. In this way,

 Variations
 p.p. it registered a monthly increase of 1 p.p., accumulating
 24 2 1.0
 0.4 a decline of 5.6 p.p. with respect to the level observed in

 0 December (see Graph 5.7).
 20 Avg. Dec-12
 -2
 -2.6 18.8

 -4 Monthly Var.
 16 Accumulated Var. Avg. Jul-12 When analyzing the daily evolution, it is observed that from
 -6 -5.6
 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand 13.2 the last days of June, the BADLAR rate of private banks

 12 began to show an upward trend

 Avg. Jul-12 that was temporarily reversed in mid-July. Finally, in the last week of the month it resumed the up-
 11.6
 8 ward trend, reaching levels close to 14%.
 Jun-08 Ene-09 Ago-09 Mar-10 Oct-10 May-11 Dic-11 Jul-12

 In this context, in the BADLAR futures market
 an operated amount was registered that more than doubled what was negotiated in June, reaching a daily average of $51 million. In the month only short-term contracts were negotiated, with maturity on July 31, 2012. Likewise, although it was observed that the trajectory of the interest rate of this contract was downward throughout the month, the monthly average was located at 13.5%, 1.3 p.p. above the June average for contracts of the same maturity.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 9 For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 11.6% in July, registering a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p. In this way, it still accumulated a decrease of 2.6 p.p. during the year.

 Graph 5.8 Active Interest Rates 1 7
# Interest Rates on Loans for Commercial Activities
(monthly average) The interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed heterogeneous behavior in July. While the interest rates on lines intended to finance commercial activities showed increases, those applied to loans with real guarantee continued with the downward trend observed in recent months.

TNA, % Total of Advances in CC
32 p.p Monthly and Accumulated Variation
Discounted Documents 0.7 0.6 0.4 1.1
Documents at Sole Signature 1
28 Advances in current account over $10 M - up to 7 days
-1
24 -3 -3.8
20 -5
16 -7 -6.1
-9 -8.4 Accumulated Variation
12 -9.4 Monthly Variation
-11
8 Advances DD Advances Doc. Sole Signature
(over $10 current acct - 7 days)
Jun-08 Jan-09 Aug-09 Mar-10 Oct-10 May-11 Dec-11 Jul-12
Source: BCRA

In the case of interest rates applied to commercial lines, the increase was led by financings executed via documents. In particular, the average interest rate for documents at sole signature was positioned at 18.3%, with a monthly increase of 1.1 p.p., while that corresponding to discounted documents increased 0.6 p.p., averaging 17.3%.

Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate for advances in current account was 20.7%, 0.4 p.p. higher than the previous month. Likewise, the corresponding interest rate for advances in current account over $10 million and up to 7 days showed an increase of 0.7 p.p., reaching 13.1%. However, it should be noted that despite these monthly increases, the interest rates applied to commercial lines are below the levels observed in December 2011, with accumulated declines reaching up to 9 p.p. (see Chart 5.8).

With respect to interest rates on longer-term loans, declines continued to be recorded in most lines. For its part, the interest rates for loans with pledge guarantee registered a decrease of 0.4 p.p. in the month, reaching 22%, while the interest rate applied to mortgages intended for families remained at 15.2%.

In the case of lines intended to finance consumption, behavior has also been heterogeneous. The interest rate applied to personal loans averaged 33.8% in July, increasing 0.2 p.p. in the month. Meanwhile, the latest available data for the interest rate corresponding to credit card financings showed a monthly decrease of 1.9 p.p., reaching 33% in June (see Chart 5.9).

# Chart 5.9

Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those Intended for Consumption
(monthly average)
TNA, %
Pledge Mortgages Personal Credit Card Rates
38
34
30
26
22
18
14
10
Jun-08 Jan-09 Aug-09 Mar-10 Oct-10 May-11 Dec-11 Jul-12
Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 10

# Chart 6.1

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

55

Jun-12

52

49

46

43

## 6. International Reserves and

Foreign Exchange Market8

International reserves totaled US$46,818 million on the last day of July (see Chart 6.1), which meant an increase of US$471 million in the month. The factors that allowed reserves to increase were the purchase of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the Unique and Free Exchange Market (MULC, US$350 million) and the increase in current accounts in currency
40 foreign currency of financial entities in the Bank
 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12
 Source: BCRA Central, the latter as a result of the
 cancellation of dollar loans by the private sector that
 more than offset the decrease in deposits in
 such denomination.

 In the month, the integration of US$1,597 million
 and US$2,568 million was arranged in the accounts of the National
 Treasury in the Central Bank, corresponding to the funds for
 Payments to International Organizations and Argentine Debt
 Reduction, respectively. This movement did not imply a
 modification in the balance of International
 Graph 6.2 Reserves until such time as the funds are used
 for the planned payments. In relation to this, on August 3
 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
 the last BODEN 2012 payment was made, for more than
 6%
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real US$2,100 million through the use of the Argentine
 4% Depreciation Debt Reduction Fund. Part of such funds
 remained in the local financial system (approximately 20%),
 2% while the rest of the paid amount resulted in a decrease in the
 level of international reserves.
 0%
 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect
 -2%
 to the United States dollar and with respect to the real (see Graph
 -4% Appreciation
 6.2). Meanwhile, with respect to the euro, the peso registered an
 -6%
 appreciation. In this way, the average quotations for July were
 -8%
 4.55 $/US$ (1.2% higher than in June), 2.24 $/real (2.3%) and
 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12
 5.60 $/euro (-0.8%) for each case. In the forward market (ROFEX)
 Source: BCRA
 the amount traded was $766 million, which implied a decline of 18%
 with respect to June. This originated from the reduction in the
 volume traded, while the contracts did not show a revision of the
 quotations expected for the coming months.

8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 11 Graph 7.1
 World Stock Indices
120 (In dollars; Base Index 30/06/11=100)
 7. Capital Markets8

110

100 Stocks

 90
 Following the European summit, in which progress was
 80
 made in the design and implementation of new measures to

 70 address the situation of countries most affected by the
 debt crisis in the zone, in July some caution was observed
 60 MSCI- World
 MSCI-Europe among investors. Meanwhile, in the United States
 MSCI- Latam the earnings season for the second quarter had
 50 S&P 500
 MSCI- Emerging results with a positive bias.

 40
 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12
 Likewise, the measures taken by various relevant
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
 international monetary authorities had a positive impact,
 in a context in which the sustained stress in financial
 Graph 7.2 markets since the end of 2011 began to be reflected in the level
 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and Eurozone of world activity through various monetary and
 60 (VIX and VStoxx Index) macroeconomic indicators. Within the advanced
 50 economies, the European Central Bank decided to
 reduce its monetary policy interest rate by 0.25
 40 p.p., to a historical minimum of 0.75%. In the same
 30 direction, the Bank of England increased its
 quantitative expansion program by £50,000
 20
 million, while it announced details about its credit
 10 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 stimulation program announced as "Funding for Lending
 VStoxx Index 50 (Eurozone)
 Scheme" which will enter into force
0 in August, through which it seeks to encourage loans to the real sector of the economy. Within emerging economies, the People's Bank of China decided to reduce, for the second time in two months, its monetary policy interest rate, the 1-year loan interest rate, by 0.31 p.p. to 6%, and the 1-year deposit interest rate, by 0.25 p.p. to 3%. For its part, the Central Bank of Brazil reduced the target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 8%, being the eighth consecutive reduction, with which it accumulates a decline of 4.5 p.p. in one year.

**Graph 7.3**
**Evolution of the Local Stock Market**
% (in pesos) Index
60 4,000 Historical Volatility 22 sessions
50 3,500 MERVAL (right axis)
40 3,000
30 2,500
20 2,000
10 1,500
0

In this context, at the end of the month the MSCI global advanced 1.2%. Within the main stock markets, the MSCI Europe index remained almost unchanged from June and the S&P 500 (the main index of the United States market) verified a gain of 1.3% (see Graph 7.1), while the levels of expected volatility in both markets were reduced (see Graph 7.2).

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

In line with the behavior recorded in the markets of developed economies, emerging equities, measured through the MSCI index, registered an advance of 1.6%. The MSCI Latin America registered a gain of 1.3% and the Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark of the region, grew 0.8%, mainly as a consequence of the performance of the index in local currency that offset an appreciation of 2.4% in the real with respect to the dollar.

**Graph 7.4**
**Risk Indicators Emerging Countries Sovereigns**
Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.
550 1,300
500 1,200
450 1,100
400 1,000
350 900
300 800
EMBI+ 700
250 EMBI+ Latin America
EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 600
200 500
400
Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

In this international context, the price of Argentine equities aligned with the general trend and gained 1%, driven by the evolution of the index in local currency (see Graph 7.3). This performance occurred jointly with an increase of 15.4% in the traded volume, which averaged $35.4 million.

**Public Securities**

In the month of July, the yields of US Treasury bonds were slightly reduced and a decrease in the risk perceived by investors for fixed income emerging assets was observed. Thus, the differentials between the yield of emerging sovereign bonds with respect to treasuries contracted 37 b.p., down to a level of 325 b.p. (see Graph 7.4).

The risk differentials of Argentine bonds in long-term foreign currency under foreign law over US Treasury bonds, according to the EMBI+, remained stable, at 1,090 b.p.. Meanwhile, the margin between the yield of benchmark sovereign bonds in dollars, Boden 2015 and Bonar 2017, with respect to treasuries of similar duration fell 240 b.p. in international markets.

**Graph 7.5**
**Corporate Bond Issuance**
In Billions of $
3.0 Financial Entities
Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities
2.5 Others
Total Placed
2.0 Private Securities
1.5
1.0

In July the placement of Negotiable Obligations (ON) totaled $621 million. Although the figure represents
0.5 a decrease compared to the two previous months, corporate
 financing in the capital market through debt issuance
 0.0 continued showing a favorable dynamic, registering average
 Jul-08 Nov-08 Mar-09 Jul-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg placement levels higher than those of the previous year and
 verifying a considerable increase in the quantity of
 placements. Financial entities and other companies
 dedicated to stock market and insurance financial
 activities were the main issuers of the month, with a
 placed amount of $488 million. Thus, these issuers
 concentrated 63.4% of the total amount placed so far
 this year (see Chart 7.5).

 The majority of the issuances were made in local
 currency and will accrue a variable rate that takes
 as reference the BADLAR of private banks. Meanwhile,
 only two placements of ON were registered denominated
 in dollars but payable in pesos at the corresponding

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 13 exchange rate, with an average rate of 8.8%.

 In line with the evolution registered in the monetary
 Chart 7.6 market, the performance of corporate financing
 through the placement of ON occurred with an increase
 Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos in the cost of funding in national currency. In effect, the
 billions of $ Monthly variation
 (July 2012)
 40 millions of $ cut-off rate of ON in pesos at variable rate with
 1,200
 1,000 rating higher than Arg A and maturity less than 2
 35 Money Market
 800
  Fixed Income years increased 2 p.p., driven in equal parts by the
 600
 30  Mixed Income increase in the BADLAR rate of private banks and the
 400
  Variable Income 200 average spread of the issuances.
 25 0
  Variable Mixed Fixed Money Total
 Income Income Market
 20

 15 Mutual Investment Funds

 10
 After the seasonal fall in June linked to the use of
 5
 resources by companies to cover the payment of the
 0
 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 annual supplementary salary, in July the equity of Mutual
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA Investment Funds (FCIs) in national and foreign currency
 registered an increase of 2.8% ($1,080 million) placing
 itself at $39,310 million (see Chart 7.6). So far in 2012
 the FCIs accumulate an increase of 35.7% ($10,350
 million), 19 p.p. higher than the performance registered
 in the same period of the previous year.

 Chart 7.7 As in previous months, in July the fixed income funds
 Estimated Return of Assets in pesos drove the growth of the segment,
 % (profitability in pesos accumulated from Dec-11 to Jul-12)
25.0 increasing 3.9% ($675 million), followed by mixed
 income funds, which registered a monthly expansion of
20.0
 5.5% ($260 million). Money Market funds expanded
15.0
 0.8% ($100 million) and funds that invest in variable
10.0 income assets registered an increase of 2.4% ($30
 million), thanks to the performance registered in stock
5.0
 prices. So far in 2012, when comparing the return of the
 0.0
 different FCIs with some alternative investment
 -5.0
 FCI Index Fixed FCI Mixed Plazo Fijo Dólar Money FCI Variable Index options, it is observed that the mixed income and fixed
 Income IAMC Income Mayorista Market Income Merval
Source: BCRA income funds in pesos lead the ranking, with an estimated
 return of 14% and 10% respectively, only surpassed by
 the IAMC bond index, which accumulates a profitability of
 20% (see Chart 7.7).

 For its part, the equity of FCIs in foreign currency
 continued registering modest performance. In July they
 decreased 0.5% (US$2.5 million) reaching US$512
 million, mainly as a consequence of the behavior
 registered by fixed income funds.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 14 Financial Trusts⁹
In July, the amount of financial trust fund (FF) issuances showed a recovery, following the effect of operational problems in routine procedures for the implementation of trust funds. After only 8 operations were carried out in June, this month registered 17 placements. In this way, the total amount placed in the month reached $1,180 million, in line with the amount issued in the first five months of the year (see Chart 7.8).

Financial entities and retail businesses were the main originators, concentrating between them 90% of the total issued in the month. Financial entities placed $540 million in July, the highest amount of the last ten months. In this way, they more than compensated for the decline of the previous month. Although loans linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card installments) constituted the vast majority of securitized assets in the month, it should be noted that there was also a placement by a financial entity that had as underlying asset credits granted to SMEs under the leasing contract modality. For its part, retail businesses issued $525 million, practically tripling the volume issued in June and reaching one of the highest amounts of the year, only surpassed by that of May. Meanwhile, mutual associations, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers reflected a decrease in the volume of securitized assets, by placing $118 million (around 20% less than the previous month).

The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos registered an increase, in line with the evolution of the BADLAR private banks rate (see Chart 7.9). In effect, the cut-off rate (weighted average by amount) of the titles with variable income registered an increase of 1.6 p.p. and was placed at 15.4%, while in the fixed rate segment there was only one operation whose cut-off rate was 15.8%.

9 Only trust funds with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary variables and financial system | Jul-12 | Jun-12 | Dec-11 | Jul-11 | Monthly | Last 12 months
| | | | | Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real |
Monetary base | 252,103 | 236,884 | 210,100 | 186,025 | 6.4% | 5.7% | 35.5% | 23.3% |
Monetary circulation | 194,841 | 182,785 | 165,181 | 145,175 | 6.6% | 5.8% | 34.2% | 22.1% |
Banknotes and Coins in public hands | 174,955 | 163,261 | 144,288 | 128,011 | 7.2% | 6.4% | 36.7% | 24.4% |
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 19,884 | 19,523 | 20,891 | 17,161 | 1.9% | 1.1% | 15.9% | 5.4% |
Cancelled Checks | 1 | 2 | 2 | 0 | -20.6% | -21.1% | - | - |
Current Account at BCRA | 57,263 | 54,098 | 44,919 | 40,850 | 5.8% | 5.1% | 40.2% | 27.5% |
Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 18,941 | 20,320 | 12,071 | 6,970 | -6.8% | -7.5% | 171.8% | 147.3% |
Assets | 00059 | | | | | | | |
Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)
LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 60,979 | 54,580 | 22,782 | 34,643 | 11.7% | 10.9% | 76.0% | 60.2% |
NOBAC | 26,075 | 27,307 | 44,889 | 53,860 | -4.5% | -5.2% | -51.6% | -56.0% |
International Reserves of BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 46,647 | 46,604 | 45,983 | 51,852 | 0.1% | -10.0% | | |
# Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 458.763 444.079 382.886 358.553 3,3% 2,6% 27,9% 16,4%
 Current account (2) 130.941 124.708 106.893 95.535 5,0% 4,2% 37,1% 24,7%
 Savings account 93.347 84.999 73.673 72.814 9,8% 9,0% 28,2% 16,6%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 215.370 216.325 185.534 174.953 -0,4% -1,2% 23,1% 12,0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 8 9 10 10 -8,7% -9,3% -18,0% -25,4%
 Other deposits (3) 19.096 18.038 16.776 15.241 5,9% 5,1% 25,3% 14,0%

 Deposits of the private sector 322.387 310.120 262.112 242.220 4,0% 3,2% 33,1% 21,1%

 Deposits of the public sector 136.375 133.959 120.774 116.333 1,8% 1,1% 17,2% 6,7%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.673 10.531 13.158 15.717 -8,1% -38,5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 316.501 304.128 268.587 227.322 4,1% 3,3% 39,2% 26,7%

 Loans to the private sector 285.385 274.255 241.211 202.073 4,1% 3,3% 41,2% 28,5%
 Advances 42.405 39.943 30.930 28.688 6,2% 5,4% 47,8% 34,5%
 Documents 57.242 52.107 51.144 42.685 9,9% 9,1% 34,1% 22,0%
 Mortgage loans 30.384 29.864 26.835 22.575 1,7% 1,0% 34,6% 22,5%
 Pledge loans 18.535 18.159 16.397 13.150 2,1% 1,3% 41,0% 28,2%
 Personal loans 66.136 65.358 58.115 48.650 1,2% 0,5% 35,9% 23,7%
 Credit cards 45.885 46.328 39.942 31.560 -1,0% -1,7% 45,4% 32,3%
 Others 24.798 22.497 17.847 14.765 10,2% 9,4% 68,0% 52,8%

 Loans to the public sector 31.116 29.873 27.377 25.249 4,2% 3,4% 23,2% 12,1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 7.604 8.513 9.607 9.174 -10,7% -17,1%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 305.898 287.971 251.183 223.549 6,2% 5,5% 36,8% 24,5%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 399.245 372.970 324.857 296.364 7,0% 6,3% 34,7% 22,6%
 M3 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 633.720 607.342 527.177 486.568 4,3% 3,6% 30,2% 18,5%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 677.747 654.694 583.612 551.476 3,5% 2,8% 22,9% 11,8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 261.618 250.552 218.627 196.605 4,4% 3,7% 33,1% 21,1%
 private in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 348.766 328.755 288.231 264.117 6,1% 5,3% 32,0% 20,1%
 M3 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 497.344 473.383 406.402 370.235 5,1% 4,3% 34,3% 22,2%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 536.860 516.427 458.029 425.235 4,0% 3,2% 26,3% 14,9%

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2012 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 15.220 6,0% 31.499 12,5% 42.003 16,7% 66.079 26,2%
 Financial sector 1.657 0,7% 6.549 2,6% -4.756 -1,9% -8.504 -3,4%
 Public sector 8.862 3,5% 11.825 4,7% 17.460 6,9% 36.216 14,4%
 Private external sector 3.677 1,5% 14.569 5,8% 40.150 15,9% 24.432 9,7%
 BCRA securities 1.174 0,5% -1.434 -0,6% -10.173 -4,0% 15.316 6,1%
 Others -150 -0,1% -9 0,0% -678 -0,3% -1.382 -0,5%

 BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 44 0,1% -815 -1,7% 665 1,4% -5.205 -11,2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 813 1,7% 3.267 7,0% 9.167 19,7% 5.412 11,6%
 Payment to international organizations 79 0,2% -14 0,0% 33 0,1% 225 0,5%
 Other public sector operations 1.587 3,4% 2.157 4,6% -339 -0,7% 250 0,5%
 Minimum cash -14 0,0% -1.709 -3,7% -1.295 -2,8% -4.705 -10,1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -2.421 -5,2% -4.516 -9,7% -6.901 -14,8% -6.387 -13,7%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.1 11.9 11.6
 Integration 12.4 12.1 11.7
 Position (2) 0.2 0.1 0.1
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 58.6 53.7 53.9
 30 to 59 days 25.3 27.0 23.0
 60 to 89 days 9.3 11.7 14.2
 90 to 179 days 4.6 5.4 6.6
 more than 180 days 2.2 2.2 2.3
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.8 19.8 20.4
 Integration (includes resources application default) 56.8 51.6 52.6
 Position (2) 37.1 31.8 32.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 56.6 55.4 55.2
 30 to 59 days 22.1 23.2 22.8
 60 to 89 days 10.1 10.4 10.6
 90 to 179 days 9.2 9.4 10.0
 180 to 365 days 1.8 1.5 1.4
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.0
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 9.63 9.54 9.31 9.99 10.18
 Amount operated 1,303 1,482 1,185 1,126 1,101

 Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 12.01 11.64 11.32 14.74 9.83
 60 days or more 13.11 12.08 11.89 16.50 10.69
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.73 11.27 11.08 14.76 10.17
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.19 12.15 11.71 18.75 11.62

 In dollars
 30 days 0.54 0.46 0.38 0.33 0.28
 60 days or more 0.99 0.98 0.84 0.69 0.57
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.82 0.62 0.42 0.43 0.43
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.11 0.78 0.62 0.63 0.58

 Active Interest Rates Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.71 11.68 11.41 15.98 12.72
 Amount operated (total maturities) 218 212 236 226 222

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 20.80 20.54 21.15 26.49 18.65
 Documents on single signature 18.33 17.24 17.81 22.15 15.44
 Mortgage loans 15.38 15.82 15.11 16.52 14.89
 Pledge loans 21.99 22.32 22.78 25.10 18.12
 Personal loans 33.77 33.49 34.73 36.46 29.64
 Credit cards n/d 33.04 34.90 33.15 32.08

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million 12.94 12.40 12.49 22.56 12.31

 International Interest Rates Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.25 0.24 0.24 0.28 0.19
 6 months 0.73 0.74 0.73 0.78 0.41

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.25 0.28 0.27 0.25 0.40
 10 years 1.50 1.61 1.78 1.96 2.99

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 8.14 8.50 8.95 11.00 12.35

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.11 9.10 9.03 9.13 9.63
 7 days 9.51 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.76

 Amount operated in REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 10,759 11,106 14,288 8,454 6,066
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o 11.10 11.10 n/o n/o
 3 months 11.54 11.32 11.80 n/o n/o
 9 months 13.17 12.60 12.40 n/o n/o
 12 months 13.82 n/o n/o 14.26 12.50

 NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.75
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.00
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.99

 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 482 639 878 378 463

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.55 4.50 4.45 4.29 4.13
 Retail 4.56 4.51 4.46 4.29 4.14

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.68 4.70 4.61 4.36 4.16
 ROFEX 1 month 4.62 4.55 4.50 4.33 4.16
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 766 938 1159 904 774

 Real (Pesos x Real) 2.24 2.19 2.24 2.33 2.64

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.60 5.64 5.69 5.64 5.90

 Capital Markets Jul-12 Jun-12 May-12 Dec-11 Jul-11

 MERVAL
 Index 2,407 2,249 2,255 2,488 3,364
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 47 45 46 39 62

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 118.29 107.05 110.64 98.40 100.12
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.88 93.68 86.15 81.40 90.48
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.51 92.51 92.38 86.93 89.91
 DISCOUNT ($) 45.25 45.47 47.52 51.96 67.07

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,486 1,740 1,269 980 617
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 406 438 406 409 328

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 19 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts greater than one million pesos and with terms of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MF: Mutual Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | July 2012 | BCRA | 20
