# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
August 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 5

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Market | Page 11

 Equities | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Investment Common Funds | Page 14

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on September 12, 2012. All figures are provisional and
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The private sector peso aggregate (private M3 2) showed growth of 2% ($10,060 million) in August, driven by the increase in fixed-term deposits. These placements showed the highest year-on-year growth in the last ten years, with a rate of change of 45%. During the month they accumulated an increase of 5.5%, which was driven both by deposits in the wholesale segment (of $1 million and more; 6.5%) and by placements of less than $1 million (4.6%). In both segments the monthly increase recorded was a record.

• The increase in private monetary aggregates was explained fundamentally by the increase recorded in loans to the private sector. To a lesser extent, but in the same direction, foreign currency purchases by the BCRA also operated, while the public sector was contractionary in net terms.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector strongly accelerated their expansion rate starting in June, recording in August a monthly increase of 3.6% ($10,500 million). This increase was greater than that observed in the same month of the previous year, with which the year-on-year growth rate increased 0.7 p.p. and stood at 42%. Although increases were observed across all lines, commercial loans continued to lead the increase.

• In a context of sustained growth in both deposits and loans to the private sector, the liquidity ratio of the peso segment of financial entities declined. The broad liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase operations with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, as a percentage of total deposits in pesos) was 35.7%, 0.7 p.p. lower than in July. This decrease was explained mainly by the fall in LEBAC and NOBAC holdings (0.4 p.p.), followed by that of repurchase operations with the BCRA (0.2 p.p.) and cash in banks (0.1 p.p.).

• In August the Central Bank validated interest rate increases through LEBAC auctions in the primary market. The increases were recorded fundamentally in the short end of the yield curve, mainly in the securities that are auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate, which showed increases of 0.7 p.p.. In the same direction, the interest rates of medium and long-term securities showed increases, which were around 0.5 p.p..

• The interest rates paid by private financial entities continued with the upward trend observed in the last three months. Increases were recorded in both the retail and wholesale segments, with the latter again leading the increase. In effect, the BADLAR rate of private banks – the interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days – registered a monthly increase of 0.7 p.p., averaging 13.9% in August.
• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed dissimilar behavior. On one hand, interest rates on lines intended to finance commercial activities showed moderate increases, while those applied to loans with real collateral continued with the downward trend observed in recent months. Among commercial lines, the monthly average interest rate corresponding to overdrafts in current accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity was located at 13.2%, increasing by 0.3 p.p. in the month. On the other hand, interest rates on loans with real collateral showed a decrease of 0.2 p.p. in the case of mortgage loans and 0.4 p.p. in the case of pledge loans. The average monthly interest rate on personal loans also decreased by 0.4 p.p., reaching 33.2%.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos of the private sector.

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹
Monetary Aggregates - M3
% (variation of monthly averages) %
5 50
 Monthly variation In August, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3³) pre-
4 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 40 sented a growth of 2.8%, driven by the growth of fixed-term deposits. In this way, the
3 30 M3 accelerated its year-on-year expansion rate by 1.2 p.p.,
2 20 reaching 31.4% (see Chart 2.1).

1 10
 In particular, the private M3⁴ increased by 2% ($10,060 mil-
0 0
 lion) in the month. The increase in this monetary aggregate

-1 -10 was explained fundamentally by the increase recorded in

-2 -20 loans to the private sector. To a lesser extent, but in the

 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12same direction, the purchases of foreign currency by the
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRABCRA operated (see Chart 2.2). For its part, the public sector
 proved contractionary in net terms. On the side of the compo-
 Chart 2.2 nents of private M3, the increase in the aggregate was driven

 thousands of by placements at term and, to a lesser extent, by currency in
millions of $ Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates
 (August 2012, on average) circulation and deposits in current accounts, since deposits in
12
10 savings accounts experienced a decline, characteristic of the

 Private M3 period following the collection of the semi-annual supplemen-
 8
 6 tary salary.

 4
 Private sector fixed-term placements showed the largest
 2
 year-on-year growth of the last ten years, with a variation rate
 0
 that stood at 45%. In the month they accumulated an increase
 -2
 of 5.5% (see Chart 2.3), which was driven both by deposits

 -4 from the wholesale stratum ($1 million and above; 6.5%) and
Purchases of Sector Loans to S. Other M2 Private Deposits at Term by placements of less than $1 million (4.6%). In both seg-
 Foreign Currency Public* Private and Other Priv. ments the monthly increase recorded was a record.

*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
Source: BCRA The firm growth that fixed-term deposits have been showing
 allows expanding the funding of the system, which improves
 the conditions to deepen financing at longer terms.

 Chart 2.3
# Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector
% (variations of monthly averages)%

8 48 August - Monthly Average Variation In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average balance
45.0 More than $1 million
7 42 % 6.5 of total deposits decreased 4.1%. This
7
6 5.5 36 6 decline was explained essentially by placements
5 30 5 of the private sector which, although they continued to show
4 24 3 reductions throughout the month, moderated their daily rate of
2 2006
3 18 1 2007 decrease. For their part, public sector deposits grew slightly.
2 12 0 2008 Likewise, it is worth noting that, as a result of prudential
-1 Less than $1 million 2009
1 6 % 2010 policies implemented in recent years, the Argentine financial
0 0 7 2011 system presents a low degree of dollarization and a
6 4.6
-1 -6 5 2012 very reduced level of currency mismatch, which
4
-2 Monthly variation -123 allowed it to return without complications all the deposits
-3 Year-on-year variation (right axis)-182
1 that were requested from it.
Ago-07 Ago-08 Ago-09 Ago-10 Ago-11 Ago-120
Source: BCRA -1

3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in
pesos.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 4 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes
 Chart 3.1 currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks

 Bank Liquidity in Pesos and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
 % of (monthly average)
 deposits (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of
 45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity
 2.4%.
 39.8 38.6
 40 36.9 36.8 37.5 37.3 38.2 38.5 37.2
 35.1 35.0 36.4 35.7

 35
 3. Bank Liquidity1
 30 21.2 20.4 18.8 17.2 15.6 16.0 16.9 17.0 16.7 16.9 16.8 16.2
 15.8
 25
 In August, in a context of sustained growth of both
 20
 2.6 2.2 2.0 1.9 2.4 3.2 6.1 4.3 5.0 5.7 3.9 3.5 3.3 deposits and loans, the liquidity ratio of the peso

 15 4.7 4.8 4.7 4.6 5.4 5.1 4.7 4.8 4.1 4.4 4.3 4.2 segment of financial entities decreased. In effect,
 4.9
 10 the broad liquidity ratio of the local currency deposit

 11.2 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.6 12.5 9.6 11.4 11.7 11.8 12.1 12.4 12.4
 5 segment (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the

 0 current account of entities in the Central Bank, net
 Source: BCRA Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12
 repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBACs and
 NOBACs5, as a percentage of total deposits in pesos)
 Chart 3.2 was 35.7%, 0.7 p.p. lower than July (see Chart 3.1).

 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos Such decrease was explained mainly by the fall in LEBAC and
 % of Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position NOBAC holdings (0.4 p.p.), followed by that of repos with
 deposits
 2.0 the BCRA (0.2 p.p.) and cash in banks (0.1 p.p.). In turn,
 1.5 the minimum cash position for the system as a whole
 1.0 would have ended with a surplus of 0.3% of total deposits
 in pesos (see Chart 3.2), similar to that observed in
 0.5
 0.3 previous months.
 0.0
 -0.5 In the foreign currency segment, liquidity continued to
 -1.0 increase, and stood at 76.5% of total deposits in dollars,
 increasing 9.5 p.p. with respect to July. Such increase was
 -1.5
 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 explained by the reduction in the fall of dollar deposits, while
 Source: BCRA the cancellation of loans in foreign currency continued to be
 observed, with the resulting increase in deposits in current
 Chart 4.1 account at the Central Bank.
## % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 6 (monthly average var.) 70
 4. Loans1 6
 Monthly % Var.
 5 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 60
 Loans in pesos to the private sector continued
 4 3.6 50
 3.0 3.3 presenting a different dynamic from that of the first
 2.6
 3 2.4 40 five months of the year. After growing around 2%

 2 30 monthly in that period, starting in June they accelerated
 1.5
 strongly their expansion rate, registering in Au-
 1 0.4 20 gust a monthly increase of 3.6% ($10,390 million), an

 0 10 increase greater than that observed in the same month of
 previous years. In this way, the year-over-year credit
-1 0
 Aug-06 Aug-07 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12growth rate increased 0.7 p.p. and stood at 42% (see

 Source: BCRA Graph 4.1). Although generalized increases were observed
 in all lines, commercial loans continued leading

5 In the calculation of banking liquidity, LEBACs and NOBACs are expressed in effective value.
6 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 5 the increase, driven, in part, by the substitution of fi-
 Graph 4.2 nancing in foreign currency in favor of the segment

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector in pesos. In effect, when considering the contribution of

 % (contribution by line to growth in the months of July) each of the lines to the month's growth, it is verified
4.0 Real Guarantee

3.5 that those aimed at financing commercial activities
 0.4
3.0 0.5 Credit Cards made the main contribution (2 p.p.). Within these,
 2.5 it is verified that the contribution of advances
 0.7 Personal
2.0 was much higher than that of other years of good loan
 0.3
1.5 performance (2006, 2007, 2010, and 2011). On the other hand,
 0.9 Other financing
1.0 commercial the contribution of documents was in line with that of
0.5 0.8 previous years (see Graph 4.2).
0.0 Documents

-0.5 Advances grew 5.5% ($2,340 million) in a
 Advances
-1.0 month in which they usually register declines or modest
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012increases in the average balance. In this way, their year-
Source: BCRA
 over-year variation reached 59.4%, showing an increase of
 11.7 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Graph 4.3). When
 determining the contribution to monthly growth of
 Graph 4.3 advances on current account and "Other advances,"
 it is noted that these latter notably increased

 % Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % their contribution starting in May (see Graph 4.4). This

12 (monthly average var.) 70 moment coincides with an acceleration in the rate of

10 Monthly avg. var. 60 decline of loans in foreign currency, which would reflect

 8 Year-over-year var. (right axis) 50 the channeling to the peso segment (through the
 5.540 "Other advances" line) of part of the financing that
 6
 30 was conducted in foreign currency. Meanwhile,
 4
 1.5 20 financing implemented through documents grew in
 2 0.6
 10 August 4.7% ($2,690 million), following the
 0 0 extraordinary increase in July. The month's increase
 -0.3
-2 -1.8 -10 was in line with that observed in August 2011
 -2.5 -2.2
-4 -20 and 2010. When distinguishing by type of document, it is verified
 that documents at single signature made in recent
-6 -30
 Aug-06 Aug-07 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12months a greater contribution to growth than the rest
 Source: BCRA
 of the documents, which is also explained, in part,
 by the granting of loans that were previously channeled
 in the foreign currency segment.
Finally, the rest of commercial financing "Other loans" (Graph 4.4) registered an increase of 3.1% ($760 million), favored by specific operations linked to the financing of gas imports, as has occurred during other years between the months of May and August.

Regarding loans intended mainly for consumption, financing instruments with credit cards showed in August a monthly growth of 3.3% ($1,530 million), reversing the seasonal decline of the previous month and exceeding the growth observed in August 2011 and 2010. In year-over-year terms, such financing recorded a variation of 46.9%, 1.3 p.p. above that of July. For their part, personal loans registered a monthly increase of 2.9% ($1,910 million), returning to the expansion levels observed in June (see Graph 4.5).

When examining the utilization of new personal loans granted in August, a great variety of destinations can be identified. The most notable were the acquisition of appliances and household items and the refurbishment or construction of real estate, representing 13.2% and 12.4% of the total, respectively (see Graph 4.6). In order of importance, refinancing or debt cancellation followed, with 10.9% of the total. The application of funds to this destination gained participation in the total compared to the previous month (in July it represented 9.9% of the total), at the expense, fundamentally, of the acquisition of appliances and household items. For their part, the acquisition of automobiles for personal and/or family use concentrated 8%. Finally, it should be noted that the category of "Other destinations," which concentrates a diversity of fund uses that were not categorized individually, represented 46.5%.

With regard to loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans registered in August a monthly growth rate of 2.2% ($670 million). For their part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantees presented greater dynamism in August, in line with the improvement observed in the automotive market. The increase recorded in the month was 2.6% ($490 million), the largest of the last nine months.

Within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), tender No. 15 was held in August. On this occasion, $100 million were awarded to Banco Nación, bringing the total resources committed since the beginning of the program to $4,872 million, of which $3,374 million were disbursed (see Graph 4.7).

Foreign currency loans to the private sector, intended fundamentally for pre-financing of exports, continued showing a declining trend.
4,000 increasing. In August they registered a monthly de-
 3.37450
 crease of 10.3% (US$ 780 million) and in year-over-year
 3,000 40 terms they showed a decline of 27.3%. The deceleration
 2,000 that these financings display takes place in a scenario of
 20 elevated interest rates charged for these financings and
 1,000 10 a decline in foreign currency deposits. Nevertheless, as
 0 0 was mentioned previously, part of the financing in for-
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Ago-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Ago-12
 Source: BCRA. eign currency is being channeled in the peso segment.

7 New information collected as of January 2012.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.1 5. Interest Rates 8

 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
 A.N.R. % (last month auctions)
 17 Securities issued by the Central Bank9
 August 16.5

 16 July

 June 14.9 In August the Central Bank validated interest rate in-
 15 May 14.5
 14.2 creases through LEBAC auctions in the primary market.
 14 13.8
 13.4 The increases were recorded fundamentally in the short
 13 12.8
 12.2 Monthly Variation end of the yield curve, mainly in the securities that are
 p.p (August/July)
 12 0.8 0.7

 0.7 0.7 auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate, which showed
 11 0.6 0.6 increases of 0.7 p.p.. In the same direction, the interest
 0.5
 0.5
 10 0.7 rates of medium and long-term securities showed in-
 0.4
 9 0.3 Days creases, which were around 0.5 p.p (see Chart 5.1). For

 90 120 370 720
 Days
 8 their part, the rates of NOBACs did not register signifi-
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800cant changes compared to July auctions.

 Source: BCRA
 Chart 5.2 In line with the behavior registered so far this year, in

 Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market August LEBACs concentrated almost all of the placements.

 thousands of thousands of The awarded amount, which again resulted higher than
 LEBAC NOBAC millions $ millions $
 16 80 8 More than 24 months 80 maturities. In a context of increased loans and decreased
 More than 360 days 24 months
 From 271 to 360 days Between 18 and 24 months liquidity in terms of deposits, the placements were con-
 From 181 to 270 days 7 18 months centrated in terms slightly shorter than those registered
 14 70 Between 12 and 18 months 70
 From 91 to 180 days
 Up to 90 days Between 6 and 12 months the previous month, so the average maturity of the place-
 12 6 6 months
 Balance at end of month (right axis) Less than 6 ments decreased from 10 months to 8.6 months. Mean-
 Maturities 60 60
 Balance at end of month (right axis)while, in the case of NOBACs, despite the awarded
 10 5 Maturities
 50 50 amount growing compared to July, it again resulted
 8 4 lower than what matured so the balance continued de-
 40 40
 6 3 creasing (see Chart 5.2).

 4 30 2 30
 The average balance, at nominal value, of Central

 2 20 1 20 Bank securities10 grew 1.9% and was placed at $88,680

 0 10 0 10 million. Public banks increased their holdings while

 Ago-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Ago-12Ago-11 Dic-11 Abr-12 Ago-12 private banks registered a slight decline (see Chart 5.3).

 Source: BCRA
 For its part, the amount traded in the secondary market
 Chart 5.3 increased in August, placing itself at a daily average of
 Holdings of Central Bank Securities $605 million. Nevertheless, it still finds itself below the
 thousands of (monthly variation of average balance)
 millions of $ levels reached in the second quarter, when it reached
 8
 $825 million daily. In line with the trend registered so
 6
 far this year, LEBAC operations concentrated the largest
 4
 part of the traded volume, again highlighting operations
 2
 of securities under 90 days, which concentrated the
 0

 -2 Others
-4 FCIs 87% of volume. For its part, the amount traded by
 Public Banks
 -6 Private Banks NOBAC grew again, positioning itself at an
 Total Stock
 -8 average of $84 million daily. Interest rates

 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 of LEBACs in the secondary market remained

 Source: BCRA

8 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
9 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
10 Titles issued as counterparty to repo operations with the Central Bank are excluded.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 8 stable in terms of less than 30 days and grew
 Graph 5.4 slightly in terms between 30 and 90 days, in line with
 Interbank Market
 thousands (1 business day operations) the increases recorded in the primary market.
 millions of $ %
 4.5 12.0
 Call amount traded
 4.0 REPO round amount traded excluding BCRA 11.5 Central Bank Repo Operations1
 REPO round interest rate excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0
 3.5 Call interest rate (right axis)

 10.5
 3.0 In August the interest rates of Central Bank repos
 10.0
 2.5 remained at the same levels as in July. The
 9.5
 2.0 interest rates of passive repos at 1 and 7 days were main-
 9.0
 1.5 tained at 9% and 9.5%, respectively. On the other hand,
 8.5
 1.0 the interest rates of active repos were located at 11%
 8.0
 0.5 7.5 and 11.5% for the same terms.

 0.0 7.0
 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Throughout the month no active repos were recorded with the

Source: BCRA
 Central Bank. Meanwhile, the average monthly stock of
 passive repos in all the rounds in which the institution
 participates decreased 3%, positioning itself at $18,380 million.

 Graph 5.5 Interbank Markets1

 Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day

 %
 17 In August, the interest rates of the interbank market

 %
 16 13
 remained relatively stable. In the guaranteed market
 15 11 Monthly average
 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation (REPO round), the average interest rate
 14 9 of 1 business day operations between financial entities

 13 7
 02-Jul 17-Jul 31-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug was positioned at 9.6%, 0.1 p.p. above its value in
 12
 July. Likewise, in the unguaranteed market (call) the
 11
 interest rate of the same segment of operations grew
 10
 0.15 p.p., reaching 9.7% (see Graph 5.4).
 9

 8
 The volatility of interest rates in the call market
 7
 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 remained limited recording values lower than
 Source: BCRA
 those of July. In effect, the average deviation of the
 interest rates of daily call operations agreed at 1
 business day was located at 0.65 p.p. (see Graph 5.5).

 The performance recorded in the interest rates of the
 interbank market occurred together with an increase in the
 average daily volume traded, mainly due to the
 Graph 5.6 behavior recorded in the REPO round, where the
 Call Market
 (average monthly net position by group of entities) volume grew 62.1% and positioned itself at $2,590 million.
 millions of $
 500 In the same direction, in the call segment the amount

 400 increased 7.8% reaching $1,400 million. Regarding

 300
 the distribution of the amount traded in the call
 200
 100 market by type of entity, as in July, domestic private
 0 entities were net fund lenders,
-100 financing mainly foreign entities and non-bank
-200 financial entities that were net fund borrowers.
 EFNB
-300 Likewise, although with a more limited position, public
-400 Public entities were net lenders for the eighth consecutive
 Priv. Nat. month (see Graph 5.6).
 Foreign
-500

 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 9 Passive Interest Rates 1
In August, the interest rates paid by private financial entities continued with the upward trend observed in the last three months. Increases were recorded both in the retail segment and in the wholesale segment, which again led the increase.

In effect, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – registered a monthly increase of 0.7 p.p., averaging 13.9% in August. In this way, although in the last three months the BADLAR accumulated an increase of 2.2 p.p., it still remains markedly below the average recorded in December (see Graph 5.7).

Meanwhile, in the BADLAR futures market, an amount traded was again recorded that more than doubled what was traded the previous month. In August, only short-term contracts were traded, with maturity dates on August 31 and September 28, 2012. In both contracts, increases in interest rates were observed. In the first case, the monthly average was placed at 14%, while in the second case, the interest rate averaged 14.7%.

For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a monthly increase similar to that of the previous month (0.4 p.p.), averaging 12% in August. Meanwhile, it still remains 2.1 p.p. below the December level.

## Active Interest Rates11

In August, the interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed different behaviors. On one hand, the interest rates on lines intended to finance commercial activities showed moderate increases, while those applied to loans with real estate collateral continued with the downward trend observed in recent months.

Among the interest rates applied to commercial lines, there were increases both in financing through advances in current account and in those arranged via documents. In this case, the interest rate for discounted documents averaged 18.5% in August, increasing 0.2 p.p. during the month. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate for discounted documents was placed at 17.6%, 0.3 p.p. above the July average and more than 8 p.p. below that of December. For its part, the interest rate for...

---

11 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other outlays (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 10
-0.5 -0.4 -0.4 advances in current account averaged 20.8% in Au-
34 Mortgage Chattel Personal gust, with a monthly increase of 0.1 p.p.. Likewise, the
monthly average of advances in current account for
26 more than $10 million and up to 7

18 days maturity was placed at 13.2%, increasing 0.3
p.p. during the month. It should be noted that, despite the
10 monthly increases recorded in the last two months, the
Jun-08 Nov-08 Apr-09 Sep-09 Feb-10 Jul-10 Dec-10 May-11 Oct-11 Mar-12 Aug-12 interest rates of commercial lines accumulate a
Source: BCRA significant decline compared to the levels registered
in December (see Chart 5.8).

Chart 5.10
Active and Passive Interest Rates p.p.
% In August, interest rates on loans with real estate
32 (daily data) 24 collateral showed a homogeneous monthly decline. The
monthly average interest rate on chattel mortgage
Spread Advances-BADLAR (right axis)
28 BADLAR Private Banks 20 loans was placed at 22.6%, with a monthly decrease
Advances in current account of 0.4 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate applied to
24 16 mortgage loans intended for families was reduced by
0.2 p.p., averaging 15%. Meanwhile, interest rates on
20 12 consumer loans showed heterogeneous behaviors. In
the case of personal loans, the average monthly
16 8 interest rate in August was 33.2%, declining
0.4 p.p. during the month (see Chart 5.9).
12 4

8 0
Jan-09 Aug-09 Mar-10 Oct-10 May-11 Dec-11 Aug-12
Source: BCRA
The moderate increase in active interest rates, together
with greater increases in passive rates, generated a
decrease in spreads. In effect, the monthly average of
the spread between the interest rate on advances in
current account and the BADLAR private banks was
Chart 6.1 placed at 6.9 p.p. in August, declining 0.6 p.p. with
respect to July (see Chart 5.10).

International Reserves of the BCRA
thousands of
billion US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

54 Aug-12 6. International Reserves and

51
Foreign Exchange Market12
48 thousands of
Variation Factors
million u$s (August 2012)
45 0.5 International reserves reached a balance of
US$45,152 million on the last day of August (see Chart
42 -0.5
6.1). In relation to the previous month, a decline of
-1.5 US$1,666 million in payment was recorded. The main
39
variation factor of international reserves was the latest
-2.5 payment of BODEN 2012, for more than US$2,100
36 million through the use of the Argentine Debt
33 Reduction Fund.
International Compra de Sector Efectivo Otros
30 Reserves Divisas Público Mínimo

Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12
Source: BCRA

12 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 11 Approximately 20% of such funds remained in the
local financial system, while the rest of the amount
paid resulted in a decline in the level of international
reserves. The rest of the factors that affect the varia-
Chart 6.2 tion of international reserves generated an increase in
foreign currency. Among them are the purchases of
Foreign Exchange Market foreign currency by the Central Bank in the Unique
(average quotations) and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC), the
variation in the quotation of other currencies with
$/Euro $/Real $/US$
6.0 $/Euro 3.0 4.7 respect to the US dollar, and the increase in minimum
$/US$ (Reference)
5.9 $/Real, right axis 2.9 4.6 cash accounts as a result of the cancellation of dollar
5.8 2.8 4.5 loans by the private sector, which more than offset
5.7 2.7 4.4 the slight decrease in deposits in such currency.
5.6 2.6 4.3
5.5 2.5 4.2
5.4 2.4 4.1
5.3 2.3 4.0
In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the currencies of its main trading partners (US dollar, real, and euro). For the first case, the average
5.2 2.2 3.9
quote was 4.61 $/US$ (1.3% higher than in July, see Chart 6.2). Meanwhile, for the real it was
5.1 2.1 3.8
2.27 $/real, 1.3% higher than the previous month. For the euro, the average quote was 5.72
5.0 2.0 3.7
$/euro, showing a monthly increase of 2.2%, following three months in which the peso had

Source: BCRA Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 appreciated against this currency.

In the forward market (ROFEX) the average daily trading volume increased 32% compared to July, and was positioned above $1,000 million. This increase was explained by the increase in traded volume, while there was no verification of a revision of the expected quotes for the coming months.

Chart 7.1
World Stock Indices 7. Capital Markets9
120 (in dollars; Base Index 30/06/11=100)

110 Stocks

100

90 In August, a more favorable context was again observed in international financial markets,

80 mainly in the squares of advanced economies. The global MSCI expanded 2.3%, and was positioned at the same levels as at the end of April (see Chart
70
MSCI- World 7.1). Throughout the month, investors remained awaiting news regarding new stimulus measures in Europe (particularly the possibility that
60 MSCI-Europe the European Central Bank could resume the purchase of sovereign debt in secondary markets) and a
MSCI- Latam
50 S&P 500 new round of quantitative expansion by the Federal Reserve of the United States. For its part, in
MSCI- Emerging the United States and Europe there were some economic data better than expected by the
40
Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 market, which contributed positively to the month's performance.

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

The European square, measured through the MSCI index, was the one with the best relative performance within advanced economies

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 12 and gained 6.4%. Likewise, the S&P 500, the
Chart 7.2 main index of the United States market, verified an advance of 2%. Volatility levels
Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and (VIX and VStoxx Indices) expected continued to decline, mainly in the North American square. In effect, the expected
% Eurozone
100 volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, fell 2 percentage points to an
90
average of 15.5%. Likewise, the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference Index of
80
VIX Index (S&P 500) the Eurozone stock exchange) was reduced to a monthly average of 24% (see Chart 7.2).
70
VStoxx Index (Eurozone) 50
60

50

40 Emerging variable income registered a slight decline driven largely by uncertainty
30 regarding the growth of the Chinese economy. The MSCI Emerging index ended August with a
20 decline of 0.5%, while Latin America accumulated a decline of 0.7%. The IPC (Mexico) and
10
0 the IGPA (Chile) fell in line with the general trend of the region, registering losses of 2.1% and
Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 1%, respectively. Meanwhile, the
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Chart 7.3 Bovespa (Brazil) grew 3% in dollars, mainly

Index in thousands Evolution of the Bovespa Index and the Real R$/US$ as a consequence of the performance of the index in

55 2.2 local currency and an appreciation of 1.3% in the real

50 2.1
45 2.0 against the dollar, in a context where the Central Bank of Brazil reduced for the ninth consecutive time its
40 1.9 reference interest rate (Selic). On this occasion the Selic cut was 50 b.p., to a level of

35 1.8

30 1.7
25 T.N.A % Reference Interest Rate 1.6 7.5%, and accumulates a decrease of 500 b.p. since August of

 13 12.5
 20 12 1.5 2011, when the cycle of reduction in interest rates

 11
 15 10 Bovespa (Brazil) in dollars 1.4 began (see Chart 7.3).

 9
 10 8 Real Exchange Rate (R$/US$)1.3

 7 7.5
 5 6 1.2
 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 For its part, the quotation of Argentine equities,

 0 1.1
 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 measured through the MERVAL index, declined 0.8% in

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg dollars, mainly as a consequence of the

 depreciation of the peso since the index in local
 currency grew 0.3%, while the levels of historical
 volatility continued to decrease (see Chart 7.4). In
 terms of amounts, the daily average traded in shares
 at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange remained stable,
 located at $35 million.
 Chart 7.4
 Evolution of the Local Stock Market Public Securities
 % (in pesos) Index
 60 4,000
 Historical volatility 22 trading sessions

 MERVAL (right axis) The rates of emerging sovereign bonds

 50 3,500 remained unchanged within the framework of higher

 40 yields required by investors for U.S. Treasury

 3,000 bonds, which increased 10 b.p. in the longer

 30 maturities. Thus, the differentials of emerging

 2,500 sovereign risk contracted 12 b.p. to a level of

 20 313 b.p. (see Chart 7.5).

 10 2,000
 In this context, the risk differentials of Argentine
 0 1,500 dollar bonds with international legislation in
 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data foreign markets, according to the EMBI+, were reduced by 36

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 13 Private Securities b.p., placing them at 1,051 b.p..

 Chart 7.5 Corporate Financing

 Sovereign Risk Indicators Corporate financing in the capital market

 Spread in b.p Spread in b.p through debt issuance continued

 550 1300 showing favorable dynamics. In August the total

 500 1200 placed amount was located at $1,000 million, 12% above

 1100 the amount recorded in the same period of the

 450 previous year and the second largest record of this year,

 1000 after the $1,480 million reached in May. Financial

 400 900 Entities and other companies engaged in financial,

 800 stock market and insurance activities were again the

 350 main issuers, concentrating almost 90% of the

 700 amount placed for the month. The amount placed

 300 EMBI+ 600 by both sectors reached $900 million and accumulates

 EMBI+ Latin America in what has elapsed of the year $4,285 million, 67% of the total

 250 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500 (see Chart 7.6).

 200 400
 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 For its part, 6 issuances from SME companies were

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg registered in the month for a total amount of $57 million,

 mainly from the sector of other companies engaged in

 Chart 7.6 financial, stock market and insurance activities.

 Corporate Bond Issuance
 in billions of $ Following the trend recorded so far in 2012,

 3.5 the average maturity of placements was located below

 Financial Entities 2 years. Likewise, most of the issuances were carried
 3.0 Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities
 Others out in local currency and will accrue a variable rate

 Total Placed equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin.

 2.5 With respect to financing costs, they rose slightly,

 2.0 in line with the performance recorded in money

 1.5 market interest rates. In effect, the cut rate of

 1.0 ONs in pesos at variable rate with rating higher

 0.5 than Arg A and maturity less than 2 years increased

 0.0 0.7 p.p.
Aug-08 Dec-08 Apr-09 Aug-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg positioning itself at 17.9% (see Chart 7.7). In the dollar segment, a single placement was registered which will pay a rate of 9.25%, 0.5 percentage points higher than that verified in July.

Mutual Investment Funds
Chart 7.7
Issuances of ON at Variable BADLAR Rate of Private Banks In August the assets of the Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs) in national and foreign currency registered
T.N.A % (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $
30 1,200 an increase of 1.8% ($700 million) and was positioned at
Amount placed at variable rate (right axis)
Cut rate of securities with rating higher than arg A- * $40,000 million. The Money Market funds in
20 BADLAR rate of private banks 800 pesos drove the segment's growth, upon registering
a growth of 7.7% ($1,000 million, see Chart
15 600
7.8), thanks to the increase in the number of quotashares.

10 400 In the same sense, although with more modest performance, the fixed income funds in pesos expanded
5 200
0.7% ($120 million). While the funds that invest
0 0 in mixed income and variable income assets in pesos fell 3.2% and 12.1%, respectively, affected
(*) Maturity less than 2 years. Jun-09 Nov-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC by the decline in the number of quotashares and in the case of
Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 14 Chart 7.8 variable income funds also by the decline recorded
Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos in prices.
Billions of $ (monthly variation)
4.0
Along the month, the positive performance of the FCIs
Fixed Income
Money Market was counteracted, in part, by the behavior registered
3.0
Mixed Income by the funds that invest in foreign assets, following
Variable Income
2.0 Total the publication of General Resolution 608 of the National
Securities Commission (CNV). Through
1.0 this regulation it seeks to standardize the valuation crite-
0.0 ria of FCI assets, establishing that their investments in
foreign currency must be valued only at the Buying
-1.0 exchange rate of the Bank of the Argentine Nation13. This
-2.0 methodological change motivated many investors to withdraw
Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 their holdings, accelerating the unwinding of positions provided
Source: CAFCI and BCRA for adaptation to the new regulation. At the end of the month the funds
involved registered a decline of 14% (see Chart 7.9).
Chart 7.9
Evolution of Assets of Mutual Investment Funds With respect to profitability, the fixed income funds
(Index base 31-07-12=100)
120 Participation in the total of FCIs in pesos registered an estimated return of 1%, followed
31-07-12
7.4 by the mixed income and Money Market funds
115 FCIs in pesos that invest in foreign assets 4.2
FCIs in dollars that invest in foreign assets with increases of 0.8% and 0.7% respectively. Mean-
110 Rest
Total 88.4 while, the variable income funds registered a decline
105 of 1.8% in the month.

100

95 Financial Trusts14

90 Without contemplating those destined to finance infrastructure projects, the issuances of Financial
85 Trusts (FF) totaled in August around $1,400 million,
80 registering an increase close to 20% compared to
31-Jul 03-Aug 08-Aug 13-Aug 16-Aug 22-Aug 27-Aug 30-Aug the previous month and positioning itself, together with the amount
Source: BCRA and CAFCI placed in May, among the highest of the year (see Chart
7.10). Said amount was achieved through a total of 18
Chart 7.10 operations, one more than in July. Additionally, a new
Issuances of Financial Trusts series of the FF Nucleoeléctrica Argentina was placed
million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) units
1,600 45 S.A. (NASA). On this occasion, NASA issued

1,400 Amount issued 40 US$189 million in fiduciary debt securities, which
Quantity of operations (right axis)
35 accrue a variable interest rate equal to LI-
1,200
30 BOR plus a differential margin of 5 p.p.. The funds
1,000
25 will be intended to finance infrastructure works
800
20 in the energy sector, particularly the project for Extension of Life of Embalse Nuclear Power Plant.

600 15

400 10 Retail businesses were fiduciaries of approximately half of the total placed in the month (excluding
200 5 the NASA FF), by issuing $685 million, recording
0 0 an increase of 31% compared to July. For their part, the
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 15 financial entities placed around $450 million,
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others 17% less than in July. Finally, mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and
13 Through CNV Resolution 608, the possibility for FCIs to value their investments in foreign currency was repealed
according to an alternative mechanism, using an "Implicit Exchange Rate" or "Arbitrage Dollar".
14 Only fiduciary trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 15 other financial service providers placed
$270 million, more than double what was issued the previous month. With the sole exception of the NASA FF, whose underlying
assets corresponded to the energy supply rights under the supply contract subscribed between Nucleoeléctrica
Graph 7.11
Argentina S.A. and CAMMESA (Wholesale Electricity Market Administration Company
Limited Liability Company), the rest of the issues were backed by assets linked to consumption (personal loans and credit
Senior Title Cut-Off Rates in Pesos card coupons).

TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - average monthly weighted by amount)
40
The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos continued showing an upward trend, accompanying
35 the evolution of the BADLAR private banks (see Graph 7.11). In effect, the cut-off rate (average weighted by amount)
Fixed rate
Variable rate of titles with a duration of less than 14 months awarded at variable rate was
30 BADLAR private banks
located at 16.5%, 1.1 p.p more than in July. A similar magnitude increase was observed in the cut-off rate of
25 titles with fixed yield (average weighted by amount), which was located at 16.9%.

20

15

10

5
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 168. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and of the financial system Aug-12 Monthly Last 12 months Jul-12 Dec-11 Aug-11
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 257,787 252,103 210,100 188,973 2.3% 1.5% 36.4% 24.3%
Monetary circulation 198,626 194,841 165,181 147,649 1.9% 1.2% 34.5% 22.6%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 178,553 175,020 144,288 130,205 2.0% 1.3% 37.1% 24.9%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 20,071 19,819 20,891 17,441 1.3% 0.6% 15.1% 4.9%
Cancellation Checks 2 1 2 0 45.8% 44.7% - -
Current account at the BCRA 59,161 57,263 44,919 41,324 3.3% 2.6% 43.2% 30.4%

Stock of Passes
Liabilities 18,369 18,941 12,071 12,034 -3.0% -3.7% 52.6% 39.1%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for passes)
In pesos 59,633 60,979 22,782 32,311 -2.2% -2.9% 84.6% 68.2%

NOBAC 25,075 26,075 44,889 51,277 -3.8% -4.5% -51.1% -55.4%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 45,215 46,647 45,983 50,388 -3.1% -10.3%
Deposits from private and public sector in pesos (1) 472.962 458.757 382.886 365.455 3.1% 2.4% 29.4% 17.9%
 Current account (2) 134.510 130.926 106.893 98.697 2.7% 2.0% 36.3% 24.2%
 Savings account 90.868 93.368 73.673 71.183 -2.7% -3.4% 27.7% 16.3%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjusted by CER 229.154 215.416 185.534 180.023 6.4% 5.6% 27.3% 16.0%
 Fixed-term deposit adjusted by CER 8 8 10 10 -1.2% -1.9% -19.5% -26.6%
 Other deposits (3) 18.422 19.039 16.776 15.542 -3.2% -3.9% 18.5% 8.0%

 Deposits from private sector 328.924 322.396 262.112 245.079 2.0% 1.3% 34.2% 22.3%

 Deposits from public sector 144.038 136.361 120.774 120.376 5.6% 4.9% 19.7% 9.0%

 Deposits from private and public sector in dollars (1) 9.275 9.674 13.158 15.911 -4.1% -41.7%

 Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 328.061 316.596 268.587 233.585 3.6% 2.9% 40.4% 28.0%

 Loans to private sector 295.728 285.486 241.211 208.320 3.6% 2.9% 42.0% 29.3%
 Advances 44.736 42.394 30.930 28.060 5.5% 4.8% 59.4% 45.3%
 Documents 59.992 57.273 51.144 44.680 4.7% 4.0% 34.3% 22.3%
 Mortgage loans 31.023 30.381 26.835 23.255 2.1% 1.4% 33.4% 21.5%
 Pledge loans 19.019 18.534 16.397 13.792 2.6% 1.9% 37.9% 25.6%
 Personal loans 67.900 66.131 58.115 50.451 2.7% 2.0% 34.6% 22.6%
 Credit cards 47.482 45.955 39.942 32.322 3.3% 2.6% 46.9% 33.8%
 Others 25.576 24.818 17.847 15.760 3.1% 2.3% 62.3% 47.9%

 Loans to public sector 32.333 31.110 27.377 25.264 3.9% 3.2% 28.0% 16.6%

 Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) 6.819 7.603 9.607 9.450 -10.3% -27.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account) 313.064 305.947 251.183 228.905 2.3% 1.6% 36.8% 24.6%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 403.932 399.315 324.857 300.089 1.2% 0.5% 34.6% 22.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 651.516 633.779 527.177 495.663 2.8% 2.1% 31.4% 19.8%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 694.264 677.812 583.612 562.016 2.4% 1.7% 23.5% 12.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 266.824 261.673 218.627 200.910 2.0% 1.3% 32.8% 21.0%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 351.551 348.842 288.231 266.257 0.8% 0.1% 32.0% 20.3%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 507.479 497.418 406.402 375.287 2.0% 1.3% 35.2% 23.2%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 546.015 536.937 458.029 433.170 1.7% 1.0% 26.1% 14.8%

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 5.683 2.3% 34.008 15.2% 47.687 22.7% 68.813 36.4%
 Financial sector 723 0.3% 10.567 4.7% -4.033 -1.9% -2.749 -1.5%
 Public sector 4.913 1.9% 15.321 6.8% 22.372 10.6% 36.382 19.3%
 Private external sector 579 0.2% 8.342 3.7% 40.730 19.4% 27.570 14.6%
 BCRA Securities -215 -0.1% 263 0.1% -10.387 -4.9% 9.252 4.9%
 Others -317 -0.1% -486 -0.2% -995 -0.5% -1.642 -0.9%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.433 -3.1% -2.221 -4.7% -768 -1.7% -5.173 -10.3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 127 0.3% 1.855 3.9% 9.294 20.2% 6.154 12.2%
 Payment to international organizations 58 0.1% 125 0.3% 90 0.2% 244 0.5%
 Other operations of the public sector -23 0.0% 1.200 2.5% -362 -0.8% 1.587 3.1%
 Minimum cash 385 0.8% -958 -2.0% -910 -2.0% -4.481 -8.9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1.979 -4.2% -4.444 -9.4% -8.881 -19.3% -8.676 -17.2%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.1 12.2 11.9
 Integration 12.4 12.4 12.1
 Position (2) 0.3 0.1 0.1
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 59.4 58.6 53.7
 30 to 59 days 26.2 25.3 27.0
 60 to 89 days 7.6 9.3 11.7
 90 to 179 days 4.9 4.6 5.4
 more than 180 days 1.9 2.2 2.2
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.0 20.1 19.8
 Integration (includes resource application default) 66.5 57.3 51.6
 Position (2) 37.1 37.1 31.8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.9 56.6 55.4
 30 to 59 days 22.2 22.1 23.2
 60 to 89 days 10.0 10.1 10.4
 90 to 179 days 9.4 9.2 9.4
 180 to 365 days 2.5 1.8 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.81 9.63 9.54 9.99 9.49
 Amount traded 1,405 1,303 1,482 1,126 861

 Fixed-Term
 In pesos
 30 days 12.28 12.01 11.64 14.74 10.30
 60 days or more 13.51 13.11 12.08 16.50 11.31
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.15 11.73 11.27 14.76 10.59
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13.93 13.19 12.15 18.75 12.35

 In dollars
 30 days 0.52 0.54 0.46 0.33 0.28
 60 days or more 1.11 0.99 0.98 0.69 0.64
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.64 0.82 0.62 0.43 0.41
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.94 1.11 0.78 0.63 0.53

 Active Interest Rates Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.43 11.71 11.68 15.98 12.07
 Amount traded (total terms) 244 218 212 226 226

 Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 20.85 20.72 20.34 26.78 19.03
 Documents on signature alone 18.50 18.30 17.26 22.15 15.62
 Mortgage 15.34 15.42 15.80 16.52 14.76
 Pledge 22.58 22.99 23.35 25.10 18.98
 Personal 33.21 33.59 33.26 36.46 29.88
 Credit cards n/d 34.82 33.04 33.15 32.31

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 13.20 12.94 12.40 22.56 12.60

 International Interest Rates Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.25 0.24 0.28 0.21
 6 months 0.72 0.73 0.74 0.78 0.46

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.26 0.25 0.28 0.25 0.23
 10 years 1.66 1.50 1.61 1.96 2.30

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 7.93 8.14 8.50 11.00 12.48

 (1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 19 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO room repo rates
 1 day 9.19 9.11 9.10 9.13 9.07
 7 days 9.50 9.51 9.50 9.56 9.53

Amount traded in REPO room repos (daily average) 10,309 10,759 11,106 8,454 8,177
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months 12.00 n/a 11.10 n/a n/a
 3 months 11.90 11.54 11.32 n/a n/a
 9 months n/a 13.17 12.60 n/a n/a
 12 months 14.30 13.82 n/a 14.26 12.39

Spread of NOBAC in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks -1.90 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 0.61
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.78
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.91

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (Daily Average) 605 482 639 378 538

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.61 4.55 4.50 4.29 4.17
 Retail 4.62 4.56 4.51 4.29 4.18

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.71 4.68 4.70 4.36 4.21
 ROFEX 1 month 4.68 4.62 4.55 4.33 4.21
 Amount Traded (all terms, millions of pesos) 1.011 766 938 904 938

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.27 2.24 2.19 2.33 2.61

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.72 5.60 5.64 5.64 5.97

 Capital Market Aug-12 Jul-12 Jun-12 Dec-11 Aug-11

MERVAL
 Index 2.432 2.407 2.249 2.488 2.980
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 51 47 45 39 59

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 121.56 118.29 107.05 98.40 98.60
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 98.47 99.88 93.68 81.40 86.90
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.06 93.51 92.51 86.93 89.98
 DISCOUNT ($) 44.83 45.25 45.47 51.96 67.00

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond 1.261 1.486 1.740 980 708
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 370 406 438 409 374

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 20 9. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y/y: Year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | August 2012 | BCRA | 21
