# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
January 2012

Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 7

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 9

7. Capital Market | Page 10

 Stocks | Page 10

 Public Securities | Page 11

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Common Investment Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was February 8, 2012. All figures are provisional and are sub-
 ject to revision

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 21. Summary1

• Total means of payment (M2) grew 6.6% in January, driven by the behavior of sight deposits from the public sector and, to a lesser extent, by the increase in private M2. Both total M2 and private M2 registered a decrease in their year-on-year growth rate, of 0.5 p.p. and 1.2 p.p., respectively.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector had a notable performance in January, reaching a monthly growth of 6.6% ($7,100 million), a historic record for the month. This increase was contributed to by both placements of more than $1 million and those made for smaller amounts. In this way, in January the private sector's time deposits reached a year-on-year expansion rate of 35.9%, around 10 percentage points (p.p.) above the growth of transactional deposits.

• Financial entities allocated the increase in peso deposits to granting loans to the private sector and to increasing their liquid assets. The growth of loans in pesos to the private sector continued to be one of the main factors in the expansion of monetary aggregates in pesos. In January loans in pesos to the private sector increased 2% and reached a year-on-year variation of 47.7%. The monthly increase was distributed among all financing lines, although those directed at consumption stood out.

• The liquidity ratio in pesos (calculated as the sum of cash in entities, current accounts of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs, in terms of deposits) increased 1.8 p.p. with respect to the previous month and reached 36.7%.

• In line with the increase in liquidity levels of financial entities, the main short-term interest rates continued to decline in January. Among passive rates, the largest decline was recorded in the wholesale sector, where the average BADLAR of private banks decreased 2.7 p.p., placing it at 16.1%. In turn, the average interest rate for deposits of 30 to 35 days and up to $100 thousand, from private banks, was placed at 13.5%, after decreasing 0.6 p.p. during the month.

• Active short-term rates behaved similarly. The average monthly rate applied by private entities to overdrafts in current accounts for more than $10 million and up to 7 days term, was placed at 18.7%, decreasing more than 4 p.p. during the month. On the other hand, that applied by the same group of entities to discounted documents to companies up to 90 days registered a monthly decline of 2.7 p.p., averaging 23% in January.
• Interbank market interest rates also continued to decline. Both in the unsecured market (call) and in the secured market (REPO round), the average interest rates for operations at 1 business day were positioned at 9.4%, 0.3 percentage points below the level recorded in the previous month.

• International reserves continued to rise and on the last day of January reached US$46,594 million. The increase was driven mainly by foreign exchange purchases by the Central Bank in the Unified and Free Exchange Market (MULC), which totaled US$1,071 million during the month.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 thousands of Explanation Factors of the MB
 millions of $ (January 2012, on average) In January, the Central Bank purchased foreign currency and sterilized

 12 part of the expansionary effect through the available

 10 monetary regulation instruments. During the month, foreign

 8 currency purchases were the main growth factor of the monetary

 6 base and more than 70% of its monetary effect was absorbed

 4 through securities placements and repo agreements. The statistical

 2 carryover of public sector operations in December also

 0 contributed to the increase in the average balance of the monetary

 -2 base (see Graph 2.1). Thus, the monetary base increased 5% in

 -4 January, reaching an average monthly balance of $220,630 million.

 -6 Foreign Currency Purchases Public Sector LEBAC and NOBAC Repos BM
 Source: BCRA
 When considering broader monetary aggregates,
 Graph 2.2 in addition to Central Bank foreign currency purchases and
 public sector operations, the growth of peso-denominated

 thousands of Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates loans to the private sector continued to be another factor of

 millions of $ monetary expansion (see Graph 2.2).

 (January 2012, on average)
 25

 20 Total means of payment (M22) grew 6.6% in January,

 15 driven by the behavior of demand deposits of the public sector

 10 and, to a lesser extent, by the increase in private M23. Both total

 5 M2 and private M2 registered a decrease in their year-over-year

 0 growth rate, of 0.5 p.p. and 1.2 p.p., respectively.

 -5

 -10 With regard to time deposits, while those of the public sector

 Foreign Currency Public Sector* Loans to Private Sector M2 Time Deposits and Time Deposits and decreased, those of the private sector accumulated a notable

 Purchases Others Public Sector Others Private Sector increase. Specifically, peso-denominated time deposits of the
 M3 private sector reached a monthly growth rate of 6.6% ($7,100

 *Includes other public sector operations with effect on the monetary base and loans from the public sector.
 Source: BCRA million), a historical record for this month (see Graph 2.3).

 Graph 2.3 Both placements of more than $1 million and those made for

 Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos lower amounts contributed to this increase. Thus, in January the

 thousands of % Variation of Monthly Average time placements of the private sector reached a year-over-year
 millions of $ More than $1 million Less than $1 million 7
 expansion rate of 35.9%, approximately 10 p.p. above the growth

 60 6 of transactional deposits.

 57

 5 In summary, with an increase of 3.2% in peso deposits of the

 54 private sector and 6.2% of the public sector, the total of peso

 4 deposits increased 4.1% in January. In this way, the broadest

 3 monetary aggregate increased accordingly.
 51

 2

 48

 1

 45 0
 01-Sep-11 01-Oct-11 01-Nov-11 01-Dec-11 01-Jan-12 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
 Source: BCRA
2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors.

3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current accounts in pesos of the non-financial private sector.

Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 4 expansion in pesos (M34) grew 4.1% in January and 30% with respect to the same month of the previous year.

**Chart 3.1**

**% of Banking Liquidity in Pesos***
deposits (monthly average)

44 In the foreign currency segment, an increase in deposits of 1.6% in the month was recorded, as a product
41
of both placements by the public sector and the private
38 36.7 sector. For the latter case, the increase occurred

% of Components
35 deposits Cash CC at BCRA in sight placements as well as in time
45 Net Repurchase Agreements LEBACs and NOBACs

40 deposits.

32 35

30
29 25
20
26 15 **3. Banking Liquidity¹**

10
23 5
0
Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12In January, financial institutions allocated the
20
Nov-06 May-07 Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11increase in peso deposits to the granting of
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs.
Source: BCRA loans to the private sector and to increase their liquid assets. In this way, the liquidity ratio in pesos
(calculated as the sum of cash in entities, the
**Chart 3.2** current accounts of entities at the Central Bank,

**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos** the net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank
and the holdings of
% of
deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position LEBACs and NOBACs, in terms of deposits)
3.5 increased 1.8 p.p. with respect to the previous month
3.0 and reached 36.7% (see Chart 3.1). The increase was
2.5 distributed among all liquid assets: both Minimum
2.0 Cash reserves and LEBACs and NOBACs increased
1.5 by the equivalent of 0.5 p.p. of deposits, while net
1.3
1.0 repurchase agreements increased 0.8 p.p..
0.5
0.0 In turn, at the end of the second month of the
-0.5 cumulative quarterly position of Minimum Cash in
-1.0 pesos, the integration (current account at the BCRA
-1.5 plus cash) accumulated by entities above the
Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12regulatory requirement was equivalent to 1.3% of total
Source: BCRA
deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

**Chart 4.1** In the foreign currency segment, the surplus of the

**Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector** Minimum Cash regime increased as a result of the
% % greater integration that occurred. In this way, the
6 (monthly average variation) 70 integration exceeded the requirement by 34.4% of
Monthly Var. % Variation i.a. (right axis) 60 deposits in dollars⁵.
5
4 50 **4. Loans¹**⁶
3 40
2 30 Loans in pesos to the private sector registered an
1 20 increase of 2% ($4,715 million; see Chart 4.1), a
0 10 growth somewhat smaller than what had been observed,
-1 0 in part as a consequence of seasonal factors of

Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11
Source: BCRA

4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sectors
5 The requirement in foreign currency considered does not include the additional requirement for default in the application of resources.
6 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
# Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 5

related to the summer recess. The year-on-year rate of change was located in January at 47.7%. When broken down by major lines, it is noted that in the last 12 months all of them grew at a similar pace, as the growth of lines with real collateral equaled the commercial lines and those aimed at consumption (see Chart 4.2).

## Chart 4.2
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(year-on-year var. by type of line)
%
80 Commercial loans
70 Consumer loans
 Loans with real collateral
60 Total loans
50 47.7
40 42.1
 36.0 36.9 38.0
30 29.4
20 18.8
10 11.5
0
 Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
-10
Source: BCRA

Commercial lines with primarily commercial purposes tend to show limited dynamism during the summer months, in response to lower seasonal demand for liquidity by companies. In this context, overdrafts in current accounts recorded an increase of 0.7% ($210 million), while financing instruments through documents grew in the month by 1.5% ($790 million). However, the year-on-year rate of change of overdrafts in current accounts continued to be located, as has been the case since mid-2011, around 40%; while that corresponding to documents showed in the last four months a gradual deceleration (see Chart 4.3).

## Chart 4.3
% Commercial Loans %
12 Overdrafts - avg. monthly var. 80 Regarding lines aimed at household consumption, credit card financing moderated its expansion rate, after the impulse of greater spending characteristic of year-end. In January they recorded an increase of 4.5% ($1,800 million), slightly more than half of what they had grown in December. For its part, personal loans continued with the lower growth rate they had begun to show in December, showing in the month an increase of 1.5% ($880 million).
 Documents - avg. monthly var. 70
 Overdrafts - year-on-year var. (right axis) 60
 Documents - year-on-year var. (right axis) 50
 8 60
 6 50
 40
 4 30
 2 20
 0 10 Regarding loans with real collateral, pawn loans, which since late 2010 had been showing high dynamism, in line with increasing automobile sales, in the last two-month period exhibited a deceleration. In January they showed an increase of 1.9% ($310 million; see Chart 4.4). Meanwhile, mortgage loans recorded an increase of 2.5% ($665 million), similar to what was registered in mid-2011, and maintained their year-on-year growth rate around 34%.

-2 0
-4 -10
-6 -20
 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12
Source: BCRA

## Chart 4.4
Pawn Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% %
 7 (avg. monthly var. and year-on-year var.) 80
 6 Jan-Nov 70
 Monthly variation IV-10 5.1
 5 4.5 60
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 4 50
 40
 3 30
 2 20
 1 10
 0 0
 -1 -10
 -2 -20
 Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12
Source: SISCEN

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, aimed fundamentally at financing the exporting sector, recorded an average monthly decrease of 0.3% (US$ 28 million). However, this decline was associated with the statistical drag resulting from the reduction shown during the course of December. In contrast, when comparing the balances of January 31 with those of the last day of 2011, it is observed that loans in foreign currency to the private sector accumulated an increase of US$270 million.

---

# Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 6

## Chart 5.1
5. Interest Rates

Amount Awarded of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market

Millions $
 Interest Rate LEBAC Securities issued by the Central Bank
12,500 15.0%
 More than 271
14.5
10,000 14.0 In the first month of the year, the cut-off rates of the LEBAC, as well as the margins paid on
 Jan-12
 13.5 Dec-11 From 181 to 270
 From 121 to 180
13.0 From 91 to 120 BADLAR of private banks by NOBAC
7,500 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Up to 90 days registered decreases with respect to the previous month.

5,000

The securities issued by the Central Bank were one of the
principal sterilization instruments. In particular,
2,500

the LEBAC of shorter terms concentrated the largest
part of the awarded amount and were the securities for

0 which the largest reductions in interest rates were
Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 observed (see Graph 5.1).
Source: BCRA

The amount placed in securities exceeded the maturities
of the period, so the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC in
Graph 5.2 circulation increased around 7.7%, standing at
LEBAC Interest Rate in the Secondary Market $74,000 million at the end of January.
%
17 In the secondary market for securities, the amount traded
was less than that of the previous month, operating similar
15 quantities of both instruments (LEBAC and NOBAC).
Moreover, interest rates decreased slightly
13 with respect to those operated in the previous month (see Graph
5.2).
11

9 December 2011 - Secondary Market
Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1
January 2012 - Secondary Market
7 The interest rates for Central Bank repurchase agreement
operations remained at the same values observed
5 Days
0 60 120 180 240 since October 2009: the rates for passive repurchase
Source: BCRA agreements at 1 and 7 days continued at 9% and 9.5%, respec-
tively, and at 11% and 11.5% for active repurchase agreements at those
same terms.

An important part of the increase in liquidity in pesos of
Graph 5.3 financial entities was directed to repurchase agreement operations
Interbank Market (see Liquidity section). Thus, after increasing 30%, the average
(1 business day operations) balance of passive repurchase agreements was placed
in billions of $ % around $15,700 million.
4.5 12.0

4.0 Amount traded Call 11.5 Interbank Markets1
Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA
3.5 Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0

Interest rate Call (right axis) 10.5
3.0 In line with the increase in liquidity levels of financial
2.5 10.0 entities, in January the interest rates of the interbank
9.5
2.0 market continued declining, placing themselves near the
9.0
1.5 8.5 lower limit of the interest rate corridor for BCRA repurchase
agreements at 1 business day. Both in the unsecured market
1.0 8.0
(call) and in the secured market (REPO wheel), the average
0.5 7.5
interest rates for operations at 1 business day were placed at 9.4%, 0.3 p.p.
0.0 7.0
below the level registered in the previous month (see Graph
Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 5.3).
Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referenced in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 7 Contribution to Variability in Interest Rates

Graph 5.4 Although a decrease was observed with respect to the
levels registered in December, the daily dispersion of interest
Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day rates among operations in the call market continued to be
% Monthly Average (operations by group) high, mainly as a consequence of operations in which
20 100 non-banking financial entities participated (see Graph 5.4).
Lending Agent / Receiving Agent
90 Rest
80 EFNB / Foreign The performance registered in the interbank market occurred
70 Foreign / EFNB
60 Public / EFNB with a slight increase in the amount traded as
18 50
40
30
16 20
10
0
14 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12

12

10

8
6 consequence of the increase registered in the non-
 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11 Ene-12
Source: BCRA guaranteed market. In the 1 business day segment of call
 operations, the average daily amount traded
 increased by $177 million, reaching $1,262 mil-
 lion, driven mainly by operations in
 which foreign entities participated. Meanwhile, in
 the REPO session, following the trend registered in the previous
 months, the daily average amount traded
Chart 5.5 at 1 business day registered a decline of $160 million after reaching

 1 Business Day Call Market $1,440 million.

 % (participation in daily transactions)
 100
 90 As in the previous months, when breaking down the total
 80 amount traded at 1 business day in the call market by
 70 group of entities, it is observed that the most active
 60 groups were foreign entities and non-bank
 50 financial entities (see Chart 5.5).

 40

 30 Passive Interest Rates 1

 20

 10
 Continuing the trend evidenced in the previous month,
 0
 Ene-10 Abr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Ene-11 Abr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Ene-12 passive interest rates decreased throughout

 EFNB Foreign Private National Public January. The largest decline was registered in the wholesale
Source: BCRA
 segment, where the average BADLAR rate of private banks
 decreased 2.7 p.p., reaching 16.1%. In turn, a
 decline was observed, although smaller, in the interest rate
Chart 5.6 for deposits of 30 to 35 days and up to $100 thousand. In effect,

 % Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days it stood at 13.5%, after decreasing 0.6 p.p.
 28 (private banks - Daily data) in the month (see Chart 5.6).

 In the BADLAR futures market, the significant
 23 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand amount traded during January was concentrated in contracts
 with maturity of up to 2 months. In this
 18 market interest rates continued showing
 a downward trend for the different maturities
 traded. In particular, the rate for contracts with
 13 maturity at the end of February 2012 stood around

 10.9 16.4%, decreasing almost 3 p.p. compared to that recorded

 8 in December for the same contracts.

 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 8 Active Interest Rates 1 9

 The interest rates applied to lines intended to
 finance commercial activities, especially those of
 shorter maturity, accentuated the downward trend
 that began the previous month. Thus, the average monthly
 rate charged by private entities for advances
Chart 5.7 in current account for more than $10 million and up to 7

 Short-Term Active Interest Rates days maturity, stood at 18.7%, decreasing more than
 (Daily data - Private banks) 4 p.p. in the month. On the other hand, the rate of
 % TNA
38 documents discounted to companies up to 90 days registered

 p.p. Monthly Change a monthly decline of 2.7 p.p., averaging January around
 0.0
33 -1.0 23% (see Chart 5.7). Meanwhile, the average monthly rate

 -2.0
 -3.0 of the total advances in current account stood at 24.8%,
 -2.7
28 -4.0 decreasing almost 2 p.p. compared to the December level.
 -5.0 -4.2

23 The same trend was evidenced by the rates of total documents

 Advances to Companies of more than $10M (1 to 7 days) discounted and those granted on signature alone, which decreased

18 Documents Discounted to Companies (up to 90 days) 2.5 p.p. and 0.7 p.p., respectively.

13
8

Source: BCRAJun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11

Regarding the average levels of the remaining active rates, dissimilar behaviors were recorded. On one hand, the rate of mortgage loans to families decreased 0.6 percentage points, placing itself at 15.7%; while the corresponding rate for secured loans increased by 1.2 percentage points, closing the month at 26.3%. Finally, increases were recorded in the average monthly rates destined to finance consumption. In effect, the interest rate for personal loans was placed at 36.9%

Chart 6.1 (0.4 percentage points of monthly increase); while the last available data for credit cards was placed at 34.2% for December 2011 (0.8 percentage points above the previous month).

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

55 Jan-12 6. International Reserves and

50

45 Foreign Exchange Market10

thousands of
40 millions U$SFactors of Variation of International Reserves
1.5 (January 2012)
35
International reserves continued rising and on the
30
0.5 last day of January reached US$46,594 million,
25
which implied an increase of US$218 million with
20 respect to the level shown at the end of December
-0.5 (see Chart 6.1). This increase was driven mainly by
15
purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank in
-1.5 the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market
10
(MULC), which in the month totaled US$1,071 million.
5 International Purchases of Sector Cash Other
Reserves Currency Public Minimum
0
Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11

Source: BCRA

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the US dollar and the real, while it appreciated in relation to the euro. For the dollar, the monthly average quotation maintained the pace of increase from the previous month

9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are indeed considered in the total financial cost of loans.

10 In this section, the figures correspond to end of month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 9

Chart 6.2 (0.7%) and was placed at 4.32 $/U$S (see Chart 6.2). In turn, the quotation of the real increased 4% placing itself at 2.42 $/real, while that of the European currency was 5.58

Variation Monthly Nominal Exchange Rate of Reference $/euro (-1%). For its part, in the forward market
6% (ROFEX) the average amount traded increased in
Depreciation 4% relation to the previous month and to the 2011 average
(18.8% and 14.5%, respectively), placing itself at
2% $1,071 million. Likewise, the contracts reflected
expectations of more moderate depreciation for the
0% coming months.
-2%
7. Capital Market7
Appreciation
-4%
Stocks
-6%
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real
-8% Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12

Source: BCRA

At the beginning of January, a mostly positive performance was observed in the financial markets, which moderated as the month ended. In line with the behavior recorded in the second half of 2011, the situation in Europe continued to concentrate investors' attention. Focus was placed on negotiations regarding the Greek debt swap. Throughout January, a new downgrade of the rating of several European countries was also observed, without significant impact on the market, as debt placements recorded good results. For its part, favorable economic data in the United States contributed to the positive trend, mainly during the first weeks of the month.

Thus, in the first month of the year, the MSCI Global measured in dollars recorded an increase of 4.9%. Within
50 MSCI-Europe 90 stock markets relevant to the Argentine economy
 S&P 500
 MSCI Latam (right axis) the MSCI Europe index advanced 6% and the S&P 500 (the
 40 80
 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 main index of the United States market) re-

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data gistered a gain of 4.4% (see Chart 7.1). This per-
 formance occurred in a context of lower relative
 volatility. The VIX Index, which measures the expected
 volatility of the S&P 500, was reduced by 17 p.p. to 19%.
 While the expected volatility of the Stoxx 50 (reference
 index of the eurozone stock exchange) decreased by 18
 p.p. to 26%, marking its lowest level since July 2011
 (see Chart 7.2).

Chart 7.2
 Expected Volatility in the U.S. and Eurozone
 % (VIX Index and VStoxx)
 60 In a context of recovery of appetite for financial assets
 with greater relative risk, emerging markets expanded
 50
 the trend registered in the stock markets of advanced
 economies and ended the month with strong gains.
 40 Within emerging markets, the MSCI Latin America
 index measured in dollars advanced 12.5%. In this
 30 context, the Bovespa (Brazil) measured in dollars,
 benchmark of the region, was one of the markets with
 20 the best relative performance after registering a gain of
 VIX Index (S&P 500) 18.8% (see Chart 7.3).
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 10
 For its part, the IPC of Mexico and the IGPA (Chile)
 advanced, in both cases, 7.7%. As in previous months,
 0
 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 the evolution of the exchange rate expanded the trend
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data registered in stock indices measured in local currency.
 In this sense, the real, the Mexican peso, and the
 Chart 7.3 Chilean peso registered appreciations around 6% with
 Stock Indices of Latin America respect to the dollar.
 180
 (In dollars; Base index 02/07/07 = 100)
 In line with the performance registered in the region,
 160 Argentine equity quotations ended the month with
 significant gains. In a context of lower relative volatility,
 140 the MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in dollars,
 registered a gain of 11.9%, mainly as a consequence of
 120
 the evolution of the index measured in local currency,
 100 where the increase in the quotation of banking papers,
 the oil sector, and telecommunications stood out.
 80 Merval (Argentina) IPC (Mexico)
 Bovespa (Brazil) IGPA (Chile)
 In line with the advance of the MERVAL, trading
 60 volume slightly recovered. The average daily volume
 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 traded in shares during January at the Buenos Aires
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Stock Exchange reached $49 million, registering an
 increase of 26% compared to the volume registered the
 previous month.
 Chart 7.4
 Sovereign Risk Indicators
 Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.

 550 1100 Public Securities

 500 1000 In line with the behavior registered in the two previous
 months, the sovereign risk differentials of emerging
 450 EMBI+ 900
 EMBI+ Latin America EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) economies over U.S. Treasury bonds were slightly
 400 800 reduced (see Chart 7.4), in a context where yields
 350 700 were cut.
 300 600
 250 500
 200 400
Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 of long-term Treasury bonds.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

In this context, Argentine sovereign bonds again performed well, mainly the long-term ones issued in pesos, which registered a 5.3% increase in their quotation, according to the bond index of Chart 7.5 (see Chart 7.5). For their part, the titles in the long end of the curve issued in dollars advanced 1.7%, thanks to the performances recorded in the Boden 2015 and Bonar 2017 (see Chart 7.6). Meanwhile, the short-term bonds issued in pesos did not register changes and the short-term bonds in dollars fell 1.6% explained, to a greater extent by the behavior recorded in the Boden 201211.

Chart 7.5
Quotation of Argentine Sovereign Bonds
% (Monthly variation, January 2012)
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
Short bonds in Short bonds in $ Long bonds in Long bonds in $ General Index
US$ US$
Source: BCRA based on IAMC data

11 According to the methodology of the Argentine Capital Market Institute (IAMC), bonds whose modified duration exceeds 3 years are considered long-term.

Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 11

Thus, the risk differentials of Argentine long-term bonds with foreign law over U.S. Treasury bonds contracted again. Argentina's EMBI+ was reduced by 85 basis points during the month, standing at 825 basis points, a level that had not been observed since August 2011. Likewise, the spreads of Boden 2015 and Bonar 2017 were cut on average by almost 125 basis points compared to Treasuries of the same duration.

Chart 7.6
Yield of Benchmark Sovereign Bonds in Dollars
% (long-term bonds) Basis Points
16 1600
14 Spread vs US Treasuries (right axis) 1400
BODEN 2015
BONAR 2017
12 1200
10 1000
8 800
6 600
4 400
Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

In January, the average daily trading volume of public securities in the local market remained relatively stable, reaching $1,430 million.

## Private Securities

In a context of reduced financing costs, the issuance of negotiable obligations (ONs) remained strong in January and reached almost $650 million, some $40 million more than in the previous month. This performance is explained by the increase in the average amount issued, since the number of placements was reduced compared to December (see Chart 7.7).

All emissions were carried out in local currency, mainly to the sector of financial entities (77% of total placed) and to a lesser extent to other financial, stock market and insurance activities, which represented 23% of the total amount. Most of the securities will bear a variable interest rate defined as the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin that averaged 2.5 basis points (see Chart 7.8).

Chart 7.7
Issuance of Corporate Bonds
billions of $ millions of $ Average amount per placementQuantity
5.5 400 16 Quantity of placements (right axis)
300 12
5.0 250 10
4.5 200 8
150 6
4.0 100 4
3.5 50 2
0 0
3.0 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5

## Common Investment Funds

In January, the assets of Common Investment Funds (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, expanded 4.4% ($1,300 million) reaching $30,250 million.

The FCIs in pesos grew 4.2% ($1,130 million), driven mainly by the 19.9% increase ($2,135 million) recorded in the assets of fixed-income funds (see Chart 7.9). In second place were the mixed-income funds that grew 5.7%

0.0
Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12

Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg

Chart 7.8
S

## Variable Rate Bond Issues BADLAR of Private Banks ($185 million)

(weighted average rate by amount) millions of $

25 700

Placed Amount (right axis) Variable income segment recorded an advance of 10.6% ($130 mi-
Cut rate of securities with rating superior to arg BBB 600
20 Private BADLAR rate llions), promoted, to a greater extent, by the recovery
500
in quotations. In most of the segments
15 400
mentioned, excluding variable income funds,
the growth recorded would be due to the increase in the
10 300
quantity of share units. On the other hand, Money Market
200 funds fell 11.4% ($1,320 million) due to
5
100 the decrease in the quantity of share units.

0 0
Jan-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 The FCIs in foreign currency ended the month with
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC
a patrimony of US$535 million, 7% higher than the level

Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 12 recorded in December. As in the two months prior,
Graph 7.9 this behavior was driven by the advance in the mixed

Patrimony of Common Investment Funds in Pesos income and fixed income segments in dollars, which
thousands of millions of $ Monthly Variation showed increases of 11.2% and 4.2%, respectively.
(January 2012)
30 millions of $ On the other hand, a recovery was observed in the
2,500
2,000 Money Market 1,500 variable income segment that after two months with
25 Fixed Income 1,000
500 Mixed Income 0 consecutive declines increased 12.1%.
20 -500
Variable Income -1,000
-1,500
Variable Mixed Fixed Money Total Financial Trusts12
Income Income Income Market

15

10 Financial Trust (FF) emissions totaled $1,010 million in January,
of which approximately $150 million corresponded to two placements
5 from the public sector intended to finance the construction
of social housing in the Province of Salta ($55 million)
0
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 and Río Negro ($96 million), within the framework of the
Source: CAFCI and BCRA Federal Pluriannual Housing Construction Program. Excluding
these placements, the amount issued in the month ($860 million)
was lower than that of the previous two-month period, as expected,
Graph 7.10 once the boost of greater year-end spending had passed. However,
FF Emissions when compared with the same month of previous years, it is observed
(excluding FF of infrastructure) quantity of that said amount is the highest since January 2007 inclusive
millions of $ emissions (see Graph 7.10).
1,600 50
November The main originators of these securitizations were retail
1,400 41 December 45
39 January 40 businesses, which placed around half of the total issued in the
1,200
32 31 35 month ($440 million). The vast majority of the securitized assets
1,000 28 30
26 were personal loans and credit card coupons, constituting,
800 23 24 25
21 20 together, more than 90% of the total.
600 18 17 18
16 15 15 15 The cut interest rates of senior securities in pesos registered
13 15 a significant decrease in January, accompanying the trend of
400
10 money market interest rates (see Graph 7.11). The average rate
200 5 weighted by amount of securities awarded at variable rate
0 0 (excluding FF of infrastructure that usually have a longer average
2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 term) was located at 16.8%, around 7 p.p. less than in December.
Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment, in which a single operation
was recorded, the interest rate was 16.5%, registering a

Graph 7.11

Cut Rates of Senior Securities in Pesos

TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)

40

35 Fixed Rate
# MONETARY INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

**Variable rate falls by 7.5 percentage points with respect to December.** In this way,
the cutoff rates are now located practically at the levels
of September, prior to the increase shown in October. For its part, the FF linked to the construction
of social housing were placed, in both cases, at a
differential margin of 2 p.p. over the BADLAR of public
banks with a duration of around 7 years.

**Graphic 7.12 Finally, the current nominal value as of December
of 2011 of the FF with public offering was located at approximately $36,400 million, recording an increase of
4% (around $1,370 million) compared to the previous month, which was distributed in similar parts between
the FF of infrastructure and the rest (see Graphic 7.12).**

---

## MONETARY INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| **Principal monetary and financial system variables** | **Ene-12** | **Dic-11** | **Nov-11** | **Ene-11** | **Monthly % Change** |  | **Last 12 Months % Change** |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real** |
| Monetary base | 220,630 | 210,100 | 196,055 | 162,719 | 5.0% | 4.0% | 35.6% | 23.5% |
| Monetary circulation | 170,304 | 165,181 | 152,703 | 126,740 | 3.1% | 2.1% | 34.4% | 22.4% |
| Bills and coins in the hands of the public | 149,942 | 144,313 | 135,346 | 112,522 | 3.9% | 2.9% | 33.3% | 21.4% |
| Bills and coins in financial entities | 20,360 | 20,866 | 17,355 | 14,208 | -2.4% | -3.4% | 43.3% | 30.5% |
| Cancellation checks | 1 | 2 | 2 | 0 | -36.7% | -37.4% | - | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 50,326 | 44,919 | 43,352 | 35,978 | 12.0% | 10.9% | 39.9% | 27.4% |
| **Stock of Reverse Repos** | | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 15,732 | 12,071 | 9,797 | 11,787 | 30.3% | 29.0% | 33.5% | 21.5% |
| Assets | 0000 | | | | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | | | | | | | | |
| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for reverse repos) | | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 29,587 | 22,782 | 25,619 | 45,913 | 29.9% | 28.6% | -35.6% | -41.3% |
| NOBAC | 42,274 | 44,889 | 47,455 | 30,545 | -5.8% | -6.8% | 38.4% | 26.0% |
| BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 46,557 | 45,983 | 46,465 | 52,365 | 1.2% | -11.1% | | |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 398,780 | 382,906 | 377,425 | 309,649 | 4.1% | 3.1% | 28.8% | 17.3% |
| Current account (2) | 120,876 | 106,892 | 100,634 | 99,405 | 13.1% | 12.0% | 21.6% | 10.7% |
| Savings account | 75,514 | 73,674 | 67,233 | 57,865 | 2.5% | 1.5% | 30.5% | 18.8% |
| Fixed term not adjustable by CER | 186,511 | 185,587 | 193,596 | 138,892 | 0.5% | -0.5% | 34.3% | 22.3% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER | 9 | 10 | 10 | 13 | -9.4% | -10.3% | -27.9% | -34.4% |
| Other deposits (3) | 15,869 | 16,744 | 15,951 | 13,475 | -5.2% | -6.2% | 17.8% | 7.3% |
| **Private sector deposits** | 270,588 | 262,146 | 251,770 | 208,715 | 3.2% | 2.2% | 29.6% | 18.1% |
| **Public sector deposits** | 128,191 | 120,760 | 125,655 | 100,934 | 6.2% | 5.1% | 27.0% | 15.7% |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 13,370 | 13,157 | 14,145 | 16,053 | 1.6% | -16.7% | | |
| **Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 272,760 | 268,382 | 261,632 | 187,791 | 1.6% | 0.6% | 45.2% | 32.3% |

---

**Source:** Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

¹² Only trusts with public offering are considered.

**Monetary Report | January of 2012 | BCRA | 13**

**Graphic 7.12 Nominal Value of FF in Circulation**
(by type of fiduciary)

- Public sector and other fiduciaries linked to infrastructure financing
- Mutual associations, Cooperatives and Non-banking credit card issuers
- Financial entities
- Retail trade
- Others

**Source:** Own elaboration based on CNV and Bolsar.

**Monetary Report | January of 2012 | BCRA | 14**
Loans to the private sector 245.697 241.111 234.409 166.367 1.9% 0.9% 47.7% 34.5%
 Advances 30.910 30.703 30.130 21.713 0.7% -0.3% 42.4% 29.6%
 Documents 51.930 51.143 50.535 35.376 1.5% 0.5% 46.8% 33.7%
 Mortgage loans 27.480 26.814 25.990 20.462 2.5% 1.5% 34.3% 22.3%
 Pledged loans 16.935 16.623 16.188 9.845 1.9% 0.9% 72.0% 56.7%
 Personal loans 58.866 58.114 57.169 40.577 1.3% 0.3% 45.1% 32.1%
 Credit cards 41.683 39.883 36.923 27.543 4.5% 3.5% 51.3% 37.8%
 Others 17.894 17.832 17.474 10.852 0.3% -0.6% 64.9% 50.2%

 Loans to the public sector 27.062 27.271 27.223 21.424 -0.8% -1.7% 26.3% 15.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9.576 9.606 9.892 7.767 -0.3% 23.3%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 270.820 251.207 235.983 211.937 7.8% 6.7% 27.8% 16.4%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 346.334 324.881 303.216 269.802 6.6% 5.5% 28.4% 16.9%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos+ 548.724 527.221 512.774 422.181 4.1% 3.0% 30.0% 18.4%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 606.485 583.655 573.043 486.129 3.9% 2.9% 24.8% 13.6%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private 225.425 218.649 207.496 173.830 3.1% 2.1% 29.7% 18.1%
 current account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 295.663 288.254 271.370 228.281 2.6% 1.6% 29.5% 18.0%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos+ 420.532 406.461 387.119 321.248 3.5% 2.4% 30.9% 19.2%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 472.757 458.087 442.683 367.970 3.2% 2.2% 28.5% 17.0%

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2012 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 10.530 4.8% 28.732 13.0% 10.530 4.8% 57.911 26.2%
 Financial sector -3.442 -1.6% -5.107 -2.3% -3.442 -1.6% -1.236 -0.6%
 Public sector 7.833 3.6% 14.985 6.8% 7.833 3.6% 32.377 14.7%
 Private external sector 9.456 4.3% 8.994 4.1% 9.456 4.3% 14.625 6.6%
 BCRA securities -3.086 -1.4% 10.121 4.6% -3.086 -1.4% 14.369 6.5%
 Others -231 -0.1% -260 -0.1% -231 -0.1% -2.223 -1.0%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 575 1.2% -1.481 -3.2% 575 1.2% -5.808 -12.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 2.200 4.7% 2.078 4.5% 2.200 4.7% 3.616 7.8%
 Payment to international organizations 194 0.4% 348 0.7% 194 0.4% 549 1.2%
 Other public sector operations -1.556 -3.3% -1.539 -3.3% -1.556 -3.3% 983 2.1%
 Minimum cash requirement 460 1.0% -1.763 -3.8% 460 1.0% -5.844 -12.6%
 Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) -723 -1.6% -604 -1.3% -723 -1.6% -5.111 -11.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11
 (1) (2)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 16.0 16.0 15.6
 Integration 17.3 17.0 15.9
 Position (3) 1.3 1.0 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 60.0 60.0 55.1
 30 to 59 days 23.4 23.4 22.9
 60 to 89 days 5.8 5.8 11.2
 90 to 179 days 5.7 5.7 5.3
 more than 180 days 5.1 5.1 5.5
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21.0 21.2 20.8
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 55.5 52.0 51.8
 Position (3) 34.4 30.8 31.0
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 57.0 59.5 57.3
 30 to 59 days 21.7 21.8 23.0
 60 to 89 days 11.3 8.4 9.7
 90 to 179 days 8.4 8.6 8.4
 180 to 365 days 1.6 1.5 1.5
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos.

(3) Position= Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
 Passive Interest Rates Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.63 9.99 10.96 9.99 9.76
 Amount traded 1.352 1.128 1.214 1.128 806

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 13.21 14.74 14.62 14.74 9.53
 60 days or more 14.84 16.50 16.33 16.50 10.01
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.41 14.76 15.84 14.76 10.15
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 16.06 18.75 19.87 18.75 11.07

 In dollars
 30 days 0.30 0.33 0.30 0.33 0.26
 60 days or more 0.69 0.69 0.72 0.69 0.53
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.45 0.43 0.39 0.43 0.29
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.65 0.63 0.56 0.63 0.47

 Active Interest Rates Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.30 15.98 17.89 15.98 11.61
 Amount traded (total terms) 207 226 251 226 192

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 24.84 26.78 25.67 26.78 18.85
 Single signature documents 21.48 22.15 20.54 22.15 15.33
 Mortgages 15.88 16.52 15.78 16.52 14.03
 Secured loans 26.28 25.10 23.10 25.10 17.00
 Personal loans 36.85 36.46 34.01 36.46 29.36
 Credit cards n/a 34.20 33.36 34.20 32.26

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 18.70 22.56 23.21 22.56 11.10

 International Interest Rates Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.28 0.28 0.25 0.28 0.26
 6 months 0.80 0.78 0.68 0.78 0.46

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.23 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.60
 10 years 1.94 1.96 2.00 1.96 3.36

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 10.76 11.00 11.48 11.00 10.96

 (1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
 the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
 Reference Interest Rates Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.06 9.13 9.60 9.13 9.31
 7 days 9.50 9.56 9.91 9.56 9.52

 Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 10.130 8.454 7.811 8.454 5.709

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 10.99
 3 months n/o n/o 13.97 n/o 11.07
 9 months n/o n/o 14.08 n/o n/o
 12 months n/o 14.26 14.27 14.26 12.96

 NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.89
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.13
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.59
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 494 378 497 378 406

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.33 4.29 4.26 4.29 3.98
 BCRA Reference 4.32 4.29 4.26 4.29 3.98

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.37 4.36 4.40 4.36 4.01
 ROFEX 1 month 4.33 4.33 4.30 4.33 4.01
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1071 902 1209 902 548

 Real (Pesos per Real) 2.42 2.33 2.39 2.33 2.38

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.58 5.64 5.78 5.64 5.33

 Capital Markets Jan-12 Dec-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-11

 MERVAL
 Index 2,806 2,488 2,614 2,488 3,598
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 52 39 43 39 74

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 106.37 107.22 106.72 107.22 96.39
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 83.27 81.40 88.50 81.40 95.56
 BODEN 2014 ($) 90.45 86.93 84.97 86.93 95.71
 DISCOUNT ($) 54.50 51.96 50.46 51.96 87.14

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 447 469 624 469 552
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 405 409 415 409 282

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | January 2012 | BCRA | 19
