# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
February 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 9

7. Capital Market | Page 10

 Stocks | Page 10

 Public Securities | Page 11

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Investment Common Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closure of this report was March 12, 2012. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision

 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• During the month of February, the main factors that contributed to the increase in monetary aggregates in pesos were the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases and the growth of peso-denominated loans to the private sector. The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) grew 1.2% in February, while total means of payment (M2) showed a reduction of 2.3%, mainly influenced by the change in the composition of public sector placements, from sight deposits toward fixed-term deposits.

• Fixed-term deposits from the private sector continued showing high dynamism, increasing 4.4% ($4,980 million) in the month, accelerating its year-on-year expansion rate by 1 percentage point to reach 37%. This growth was driven both by placements of more than $1 million and by those made for smaller amounts. The monthly increase in the latter turned out to be the highest of recent years for February (4.1%).

• In a context of increased deposits, the peso liquidity of financial entities (defined as the sum of peso current accounts at the Central Bank, peso cash, repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased 0.8 percentage points, to 37.5% of peso deposits. In turn, there was a change in the composition of bank liquidity, in favor of remunerated assets.

• Total loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency) showed increases in February. The year-on-year variation rate of total loans to families and businesses (expressed in pesos) was positioned at 44.3%. The essentially commercial lines explained most of the increase. As usually occurs during the summer recess, when both companies and families reduce their financing demand, the increase in peso-denominated loans to the private sector was moderate, 1.4% ($3,320 million). The three major financing lines (commercial, consumer, and those granted with real estate guarantee) registered growth.

• The interest rates on LEBACs declined during the course of February. In relation to the previous month, interest rates registered drops greater than 1 percentage point for the shorter terms, and more than half a percentage point for the longer-term securities.

• Short-term passive interest rates of private entities continued with the downward trend evidenced in recent months. Again, the largest variation was registered in the wholesale segment, where the BADLAR of private banks fell almost 2 percentage points and moved to 14.1%. Meanwhile, the rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and with a 35-day term was positioned at 12.7%, after falling 0.8 percentage points in February.
• In general, active interest rates applied to loans to the private sector decreased during the month. The largest declines were again recorded in the rates of lines intended to finance commercial activities, especially those with shorter terms. The average monthly rate charged by private entities for overdrafts in current accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity, was located at 15.8%, decreasing almost 3 p.p. during the month. On the other hand, the rate corresponding to discounted documents to companies up to 90 days registered a monthly decline of 2.5 p.p., averaging February at 20.5%.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 During February, the Central Bank continued participating
 in the foreign exchange market through currency purchases. The monetary expansion generated by this intervention
 Chart 2.1 resulted in more than being offset by the arrangement of
 Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates
 thousands repurchase agreements and, to a lesser extent, by the increase in
 millions of $ (February 2012, on average)
 12 securities placements. These absorption levels were
 10
 8 associated with the distribution of banking liquidity during
 6
 4 the course of the quarterly period considered for reserve
 2 requirements (see Banking Liquidity section).
 0
 -2 In this way, the monetary base decreased 5.8%, reaching
 -4 an average monthly balance of $207,845 million.
 -6
 -8
 -10 During the month of February, Central Bank currency pur-
 Currency Public Loans to Private and Other M2 Fixed Term Fixed Term chases and the growth of peso-denominated loans to the
 Purchases Sector* Private Sector Others and Others Deposits Deposits private sector were the main explanatory factors of the
 and Others Private
 M3 increase in monetary aggregates (see Chart 2.1). The
 *Includes other operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base and loans from the public sector.broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M32) grew 1.2%
 Source: BCRA in February and 29.8% compared to the same month of the previous year.

 Chart 2.2

 Fixed Term Deposits of the Private Sector For its part, total means of payment (M23) presented
 (variations of monthly averages) a reduction of 2.3% during the month, influenced mainly
 %
 % % 8 by the change in the composition of public sector deposits,
 7 427 shifting from sight deposits toward fixed term placements.
 6 37.0366 4.6
 5 304 2007
 5 2008 Fixed term deposits of the private sector continued showing
 4 242 2009 4.4 3
 elevated dynamism, increasing 4.4% ($4,980 million)
 3 180 2010
 % during the month and accelerating their year-on-year
 2 125 More than $ 1 million 2011
 1 6 4.1 expansion rate by 1 p.p. reaching 37% (see Chart 2.2).
 4 2012
 0 0 3 This growth was driven both by placements of more than
 -1 -62 Monthly variation $1 million and those made for smaller amounts. With respect
 -2 -121 to those made for less than $1 million, the monthly increase
 0 Year-on-year variation (right axis)-18-1 achieved in February resulted in the highest of recent
 -3 years (4.1%).
 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12Less than $ 1 million
 Source: BCRA In the foreign currency segment, a decrease in deposits of
 0.7% was registered, with slight declines in both placements
 from the public sector and those from the private sector.

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and peso deposits of non-financial public and
private sectors
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits in savings accounts and current
accounts in pesos of non-financial public and private sectors.
# Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1
Bank Liquidity in Pesos
% of (monthly average)
deposits
45 Ef+CCBCRA Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity
41.5 42.2 In a context of increased deposits, the liquidity in
40.7 41.7 40.8 40.5
40 39.2 38.6 local currency of financial entities (defined as the sum
37.4 36.6 36.7 37.5 of current accounts in pesos at the Central Bank, cash
35.0 34.8
35 in pesos, repos with the Central Bank and holdings of
30 17.0 LEBAC and NOBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos)
25 increased in February 0.8 p.p. to 37.5% of deposits in
20 pesos.
6.1
15 Within the framework of the quarterly computation period
10 for reserve requirements, which began in December
14.4 of last year, in February there was a change in the
5 composition of bank liquidity in favor of remunerated
0 assets (see Graph 3.1). After having accumulated a
Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 comfortable surplus over reserve requirements through
the end of January; in February, financial entities were
Graph 3.2 able to adequately complete the quarterly period with a
reduction of bank reserves equivalent to 3.1 p.p. of
% Minimum Cash Position
deposits in pesos. In this way, the quarterly Minimum
deposits Accumulated position Required accumulation Accumulated integration Cash position ended with a surplus of 0.45% of deposits
18.0 in pesos. Both public and private banks registered, at
17.5 the end of February, an integration greater than the
17.0 required reserve. Meanwhile, the sum of net repos with
16.5 the BCRA and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs
16.3 increased 3.9 p.p..
16.0
15.9 In the foreign currency segment, the surplus of the
15.5 Minimum Cash regime increased, as a result of greater
15.0 integration. In this way, the integration of reserves ex-
Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 ceeded the requirement by the equivalent of 34.9% of
Source: BCRA dollar deposits4.

Graph 4.1 4. Loans1 5
% Total Loans to the Private Sector
60 (contribution by line to the year-on-year var. of monthly averages)
Commercial
50 Consumption Total loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign
40 Real guarantee currency) registered increases during February. The
year-on-year rate of change of total loans to families
30 21.2 and companies (expressed in pesos) stood at 44.3%. The
20 commercial lines explained most of the increase (21.2
16.2 p.p.), while loans intended for household consumption
10 6.9 and those granted with real guarantee contributed to
0 said growth with 16.2 p.p. and 6.9 p.p., respectively
Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 (see Graph 4.1).
Source: BCRA

4 The requirement in foreign currency considered does not include the additional requirement for default in the application of resources.

5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information,
not adjusted for financial trusts.

# Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.2
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(monthly variation by line type)
%
5 Commercial Loans As usually occurs during the summer recess, when both
4 Consumption Loans companies and families reduce their demand for
Real Guarantee Loans financing, the increase in loans in pesos to the private
3 Total Loans sector was moderate, 1.4% ($3,320 million), with
growth in the three major financing lines (see Graph
4.2).
2 2.0 1.9
 1.5 1.6 1.4 The lines mainly commercial showed a
1 1.3
 disparate behavior. On one hand, advances in
0 0.2
 -0.1 current account accelerated their monthly expansion

-1 rate and registered an increase of 6.6% ($2,070 mil-
 lion), greater than expected for this period of the year in
-2
 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12which the liquidity needs on the part of companies

Source: BCRA tend to decrease. Indeed, said increase resulted in
 the highest of the last eight months and exceeded that
 observed in February in the six previous years. Addi-
 tionally, these loans continued increasing their year-
 on-year growth rate, which in February was placed at
 Chart 4.3 44.1%, 0.9 p.p. more than the previous month. Mean-

 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector while, the financing implemented through documents
 (variation of monthly averages) (variation of monthly averages) decreased in the month 2.3% ($1,195 million; see Chart
%
7 2006 8% 4.3). The rest of the commercial financing registered
6 2007 6.6
 2008 an increase of 1.3% ($230 million).
5 6
 2009
4 2010 4 The loans oriented toward family consumption also
 2011
3 2012 showed dissimilar behaviors among their lines. While
2 the financing with credit cards practically did not regis-
2 1.5 0.5
 ter variations; upon decreasing 0.1% ($50 million),
1 0
 personal loans grew more than the previous two months,
0
 -2 registering a monthly increase of 2.4% ($1,410 million),
-1
-2 -4 although without returning to the expansion levels that
-3 -2.3 had been observed before December (see Chart 4.4).

 -6
 January FebruaryJanuary FebruaryRegarding loans with real guarantee, pawn loans exhib-

Source: BCRA ited in the month an increase of 2.3% ($390 million),
 similar to that registered in January and below the av-
 erage monthly growth levels of 2011. For its part, mort-
 Chart 4.4 gage loans continued moderating their monthly growth
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % rate upon registering an increase of 1.7% ($475 million).
8 90 2011 Nevertheless, in year-on-year terms they grew 35.2%, ev-
 Monthly Variation 80
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) idencing an increase of 1 p.p. with respect to the previ-
7 Annual average monthly var. 70 ous month.

6 5.2 60
 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
5 3.8 50
 destined fundamentally to finance the export sector,
4 3.0 40
 increased again. After two months of registering de-
3 2.7 30
 creases in the average monthly balance, this month they
2 1.1 20
 grew 1.5% (US$140 million) and in the last twelve
1 10
 months accumulated an increase of 21.7% (US$1,720
0 0 million).
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: SISCEN
 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 6 5. Interest Rates 6

 Securities issued by the Central Bank7

 In the primary market of LEBAC, the cut-off rates
 Chart 5.1 were decreasing throughout the month, with important
 % LEBAC Interest Rate amounts being awarded for terms that varied between
 15.0 (primary market)
 6 months to 2 years. During the month of February there
 14.5 were no new placements of NOBAC recorded. In total,
 14.0 the stock in circulation of monetary regulation instru-
 ments increased around 8%, reaching a level of
 13.5 $79,700 million.

 31-Jan-12
 13.0

 February Auctions In relation to the previous month, interest rates regis-
 12.5
 tered falls greater than 1 p.p. for the shorter terms, and
 12.0 29-Feb-12 of more than half a percentage point for the species of
 12.1% greater maturity (see Chart 5.1).

 11.5
100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Source: BCRA

With the objective of encouraging the collection of fixed-term deposits from the private sector, as of the last auction of the month, the Central Bank applied a new allocation mechanism for shorter-term LEBAC. For this instrument the Central Bank defines in the auction announcement both the amount to be awarded as well as the interest rate8. Then, in the auction, it distributes the amount to be awarded taking into account the increase in fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector of each financial entity during the last 4 weeks. Thus, financial entities that have increased or at least have maintained their balance of fixed-term deposits from the private sector in the last 4 weeks can access the auction. In turn,

**Graph 5.2**
Interest Rates of LEBAC in the Secondary Market
% (data from the day of the last auction)

among them the auctioned amount is awarded granting a larger quota to those that have presented higher growth rates of this type of deposits.

In the secondary market for securities, the traded amount was higher than that of the previous month, mainly driven by operations with LEBAC around 6 months maturity. For its part, the interest rates of LEBAC registered monthly decreases for all negotiated maturities, reaching levels similar to those observed in the primary market (see Graph 5.2).

**Central Bank Repo Operations**

The interest rates of the Central Bank's repo operations remained at the same values observed since October 2009: the rates for passive repos at 1 and 7 days maturity continued at 9% and 9.5%, respec-

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless another specification is indicated.
8 See Communication B 10.299.

Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 7

**Graph 5.3**
Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day
%

tively, and those for active repos at those same maturities, at 11% and 11.5%.

A significant portion of the increase in peso liquidity of financial entities was allocated to repo operations with the Central Bank (see Banking Liquidity section). Thus, the monthly average balance increased by 75%, reaching a historically high value, close to $27,500 million.

**Interbank Markets1**

In February the interest rates of the interbank market remained stable, in a context where banking liquidity levels continued to increase. In the unsecured market (call) the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day fell 0.2 p.p placing itself at 9.3%. Likewise, in the secured market (REPO round), the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day was placed at 9.3%, 0.1 p.p lower than the level recorded in the previous month.

The dispersion levels in the interest rates of the call market continued to decline. In effect, the daily deviation of interest rates of operations at 1 day was reduced by 0.3 p.p to 0.9 p.p. (see Graph 5.3)
-200
EFNB Regarding the amounts traded, they registered an in-
-300 Public
Priv. Nat. crease in the guaranteed market, while in the call
-400
Foreign market they remained relatively stable.

-500
Feb-10 May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 In the REPO session, the daily average of the amount
Source: BCRA traded at 1 business day registered an increase of $500
million after reaching $1,940 million. Meanwhile, in
the 1 business day segment of call operations, the
average daily amount traded was placed at $1,260
million. When analyzing the behavior of the call mar-
ket by bank group, it is observed that foreign entities
Graph 5.5 and non-bank financial entities resulted as net fund
takers, while domestic private entities and public enti-
% Interest Rate for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos 30-35 days ties resulted as net providers (see Graph 5.4).

30 (private banks - Daily Data)

25 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
Passive Interest Rates 1

20
The short-term passive interest rates paid by private
entities continued with the downward trend evidenced
15 in recent months. Once again, the largest variation
was recorded in the wholesale segment, where the
10.9
10 BADLAR of private banks declined almost 2 p.p. in the
month, and was placed at 14.1%. For its part, the rate
paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up
5 to $100 thousand and 35 days term, was placed at
Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 12.7%, after declining 0.8 p.p. in February (see
Source: BCRA Graph 5.5).

Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.6
Active Interest Rates for Short Term

% TNA (Daily Data - Private Banks)
38 As in previous months, in the futures market for
p.p. Monthly Variation of BADLAR BADLAR, the shortest maturity contracts were those
-2.2
33 -2.4 that explained the largest part of the amount traded,
which more than doubled what was traded during
-2.6 -2.5
28 -2.8 January. Likewise, the interest rates in this market
-3.0 -2.9 showed new declines compared to the previous month.
23 Thus, the interest rate for contracts with maturity at
the end of the first quarter of the year was placed
Advances to Companies over $10M (1 to 7 days) around 13.9%, 1.5 p.p. below that negotiated in
January.
18 Discounted Documents to Companies (up to 90 days)

13
Active Interest Rates 1 9
8 Source: BCRA Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11

In general, the interest rates applied to loans to the
private sector decreased in the month. The largest
declines were again recorded in those of the lines
intended to finance commercial activities, especially
Graph 5.7 in those of shorter term. In effect, the average
monthly rate charged by private entities for advances
Active Interest Rates in current account for more than $10 million and up
(monthly average) Total Advances CC to 7 days term, was placed at 15.8%, decreasing
Monthly Variation p.p. Discounted Documents by almost 3 p.p. in the month. On the other hand, that
TNA, % TNA, % 0.5 0.2 Doc. on Sole Signature 40 corresponding to discounted documents to companies
0.0
30 -0.5 Pledged 40 up to 90 days registered a monthly decline of 2.5 p.p.,
-1.0 -0.6 Mortgages averaging February at 20.5% (see Graph 5.6). In turn,
-1.5 -1.0 Personal - right axis the average monthly rate of total advances in current
-2.0 -1.4 -1.3 account was placed at 23.3%, 1.4 p.p. lower than that
-2.5 -2.1 observed in the previous month. The same behavior was
25 Advances Doc. ASF DD Mortgages Pledged Personal 35 evidenced in the interest rates of discounted docu-
ments and sole signature documents, which decreased
20 30 in the month by 2 p.p. and 1.3 p.p. respectively (see
Graph 5.7).
15 25

10 20 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12
Source: SISCEN
In turn, the average monthly interest rate for personal loans registered a decrease of around 0.6 p.p., located at 36.4% in February. Finally, in the longer-term active interest rates, dissimilar behaviors were recorded. On one hand, the interest rate for pawn loans decreased 1 p.p., standing at 25.3%; while the corresponding rate for mortgage loans to households averaged 16% in February, a level practically equal to that recorded the previous month.

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market¹⁰

International reserves totaled US$46,668 million at the last day of February (see Graph 6.1). The purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA in the Unified and Free Exchange Market (MULC) were US$942 million. The foreign currency inflow generated by said operations was offset by the sale of foreign currency to the public sector for debt payment and other operations that in total caused the balance of international reserves to increase by US$74 million in February.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect to the United States dollar, the real, and the euro (see Graph 6.2). For the first case, the average monthly quotation slightly reduced its rate of increase with respect to what was observed in the previous months (0.6%). In contrast, the rate of increase of the real quotation accelerated slightly and stood at 4.5% in a context of appreciation of that currency. Likewise, the euro quotation increased (3.1%), after declining or remaining stable during the last five months, given that after several months of recording depreciation with respect to the United States dollar, in February it appreciated. In this way, the average quotations for February were 4.35 $/US$, 2.53 $/real, and 5.75 $/euro respectively. For its part, in the forward market (ROFEX), the average amount traded decreased in relation to the previous month (13.5%), standing at $930 million. In turn, the contracts reflected that agents did not revise their depreciation expectations until mid-present year; while, for the second semester, the contracts show a downward revision of the exchange rate.

## 7. Capital Market⁷

## Equities

Following the trend recorded the previous month, in February the financial markets showed positive evolution, mainly thanks to good economic data in the United States and the progress of negotiations for the second assistance package and the launch of the Greek debt swap. Likewise, contributing to the increase in liquidity in the financial markets, at the end of the month the second three-year fund auction by the European Central Bank (ECB) stood out, which culminated with an adjudicated amount slightly above expectations and greater participation of

---

**Footnotes:**
⁹ The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

¹⁰ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise specified.
entities. In this context, the MSCI Global measured in
 60 100
 dollars registered a gain of 4.7% and accumulates so
 MSCI- World
 50 MSCI-Europe 90 far in the year an increase of 9.8% (see Chart 7.1).
 S&P 500
 MSCI Latam (right axis)
 40 80 Among the stock market venues relevant to the
 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Argentine economy, the MSCI Europe index advanced
 6.5% and the S&P 500 (the main index of the United
 States market) registered an increase of 4.1%. Volatility
 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 10 Chart 7.2
 levels continued declining, mainly in Europe. Thus, the
 Expected Volatility in the U.S. and Eurozone
 % (VIX and VStoxx Index)
 60 expected volatility of the Stoxx 50 (benchmark index
 of the eurozone stock market) decreased 3 p.p. to a
 50
 monthly average of 24.8%, its lowest level since July
 40
 2011. Likewise, the VIX Index, which measures the
 30 expected volatility of the S&P 500 was reduced 2 p.p.
 to an average of 18.3% (see Chart 7.2).
 20

 10 Following the trend recorded in advanced economies,
 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone) in a context of recovery of investor appetite for financial
 0 assets of greater relative risk, emerging markets ended
 Feb-09 Jun-09 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12the month in positive territory. Within emerging markets,
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
 the MSCI Latin America index measured in dollars
 advanced 5.1%. Within the region, the Bovespa (Brazil)
 measured in dollars, the region's benchmark, registered
 an increase of 6.1% and Mexico's IPC expanded 2.5%.
 For its part, the IGPA (Chile) had the best relative
 Chart 7.3
 performance recording a monthly gain of 8% (see Chart
 Latin American Stock Indices
 7.3). As in January, the evolution of the exchange rate
180 (In dollars; Base index 02/07/07 = 100)
 broadened the trend recorded in stock indices measured
 160 in local currency. The real, the Mexican peso and the
 Chilean peso registered appreciations of around 2%
140
 against the dollar.
 120
 For its part, the MERVAL index (Argentina) measured
100 in dollars, registered a drop of 5%, mainly as a
 consequence of the evolution of the index measured in
 80 Merval (Argentina) IPC (Mexico)
 Bovespa (Brazil) IGPA (Chile) local currency where the fall in the quotation of papers
 60 in the energy, steel and metals, and banking sectors
 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12stood out.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 The average daily volume traded in shares during
 February at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was
 $52.1 million, marking an increase of 33.6% compared
 to the previous month.

 Chart 7.4
 Sovereign Risk Indicators Public Securities
 Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.
 550 1100
 In February the sovereign risk differentials of emerging
 500 1000
 economies over U.S. Treasury bonds were reduced

 450 EMBI+ 900 again, approximately 30 b.p., in a context where yields
 EMBI+ Latin America
 400 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 800 on U.S. Treasury bonds expanded, mainly longer-term
 bonds.
 350 700

 300 600 In this context, the risk differentials of Argentine
 250 500 bonds in dollars of long-term maturity with foreign law
 200 400 over U.S. Treasury bonds remained stable, standing at
 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12843 b.p.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg
Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 11 The average daily volume of public securities traded
 Chart 7.5 Issuance of Corporate Bonds in the local market recorded a decline of 5.6%
 with respect to the level verified the previous month, reaching
 billions of millions of $ Quantity
 400 Average amount per placement16
 of $ Quantity of placements (right axis) $1,350 million.
 5.5 350 14

 300 12
 5.0
 250 10
 4.5 200 8

 150 6
 4.0 100 4
 3.5 50 2

 0 0 Private Securities
 3.0 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12

 2.5

 2.0 In February, corporate financing through the

 1.5
 1.0 issuance of debt reached $504 million. The figure,

 0.5 although it marks a setback of about $150 million with

 0.0 respect to the level recorded in January 2012, is similar

 Feb-06 Aug-06 Feb-07 Aug-07 Feb-08 Aug-08 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12to that recorded in the same period of the previous year

Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg
 (see Chart 7.5). The greater part of the amount issued
 belonged to the real estate and construction activities
 sector –which represented 60% of the total–, followed
 by financial entities (20%), the agricultural sector and
 retail commerce, with 10% each.

 Chart 7.6 Most of the issuances were carried out in

 Issuances of Negotiable Obligations at Variable Rate BADLAR of Private Banks local currency and will accrue an interest rate variable
 (rate weighted average per amount) millions of $
 % equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus a
 25 700

 Amount placed (right axis) margin that averaged 2.3 p.p.. The average maturity of
 Cut-off rate of securities with rating above arg BBB 600
 20 Private BADLAR rate placements in the segment was situated at approximately 16 months.

 500

 15 400
 The cost of financing in national currency continued
 10 300
 decreasing in February, with a decrease in the cut-off rate

 200 of the issuances in pesos of 2 p.p. (see Chart 7.6). Meanwhile, the issuances in foreign currency maintained

 5 100
 a relatively stable financing cost. In the primary market,
 0 0
 Jan-09 Aug-09 Jan-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12debt placements verified

 Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC interest rates similar to those recorded in December
 (the last date on which a Negotiable Obligation in
 foreign currency was issued). Likewise, in the secondary
 market, the yield curve of corporate bonds in dollars
 showed no significant changes with respect to January
 (see Chart 7.7).

 Chart 7.7 Investment Common Funds

 Yield of Corporate Bonds in Dollars
 Annual IRR (%)
 16 Following the trend recorded in the two previous months,
 in February the assets of the Investment Common Funds
 14
 (FCIs), in pesos and in foreign currency, expanded 8.7%
 12 ($2,600 million) reaching $32,900 million.

 10

 8

 6 This performance is explained by the behavior recorded

 Feb-12 in the FCIs in pesos, which grew 9.3% ($2,590 million),
 4
 Jan-12 driven mainly by the increase of 12.1% ($1,560 million)
 2
 recorded in the assets of the fixed income funds. Counter-
 0 acting the trend recorded the previous month, in second
 0123456789
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg Duration place were situated the Money Market funds, which grew
 7.8% ($800 million). Likewise, the mixed income segment

 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 12 Chart 7.8 expanded 7.8% ($270 million). For its part, in contrast
 Assets of Investment Common Funds in Pesos to the performance recorded in January, the variable income

 billions of $ Monthly change
 (February 2012)
 millions of $
 35 3,000
 2,500 segment recorded a decrease of 3.4% ($50 million),
 30 Money Market 2,000
  Fixed Income 1,500 promoted mainly by the decrease in quotations
  Mixed Income 1,000
 25 500 (see Chart 7.8).
  Variable Income 0

 -500
 20  Variable  Mixed  Fixed Money Total
 Income Income Income Market
15
FCIs in foreign currency ended the month with a heritage of US$545 million, 1.6% higher than the level registered in January, driven mainly by the advance in the mixed-income and equity segments in dollars, which showed increases of 3.8% and 4.3%, respectively.

**Financial Trusts**11

Financial trust (FF) emissions totalized in February slightly more than $1,000 million, an amount similar to that of the previous month. If the two public sector placements that were registered in January (intended to finance infrastructure works) are excluded, the amount issued in the month represents an increase of 17% with respect to the previous month (see Graph 7.9). In the first two months of the year, 15 operations were registered per month (without considering infrastructure FFs); however, the average amount per placement increased in February, reaching $67 million (compared to $59 million in January). This explains the greater volume of securitized assets in the last month.

Among the trustors, financial entities stood out with placements of approximately $500 million, around half of the total securitized in the month and almost six times the amount issued by banks in January. For their part, retail stores securitized around $280 million (28% of the total), while mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers issued slightly more than $230 million (23% of the total). All emissions for the month had as underlying assets linked to consumption (personal loans and credit card vouchers).

The cut-off interest rates of senior securities in pesos continued to decrease, in line with the behavior of monetary market interest rates (see Graph 7.10). The amount-weighted average of the cut-off interest rate corresponding to securities awarded at variable rate stood at 15.6%, 1.2 p.p. below that registered in January. For their part, the cut-off interest rate of securities negotiated at fixed rate, modality under which a single operation was registered, showed a decrease of similar magnitude and stood at 15.3%.

Lastly, with data as of January, the nominal value of FFs with public offering in circulation was located at approximately $36,840 million, registering an increase of 2% ($700 million) with respect to the previous month. Around 70% of the outstanding balance corresponds to FFs that have as their purpose the financing of infrastructure works (see Graph 7.11).

---
11 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 14-15 Monetary and Financial Indicators
# Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Average percentage variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Feb-12 Monthly Last 12 months Jan-12 Dec-11 Feb-11
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 207,845 220,630 210,100 162,465 -5.8% -6.5% 27.9% 16.4%
Monetary circulation 168,651 170,304 165,181 127,658 -1.0% -1.8% 32.1% 20.2%
Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public 148,645 149,950 144,288 112,270 -0.9% -1.7% 32.4% 20.5%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities 20,005 20,352 20,891 15,382 -1.7% -2.5% 30.1% 18.4%
Cancellation checks 1 1 2 0 -28.8% -29.4% - -
Current account at the BCRA 39,194 50,326 44,919 34,807 -22.1% -22.7% 12.6% 2.5%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 27,506 15,732 12,071 11,113 74.8% 73.5% 147.5% 125.3%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include repo portfolio)
In pesos 39,439 29,587 22,782 40,813 33.3% 32.2% -3.4% -12.1%

NOBAC 38,411 42,274 44,889 39,009 -9.1% -9.9% -1.5% -10.4%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 46,811 46,557 45,983 52,427 0.5% -10.7%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 407,074 398,942 382,887 315,967 2.0% 1.2% 28.8% 17.3%
Current account (2) 113,251 121,061 106,893 90,866 -6.5% -7.2% 24.6% 13.4%
Savings account 76,536 75,513 73,673 58,260 1.4% 0.5% 31.4% 19.6%
Fixed term non-adjustable by CER 200,981 186,528 185,534 153,057 7.7% 6.9% 31.3% 19.5%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 9 9 10 10 -0.7% -1.5% -10.0% -18.1%
Other deposits (3) 16,297 15,831 16,777 13,774 2.9% 2.1% 18.3% 7.7%

Private sector deposits 277,655 270,555 262,112 212,841 2.6% 1.8% 30.5% 18.7%

Public sector deposits 129,418 128,388 120,775 103,126 0.8% 0.0% 25.5% 14.2%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 13,280 13,370 13,158 15,582 -0.7% -14.8%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 276,799 272,863 268,586 190,973 1.4% 0.6% 44.9% 31.9%

Loans to the private sector 248,760 245,790 241,209 169,506 1.2% 0.4% 46.8% 33.6%
Advances 33,160 31,094 30,930 23,011 6.6% 5.8% 44.1% 31.2%
Documents 50,740 51,935 51,144 35,581 -2.3% -3.1% 42.6% 29.8%
Mortgage 27,976 27,501 26,834 20,691 1.7% 0.9% 35.2% 23.1%
Pledge 17,147 16,756 16,397 10,440 2.3% 1.5% 64.2% 49.5%
Personal 59,926 58,870 58,115 41,785 1.8% 1.0% 43.4% 30.5%
Credit cards 41,672 41,724 39,942 27,692 -0.1% -0.9% 50.5% 37.0%
Others 18,138 17,910 17,847 10,306 1.3% 0.5% 76.0% 60.2%

Loans to the public sector 28,039 27,073 27,377 21,467 3.6% 2.7% 30.6% 18.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,713 9,576 9,607 8,078 1.4% 20.2%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 261,898 271,012 251,183 203,143 -3.4% -4.1% 28.9% 17.3%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 338,434 346,525 324,856 261,403 -2.3% -3.1% 29.5% 17.8%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 555,720 548,894 527,177 428,244 1.2% 0.4% 29.8% 18.1%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 613,458 606,657 583,612 490,949 1.1% 0.3% 25.0% 13.7%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account 225,667 225,423 218,627 174,626 0.1% -0.7% 29.2% 17.6%
in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 296,095 295,660 288,231 228,963 0.1% -0.6% 29.3% 17.7%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 426,302 420,506 406,402 325,118 1.4% 0.6% 31.1% 19.3%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 478,578 472,733 458,029 372,704 1.2% 0.4% 28.4% 16.9%
# Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations

| Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2012 | Last 12 months |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| Monetary base | -12,784 | -6.2% | 11,790 | 5.7% | -2,255 | -1.1% | 45,380 | 21.8% |
| Financial sector | -11,488 | -5.5% | -16,934 | -8.1% | -14,930 | -7.2% | -13,508 | -6.5% |
| Public sector | -985 | -0.5% | 11,399 | 5.5% | 6,848 | 3.3% | 32,388 | 15.6% |
| Private external sector | 4,085 | 2.0% | 18,822 | 9.1% | 13,541 | 6.5% | 15,427 | 7.4% |
| BCRA Securities | -4,266 | -2.1% | -1,029 | -0.5% | -7,352 | -3.5% | 13,077 | 6.3% |
| Others | -130 | -0.1% | -468 | -0.2% | -361 | -0.2% | -2,003 | -1.0% |
| International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 254 | 0.5% | 346 | 0.7% | 829 | 1.8% | -5,616 | -12.0% |
| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 943 | 2.0% | 4,377 | 9.3% | 3,143 | 6.7% | 3,727 | 8.0% |
| Payment to international organizations | -49 | -0.1% | 253 | 0.5% | 145 | 0.3% | 560 | 1.2% |
| Other public sector operations | -270 | -0.6% | -2,967 | -6.3% | -1,826 | -3.9% | -1,823 | -3.9% |
| Minimum cash | -86 | -0.2% | -134 | -0.3% | 374 | 0.8% | -5,646 | -12.1% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -284 | -0.6% | -1,183 | -2.5% | -1,007 | -2.2% | -2,433 | -5.2% |

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | Feb-12 | Ene-12 | Dic-11 |
|---|---|---|---|
| | (1) | (2) | (2) |
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** |
| Requirement | 15.9 | 16.0 | 16.0 |
| Integration | 16.3 | 17.3 | 17.0 |
| Position (3) | 0.5 | 1.3 | 1.0 |
| **Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %** |
| **used for the requirement calculation (4)** |
| Up to 29 days | 60.0 | 60.0 | 60.0 |
| 30 to 59 days | 23.4 | 23.4 | 23.4 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.8 | 5.8 | 5.8 |
| 90 to 179 days | 5.7 | 5.7 | 5.7 |
| more than 180 days | 5.1 | 5.1 | 5.1 |
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** |
| Requirement | 20.9 | 21.0 | 21.2 |
| Integration (includes resource application default) | 55.8 | 55.5 | 52.0 |
| Position (3) | 34.9 | 34.5 | 30.8 |
| **Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %** |
| **used for the requirement calculation (4)** |
| Up to 29 days | 54.8 | 57.0 | 59.5 |
| 30 to 59 days | 25.0 | 21.7 | 21.8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 10.1 | 11.3 | 8.4 |
| 90 to 179 days | 8.6 | 8.4 | 8.6 |
| 180 to 365 days | 1.4 | 1.6 | 1.5 |
| more than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in Pesos.

(3) Position = Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

# Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 16 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | Feb-12 | Ene-12 | Dic-11 | Dic-11 | Feb-11 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** |
| Rate | 9.43 | 9.63 | 9.99 | 9.99 | 9.68 |
| Amount traded | 1,368 | 1,291 | 1,126 | 1,126 | 919 |
| **Fixed-term** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30 days | 12.52 | 13.21 | 14.74 | 14.74 | 9.31 |
| 60 days or more | 12.49 | 14.84 | 16.50 | 16.50 | 10.64 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 11.95 | 12.41 | 14.76 | 14.76 | 9.69 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 14.13 | 16.06 | 18.75 | 18.75 | 11.06 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30 days | 0.31 | 0.30 | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.27 |
| 60 days or more | 0.77 | 0.69 | 0.69 | 0.69 | 0.62 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.43 | 0.45 | 0.43 | 0.43 | 0.38 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.64 | 0.65 | 0.63 | 0.63 | 0.53 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | Feb-12 | Ene-12 | Dic-11 | Dic-11 | Feb-11 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 12.43 | 13.30 | 15.98 | 15.98 | 12.04 |
| Amount traded (total terms) | 218 | 207 | 226 | 226 | 191 |
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 23.32 24.75 26.49 26.49 18.57
 Documents on single signature 20.24 21.52 22.15 22.15 15.29
 Mortgages 16.07 15.94 16.52 16.52 14.21
 Pledged loans 25.29 26.32 25.10 25.10 17.43
 Personal loans 36.35 37.00 36.46 36.46 29.30
 Credit cards n/d 35.45 34.20 34.20 32.07

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 15.75 18.70 22.56 22.56 11.03

 International Interest Rates Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Dec-11 Feb-11

LIBOR
 1 month 0.25 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.26
 6 months 0.76 0.80 0.78 0.78 0.46

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.27 0.23 0.25 0.25 0.76
 10 years 1.95 1.94 1.96 1.96 3.56

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.50 10.76 11.00 11.00 11.25

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Dec-11 Feb-11

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.07 9.06 9.13 9.13 9.27
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.56 9.52

Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 13.426 10.130 8.454 8.454 5.900

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 10.96
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.15
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 11.93
 12 months 13.52 n/o 14.26 14.26 12.48

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.74
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.92
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.73
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 520 494 378 378 533

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Dec-11 Feb-11

Spot Dollar
 Exchange houses 4.35 4.33 4.29 4.29 4.02
 BCRA Reference 4.35 4.32 4.29 4.29 4.02

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.39 4.37 4.36 4.36 4.05
 ROFEX 1 month 4.38 4.35 4.33 4.33 4.06
 Amount traded (all terms, millions of pesos) 930 1075 904 904 570

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.53 2.42 2.33 2.33 2.41

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 5.75 5.58 5.64 5.64 5.50

 Capital Market Feb-12 Jan-12 Dec-11 Dec-11 Feb-11

MERVAL
 Index 2.764 2.806 2.488 2.488 3.518
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 51 52 39 39 63

Government Bonds (in parity)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 107.73 106.37 107.22 107.22 98.74
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 87.98 83.27 81.40 81.40 90.60
 BODEN 2014 ($) 92.56 90.45 86.93 86.93 93.36
 DISCOUNT ($) 54.98 54.50 51.96 51.96 78.86

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 371 447 469 469 528
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 365 405 409 409 315

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 189. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for a period of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**U.S.A.:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBACs:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward.

**NOBACs:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**VCP:** Short-term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2012 | BCRA | 19
