# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
April 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 5

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Market | Page 10

 Equities | Page 11

 Public Securities | Page 11

 Private Securities | Page 12

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monthly Report - BCRA

 The statistical close-off of this report was May 11, 2012. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monthly Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In April, the broadest peso aggregate (M3) registered a monthly increase of 1.7% which, as in the previous months, was driven mainly by the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases and by the increase in peso loans to the private sector.

• Time deposits led the monthly increase in monetary aggregates with increases in both placements by the private sector and those made by the public sector. Time deposits in pesos from the private sector accumulated a monthly growth of 2.7%, which constitutes one of the highest increases in the series when compared with the growth of the same month in previous years. The increase was verified both in deposits of less than $1 million and in tranches of higher amounts.

• Broad liquidity in local currency of the financial system (sum of cash in banks, checking account deposits of entities at the Central Bank, repos of financial entities with this institution and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, on total deposits) grew 0.9 p.p. reaching 38.5%. During the month, financial entities increased their holdings of repos with the Central Bank and balances in checking accounts at this institution.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 45.4% compared to April of the previous year. The growth registered in April, 1.6% ($4,170 million) shows a gradual deceleration in the pace of credit expansion, a fact that is explained mainly by the behavior of commercial lines.

• Passive short-term interest rates paid by private entities continued with the downward trend evidenced in recent months. Again, the greatest decline was verified in the wholesale segment, where the BADLAR of private banks averaged 12.2% in April, decreasing 0.7 p.p. compared to the previous month and accumulating a drop of 6.6 p.p. compared to the December average. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid by private banks for their retail fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity) decreased 0.5 p.p. compared to March, averaging 11.6%. Thus, it accumulates a decline of 2.6 p.p. so far this year.

• In April, the interest rates applied to loans to the private sector also continued to decline. The greatest declines were again registered in the interest rates intended to finance commercial activities and, fundamentally, in the shorter-term lines. The rate corresponding to advances on checking accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity, averaged 12.9% in April, decreasing 1.2 p.p. compared to March and accumulating a decline of 9.6 p.p. year-to-date. On the other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate on discounted documents to companies was located at 18.1%, decreasing 1.1 p.p. during the month and 7.5 p.p. compared to the December average.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1
 % Monetary Aggregates - M3 % 2. Monetary Aggregates1
5 (variation of monthly averages) 50

 Monthly variation
4 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 40
 During April, monetary aggregates continued to grow,
3 30 although at a year-on-year expansion rate somewhat
 lower than that observed during the previous months. The
2 20
 broadest peso aggregate (M3) registered an annual in-
1 10 crease of 28.5% y.o.y., 0.5 p.p. below that observed
0 0 in March (see Graph 2.1). The monthly growth of
-1 -10 this aggregate was 1.7%, explained, as in previous
 months, mainly by Central Bank foreign currency pur-
-2 -20
Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12chases and by peso loans to the private sector (see
 Graph 2.2).

Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits. Source: BCRA Among the components of M3, time deposits led the
 monthly increase, with increases in both private sector
 placements and those made by the public sector. Mean-
 while, the increase in total means of payment was made
 up of the increase in private M2, while public sector sight
 deposits decreased in the month. In any case, although the
 total peso deposits grew 2% in the month, private sector
 placements increased 3.1% while public sector placements
 fell 0.5%.

Graph 2.2
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates
 millions of $ (April 2012, on average) During April, private sector peso time deposits accumu-
8
 lated a monthly growth of 2.7%, which represents one of
6
 the highest records in the series, when compared to the
4 growth of the same month in previous years (see Graph
2 2.3). During the period under analysis, there were in-
0
 creases both in the stratum of less than $1 million and in
-2
 the wholesale (of $1 million and more).
-4
 Foreign Currency Sector Loans to Other M2 Time Deposits and Time Deposits and It is worth mentioning that in the coming months some
 Purchases Public* Private Sector Others Others Public Deposits Private moderation in its expansion rate is expected, given the
 Sector greater demand for liquidity by the private sector to meet
 M3 tax payment deadlines and the payment of the semi-
*Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base and public sector loans.
Source: BCRA annual complementary salary.

 For its part, deposits denominated in foreign currency
 Graph 2.3 experienced a slight reduction of 0.7%, explained by mild
 % Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector % declines in both public sector and private sector place-
7 (variations of monthly averages) 42 ments. In this way, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which
6 36 includes currency in circulation held by the public, can-
5 30
 celing checks and the total of deposits in pesos and in
4 24
 foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed an increase
3 18
 of 1.6%.
2 12
1 6
0 0 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1
-1 -6 Cash Position Minimum in Pesos
 Monthly variation
-2 Year-on-year variation (right axis)-12 % of According to the new Organic Charter of the Central
-3 -18 deposits Surplus Daily position Accumulated position Bank, the integration of reserve requirements may not be
Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 3.0 constituted except in sight deposits with the monetary
 2.5 authority. Therefore, in order to avoid possible increases
Source: BCRA
 2.0 in interest rate volatility, and until new regulations are
 1.5
 drawn up that contemplate the use of reserve require-
 1.0
 0.5 ment policy as a tool to guide credit, it was decided to
-1.0 which, temporarily, allows entities to deduct from the requirement

-1.5
-2.0 of each month an amount equivalent to cash

-2.5 computed as integration in March 2012 2.

Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12
Source: BCRA

In April the integration of reserve requirements exceeded the requirement by the equivalent of 0.3% of deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1), presenting surpluses in both public and private banks, in a context of a stable interbank market.

Chart 3.2

Bank Liquidity in Pesos
% of deposits (monthly average)

45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity
42.2 41.7 40.8
40 39.2 38.6 37.4 38.5
36.6 36.7 37.5 37.6
35.0 34.8
35 The net repos of financial entities with the Central
Bank grew on average 0.7 p.p. in terms of deposits in
30 17.0 pesos, reaching 5% of the same. Meanwhile, the hold-
ings of LEBAC and NOBAC in the portfolio of banks
25
remained at approximately the same levels as in March
20 5.0 and were located at 17% of deposits. Thus, the broad
15 4.8 liquidity in local currency of the financial system (sum
of cash in banks, deposits in current accounts of fi-
10 nancial entities at the Central Bank, repos of financial
5 11.7 entities with this institution and holdings of LEBAC
0 and NOBAC, over total deposits) grew 0.9 p.p. standing
Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12
Source: BCRA at 38.5% (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 4.1

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
6 (monthly average variation) 70
Var. % monthly 4. Loans 1 3
5 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 60

4 50 Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 45.4%
3.3 3.1 compared to April of the previous year (see Chart 4.1).
2.9
3 2.7 40 The growth recorded in April, 1.6% ($4,170 million)
2 1.8 1.6 30 shows a gradual deceleration in the pace of credit
expansion, a fact that is explained mainly by the behav-
1 0.9 20 ior of commercial lines (see Chart 4.2).
0 10
-1 0
Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12
Source: BCRA

2 The deduction consists, not in the totality of the bank's cash from March, but only that portion which, once all other concepts admitted as integration were computed, would have brought March's reserve position into balance. See Com. A 5299.

3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 5

Chart 4.2

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of April)

4.0 The lines intended mainly for commercial purposes continued to show atypical behavior in April.

3.5 In a month when the demand for liquidity by compa-
3.0 nies tends to be high due to the start of the period of
higher tax payment deadlines, advances and financing
2.5 with documents presented divergent behaviors. On one
2.0 hand, the average balance of advances remained in
1.5 April practically at the same level as in the previous
1.0 0.9 month, after two months of showing growth rates
0.5 0.3 above their historical values (in February and March
0.4 they hovered around 6.6%
0.0
-0.5 monthly; see Graph 4.3). For its part, the average balance of financings carried out through documents grew in April 1.1% ($540 million), after recording a marked deceleration since last October (see Graph 4.4). The rest of commercial financings registered a monthly increase of 3.2% ($600 million).

Graph 4.3
Advances in Pesos of the Private Sector
thousands of 2012
millions $ 2011
(evolution of daily balance - index 31-Dec-11) 2010
% Monthly variation of monthly averages 2009
2008
2007
2006

Regarding consumer loans, personal loans began to recover their expansion pace. The growth of 2.7% ($1,680 million) recorded in April was the largest of the last five months. This acceleration continued to occur in a context of some relaxation of credit conditions for this line. In fact, the interest rate charged for this type of loan continued to decrease (see Section Active Interest Rates), while the average term at which loans were granted increased slightly (approximately 0.6 months to reach 40.7 months; see Graph 4.5). For its part, credit card financings grew in the month 1.5% ($660 million), practically half that in March. However, in year-on-year terms the year-on-year growth rate of these financings has remained since the end of 2011 around 50%.

As for loans with real guarantee, pledged loans grew in April somewhat more than last month, registering an increase of 1.4% ($250 million). However, during the first four months of the year, they have been showing a deceleration compared to the high expansion levels recorded throughout 2011 (see Graph 4.6). For its part, mortgage loans grew at a similar pace to the previous two-month period, registering an increase of 1.6% ($460 million). In terms of year-on-year, they continued to accelerate their expansion pace, accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 37.2%, 1.1 p.p. more than that recorded in March.

Graph 4.4
Documents in Pesos of the Private Sector 2012
thousands of 2011
millions $ 2010
(evolution of daily balance - index 31-Dec-11) 2009
% Monthly variation of monthly averages 2008
2007
2006
Average 2006-2012

Note: balance corrected by reclassification of Documents to Signature Only to Other loans of 11-Apr-12
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 6

Graph 4.5
Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
months Weighted average term by amount
Interest rate (right axis)

The BCRA continued to make fund disbursements within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), aimed at promoting the growth of credit destined to productive activity. In April it effectivized the delivery of $167 million, so that from the beginning of the PFPB the total disbursed to said month amounts to $2,524 million, of a total auctioned that reaches $4,422 million. When discriminating the funds awarded by economic sector, recipient of the resources, an important concentration is observed in manufacturing industry (75.6% of the total; see Graph 4.7), according to the latest available information, as of March. Within this industry
Source: BCRA highlight the subsectors of automobile vehicle manufacturing and the manufacturing of medicines and pharmaceutical products. In order of importance they are followed by the sectors of agriculture, livestock and forestry (7.7% of the total) and that of transport and communications (7.3% of the total).

**Graph 4.6**
Secured Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
%
- Secured loans - monthly var. (right axis) %
- Automotive sales - var. y.o.y. of quarterly average
- Automotive registrations - var. y.o.y. of quarterly average

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, fundamentally to the exporting sector, continued showing a deceleration, in a context of stable but high interest rates and a certain shortening in the agreement term. Particularly, the average monthly balance in April showed a slight decrease of 0.4% (US$ 40 million).

**5. Interest Rates⁴**

**Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁵**

Continuing with its sterilization policy, in April the Central Bank awarded in the primary market an amount of LEBAC and NOBAC superior to what matured. In this context, the outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC stood at $83,500 million, 3.5% higher than the level recorded the previous month (see Graph 5.1). The greater part of the awarded amount was LEBAC, mainly of species with longer terms than in the previous months (see Graph 5.2). In the case of NOBAC, although an increase in the placed amount was observed, it again turned out to be below what matured, for which they lost participation in the total balance.

**Graph 4.7**
Bicentennial Advances
(Amounts awarded by economic sector)
- Manufacturing Industry: 75.6%
- Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry: 7.7%
- Transport and Communications: 7.3%
- Commerce: 5.1%
- Hospitality and Restaurants: 1.7%
- Other: 9.4%
- Remainder: 2.6%

Source: BCRA

⁴ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁵ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

**Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 7**

**Graph 5.1**
Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC in Pesos
Billions of $ (end of month)

The interest rates of LEBAC remained stable in April. In the primary market, they continued auctioning the species of shorter term at a predetermined interest rate, which remained at values similar to those of March. The interest rates for longer-term LEBAC also remained without major changes. Likewise, the margins paid over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks for comparable terms were reduced, mainly in the shorter-term species.

The amount traded in the secondary market of securities grew again in April, standing at $800 million. Following the trend recorded in previous months, operations with LEBAC concentrated the largest trading volume, with particular emphasis on species between 180 and 270 days of term. Reductions in interest rates were observed mainly in the middle section of the yield curve (see Graph 5.3). While in NOBAC the trading volume was reduced 14%, standing at $140 million.

**Graph 5.2**
Amount Awarded of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market
Billions of $
- More than 270 days
- From 271 to 360 days
- From 181 to 270 days
- From 91 to 180 days
- Up to 90 days

Interest Rate of Lebac in the Primary Market
Annual % Rate (T.N.A.)

**Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations¹**

In April, the Central Bank did not modify the interest rates for its repurchase agreement operations, which continued at 9% and 9.5% for passive repos at 1 and 7 days and at
12.8 Auction of 24-02-12
 12.5 12.5
 12.4 Auction of 27-03-12
 8 12.0 12.1 11% and 11.5% for active repos in the same terms.
 Auction of 24-04-12
 Days
 11.5
 6 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
 In a scenario of high liquidity levels, no active repos
 4
 were registered for the Central Bank. Meanwhile, the
 2 monthly average balance of passive repos, including all
 0 the modalities in which the institution participates, grew
 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12
 16.3% compared to March, standing at $24,400 million.
Source: BCRA
 89% of the stock corresponded to operations with finan-
 cial entities and the remaining 11% with Investment
 Common Funds through the night trading session.

 Interbank Markets¹
 Graph 5.3
 Yield Curve of LEBACs in the Secondary Market In April, interbank market interest rates remained stable.
 A.N.R. % (weighted average rate by amount)
 In the guaranteed market (REPO trading session), the
 14 average interest rate for one business day operations
 13 between financial entities continued at 9.2%, while in
 12 the unsecured market (call) for the same term it remained
 11 at 9.3% (see Graph 5.4).
 27-04-2012
 10 30-03-2012
 9 On the other hand, the amount traded in the interbank
 market fell again in April. In the REPO trading session,
 Day
 8 the daily average of the amount traded registered a
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 decline of $400 million, standing at $1,300 million,
 Source: BCRA while in the call segment the daily average amount
 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.4
 traded was placed at $1,180 million, $60 million below
 Interbank Market the level registered the previous month. When breaking
 in billions of $ %
 16.0 12.0 down the total amount traded in the call market trading
 Amount traded with the BCRA session by group of entities, it is observed that foreign
 Amount traded REPO trading session excluding BCRA 11.5 entities were net borrowers of funds while domestic
 Amount traded Call
 11.0 private entities and public entities were net lenders. While
 Interest rate REPO trading session excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis)
 12.0 Interest rate Call at 1 business day (right axis) non-bank financial entities registered an almost neutral
 10.5
 10.0 10.0 position (see Graph 5.5).

 8.0 9.5
 6.0 9.0 Passive Interest Rates¹
 8.5
 4.0
 8.0 The short-term passive interest rates paid by private
 2.0 7.5 entities continued with the downward trend evidenced
 0.0 7.0 in recent months. Once again, the largest decline was
 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12
 verified in the wholesale segment, where the BADLAR
Source: BCRA rate of private banks – time deposits of more than $1
 million and 30-35 days term – averaged 12.2% in April,
 decreasing 0.7 p.p. compared to the previous month
 and accumulating a decline of 6.6 p.p. compared to the
 Graph 5.5 December average (see Graph 5.6).
 Call Market
 (average net position per month by group of entities)
 millions of $ Daily Transaction Participation The decline in the BADLAR rate of private banks was
 (April 2012)
 30 34 observed in those paid to all types of depositors. The
 3 decline in those applied to companies stands out, which
 500
 averaged 12% in April, decreasing 0.7 p.p. compared to
 33
 300 March and 7.1 p.p. compared to December. On the other
 100 hand, the monthly average of the rates received by
 -100 financial services companies was placed at 12.7%,
 -300 EFNB declining 0.4 p.p. in the month and 6.6 p.p. in the year.
 Public
 -500 Priv. Nat. While the rates paid to individuals and the public sector
 Foreign accumulated declines in the year of 5.4 p.p. and 4.9 p.p.
 -700 respectively (see Graph 5.7).
 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12
 Source: BCRA
In the BADLAR futures market, there was a moderation in the amounts traded compared to recent months, when a notably elevated sum was negotiated. The shorter-term contracts (less than 3 months) explained almost 75% of the total amount traded in 30-35 day deposits in April. As in previous months, the forward contracts indicated a decrease in interest rates expected for the coming months. Thus, the interest rates of contracts maturing at the end of May 2012 were around 12.75%, decreasing 1.25 p.p. compared to contracts with the same maturity traded in March.

Meanwhile, the interest rate paid by private banks for their retail fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) decreased 0.5 p.p. compared to March, averaging 11.6%. In this way, it accumulates a decline of 2.6 p.p. so far this year.

## Active Interest Rates

In April, the interest rates applied to loans to the private sector continued to decline. The largest declines were again recorded in interest rates intended to finance commercial activities and, fundamentally, in shorter-term lines. In fact, the rate corresponding to overdrafts on current account for more than $10 million and up to 7 days of term, averaged 12.9% in April, decreasing 1.2 p.p. compared to March and accumulating a decline of 9.6 p.p. in the year. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate for the total overdrafts in current account stood at 21.5%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. compared to March and accumulating a decline of 5.3 p.p. in the year. For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate for discounted documents to companies stood at 18.1%, decreasing 1.1 p.p. in the month and 7.5 p.p. compared to the December average. Likewise, the rate for unsecured documents fell 0.9 p.p. in the month and 3.8 p.p. since December, averaging 18.4% in April (see Chart 5.8).

Among the interest rates for longer-term loans, declines were also recorded both in personal lines and in mortgage and chattel loans. Thus, in April the interest rate for personal loans stood at 35%, decreasing 0.7 p.p. compared to March and 1.5 p.p. compared to December. Within loans with real guarantee, the decline in the interest rate for those with chattel guarantee again stood out, averaging 23.1% in April, 1.1 p.p. below the March average (see Chart 5.9).
TNA, % Personal Secured Mortgage Monthly and Accumulated Variation
Families p.p 6. International Reserves and
38 0.0
Foreign Exchange Market7
34 -0.5
-0.48
30 -0.70
-1.0 International reserves totaled US$ 47.844 billion on the last day of
26 -1.1 April, which implied a monthly increase of US$ 553 million and of
-1.11
22 -1.5 -1.5 US$ 1.271 billion so far this year. Foreign exchange purchases by
the Central Bank in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market
18 -2.0 (MULC) during the first four months of the year totaled US$ 1.656
Accumulated variation
14 -2.0 million, which was partially offset by foreign exchange purchases
Monthly variation
10 -2.5 by the National Government to make debt payments in foreign
May-08 Feb-09 Nov-09 Aug-10 May-11 Feb-12 Secured Personal Mortgages
Source: BCRA

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 10 Graph 6.1 currency.

Foreign Exchange Market Additionally, and as provided for in the Budget Law for fiscal
(average quotations) year 2012, the issuance of a National Treasury Note for up to
$/Euro $/Real $/US$ US$ 5.674 billion was authorized, to be subscribed by the Central
Bank in several installments. To date, the monetary authority has
6.0 $/Euro 3.3 4.8 transferred US$ 2.180 billion from freely available reserves to the
5.9 3.2 4.7 Argentine Debt Reduction Fund belonging to the National Treasury.
$/US$ (Reference)
5.8 3.1 4.6 $/Real, right axis In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated once
5.7 3.0 4.5 again against the United States Dollar (see Graph 6.1). The quote
5.6 2.9 4.4 was 4.40 $/US$, for the April average, increasing 1% compared to
5.5 2.8 4.3 March. In the forward market (ROFEX), the average daily traded
5.4 2.7 4.2 amount increased more than 50% to $1.254 billion, with a slight
5.3 2.6 4.1 upward revision of expected quotations (average monthly price)
5.2 2.5 4.0 for the coming months and an increase in traded volume (see
5.1 2.4 3.9 Graph 6.2). Meanwhile, the peso appreciated against the real and
5.0 2.3 3.8 the average monthly quotation fell 2.2% to 2.37 $/real. However, in
4.9 2.2 3.7 relation to the euro, the quotation increased 0.6% being 5.79
4.8 2.1 3.6 $/euro for the monthly average.
4.7 2.0 3.5

Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 7. Capital Markets7
Source: BCRA
Stocks

Graph 6.2 In April financial markets closed in negative territory, according
to the MSCI Global measured in dollars, which fell back 1.4%.
Future Foreign Exchange Market Throughout the month greater caution was observed on the part
$/US$ of investors in relation to fragility in global growth. In the United
4.90 (average monthly price) States mixed economic data were presented. Labor market figures
4.80 disappointed, while earnings season continues with good results.
In Europe concerns were renewed regarding the economies of
4.70 weight within the region in vulnerable situations, mainly in Spain
4.60 which registered increases in its public debt yields.

Jan-12
Feb-12 Among the relevant stock exchanges for the Argentine economy,
Mar-12 the S&P 500 (the main index of the market
4.50 Apr-12
4.40
Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12
Source: own elaboration based on ROFEX.

Graph 7.1
World Stock Indices
100 (In dollars; Base Index 02/07/07 = 100) 130

90 120

80 110

70 100

60 90

50 MSCI- World 80 Between the relevant trading floors for the Argentine economy,
MSCI-Europe the S&P 500 (the main index of the market
S&P 500
40 MSCI- Latam (right axis) 70
MSCI- Emerging (right axis) of the United States) was the best performing index
 30 60
 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 with a decline of 0.7%. Meanwhile, the index
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.2 MSCI Europe measured in dollars fell back 6.4%, due

Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and to the decrease recorded in the first half of the
 % Eurozone month (see Chart 7.1). Pari passu with the worse stock
 (VIX and VStoxx Index) market performance, an increase in volatility levels was
 60 recorded, mainly in the euro zone (see Chart 7.2). In this
 sense, the expected volatility of Stoxx 50 (reference
 50
 index of the eurozone stock exchange) increased 4.6 p.p.
 40
 to a monthly average of 26.7%. To a lesser extent, the
 VIX Index, which measures the expected volatility of the
 30
 S&P 500, increased 1.5 p.p. to an average of 17.6%.
 20

 10 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone) In line with the behavior recorded in March, in April the
 emerging equity markets ended the month with a loss
 0
 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 of 1.5%, according to the MSCI index, and Latin Amer-
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data ican performance was inferior to the general index trend.
 In fact, the MSCI Latin America measured in dollars
 registered a monthly decline of 4.5%, driven again by
 the fall recorded in the Bovespa (Brazil), which mea-
 sured in dollars declined 8.3% (see Chart 7.3). This
 performance is explained both by the decrease in quo-
Chart 7.3 tations in local currency and by the depreciation of the
 Evolution of the Bovespa and the Real real, driven to a greater extent by renewed expectations
 Index in Thousands R$/US$ of a reduction in the SELIC rate, following the decline
 50 2.0 of 0.75 p.p. in mid-April. After recording an apprecia-
 45 1.9 tion against the dollar of 8% in the first two months,
 40 1.8 in the second two-month period of 2012 the Brazilian
 35 1.7 real depreciated 11.1%. Following the same trend as
 Interest Rate % and Inflation Rate and Inflation the Bovespa but with more moderate performance, the
 30 18 Target in Brazil % IPC (Mexico) registered a decline of 1.7% and the IGPA
 (average monthly) 10 1.6 (Chile) lost 0.6%, both measured in dollars.
 Reference Interest Rate (left axis)
 16 Inflation Rate 8 8%
 25 Inflation Target Limits 1,5 The quotation of Argentine equity recorded a larger
 14 6 decline, driven by papers from the energy and banking
 20 12 4 1.4 sectors. The MERVAL index (Argentina), measured in
 Bovespa (Brazil) in dollars dollars, registered a decline of 16.1%, mainly as a conse-
 10 2 Real Quotation (R$/US$) quence of the evolution of the index measured in local
 15 1.3 currency. In this context, the average daily volume trad-
 8 0 ed in shares during March on the Buenos Aires Stock
 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Exchange was $56 million, marking a decline of 21.8%
 10 1.2 with respect to the level recorded in the previous month.
 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Public Securities

In April, the sovereign risk differentials of emerging
Chart 7.4 economies over U.S. Treasury bonds increased by 8 p.b.,
 Sovereign Risk Indicators in a context in which the yields of U.S. Treasury bonds
 Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p. (treasuries) at 10 years fell around 30 b.p.
 550 1100
 500 1000 In this context, the risk differentials of the bonds
 EMBI+
 EMBI+ Latin America
 450 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 900

 400 800
 350 700

 300 600
 250 500

 200 400

 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 12 Chart 7.5
 Yield of Benchmark Sovereign Bonds in Dollars
 % (medium-term bonds) B.p.
 16 1600
14 Spread vs US Treasuries (right axis) 1400 Argentine long-term bonds in foreign currency dollars
 over US Treasury bonds, according to the
 BODEN 2015
 BONAR 2017 EMBI+, increased by 82 b.p. placing itself at 962 b.p. (see
 12 1200
 Chart 7.4) mainly as a consequence of the
 10 1000 performance of the Discount, Par and Global 2017
 8 800 bonds. Likewise, the returns on benchmark sove-
 6 600 reign bonds in dollars, the Boden 2015 and the
 Bonar 2013, widened approximately 140 b.p. in the
 4 400 month (see Chart 7.5).

 Dic-10 Feb-11 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Private Securities

 In April, corporate financing in the capital market
 through the issuance of Negotiable Obligations
 (ON) totaled $480 million. The majority of issu-
 ances were made in local currency and will bear
 Chart 7.6 a variable interest rate. Among the main debt pla-
 Corporate Bonds Issuance
 cers of the month, the sectors of Other Financial,
 billions of $ Stock Exchange and Insurance Activities and
5.5 Open Issuance by Sectors
 (April 2012)
5.0 Total Amount Non-Banking Financial Entities stood out (see Chart
4.5 Amount accumulated through April
 7.6).
4.0

3.5 Food and Beverages In the month it was observed that again SMEs actu-
3.0 Non-Banking Financial Entities ing in foreign currency resorted to the capital mar-
 Other Financial, Stock Exchange and Insurance Activities
 2.5 Other ket by placing a total of $87 million and adding
 Agricultural Sector
2.0
1.5 $187 million in what has been accumulated so far
1.0 in 2012.

0.5

0.0 Following the trend recorded in the monetary market,
 Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg the cost of financing in national currency continued
 to decrease in April. Thus, the cut-off rate of issu-
 ances in pesos at variable rate – corresponding to
 the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin – with
 rating superior to arg A fell by 1 p.p. (see Chart 7.7).

 Investment Funds

 Chart 7.7 Continuing the trend recorded in previous months,
 ON Issuances at Variable Rate BADLAR of Private Banks although at a slower pace, in April the assets of
 % (average rate weighted by amount) millions of $ the Investment Funds (FCIs) increased again. The
 25 700 assets of the FCIs in pesos and in foreign currency
 Amount placed (right axis)
 Cut-off rate of securities with rating superior to arg A- 600 were located at $36,560 million, 1.9% above the
 20 BADLAR rate of private banks level recorded in the previous month.
 500

 15 400 The increase verified throughout the month was
 driven again by the assets of fixed income funds
 10 300
 in pesos (see Chart 7.8), which increased 3%
 200 in the month ($470 million), and Money Market
 5 100
 funds, which increased 2.1% ($260 million). To a
 0 0 lesser extent, funds that invest in mixed income
 Jan-09 Sep-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC assets continued to contribute positively to the
 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.8 performance of the segment and expanded 3.3%
 Assets of Investment Funds in Pesos ($140 million). Counteracting the general trend,
 billions of $ Monthly Variation
 (February 2012) 800 variable income funds registered a decline of
 40 700
 600 12.9%, affected by the performance of the local
 35 Money Market 500
  Fixed Income 400 stock market (see Equities Section).
 300
 30  Mixed Income 200
 100
  Variable Income 0
 -100
 -200
 25 -300 In this way, fixed income funds represented
 
  Variable Renta Renta Fixed Money Total
 Income Mixta Income Market
 20

 15
10 47% of the assets of FCIs in pesos, followed by Money Market funds, with 38%, and mixed income funds, with a participation of 12%. Finally, variable income funds are found, which gradually lost representativeness, reaching 2% of the total in April.

The assets of FCIs in foreign currency were located at US$ 435 million, 1.3% below the March level, driven by the performance of fixed income and variable income in dollars that decreased 2.5% and 4.4% respectively.

Financial Trusts8

The emissions of FF, without considering those intended to finance infrastructure works, totaled around $1,160 million in April, through 16 placements (4 more than last month). In this way, they exhibited an increase of 36% compared to what was placed in March and recorded the highest amount of the year (see Chart 7.9).

In addition, a new placement was recorded under the Federal Multi-Year Housing Construction Program. On this occasion, the Provincial Housing Institute of San Juan placed $70 million.

The main settlors of the month were retail stores and financial entities, with a participation of 39% and 33% of the total, respectively. The assets securitized by these settlors corresponded entirely to assets linked to consumption and represented a considerable increase compared to the volume securitized the previous month. In effect, retail stores issued 40% more than in March, while financial entities registered in April an increase of 66% in the amount issued, practically offsetting last month's decline (see Chart 7.10). For their part, mutuals, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers were settlors of 21% of the total and securitized, in addition to personal loans and credit card installments, secured loans and leasing contracts.

The rest corresponded to the public sector and other settlors from the agricultural sector.

The cut-off interest rate of senior titles in pesos with variable income continued to decrease, following the evolution of money market interest rates, while that of titles at fixed rate remained stable (see Chart 7.11). In effect, the cut-off rate, weighted average by amount, of the titles awarded at variable rate (excluding FF infrastructure works that usually have a longer average term)
# Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

was located at 13.1%, 0.9 p.p. less than in March.
Meanwhile, the one corresponding to fixed-rate securities
remained unchanged at 13.3%. For its part, the FF linked
to the construction of social housing in the Province of
San Juan was placed with a differential margin
of 2 p.p. over the BADLAR of public banks.

Finally, according to the latest available information
on the nominal value of FF with public offering
in circulation (as of March), it was located at approximately $37,700 million, with no significant
variations compared to the previous month.

Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Average percentage variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Apr-12 Monthly Last 12 monthsMar-12Dec-11Apr-11
Nominal Real Nominal Real

Monetary base 220,604 216,343 210,100 167,839 2.0% 1.2% 31.4% 19.5%
Monetary circulation 170,731 168,755 165,181 129,874 1.2% 0.4% 31.5% 19.5%
Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 150,452 149,163 144,288 114,356 0.9% 0.1% 31.6% 19.6%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 20,276 19,590 20,891 15,514 3.5% 2.7% 30.7% 18.8%
Cancellation Checks 3 2 2 0 49.4% 48.3% - -
Current account at the BCRA 49,873 47,589 44,919 37,965 4.8% 4.0% 31.4% 19.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 24,335 20,860 12,071 13,385 16.7% 15.8% 81.8% 65.3%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 49,703 46,642 22,782 34,588 6.6% 5.8% 43.7% 30.6%

NOBAC 30,744 33,941 44,889 52,079 -9.4% -10.1% -41.0% -46.3%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 47,462 47,168 45,983 51,637 0.6% -8.1%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 423,054 414,747 382,886 331,838 2.0% 1.3% 27.5% 15.9%
Current account (2) 114,536 113,965 106,893 94,280 0.5% -0.2% 21.5% 10.4%
Savings account 79,032 77,375 73,673 60,148 2.1% 1.4% 31.4% 19.5%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 212,394 207,277 185,534 163,081 2.5% 1.7% 30.2% 18.4%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 9 9 10 10 0.0% -0.7% -9.4% -17.6%
Other deposits (3) 17,082 16,122 16,776 14,318 6.0% 5.2% 19.3% 8.5%

Deposits of the private sector 294,617 285,669 262,112 223,658 3.1% 2.4% 31.7% 19.8%

Deposits of the public sector 128,436 129,078 120,774 108,180 -0.5% -1.2% 18.7% 7.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 13,111 13,200 13,158 15,524 -0.7% -15.5%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 287,382 283,129 268,587 199,368 1.5% 0.8% 44.1% 31.1%

Loans to the private sector 258,018 254,199 241,211 177,461 1.5% 0.8% 45.4% 32.2%
Advances 35,320 35,337 30,930 23,478 0.0% -0.8% 50.4% 36.8%
Documents 50,198 50,311 51,144 37,473 -0.2% -1.0% 34.0% 21.8%
Mortgages 28,936 28,472 26,835 21,094 1.6% 0.9% 37.2% 24.7%
Pawn loans 17,573 17,324 16,397 11,387 1.4% 0.7% 54.3% 40.3%
Personal loans 62,553 61,228 58,115 44,322 2.2% 1.4% 41.1% 28.3%
Credit cards 43,760 43,100 39,942 28,935 1.5% 0.8% 51.2% 37.5%
Other 19,678 18,427 17,847 10,773 6.8% 6.0% 82.7% 66.1%

Loans to the public sector 29,364 28,930 27,377 21,907 1.5% 0.8% 34.0% 21.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,492 9,524 9,607 8,631 -0.3% 10.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 264,991 263,130 251,183 208,641 0.7% 0.0% 27.0% 15.5%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 344,024 340,504 324,857 268,789 1.0% 0.3% 28.0% 16.4%
M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + 573,509 563,912 527,177 446,198 1.7% 1.0% 28.5% 16.9%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 631,162 621,416 583,612 509,356 1.6% 0.8% 23.9% 12.7%
Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + current 232.405 228.419 218.627 180.071 1,7% 1,0% 29,1% 17,3%
 accounts priv. in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 305.716 299.598 288.231 235.346 2,0% 1,3% 29,9% 18,1%
 M3 ((Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos+ 445.072 434.834 406.402 338.018 2,4% 1,6% 31,7% 19,7%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 497.432 487.045 458.029 388.052 2,1% 1,4% 28,2% 16,5%

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Cumulative 2012 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary Base 4.261 1,9% -25 0,0% 10.504 4,8% 52.765 23,9%
 Financial Sector -3.253 -1,5% -7.863 -3,6% -11.305 -5,1% -7.887 -3,6%
 Public Sector 308 0,1% -2.198 -1,0% 5.635 2,6% 27.843 12,6%
 Private External Sector 7.455 3,4% 16.125 7,3% 25.582 11,6% 17.234 7,8%
 BCRA Securities -235 -0,1% -5.653 -2,6% -8.739 -4,0% 17.423 7,9%
 Others -14 0,0% -437 -0,2% -668 -0,3% -1.848 -0,8%

 BCRA International Reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 294 0,6% 905 1,9% 1.480 3,1% -4.175 -8,8%
 Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 1.703 3,6% 3.700 7,8% 5.900 12,4% 3.951 8,3%
 Payment to International Organizations -42 -0,1% -147 -0,3% 47 0,1% 522 1,1%
 Other Public Sector Operations -297 -0,6% -941 -2,0% -2.496 -5,3% -2.507 -5,3%
 Minimum Cash -361 -0,8% -45 -0,1% 415 0,9% -4.211 -8,9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -708 -1,5% -1.662 -3,5% -2.385 -5,0% -1.930 -4,1%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11,4 15,7 16,0
 Integration 11,7 16,0 16,3
 Position (2) 0,3 0,3 0,3
 Residual Term Structure of Time Deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55,6 55,3 60,0
 30 to 59 days 23,4 23,7 23,4
 60 to 89 days 11,3 11,1 5,8
 90 to 179 days 7,0 6,7 5,7
 more than 180 days 2,6 3,2 5,1
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20,9 21,4 21,0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 52,8 60,3 56,2
 Position (2) 31,8 38,9 35,2
 Residual Term Structure of Time Deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55,5 57,3 54,8
 30 to 59 days 22,9 22,8 25,0
 60 to 89 days 9,9 8,9 10,1
 90 to 179 days 10,3 9,6 8,6
 180 to 365 days 1,3 1,3 1,4
 more than 365 days 0,1 0,1 0,1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes time deposits for judicial purposes.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 17 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9,42 9,70 9,43 9,99 9,65
 Amount Traded 1.179 1.241 1.172 1.126 680

 Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 11,66 12,08 12,52 14,74 9,47
 60 days or more 11,95 12,64 12,49 16,50 10,47
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11,45 11,12 11,95 14,76 9,78
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12,18 12,87 14,13 18,75 11,15
# IN DOLLARS
 30 days 0.38 0.31 0.31 0.33 0.28
 60 days or more 0.84 0.77 0.77 0.69 0.57
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.48 0.43 0.43 0.37
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.74 0.83 0.64 0.63 0.52

 Active Interest Rates Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.24 11.56 12.43 15.98 11.69
 Amount traded (total terms) 223 197 218 226 216

 Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 21.67 22.11 23.42 26.49 19.04
 Single-Signature Documents 18.38 19.27 20.25 22.15 14.70
 Mortgage 15.44 15.69 16.12 16.52 14.88
 Pledged 23.10 24.21 25.28 25.10 17.44
 Personal 34.94 35.71 36.61 36.46 29.41
 Credit Cards n/a 34.83 33.03 33.15 30.54

 Current Account Advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 12.88 14.09 15.75 22.56 11.22

 International Interest Rates Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.24 0.25 0.28 0.22
 6 months 0.73 0.74 0.76 0.78 0.44

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.28 0.34 0.27 0.25 0.72
 10 years 2.02 2.16 1.95 1.96 3.43

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 9.40 9.89 10.50 11.00 11.83

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
 the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total REPO Trading Floor Repurchase Agreement Rates
 1 day 9.02 9.05 9.07 9.13 9.08
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.52

 Amount traded in REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 13,589 11,230 13,426 8,454 7,411

 LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 10.92
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 10.98
 9 months 12.39 n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months 12.83 12.89 13.52 14.26 n/o

 NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.59
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.13
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.29
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 3.50

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 806 733 520 378 548

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 Spot Dollar
 Exchange Houses 4.40 4.36 4.35 4.29 4.07
 BCRA Reference 4.40 4.36 4.35 4.29 4.07

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.46 4.41 4.39 4.36 4.09
 ROFEX 1 month 4.43 4.39 4.38 4.33 4.09
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,266 819 930 904 878

 Real (Pesos x Real) 2.37 2.42 2.53 2.33 2.56

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.79 5.76 5.75 5.64 5.88

 Capital Market Apr-12 Mar-12 Feb-12 Dec-11 Apr-11

 MERVAL
 Index 2,416 2,701 2,764 2,488 3,418
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 57 49 51 39 55

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 121.56 113.60 107.73 107.22 100.94
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 89.52 91.43 87.98 81.40 93.88
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.49 96.55 92.56 86.93 91.52
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.14 53.56 54.98 51.96 74.22

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2012 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 586 325 355 469 413
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 369 352 365 409 318

 (1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 19
## 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the public and private non-financial sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informative Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | April 2012 | BCRA | 20
