# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
May 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 5

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Capital Markets | Page 11

 Shares | Page 11

 Public Securities | Page 11

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clearly stated: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was June 13, 2012. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary

• The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed monthly growth of 2.7%, which continued to be driven mainly by the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases and growth in peso loans to the private sector.

• Deposits from the private sector in pesos increased by 2.2%. In particular, growth stood out in demand deposits and fixed-term deposits (especially in the wholesale segment) which showed one of the highest increases in recent years for the month.

• Broad liquidity in local currency of the financial system (sum of cash in banks, demand deposits, repos of financial entities with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, over the total of deposits) grew 0.4 p.p. standing at 38.9%. The increase in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC and balances maintained in passive repo operations for the Central Bank stood out.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 2.3% ($5,880 million) in May, above April's growth although below that observed in recent years during the same month. Thus, the year-over-year rate of change in financing to the private sector stood at 42.9% showing a gradual deceleration. The lines that contributed most to monthly growth in loans to the private sector were overdraft advances and personal loans.

• Short-term passive interest rates continued to decline, both in the segment of $1 million and more as in the segment of less than $1 million. The BADLAR of private banks – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of more than $1 million and 30-35 days term – averaged 11.7%, registering a decline of 0.5 p.p. in the month and accumulating a drop of 7 p.p. compared to the average observed in December. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 11.1% in May and decreased 0.5 p.p. compared to April. Thus, in the first five months of the year it accumulated a decline of 3 p.p..

• The interest rates applied to loans to the private sector also declined in the month. The largest declines were again recorded in rates aimed at financing commercial activities. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate on overdraft advances stood at 21%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. compared to April and accumulating a decline of 5.8 p.p. in the year. Meanwhile, the interest rate on discounted documents to companies averaged 17.5%, decreasing 0.7 p.p. in the month and 8.2 p.p. in the year. Likewise, the interest rate on single-signature documents averaged 17.8% declining 0.6 p.p. in the month and 4.3 p.p. compared to December.
• In the foreign currency segment, the average monthly balance of total deposits decreased 4.1% compared to the average for April, mainly due to the decline in placements by the private sector. It is important to recall that, as a result of the prudential policies implemented in recent years (which restrict debtors who are susceptible to receiving financing in foreign currency to those who have income in that currency), the Argentine financial system possesses a low degree of dollarization and a very reduced level of currency mismatch. In fact, the monthly decline in foreign currency deposits was equivalent to 0.4% of total deposits (in pesos and dollars). In turn, liquidity in this segment remained high and was equivalent to 61% of total dollar deposits.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Graph 2.1
thousands of Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) maintained
millions of $ its year-on-year expansion rate of 28.4% with a monthly
12 (May 2012, on average) growth of 2.7%, driven mainly by the Central Bank's
10 foreign exchange purchases and by loans in pesos to the
8 private sector (see Graph 1).
6
4 In May, all components of M3 showed increases, with the
2 currency in circulation among the public standing out
0 (2.6%; see Graph 2.2). For its part, private sector deposits
Purchases of Private Loans to Other M2 Time Deposits Time Deposits grew 2.2%, in line with what was observed in 2011, while
Foreign Sector* Sector Other and Other public sector deposits showed a larger increase of
Currency Public Privates 3.8%, although seasonally expected due to May tax
M3 payment deadlines.
*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base and loans from the public sector.
Source: BCRA

Graph 2.2 Within private sector deposits, the growth of demand
Monetary Aggregates 3 % account deposits and fixed-term deposits stood out. The
(May 2012, on average) 2.6 demand accounts verified the largest increase in recent
Others Public Sector 2 years and, unlike what happened at other times, in 2012
Private Sector Deposits
1 May's growth exceeded that of April. For its part, fixed-
Deposits at
0 term deposits grew 1.7%, driven mainly by placements
Time
M3 Circulation 2.7% % 2006 2007 in the wholesale segment (see Graph 2.3).
Deposits at 3 2008 2009
Sight 2 2010 2011 2,2
2012 In the foreign currency segment, the average monthly
M2 3% 1 balance of total deposits showed a decrease of 4.1%,
Bills and
0 with reductions observed in public sector placements
Coins
-1 and, mainly, in those of the private sector. It is important
01234567 to recall that, as a result of the prudential policies
thousands of millions of $-2 implemented in recent years (which restrict debtors who
Note: percentages correspond to monthly variation. Private deposits are susceptible to receiving financing in foreign currency
Source: BCRA

Graph 2.3
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector (variations of monthly averages) May - Monthly Average Var.
% % ra, to those that have income in said currency), the
7 42% More than $1 million Argentine financial system has a low degree of do-
4 3.0 larization and very reduced level of currency mismatch.
6 36 In fact, the monthly fall in foreign currency deposits
2 was equivalent to 0.4% of the total deposits (in pesos
5 30 and dollars).
0
4 24 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes
-2 2007 cash in circulation, cancellatory checks and the total
3 18 -4 deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed
2008 in pesos), showed an increase of 2.2%.
2 12 -6
2009
1 6% Less than $1 million Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1
4 2010 3. Bank Liquidity¹
0 0
2 0.6 2011 Bank Liquidity in Pesos
-1 -6 In May, financial institutions allocated the increase
Variation 0 2012
-2 -12 in deposits in pesos to the granting of loans to the
Monthly Variation i.a. (right axis)-2 private sector, and to the strengthening of their liquidity
-3 -18-4 (0.4 p.p. in terms of total deposits in pesos). In particu-
May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12-6 lar, the latter was verified through the increase in hold-
Source: BCRA ings of longer-term assets (LEBAC and NOBAC) and
balances maintained in reverse repo operations with
% of deposits Chart 3.1 the Central Bank. In turn, while the proportion of
(monthly average) current account with respect to total deposits remained
45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity constant, a decrease in cash in banks was observed.
41.7 40.8 In this regard, the reform in the Charter of the Central
39.2 38.6 Bank (March 2012), in which it was established that
40 37.4 36.6 37.5 37.6 38.5 38.9 the integration of the minimum cash regime can only be
36.7 carried out with balances in current accounts at the Cen-
35.0 34.8
35 tral Bank², would have generated more efficient use of
30 17.4 cash. Thus, the liquidity ratio in pesos (sum of cash in
25 banks, deposits in current account, reverse repos of fi-
20 5.7 nancial entities with the Central Bank and holdings of
15 4.1 LEBAC and NOBAC, over the total deposits) of all en-
10 tities was 38.9% (see Chart 3.1).
5 11.8
0 Meanwhile, the minimum cash position ended the
May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 month with a surplus of 0.25% (see Chart 3.2). Both
Source: BCRA public and private banks complied with the requirement
in May.
Chart 3.2
Quarterly Position
Minimum Cash Position in Pesos In the foreign currency segment, liquidity remained
% of deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position high and was equivalent to 61% of total deposits in
3.0 dollars.
2.5
2.0 4. Loans¹
1.5
1.0 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
0.5
0.0 0.25 Chart 4.1
-0.5
-1.0 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
-1.5 (monthly average var.) 70
-2.0 Monthly % Var. 3
-2.5 5 Annual Variation (right axis) 60
Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 4.2 4.2
4 3.7 3.5 50 Loans in pesos to the private sector grew in May by
2.9 3.0 2.3% ($5.880 million), above the growth in April al-
3 40 though below what was observed in recent years during
2.3 the same month (see Chart 4.1). In this way, the year-
2 30 on-year rate of variation of financing to the private
0.8 sector was placed at 42.9% showing a gradual decelera-
1 20 tion. Breaking down the month's growth in the percent-
0 10 age points explained by each of the lines, it is verified
-1 0 that the greater
May-06 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 Source: BCRA
2 In order to avoid possible increases in interest rate volatility, it was temporarily established that financial entities may deduct from the monthly requirement an amount equivalent to cash computed as integration in March 2012. The deduction equals only the portion of cash that, once all other concepts admitted as integration were computed, would have brought the March reserve position to equilibrium. See Com. A 5299.

3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators," loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 5 contribution was made by advances and personal loans (with 0.6 percentage points in both cases), followed by "Other commercial loans" which, favored by specific operations, contributed 0.5 percentage points to monthly growth. Meanwhile, the contribution of documents was not significant, unlike other years when the high demand for liquidity by companies to meet the higher tax payment maturities in May gave an additional boost to this line (see Graph 4.2).

**Graph 4.2**
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (contribution by line to growth in May months)

[Graph showing data from 2005-2012 with components: Advances, Documents, Other commercial financing, Personal loans, Credit cards, Collateral]

Source: BCRA

When comparing the evolution of the daily balance of the main commercial lines, a difference in their trajectories continued to be observed. While that of advances was among the highest in recent years, that of documents was among the lowest.

After a month in which it remained stable, the monthly average balance of advances registered a monthly increase of 4.7% ($1,670 million; see Graph 4.3). Meanwhile, the average balance of financing implemented through documents was at a level similar to the previous month, registering a variation of 0.2% ($120 million; see Graph 4.4). Part of the explanation for the greater preference by debtors for advances to the detriment of documents can be found in the narrow interest rate differential presented by both types of financing since October of last year. Additionally, it should be noted that, in a context of high company liquidity, the increases recorded in the month in both lines were among the lowest in recent years.

**Graph 4.3**
Advances in Pesos from the Private Sector
thousands of millions $
(daily balance evolution - index 31-Dec-11) | Monthly var. of avg. monthly %

[Graph showing data from 2006-2012 with 4.7% highlighted]

Source: BCRA

On the other hand, regarding consumer loans, it should be mentioned that in the first months of the year a relaxation in credit conditions for personal loans began to be observed, in particular, an extension in the terms of loans granted and a decrease in the interest rate charged for these operations. Thus, the weighted average term by amount stood in May at 41.2 months, compared to

**Graph 4.4**
Documents in Pesos from the Private Sector
thousands of millions $
millions $ (evolution of daily balance - index 31-Dec-11) at 37.9 months in January, while the interest rate
59 Monthly Var.
 2012 %
58 2011 5 of monthly average weighted average rate by amount was 34.7% in May, almost
 2010 2 p.p. less compared to the maximum reached in February
57 2009
 2008 4 (see Interest Rates Section Active). In this context,
56 2007
 2006 in what has gone by so far this year personal loans began
55 3

54 to increase their monthly expansion rate, after
 2 the deceleration at the end of 2011, and in May they presented
53

52 1 an increase of 2.5% ($1,560 million). For their part,
51 0.2 credit card financing showed
 0 a decline in its expansion rate. Indeed, the increase
50 recorded in the last month was one of the lowest of
49 -1 the year (0.9%; $400 million).
 31-Dec 31-Jan 29-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-MayMayNote: balance corrected by reclassification of Single Signature Documents to Other loans from 30-Mar-12
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 6 Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgage loans
 grew on average 2% ($580 million; see
 Chart 4.5), favored by a specific operation
 at the end of April. For their part, pledge credits reduced
 their monthly growth rate. The increase registered
 in May was 1.2% ($210 million), an increase
 that is below the high levels of

 Chart 4.5 growth evidenced in 2011 (around 4.8%
 % Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % monthly).
 5 (monthly and year-on-year variation) 50
 
 4 Monthly Variation 40
 Y-o-y Var. (right axis)
 Annual average monthly var.
 3 30 The BCRA continued auctioning funds within the framework of the
 2.6
 2.1 2.0 Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB),
 2 20 aimed at promoting the growth of credit destined for
 productive activity. In May $87.7 million were
 1 1.2 10 allocated, with six entities being awarded the funds:
 0.2
 0 0 the Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires ($50 million),
 the New Bank of Santa Fe ($18.6 million), HSBC
 -1 -10 ($6 million), Francés ($10 million) and BICE ($3.1 mi-
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 llion). Thus, the total awarded since the beginning
 Source: BCRA of the PFPB amounted to $4,510 million, of which
 $2,932 million had been disbursed by May (see
 Chart 4.6).

 Loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
 primarily to the export sector, began to
 show a gradual deceleration from mid-
 2011. In May they again registered a decline (of 2.7%,
 Chart 4.6 US$ 260 million) and a decrease in their year-on-year
 Bicentennial Advances variation (it decreased compared to April by 4 p.p. and
 millions of $ (accumulated monthly amounts) % reached 6.9%). This deceleration occurred in a context of
 5,000 70 decline in foreign currency deposits and increase in
 Awarded Amounts 4,510 interest rates charged, which went from levels close to
 4,500
 Disbursed Amounts 60 3% to 5% in the case of single signature documents,
 4,000
 Ratio Disbursed/Awarded 50 which represent 85% of the average balance
 3,500
 3,000 2,932 total in the foreign currency segment.
 40
 2,500
 2,000 30

 1,500 20 5. Interest Rates 4

 1,000
 10
 500 Securities Issued by the Central Bank5

 0 0
 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12
 Source: BCRA In a month in which the Central Bank was a net buyer
 of foreign currency, it continued absorbing liquidity surpluses
 through the net placement of securities in the
 primary market. As in previous months, most of the amount
 awarded in May was LEBAC, where placements at terms greater
 than 180 days prevailed (see Chart 5.1). In this context, the average
 maturity of LEBAC awards remained around 10 months. The LEBAC
 stock amounted to $59,500 million, 10.3% higher than the level
4 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
5 In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 7 registered in April. In the case of NOBACs, the amount placed once again fell below the balance that matured, so the stock was reduced by 8.8%, to $27,300 million (see Chart 5.2). Thus, the stock in circulation of LEBACs and NOBACs was placed at $86,700 million and was 3.5% higher than the level registered in the previous month. The increase in holdings by banks and Investment Mutual Funds contributed the majority of the monthly growth.

Chart 5.1
Amount Awarded of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market

Billions of $ Months
16 14
More than 360 days
14 From 271 to 360 days 12 The interest rates of LEBAC and
From 181 to 270 days
From 91 to 180 days NOBAC auctions in the primary market remained
12 Up to 90 days 10
Average maturity stable in May. With respect to LEBACs, shorter-term
10
8 species continued to be auctioned at a 8
predetermined cut rate registering values similar to
6 6 those in April. On the other hand, the margins paid
4 4 over the BADLAR interest rate of private banks
continued at negative values, reducing slightly,
2 2 mainly towards the end of the month in a context
where spot rates in the money market continued
0 0
May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 falling, although at a slower pace, and BADLAR
futures contracts of private banks remained
Source: BCRA relatively stable.

Following the trend registered months ago, the amount traded in the secondary market for securities grew in May, reaching $880 million. Again, in line with what happened in the primary market, operations with LEBACs concentrated the largest volume. Operations with species between 90 and 270 days maturity stood out. LEBAC interest rates grew slightly during the month, mainly in the middle section of the yield curve. In the shorter terms the rates were again at levels similar to those in March. In NOBACs the traded volume continued to be low, reaching $120 million.

Chart 5.2

Central Bank Repo Operations¹
Billions of $ Billions of $
9 60
More than 24 months
8 24 months 50
7 Between 18 and 24 months
18 months The Central Bank repo corridor remained
From 12 to 18 months
6 40
6 From 6 to 12 months unchanged. Passive repo rates were located at
5 30 9% and 9.5% for operations at 1 and 7 days,
Less than 6 months
4 Stock (right axis) while active repo rates continued at 11% and
20
Amount to mature 11.5% for the same terms.
3
2 10
In May, a context of high liquidity levels
1 0 continued to prevail for financial institutions
0 that, once again, allocated a good part of it to
May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 repo operations with the Central Bank. The
Source: BCRA monthly average stock of passive repos for the
Central Bank, including the total of operations in
which this Institution participates, grew 15.5%
compared to April, standing at $28,100 million.

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 8 Interbank Markets¹

Chart 5.3
# Interbank Market and Repo Operations with the BCRA

In May, interbank market interest rates remained stable. In the guaranteed market (repo round), the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities remained at 9.3%. On the other hand, in the unsecured market (call) the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day was located at 9.2%, slightly below the repo rate (see Chart 5.3). Although the call market does not have guarantees, this difference occurred mainly as a consequence of an increase in net funding of foreign entities with resources from non-bank financial entities, which cannot access the repo round (see Chart 5.4).

Throughout the month, the amounts traded in the interbank market remained at the same levels as the previous month, standing at $2,500 million. In the repo round, the daily average of the amount traded was $1,300 million and in the call segment it was located at $1,200 million.

## Passive Interest Rates

As in recent months, in May, the short-term interest rates paid by private entities continued declining, both in the wholesale segment ($1 million and more) and in the retail segment (less than $1 million).

The BADLAR rate of private banks – deposits for periods of more than $1 million and 30-35 days maturity – averaged 11.7%, registering a decline of 0.5 p.p. in the month and accumulating a fall of 7 p.p. with respect to the average observed in December (see Chart 5.5). When analyzing the decrease by type of depositor, it is observed that the rate applied to the public sector averaged 11.3%, after declining 0.7 p.p. with respect to the April average. Meanwhile, the rates paid to individuals and businesses decreased 0.5 p.p., and were located at 12.3% and 11.6% respectively. In this way, the interest rate applied to businesses accumulated, in the first five months of the year, a decline of 7.6 p.p., followed by the rate paid to financial services companies, which averaged 12.3% (0.4 p.p. below April) and decreased 7 p.p. with respect to December, and that paid to individuals, which totals a decline of 6 p.p. in what has elapsed of 2012 (see Chart 5.6).

Regarding the BADLAR futures market, in May a larger amount traded was recorded in comparison to the previous month and, again, concentrated almost entirely in instruments of up to 3 months maturity. For its part, the interest rates remained stable for the different maturities traded. In effect,
Financial Services Companies
 Total General Amount Operated per Depositor Interest Rates of Contracts with Maturity at
 22 (monthly average)

 100% end of June 2012 were positioned around 12.6%, a
 20 80% level similar to that of contracts with the same maturity

 18 60% operated in April.

 40%

 16 20%

 0% Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid
 14 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12
 by private banks for their fixed-term deposits
 12 (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 11.1% in

 10 May and decreased 0.5 p.p. in the month. Thus, in

 8 the first five months of the year it accumulated a decline of

 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-123 p.p..
 Source: BCRA
 Active Interest Rates 1 6

 In general, the interest rates applied to loans to the private
 Chart 5.7 sector declined in the month.

 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities
 (monthly average) The largest declines were again recorded in the rates

 TNA, % Total Advances in CC
 32 p.p Monthly and Accumulated Variation
 Discounted Documents intended to finance commercial activities. In
 Single-Signature Documents -1 -0.4 -0.7 -0.5 -0.6
 28 Advances in current account for more than $10 M - up to particular, the monthly average of the interest rate on
 7 days
 -3 overdraft advances was placed at 21%, decreasing
 24
 0.5 p.p. compared to April and accumulating a decline of
 -5 -4.3
 20 5.8 p.p. in the year. Meanwhile, the corresponding rate
 -5.8
 -7 for advances in current account for more than $10 million
 16
 and up to 7 days term, averaged 12.5% in May,
 -9 -8.2
 Accumulated variation decreasing 0.4 p.p. in the month and accumulating a reduction
 12 Monthly variation
 -10.0
 -11 of 10 p.p. since December. For its part, the interest rate
 8 Advances DD Advances Doc. Single-Signature
 May-08 Feb-09 Nov-09 Aug-10 May-11 Feb-12(more $10 current account - 7 days) on discounted documents for companies
 Source: BCRA M averaged 17.5%, decreasing 0.7 p.p. in the month and 8.2
 p.p. in the year. Likewise, the interest rate on single-
 signature documents averaged 17.8%, declining 0.6
 Chart 5.8 p.p. in the month and 4.3 p.p. compared to December. Although
 Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those intended for Consumption
 the interest rates of the commercial lines mentioned
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % were those that accumulated the largest declines in what
 Pledged Mortgages to families Personal Credit Cards
 38 has occurred in 2012, it should be noted that they were also
 34 the ones that experienced sharper increases during the
 30 last months of 2011 (see Chart 5.7).
 26

 22 For its part, the interest rates applied to loans with
 real guarantee continued with the downward trend: the
 18 interest rate on mortgage loans intended for families
 averaged 15%, decreasing 0.1 p.p. in the month and 1.2
 14 p.p. in the year, while in the case of loans with pledge
 10 guarantee the
 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12
 Source: BCRA

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses
or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 10 Chart 6.1 interest rate was placed at 22.8%, showing a monthly decline

 BCRA International Reserves of 0.3 p.p. and 2.3 p.p. in the year.
 thousands of
 millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

 55 Finally, among loans intended to finance consumption,
 May-12
 the interest rate applied to personal loans averaged
 52
 34.7%, decreasing 0.3 p.p. in the month and 1.7 p.p. in
 49 the year. For its part, according to the latest available
 46 data, from April, the interest rate corresponding to
 financing via credit cards showed a slight decline of 0.2
 p.p. in the month, averaging
43 34.9% (Chart 5.8).

 40
 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-126. International Reserves and
 Source: BCRA
 Foreign Exchange Market7

 International reserves totaled US$46.978 billion on the last day of
 May (see Chart 6.1). During the month, purchases of foreign currency
 Chart 6.2 by the Central Bank in the Único y Libre de Cambios Market (MULC)
 totaled US$1.397 billion. The increase in international reserves
 Foreign Exchange Market generated by these operations was more than offset by other
 (average quotations) factors: public debt payments in foreign currency, the decrease
 $/Euro $/Real $/US$ in current accounts in foreign currency of financial entities at
 6.0 3.3 4.8 the Central Bank, and changes in quotations of other currencies
 $/Euro with respect to the US dollar.
 5.9 3.2 4.7
 $/US$ (Reference)
 5.8 $/Real, right axis 3.1 4.6
 5.7 3.0 4.5 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect
 5.6 2.9 4.4 to the US dollar (see Chart 6.2). The average quotation for the
 5.5 2.8 4.3 month increased 1.2% and stood at 4.45 $/US$. With respect to
 5.4 2.7 4.2 the real and the euro, the peso appreciated and its quotation
 5.3 2.6 4.1 decreased 5.4% and 1.8% respectively, reaching levels of 2.24
 5.2 2.5 4.0 $/Real and 5.69 $/Euro for each case. In the futures market
 5.1 2.4 3.9 (ROFEX), there was a reduction in the volume traded that resulted
 5.0 2.3 3.8 in a decrease in the amount traded (which averaged $1.159 billion
 4.9 2.2 3.7 for the month). In turn, the contracts showed an upward revision
 4.8 2.1 3.6 of the quotations expected for the coming months.
 4.7 2.0 3.5
 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11
 Source: BCRA
 7. Capital Market7

 Chart 7.1 Stocks
 World Stock Indices
 120 (In dollars; Base index 31/05/11=100)

 110 The situation of financial markets in Europe continued to deterior-
 ate, putting pressure on the performance of markets globally. Through-
 100 out the month, concerns intensified regarding the context facing
 Greece (which is experiencing difficulties forming a coalition gov-
 90 ernment and speculation is increasing about a possible default and
 MSCI- World exit from the euro) and Spain (which drew the attention of investors
 80 MSCI-Europe due to its economic vulnerability and doubts about the solvency of
 MSCI- Latam (right axis)
 70 S&P 500 its banks). In this context, an increase in expected volatility was
 MSCI- Emerging (right axis) observed and investment portfolios were rebalanced toward assets
 considered safer. US Treasury bonds (treasuries) and German Treas-
 60
 ury bonds cut their yields while the US dollar strengthened.
 50

 40 The S&P 500 (the main index of the US market), which had been
 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 the best-performing market relative to the rest of the year, was not
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data exempt from the global trend and fell back 9% during the month.
 The MSCI Europe index expanded the losses recorded in April and
7 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless another specification is indicated.
 was reduced 14.3%, (see Chart 7.1). Along with the worst stock
 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 11 market performance, there was an increase in risk indicators (see
 Chart 7.2 Chart 7.2). The expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured
 Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the US and Eurozone through the VIX index, increased 3.5 p.p. to an average of 21.1%.
 % (VIX and VStoxx Index)
 60

 50

 40

 30

 20

 10 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 0
 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 Chart 7.3
 Emerging Countries Currency
 115 (with respect to dollar; Base index 03/01/12= 100)
Brazil Mexico Likewise, the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50
 110 Chile Peru

 Colombia Turkey (Reference index of the eurozone stock exchange)

 South Africa India
 increased 4.1 p.p to a monthly average of 30.9%.
 105 Indonesia Taiwan

 South Korea

 100 In line with the behavior registered in the

 95 markets of developed economies, emerging market
 equities, measured through the MSCI index,

 90 ended the month with a loss of 11.7%. In this
 context, the MSCI Latin America fell 13.5%,
 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg driven by the drop in quotations in local currency
 and the strengthening of the dollar (see Chart 7.3). The
 Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark of the region, measured in
 dollars, declined 16.8%, following a drop of 11.8% in the
 index in local currency and a depreciation of the Brazilian
 real of 6%. The IPC (Mexico) registered a drop of
 Chart 7.4 13.1% driven by the devaluation of 10.5% in the

 Sovereign Bonds of Euro Countries Mexican peso, while the IGPA (Chile) lost
 Y.T.M (%) (bonds at 10 years; 7-day moving average) Y.T.M (%)
 16 40 10.9%, as a consequence of a drop of 5.1% in the

 Germany
 14 Italy 35 index in local currency and a depreciation of the
 Spain Chilean peso of 6.5% against the dollar.
 12 Portugal 30

 Ireland
 10 Greece (right axis) 25
 The quotation of Argentine equities decoupled
 8 20
 in part from the general holding and fell 1.9%, 11.6 p.p
 6 15 less than the regional average. Within the

 4 10 MERVAL, the drop recorded in the quotation of the

 2 5 telecommunications and electrical energy sectors had
 a negative impact, a trend that was partly offset by
 0 0 the increase in the iron and steel and oil sectors.
 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 12 The average daily volume traded in shares
 Chart 7.5 during May at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange

 Sovereign Risk Indicators Emerging Countries was $42 million, a decrease of 24.5% compared to the level
 Spread in b.p Spread in b.p recorded in the previous month.
 550 1300

 500 1200

 1100 Public Securities

 450 1000

 400 900 In May, United States Treasury bonds (treasuries) and

 350 800 German Treasury bonds were favored by the flight to quality and reduced their yields
 700 by 35 b.p. and 47 b.p. respectively (in the segment
 300
 EMBI+ 600 of 10-year bonds, in both cases). In Europe the risk
 250 EMBI+ Latin America
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500 spreads of Spain, Italy, Greece, Ireland and
 200 400 Portugal rose again. In the case of Spain, the yield
 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg of 10-year sovereign bonds expanded
 80 b.p. reaching 6.5% (see Chart 7.4). In emerging
 economies, the risk spreads over American Treasury
 bonds increased by 62 b.p..
 Chart 7.6
 Corporate Bond Issuance In this context, the risk spreads of Argentine
 In Billions of $ bonds in dollars at long term with foreign law
 3.0 Financial Entities
 Other Financial, Stock Exchange and Insurance Activities
 over American Treasury bonds, according to the
 2.5 Others
 Total Placed EMBI+, grew 275 b.p. placing itself at 1,240 b.p. (see

 2.0 Chart 7.5) as a consequence of the increase in
 yields paid by the Discount, Par and Global
 1.5 2017. Likewise, the yields of sovereign bonds
 in dollars benchmark, Boden 2015 and Bonar 2017,
 1.0 expanded by 640 b.p. in international markets.
 The performance of the fixed income market occurred in a
 0.5 context where the average daily volume traded of public
 securities grew 11% to $2,518 million.
 0.0
 May-08 Sep-08 Jan-09 May-09 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12
 Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg Private Securities
Despite the deterioration in the international financial context, in May corporate financing in the capital market through the issuance of Negotiable Obligations (ON) stood at $1,400 million, which represented a strong advance compared to the previous month and to the average registered in the first four months of the year.

Most of the issuances were carried out in local currency and will accrue a variable interest rate.

Taking advantage of the context of abundant local liquidity and low placement rates in pesos, financial entities were the main issuers of the month with a placement amount of $800 million. Thus, so far in 2012 they accumulate issuances of $1,951 million. Since 2011 financial entities have turned to the capital market with greater impetus in order to diversify their funding sources, either through financial trusts or also through the issuance of negotiable obligations (see Graph 7.6).

As in April, SME companies again turned to the capital market, which raised $196 million in May and total a record of $383 million so far in 2012.

In May, the cost of financing in local currency continued to decrease, although at a slower pace than in previous months. The cut rate of ONs in pesos with a rating superior to "arg A" at a variable rate corresponding to the BADLAR of private banks plus a margin and maturity of less than 2 years fell 40 b.p. (see Graph 7.7).

## Mutual Investment Funds

In May, agents continued to allocate part of their income surpluses in the capital market through investment in Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs). The patrimony of FCIs in pesos and foreign currency reached $38,980 million, 6.6% above the level recorded in April (see Graph 7.8).

Money Market funds in pesos drove monthly growth, registering an increase of 11.8% ($1,470 million) compared to April. In second place, fixed income FCIs continued to show good performance and expanded 5% ($810 million). Although to a lesser extent, funds that invest in mixed income assets contributed positively to the segment's performance and expanded 5.5% ($230 million). Meanwhile, variable income funds remained unchanged throughout the month (see Graph 7.9).

The patrimony of FCIs in foreign currency decreased 4.9% reaching US$510 million as a consequence of the behavior recorded in fixed income and variable income funds in dollars.

## Financial Trusts⁸

The issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled $2,500 million in May, of which US$231 million ($1,028 million) corresponded to an FF intended to finance infrastructure works in the energy sector. In particular, it was the third issuance

⁸ Only trusts with public offering are considered.
# Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 14

Nucleoeléctrica Argentina S.A. (NASA), which has the purpose of financing the start-up of the Atucha II Nuclear Power Plant.

## Graph 7.10
## Financial Trust Emissions
millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)

Excluding emissions linked to the financing of infrastructure works, the amount issued in May ($1,472 million) was among the highest since records began, being surpassed only by the total issued in December of last year (see Graph 7.10). Compared to the previous month it represented an increase of 27%, which is explained by the greater number of operations registered in the month: in May 22 FF were placed, compared to 16 the previous month.

Regarding the fiduciants, and excluding once again the infrastructure FF, retail commerce stood out again. In May they issued a record amount close to $700 million (44% more than the previous month; see Graph 7.11), corresponding entirely to personal loan securitizations. For their part, mutuals, cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers, which in addition to consumer loans securitized pledge credits, placed $427 million, registering a significant increase in the volume of securitized assets (66% more than in April). Meanwhile, financial entities issued $335 million, showing a decrease of 17% compared to the previous month. The remainder corresponded to other fiduciants linked to the agricultural sector that securitized commercial credits.

## Graph 7.11
millions $ Fiduciants
(excludes fiduciants linked to infrastructure FF)
- Retail Commerce
- Mutuals, coop., non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers
- Financial Entities
- Others

The interest rates of senior titles in pesos showed some increase in the month (see Graph 7.12). In effect, the cut-off rate (average weighted by amount) of titles awarded at variable rate, excluding infrastructure FF which usually have a longer average term (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount), was located at 13.5%, 0.4 p.p. more than in April. Meanwhile, the one corresponding to fixed rate titles, the modality under which a single operation was recorded, went from 13.3% in April to 14% in May. For its part, the FF of the energy sector was placed with a differential margin of 5 p.p. over LIBOR.

## Graph 7.12
## Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos
TNA; % (monthly average weighted by amount)
- Fixed rate
- Variable rate
- BADLAR rate private banks

Finally, according to the latest available information, corresponding to April, regarding the nominal value of FF with public offering in circulation, this was located at approximately $37,900 million, registering a slight increase compared to the previous month.

---

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations Average
Main monetary and financial system variables May-12 | Monthly | Last 12 months
Apr-12 | Dec-11 | May-11
| Nominal | Real | Nominal | Real
Monetary base 223.779 220.604 210.100 171.485 1.4% 0.6% 30.5% 18.7%
 Monetary circulation 172.401 170.731 165.181 131.576 1.0% 0.2% 31.0% 19.2%
 Bills and Coins in possession of the public 154.320 150.415 144.288 116.304 2.6% 1.8% 32.7% 20.7%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 18.078 20.313 20.891 15.269 -11.0% -11.7% 18.4% 7.7%
 Settlement Checks 2 3 2 0 -34.4% -34.9% - -
 Current account at the BCRA 51.378 49.873 44.919 39.909 3.0% 2.2% 28.7% 17.1%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 28.111 24.335 12.071 13.645 15.5% 14.6% 106.0% 87.5%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 55.802 49.703 22.782 32.721 12.3% 11.4% 70.5% 55.2%

 NOBAC 28.974 30.744 44.889 54.676 -5.8% -6.5% -47.0% -51.8%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 47.436 47.462 45.983 51.987 -0.1% -8.8%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 434.440 423.048 382.886 342.206 2.7% 1.9% 27.0% 15.5%
 Current account (2) 120.814 114.529 106.893 98.915 5.5% 4.6% 22.1% 11.1%
 Savings account 79.233 79.036 73.673 61.970 0.2% -0.6% 27.9% 16.3%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER 216.897 212.398 185.534 166.502 2.1% 1.3% 30.3% 18.5%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER 9 9 10 10 -2.9% -3.6% -12.3% -20.2%
 Other deposits (3) 17.487 17.077 16.776 14.808 2.4% 1.6% 18.1% 7.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 301.113 294.597 262.112 229.014 2.2% 1.4% 31.5% 19.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 133.327 128.452 120.774 113.192 3.8% 3.0% 17.8% 7.2%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 12.575 13.115 13.158 15.855 -4.1% -20.7%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 293.497 287.470 268.587 206.446 2.1% 1.3% 42.2% 29.4%

 Loans to the private sector 263.753 258.112 241.211 184.611 2.2% 1.4% 42.9% 30.0%
 Advances 36.970 35.296 30.930 25.525 4.7% 3.9% 44.8% 31.8%
 Documents 50.404 50.283 51.144 39.057 0.2% -0.6% 29.1% 17.4%
 Mortgage loans 29.471 28.936 26.835 21.474 1.8% 1.0% 37.2% 24.9%
 Pledge loans 17.778 17.570 16.397 11.914 1.2% 0.4% 49.2% 35.8%
 Personal loans 63.865 62.547 58.115 45.824 2.1% 1.3% 39.4% 26.8%
 Credit cards 44.206 43.801 39.942 29.619 0.9% 0.1% 49.3% 35.8%
 Others 21.060 19.678 17.847 11.198 7.0% 6.2% 88.1% 71.1%

 Loans to the public sector 29.743 29.358 27.377 21.835 1.3% 0.5% 36.2% 24.0%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9.214 9.490 9.607 8.700 -2.9% 5.9%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + settlement checks in pesos + current account 275.137 264.948 251.183 215.223 3.8% 3.0% 27.8% 16.3%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 354.370 343.983 324.857 277.193 3.0% 2.2% 27.8% 16.3%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + settlement checks in pesos + 588.763 573.467 527.177 458.513 2.7% 1.8% 28.4% 16.8%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency) 644.711 631.136 583.612 523.292 2.2% 1.3% 23.2% 12.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + settlement checks in pesos + private current 240.167 232.358 218.627 184.340 3.4% 2.5% 30.3% 18.6%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 313.563 305.672 288.231 240.675 2.6% 1.8% 30.3% 18.6%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + settlement checks in pesos + 455.436 445.015 406.402 345.321 2.3% 1.5% 31.9% 20.0%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency) 506.741 497.381 458.029 397.188 1.9% 1.1% 27.6% 16.1%

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONETARY BASE

Monetary base 3.175 1.4% 15.934 7.1% 13.679 6.1% 52.294 23.4%
 Financial sector -3.295 -1.5% 330 0.1% -14.600 -6.5% -11.198 -5.0%
 Public sector 1.416 0.6% 203 0.1% 7.051 3.2% 28.344 12.7%
 Private external sector 6.806 3.0% 18.847 8.4% 32.388 14.5% 21.270 9.5%
 BCRA securities -1.912 -0.9% -3.299 -1.5% -10.651 -4.8% 15.449 6.9%
 Others 159 0.1% -147 -0.1% -509 -0.2% -1.571 -0.7%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -27 -0.1% 625 1.3% 1.453 3.1% -4.551 -9.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.539 3.2% 4.296 9.1% 7.439 15.7% 4.810 10.1%
 Payment to international organizations -82 -0.2% -180 -0.4% -35 -0.1% 424 0.9%
 Other public sector operations 935 2.0% 264 0.6% -1.562 -3.3% -1.135 -2.4%
 Minimum cash -367 -0.8% -326 -0.7% 48 0.1% -4.747 -10.0%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -2.052 -4.3% -3.430 -7.2% -4.437 -9.4% -3.903 -8.2%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.5 11.5 15.7
 Integration 11.7 11.7 16.0
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 53.9 55.6 55.3
 30 to 59 days 23.0 23.4 23.7
 60 to 89 days 14.2 11.3 11.1
 90 to 179 days 6.6 7.0 6.7
 more than 180 days 2.3 2.6 3.2
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21.0 21.1 21.4
 Integration (includes resource application default) 52.5 53.0 60.3
 Position (2) 31.5 31.9 38.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.2 55.5 57.3
 30 to 59 days 22.8 22.9 22.8
 60 to 89 days 10.6 9.9 8.9
 90 to 179 days 10.0 10.3 9.6
 180 to 365 days 1.4 1.3 1.3
 more than 365 days 0.0 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.30 9.42 9.70 9.99 9.54
 Amount traded 1.184 1.179 1.241 1.126 838

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 11.32 11.66 12.08 14.74 9.74
 60 days or more 11.89 11.95 12.64 16.50 10.84
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.08 11.45 11.12 14.76 10.13
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.71 12.18 12.87 18.75 11.19

 In dollars
 30 days 0.38 0.38 0.31 0.33 0.29
 60 days or more 0.84 0.84 0.77 0.69 0.59
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.53 0.48 0.43 0.41
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.62 0.74 0.83 0.63 0.55

 Active Interest Rates May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 11.41 11.24 11.56 15.98 12.28
 Amount traded (total terms) 236 223 197 226 229

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances in current account 21.15 21.67 22.11 26.49 18.89
 Documents on sole signature 17.81 18.38 19.27 22.15 15.53
 Mortgages 15.10 15.44 15.69 16.52 14.36
 Pledge loans 22.78 23.10 24.21 25.10 17.94
 Personal loans 34.71 35.02 35.71 36.46 29.47
 Credit cards n/d n/d 35.14 33.15 30.45

 Advances in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 12.49 12.88 14.09 22.56 11.21

 International Interest Rates May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

LIBOR
 1 month 0.24 0.24 0.24 0.28 0.20
 6 months 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.78 0.41
US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.27 0.28 0.34 0.25 0.54
 10 years 1.78 2.02 2.16 1.96 3.16

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.95 9.40 9.89 11.00 12.00

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the SISCEN 08 monthly information requirement, whereas from July 2010 onwards correspond to the SISCEN 18 daily information requirement.

 Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.03 9.02 9.05 9.13 9.15
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.51

Amount traded in REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 14,288 13,589 11,230 8,454 8,064

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months 11.10 n/o n/o n/o 10.87
 3 months 11.80 n/o n/o n/o 11.03
 9 months 12.40 12.39 n/o n/o 12.00
 12 months n/o 12.83 12.89 14.26 n/o

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.76
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 2.14
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 3.23

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 878 806 733 378 628

 Foreign Exchange Market May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.45 4.40 4.36 4.29 4.08
 Retail 4.46 4.41 4.37 4.29 4.09

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.61 4.46 4.41 4.36 4.11
 ROFEX 1 month 4.50 4.43 4.39 4.33 4.11
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 1,159 1,266 819 904 924

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.24 2.37 2.42 2.33 2.53

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 5.69 5.79 5.76 5.64 5.86

 Capital Market May-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Dec-11 May-11

MERVAL
 Index 2,255 2,416 2,701 2,488 3,343
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 46 57 49 39 44

Government Bonds (at par value)
 BODEN 2012 (US$) 128.59 121.56 113.60 107.22 103.80
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 86.15 89.52 91.43 81.40 94.00
 BODEN 2014 ($) 92.38 93.49 96.55 86.93 90.47
 DISCOUNT ($) 47.52 50.14 53.56 51.96 70.07

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2012 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,014 586 325 469 472
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 406 369 352 409 340

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 19
## 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Price Index of Shares.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**BP:** Basis Points.

**pp:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | May 2012 | BCRA | 20
