# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
September 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 6

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 11

 Shares | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 14

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

9. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on October 12, 2012. All figures are provisional and
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• During the month of September, M3 and private M3 increased 2.1%. The monthly increase was driven by time deposits which showed a significant acceleration in their growth rate. Fixed-term deposits from the private sector accumulated an increase of 4.1% in the month, which was explained by both deposits from the wholesale stratum (of $1 million and more; 4.4%) and placements of less than $1 million (3.7%). In year-on-year terms, time deposits reached growth close to 50%.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 3.4% ($10,150 million). With this dynamic, credit again became the main factor explaining the growth of monetary aggregates. During September, the main increases were observed in financing instruments through securities and in personal loans. The year-on-year rate of change of loans in pesos to the private sector stood at 39.8%.

• The banking liquidity ratio for the peso segment (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase operations, and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, in terms of total peso deposits) decreased 0.3 percentage points compared to August, standing at 35.5%.

• The Central Bank arranged the readjustment of the Minimum Cash regulations. The new regulations address different objectives contained in the Organic Charter, fundamentally, the direction of credit through reserve requirements, the establishment of differential policies aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and regional economies, the promotion of geographic coverage of the system and the attention of areas with lower economic potential and lower population density.

• In the month of September, the main interest rates paid by private financial entities increased 0.3 percentage points. Thus, the BADLAR rate – the interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged 14.3%, while the interest rate paid by the same group of banks for their fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand and for 35 days maturity averaged 12.3%.
• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed dissimilar behaviors. Among the rates intended to finance commercial activities, monthly increases were observed with the exception of that applied to single-signature documents, which decreased 0.6 p.p., placing itself at 17.9%. This line includes a large part of loans corresponding to the "Credit Line for Productive Investment" and those granted within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program. For its part, the interest rates on discounted documents and current account advances increased 0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month, while those on personal and chattel mortgage loans remained relatively stable.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Monetary Aggregates
 % (variation of monthly averages) %
 6 60 In September, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M32)
 Monthly variation of M3 presented an increase of 2.1% reaching an average balance
 5 Year-on-year variation of fixed-rate deposits of private sector (right axis) 50
 of $665,400 million. This increase was driven by
 4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40 fixed-rate placements that showed an important accel-
eration in their growth rate.
 3 30

 2 20 Thus, over the last twelve months, M3 increased
32.6%, exceeding the August figure (see
 1 10 Graph 2.1) by 1.2 p.p.

 0 0

-1 -10 Loans to the private sector were once again the most
important factor in the creation of M3 private (see Graph
-2 -20 2.2). Other factors that favored the increase in this
 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12
 monetary aggregate, although in lesser magnitude, were
Note: M3 includes currency in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA operations of the public sector and foreign currency purchases
by the BCRA. On the other hand, all components of
 private M3 exhibited growth. Among these, the means
 Graph 2.2 of payment (private M2) grew 1.3% in the month
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates
 and accumulated an increase of 33.7% over the last
millions of $ twelve months. But the most notable behavior was
 (September 2012, on average)
 found, as was mentioned, in fixed-rate deposits that
12 continued explaining the greater proportion of the
10 increase in the aggregate.
 Private M3
 8

 6 Fixed-rate deposits of the private sector continued
4 showing high growth rates, which allowed a new ad-
 2 vance in their year-on-year variation rate, which
 0 was placed near 50%. In September, these deposits
 -2 registered an increase of 4.1% ($5,900 million),
 -4 driven both by deposits from the majoritarian stratum
 Foreign Exchange Sector Loans to S. Others M2 Private Private Fixed-Rate Deposits
 Purchases Public* Private and Others (of $1 million and more; 4.4%) as well as deposits
*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
 of less than $1 million (3.7%; see Graph 2.3).
Source: BCRA

 In the foreign currency segment, the average monthly
 Graph 2.3 balance of total deposits decreased 3.1%, with reduc-
 Fixed-Rate Deposits of the Private Sector in Pesos tions observed in placements of the public sector and,
 thousands of thousands of
 millions of $ (daily value and monthly average) millions of $ mainly, in those of the private sector. Although the
80 80 latter continued showing declines throughout Sep-
 10
75 9 More than $1M tember, a certain stabilization was verified in the daily
 Less than $1M 75 rate of decrease. It should be noted that, as a conse-
 8
70 7 quence of the prudential policies implemented in
 6
 5 70 recent years, the Argentine financial system
3 presents a low degree of dollarization and a very reduced
60 2 65
 1 level of currency mismatch, which made it possible to meet
 0
55 Sep-11 Nov-11 Ene-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-1260 the mentioned withdrawal with normality.

50
 More than $1 million
45 Less than $1 million (right axis)55 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes

40 50 currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation
 checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign
Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 currency
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 4 currency (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of
 1.9%.
 3. Bank Liquidity1

 Graph 3.1 When analyzing the segment of items denominated in
 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos * pesos, it is observed that the liquidity of financial entit-
deposits
45 (monthly average) ies in terms of deposits decreased in September.
 Thus, the liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum of
40
 cash in banks, the current account of entities at the
35 Components
 % of 35.5 Central Bank, net repurchase agreements—also with the
 depositsEffectivo CC en BCRA
 40 Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Central Bank—and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC in
30 35
 terms of total deposits in pesos) was 35.5%
 30
25 25 (see Graph 3.1), 0.3 p.p. below the August level.
 20
20 15 The ratio decreased exclusively due to the reduction of
 10
 net repurchase agreements. In turn, it is estimated that
15 5
 the Minimum Cash position would have ended with a
 0 Cash Minimum surplus of 0.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2).
 Sep-11 Nov-11 Ene-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12
10 0 Both public and private banks would have complied
 Ene-07 Jul-07 Ene-08 Jul-08 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs. with the requirements, while the daily evolution of the
Source: BCRA minimum cash position throughout the month respected
 the pattern of the same month in previous years.

 During the month of September and effective as of
 October, the Central Bank arranged the readjustment of
 the Minimum Cash regulations (communication A 5356).
 The new regulations address different objectives con-
 tained in the Organic Charter: it directs credit through
 reserve requirements, establishes differential policies
 for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and re-
 gional economies, promotes the expansion of geograph-
 ic coverage of the system and addresses areas with lower
 economic potential and lower population density to pro-
 mote universal access of users to financial services.
 
 Graph 3.2 The regulatory change includes 3 components: 1) The gra-
 dual elimination, in three stages, of the deduction of
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos "computable cash"3 in the legal reserve requirement.
 % of
 deposits Surplus Daily Position Cumulative Position Starting in October 2012, only 75% of computable
 2.0
 cash may be deducted. Between December 2012 and
 1.5 February 2013 only 25% of computable cash and as of
 1.0 March 2013 there will no longer be deductions for this
 0.5 concept; 2) A gradual decrease, between October and
 0.2 March next, of the Minimum Cash requirement coeffi-
 0.0 cients for sight deposits and fixed-term deposits, which
 -0.5 will be differentiated depending on the area where the
 -1.0 bank branch where the deposit was made is located. In
 -1.5 zone 1 (major urban centers and localities with a higher
 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 degree of development and bank penetration) the reserve
 requirement on sight deposits and
3 "Computable cash" is called the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements in March last and that from April can be deducted from the requirement in pesos.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 5 view will be 2 percentage points lower than current (goes from 19% to 17%), while in the rest of the zones it will be 4 p.p. lower than current (goes from 19% to 15%). For time deposits, the coefficients will be 1 p.p lower than current in zone 1 and 2 p.p. lower in the other zones and; 3) A reduction in the requirement of Minimum Cash based on the participation of credit to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) on the total of loans to the private sector of each entity. For these purposes a scale was designed according to which entities that lend to that sector more than 30% of their portfolio will be able to deduct from the requirement an amount equivalent to 3% of their deposits. This measure will be effective as of next December.

For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity continued to increase, reaching a level of 80.4% in relation to total deposits in dollars, which implies an increase of 4.5 p.p. with respect to August. The increase in the liquidity ratio in the foreign currency segment is associated both with the deceleration in the rate of decline of dollar deposits and with the cancellation of loans in that currency which was accompanied by a transfer of those loans towards financing in local currency.

4. Loans¹ 4

Loans to the private sector showed disparate behavior, according to the type of currency in which they were granted. While loans in pesos continued to grow at relatively high rates compared to those observed in the first part of the year, loans in foreign currency continued to decline. On the other hand, by distinguishing loans to the private sector in pesos by major lines, it is noted from the second part of the year that commercial loans accelerated their expansion rate, growing 21.0 above the lines intended to finance household consumption and loans with real guarantees, which is explained in part by the substitution of financing in foreign currency in favor of the peso segment (see Graph 4.1).

When analyzing loans by economic activity (quarterly information available as of June), a decrease is noted in the foreign currency segment in most productive sectors but fundamentally in primary production and manufacturing industry. These sectors show, in contrast, a significant increase in loans received in pesos. In this way, it can be inferred that part of the financing

Graph 4.1
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(year-over-year var. of monthly averages)
[80, 60, 40, 20, 0, -20 on y-axis]
Commercial loans
Consumer loans
Loans with real guarantees
[Sep-05 through Sep-12 on x-axis]
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.2
Loan to the Productive Sector
(end of month balances)
thousands of millions of u$s | thousands of millions of $
[Shows data for Mar-2012 and Jun-2012]
Primary production | Manufacturing industry | Commerce | Construction | Electricity gas and water | Services
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.3

4 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjustment for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 6
# Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

to primary and manufacturing activity that was previously fi-
millions of $
(monthly average variation) % nanced in foreign currency was replaced by financing
10,500 100
in pesos (see Charts 4.2).
9,000 Sep. vs. Aug.
Var. y-o-y (right axis) 80
7,500

6,000 60.5 59.2 60 Concentrating the analysis on the peso segment, it is ob-

39.8 served that loans to the private sector grew 3.4%
4,500 44.1 40
31.7 31.8 34.6 32.0 ($10,150 million) in the month, moderating its expansion
3,000
20 pace compared to previous months, although they
1,500 remained above the growth observed in the first five
0 0 months of the year (around 2% monthly).

39.8 For its part, the year-over-year variation rate stood at
39.8%, decreasing 2.2 p.p. compared to the previous month.

The main increases were observed in financings instru-
Source: BCRA mented through documents and in personal loans (see
Chart 4.3).

Regarding loans intended to finance commercial activi-
ties, advances presented an increase of 2.8% ($1,260
million), exceeding the growth of previous years for this
Chart 4.4 month (excluding the increase in September 2008 which
Documents in Pesos was exceptionally high). For its part, financings instru-
Advances in Pesos mented through documents presented in September a
to the Private Sector to the Private Sector growth of 5.1% ($3,070 million), the highest in recent
(monthly average variation) (monthly average variation) years after the one recorded in 2011 (see Chart 4.4). The

% % remainder of commercial financings registered an
8 5
increase of 2% ($510 million).
4
7 3 2.8
6 5.1 In the month a new auction was held within the framework
5 2 of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB).
4 1 On this occasion $165 million were auctioned, of which
3 0 $150 million were awarded to the Banco de la Nación
2 -1 Argentina. Thus, the total awarded since the beginning
1 -2 of the program amounts to $5,022 million while the total
0 -3 funds disbursed reaches $3,510 million, approximately
Sep vs. Aug Sep vs. Aug 70% of the total awarded (see Charts 4.5).

2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Source: BCRA Regarding financings intended mainly for consumption,
personal loans accelerated their expansion pace in Sep-
tember with an increase of 3.4% ($2,285 million), the
Chart 4.5 highest since November 2011. For its part, financings
Bicentennial Advances
millions of $ (accumulated monthly amounts) % instrumented with credit cards registered an increase of
6,000 80 3.7% ($1,750 million), similar to that of the previous
Amounts Awarded
5,022 70 month.
5,000 Amounts Disbursed
Disbursed/Awarded Ratio 60 Regarding loans with real collateral, mortgage loans
4,000 50 continued growing in line with what was observed in
3,510
recent months, registering a monthly increase of 2.2%
3,000 40
($685 million). Meanwhile, loans with chattel mortgage
30 collateral registered an increase of 3.1% ($600 million).
2,000
20
1,000 10 On the other hand, loans in foreign currency to the
0 0 private sector, intended fundamentally for export fi-
Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 nancing, continued declining, although at a slower pace
Source: BCRA than in July and August. In September, they showed a

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.1 decline of 6.9% (US$470 million) and accumulated a
LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary and Secondary Market 33.7% decrease in the last 12 months. As mentioned
T.N.A % (amount-weighted average rate) previously, the data indicate a substitution of foreign cur-
17 16.5 rency financing for loans in pesos.
16
14.9
15 13.4 13.8 14.2 14.5
14
13 12.8
12.2
12 Auction of 09-25-12
**Auction of 28-08-12**
 11 Secondary 25-09-12
 Secondary 28-08-12
 10 5. Interest Rates 5

 9 Days

 8 Securities issued by the Central Bank6
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
 Source: BCRA
 In September the interest rates of the Central Bank securities auc-
 tions in the primary market were located at values similar to those
 registered in August. The securities with shorter terms continued
 to be auctioned at predetermined cut-off rates, which were located
 Graph 5.2 at 12.4% and 12.8%, respectively. The interest rate of

 Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market 12-month securities was located at 14.5%, while
 thousands of LEBAC NOBAC thousands of
 millions $ millions $ that of 24-month securities remained at 16.5% (see Graph 5.1).
 16 80 8 More than 24 months 80
 More than 360 days 24 months For its part, as in the previous month, NOBAC rates did not
 271 to 360 days Between 18 and 24 months
 14 181 to 270 days 7 18 months 70 register significant changes in a context where the BADLAR
 91 to 180 days Between 12 and 18 months
 Up to 90 days Between 6 and 12 months
 12 Balance at end of month (right axis) 6 6 months rate of private banks grew slightly.
 60 Less than 6 60
 Maturities Balance at end of month (right axis)
 10 5 Maturities In the primary market, LEBACs again concentrated the
 50 50 largest part of placements, awarding terms longer than those
 8 4
 40 40 of the previous month. In fact, the average maturity of place-
 6 3
 30 30 ments reached 10.5 months compared to 8.6 months recorded
 4 2 in August. For its part, the amount awarded was greater than

 2 20 1 20 maturities, so the stock grew 5.6% reaching $71,259 million.

 0 10 0 10 Meanwhile, in NOBACs, the amount awarded decreased compared
 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12
Source: BCRA to August and was less than the maturing amount, so the stock
 continued to decline to $20,119 million (see Graph 5.2).

 Graph 5.3
 Holdings of Central Bank Securities The stock of Central Bank securities (at nominal value)
 thousands of (monthly variation of average balance)
 millions of $
 8 grew 1.3% and reached $91,378 million. Throughout the
 6 month public and private banks increased their holdings
 4 while the rest of the holders, as a whole, registered
 2 almost neutral variation (see Graph 5.3).
 0

 -2 Others
 The average daily amount traded in the secondary market
 -4 FCIs
 Public Banks reached $670 million. Operations with LEBACs concentrated
 -6 Private Banks 87% of the traded volume, mainly in term brackets of less
 Total Stock
 -8 than 90 days. For its part, the daily amount traded of NOBACs
 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12
Source: BCRA was located at $85 million. Throughout the month LEBAC
 interest rates in the secondary market remained stable, in
5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.4 line with the behavior registered in the primary market.
 Interbank Market
 thousands of (operations for 1 business day) Central Bank Repo Operations1
 millions of $ %
 4.5 12.0
 Amount operated Call The interest rates of passive repos of the Central Bank at
 4.0 Amount operated REPO wheel excluding BCRA 11.5
 Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 1 and 7 days remained at 9% and 9.5%, respectively.
 3.5 Interest rate Call (right axis) 11.0 Meanwhile, the interest rates of active repos continued at
 10.5 11% and 11.5% for the same terms.
 3.0
 10.0
 2.5 Although no active repos were registered, the average stock
 9.5
 2.0 9.0
 1.5
 8.5
 1.0 8.0
 0.5 7.5

 0.0 7.0
Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 monthly average of passive repos in all rounds in the

Source: BCRA
that the institution participates in decreased 6%, positioning itself at
$17,300 million.

Interbank Markets1

During September the rates of the interfinancial market
Chart 5.5 increased slightly. In the guaranteed market (REPO

Interest Rate and Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations round), the average interest rate of operations for

% 1 business day increased 0.15 p.p. and was positioned at 9.7%. Like-
17
Intraday Volatility wise, in the unguaranteed market (call) the interest rate
16 13%

15 Monthly Average of the same segment of operations grew 0.1 p.p.
 11
14 Average ± 1 Std Deviation reaching 9.8% (see Chart 5.4).
 9

13 7

01-Aug 15-Aug 30-Aug 13-Sep 28-Sep
12
11 The volatility of interest rates in the call market
10 remained contained with the average deviation of the
9 interest rates of daily call operations, agreed upon
8 for 1 business day, standing at 0.6 p.p. (see Chart
 5.5).
7
Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12

Source: BCRA The average daily volume traded in the interbank
 market remained stable. In the REPO round the vo-
lume decreased $80 million and was positioned at $2,500 mi-
llion. Meanwhile, in the call segment the amount
grew $80 million and reached $1,480 million. Upon ob-
serving the distribution of the amount traded in the
call market by type of entity (see Chart 5.6), it is verified
Chart 5.6 that domestic private entities turned out to be net

Call Market lenders of funds with an average daily contribution
(net position monthly avg. by entity group) of $306 million, $45 million higher than the balance regis-
millions of $ tered in August, and that financed mainly foreign
500 entities and non-bank financial entities, which turned
400 out to be net borrowers of funds.
300 Public entities also turned out to be net lenders
200 contributing an average of $130 million daily,
100 $70 million more than the previous month, financing
0 mainly domestic private entities and foreign ones.
-100
-200 NFBE
-300 Public
-400 Dom. Priv.
Foreign
-500
Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 9 Passive Interest Rates1

In September, the short-term passive interest rates
paid by private financial entities continued to increase,
although at a slower rate than that registered in recent
months. The aforementioned deceleration was registered
Chart 5.7 mainly in the wholesale segment where the BADLAR
Interest rates for fixed-term deposits up to 35 days in pesos
% ANA (daily data - private banks) private banks showed a monthly increase similar to that registered in the retail segment, which is characterized by
28
BADLAR Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100 thousand presenting more limited variations (see Chart 5.7).
p.p. Monthly Variations
2
24 Thus, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate
0 for deposits of $1 million and more for 30-35 days of
20 Avg. Dec-12 term – averaged 14.3%, registering a monthly increase
-2 18.8
BADLAR of 0.3 p.p..
Up to $100 thousand Avg. Sep-12
16 -3 14.3
Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12
12 For its part, in the BADLAR futures market the
Avg. Sep-12 amount traded decreased, following two months of excep-
12.3 tionally high negotiated amounts. Again, only short-term
8 contracts were traded, with maturities on September 28,
Jun-08 Nov-08 Apr-09 Sep-09 Feb-10 Jul-10 Dec-10 May-11 Oct-11 Mar-12 Aug-12
Source: BCRA 2012. The monthly average of the interest rate of these
contracts was positioned at 14.3%, decreasing 0.3 p.p.
with respect to contracts with the same maturity negotiated in August.
In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 12.3%, registering a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p..

**Graph 5.8 Active Interest Rates¹⁷**

Interest Rates on Loans Financed via Documents (monthly average) Distribution by Term of Amount Operated Similarly to what was observed for passive interest rates, in September increases were evident in

TNA, %
32 Discounted Documents 100% More than 1 year
Demand Documents most of the interest rates applied to loans to the private sector.

75% From 90 to 364 days

28 From 60 to 90 days Among the interest rates intended to finance commercial
50%
From 30 to 60 days activities, increases were observed with the exception of
25% Up to 30 days those applied to demand documents. In fact, the
24
0% monthly average of the interest rate on demand documents
DD Doc. Demand was located at 17.9%, declining 0.6 p.p. in the month (see

20 p.p Interest rate variation Graph 5.8). In this regard, it should be noted that this
1.0 0.3 segment includes a large part of loans corresponding to
-0.5
-2.0 -0.6 the "Credit Line for Productive Investment" and those gran-
16
-3.5 ted under the Productive Bicentenary Financing Program
-5.0 -4.3 (PFPB), which in the last two months gained participation
Monthly Var. in the operated amounts and are granted at longer terms
12 -6.5
-8.0 Accumulated Var. in 2012 and at relatively low rates.
May-08 Jun-09 Jul-10 Aug-11 Sep-12-7.8
Source: BCRA DD Doc. Demand Conversely, the monthly average of the interest rate on
discounted documents registered a monthly increase of
¹⁷ The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation 0.3 p.p., standing, like that corresponding to demand
and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total
financial cost of loans. documents, at 17.9%.

**Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 10 Graph 5.9**

Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities For its part, the interest rate on overdrafts averaged
(monthly average) 21.1%, with a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p., while that corres-
TNA, % ponding to overdrafts to companies of more than $10 mil-
30 Total Overdrafts in CC Monthly and Accumulated Variation lion and up to 7 days of term was located at 13.5%, regis-
p.p tering an increase of 0.3 p.p.. However, when comparing
Overdrafts in current account for more than $10 M -2 these interest rate levels with those observed in December
up to 7 days 27 0.3 0.3
0 2011, there are marked declines, of 5.7 p.p. in the case
24 of total overdrafts in current account and of 9 p.p. for
-2 those of more than $10 million and intended for up to
21 7 days (Graph 5.9).

-4
18 Among the longer-term credit lines, interest rates
-6 -5.7 showed dissimilar behaviors. In particular, among loans
15
with real collateral, a monthly increase of 0.5 p.p. was
-8
12 Accumulated Var. in 2012 verified in the interest rate corresponding to mortgage
Monthly Variation -9.0 loans granted to families,
-10 9 Overdrafts (more $10 M- 7 Overdrafts cc
May-08 Mar-09 Jan-10 Nov-10 Sep-11 Jul-12 days)
Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.10**

Interest Rates on Loans with Real Collateral and those for Consumer Use (monthly average)
TNA, % Monthly and accumulated variations
p.p.
Pledged 1.5
50 0.5 0.1
0.5
Mortgage to families -0.5 -0.1
-1.5 -0.8
42 Personal -2.5
Monthly Var. -2.2
-3.5
Accumulated Var. in 2012
-4.5 -4.1
34 Mortgage Pledged Personal
26 which averaged 15.5%, although this line accumulates a decline of 0.8 p.p. for the year. Meanwhile, the interest rate applied to pledge loans continued with the downward trend of recent months. In September, it averaged 21%, accumulating a decrease of 4.1 p.p. so far this year. On the other hand, in the case of loans intended to finance consumption, the interest rate on personal loans remained stable, registering a monthly increase of only 0.1 p.p., averaging 34.3%. However, it presents a level markedly lower than that observed in December 2011 (-2.2 p.p., see Chart 5.10).

**Factors of Variation in International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market** (September 2012)

International reserves reached a balance of US$45,010 million on the last day of September, after decreasing US$142 million in the month (see Chart 6.1). The fall in international reserves was associated mainly with the use of the account constituted for Payments to International Organizations and with the Argentine Debt Reduction Fund. Part of the outflow linked to public debt payments was offset by foreign exchange purchases by the BCRA in the Single Free Exchange Market (MULC) and through the increase in foreign currency current accounts of banks at the BCRA, in a context of cancellation of foreign currency loans.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the currencies of its main trading partners (US dollar, real, and euro). For the first case, the average quotation was 4.66 $/US$, which implied a monthly variation of 1.3%, equal to that of August. The quotation of the real registered the same variation, and was 2.30 $/real, while that of the euro was 6.01 $/euro (5.1%). In the forward market (ROFEX), the average daily amount traded remained relatively stable in relation to August (-4%). Likewise, a slight decline in expected quotations for the coming months was observed.

**7. Capital Market**

As in the previous month, in September a positive evolution was observed in international financial markets. This performance was linked once again to policy actions taken by the world's main Central Banks with the objective of mitigating the effects of the crisis on macroeconomic variables. Among the most relevant measures, the Federal Reserve of the United States
(The Fed) announced the launch of its Quantitative Easing 3 (QE3) program through which it proposes to acquire US$40,000 million per month of Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities. Unlike the twist operation, this program would imply an increase in the Fed's assets. Likewise, the European Central Bank (ECB) announced the Outright Monetary Transactions Program (OMT) which would imply the purchase, in the secondary market, of short-term sovereign bonds from those countries that have resorted to a financial assistance program and that request the intervention of the entity in the markets. Finally, in a decision that proved surprising for the markets, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) decided to increase its asset purchase program by approximately the equivalent of US$130,000 million.

## Stock Market

During September, a decline in risk perceived by investors was recorded, those that positioned themselves in assets of greater relative risk as a consequence of expectations for increases in liquidity. Thus, equity assets registered widespread gains. The global MSCI expanded 2.5% (see Chart 7.1). The European market, measured through the MSCI index, was the one with the best relative performance within advanced economies and gained 3.2%. Likewise, the S&P 500, the main index of the United States market, verified an advance of 2.4%. Volatility levels remained stable in the United States while in the eurozone they continued to decline. Indeed, the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference index of the eurozone stock exchange) was reduced to a monthly average of 22.5%. Likewise, the expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, stood at 15.3% (see Chart 7.2).

Driven by the increase in appetite for risk, emerging equity, measured through the MSCI index, registered a gain of 5.8% thanks to the performance of the indices in local currency and a trend toward appreciation against the dollar in most currencies. Within the region, in Latin America the MSCI index advanced 3.8%. The Mexican market, measured through the IPC index, was the one with the best relative performance and grew 6.3% as a consequence of the behavior of the index in local currency and the appreciation of 2.5% of the Mexican peso with respect to the dollar. The Bovespa (Brazil) grew 3.9% in dollars, driven by the performance of the index in local currency since the real remained without major changes against the North American currency. Finally, the IGPA (Chile) gained 3.1% in dollars as a consequence of an advance of 1.9% in the index in local currency and an appreciation of 1.2% of the currency with respect to the dollar (see Chart 7.3).
In this context, Argentine equity quotations, measured through the MERVAL index, advanced 0.5% in dollars, driven by the increase in the index in local currency that gained 1.8% since the Argentine peso depreciated against the dollar. In the opening of the index by
Graph 7.6 sectors, it is observed that the advance registered in the
Corporate Bond Issuance quotations of banks and the oil sector
Billions of $ Outstanding Placements contributed positively (see Graph 7.4). In terms of
5.5 Month Placement Amount May-07 TGS US$ 500M amounts, the average daily volume traded in shares at the
5.0 May-07 Petrobras US$ 300M Buenos Aires Stock Exchange was reduced,
Apr-10 Pan American Energy US$ 500M Amount in Dollars Jul-10 IRSA US$ 150M positioning itself at $33 million.
4.5 Amount in Pesos Oct-10 Autopistas del Sol US$ 243M
Oct-10 Edenor US$ 140M
4.0 Nov-10 Arcor US$ 200M
Dec-10 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 US$ 300M
3.5 Dec-10 Clisa US$ 200M
Jan-11 Tarjeta Naranja US$ 200M
3.0 Mar-11 Capex US$ 200M
Apr-11 Galicia US$ 300M
2.5 Sep-12 YPF $ 1500M

2.0
1.5 Public Securities
1.0
0.5 In the fixed income market, a widespread advance was also
0.0 registered, with increases in the quotation of sovereign bonds
Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 of emerging countries. Thus, the yields required by investors
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg over U.S. Treasury bonds were reduced by 28 b.p.,
Informe Monetario | September 2012 | BCRA | 13 Graph 7.7 according to the EMBI+, in a context where 10-year Treasury
rates widened by 10 b.p. (see Graph 7.5).
Variable Rate ON Issuances at BADLAR Rate of Private Banks
T.N.A % (weighted average rate by amount)
35 ON Cut-off Rates
2.5 (monthly variation) In Latin America, the EMBI+ decreased by 29 b.p., and in
2.1 Argentina the risk differentials of sovereign bonds in
30 2.0 Cut-off rate of titles with rating above arg A- * dollars, according to the EMBI+, were reduced by 155
1.5 BADLAR rate of private banks
1.1
25 1.0 0.7 b.p., positioning itself at 897 b.p. at the end of the month,
0.5 0.2 evidencing a significant reduction compared to the levels
20 0.0 reached in mid-year, at times of greater volatility in
Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 international financial markets.
15

10 Private Securities
5 In September, the total amount placed of corporate debt
Aug-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 was positioned at $2,250 million, the highest record in 21
(*) Maturity less than 2 years. months, $30 million less than what was placed in December
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC 2010. The September performance was particularly influenced by
the YPF issuance of $1,500 million, in three ONs in billions
Graph 7.8 of pesos, with maturities of 9, 18 and 36 months. Although
placements of similar magnitudes were recorded in other
Patrimony of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos years, they were carried out in foreign currency (see Graph
Billions of $ (monthly variation) Billions of $ 7.6).
4.0 40
 Fixed Income In September, the average maturity of the placements
 Money Market 35 was positioned at 2.6 years. 94% of the issuances were
3.0  Mixed Income 30 carried out in local currency, and in most cases will bear
 Equity 25 an interest rate corresponding to the BADLAR rate of private
2.0 20 banks plus a margin.
1.0 Stock Evolution (right axis) 15
0.0 10
-1.0 5
-2.0 0
 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12In line with the performance recorded in monetary
Source: CAFCI and BCRA
 market interest rates, the financing costs of corporate
 debt issuances increased slightly, although with a more
 moderate increase than that recorded in previous months.
 In effect, the cut-off rate of ONs in pesos at variable rate
 with Graph 7.9 rating superior to Arg A and maturity less than 2 years
 was situated at 18.1%, 0.3 p.p above the level recorded
 Estimated Asset Performance in August (see Graph 7.7).
 % (profitability in pesos)
 30.0 27

 25.0 Accumulated from Dec-11 to Sep-12 Investment Funds

 Monthly
 20.0
 17 The assets of the Mutual Investment Funds (FCIs)
 in national and foreign currency showed moderate
 15.0 12
 progress in September and stood at $40,170 million.
 10 9 As in August, fixed income funds in pesos once again
 10.0
 5.3 6 registered modest performance and expanded 0.6%
 5.0 1.9 1.5 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.8 0.9 ($110 million). In the same direction, although with
 0.0 0 more dynamic performance, the funds that invest in
 -5.0 -3 mixed-income assets evidenced an expansion of 4.9%
 Bond FCI Index FCI Fixed Income Fixed Income Dollar Money FCI Variable ($230 million) driven by the increase in the number
 IAMC Mixed Rate Peso Majority Market of quotashares and prices. Likewise, variable income
 Source: BCRA funds grew 1.2% ($10 million). Meanwhile, Money Market
 funds in pesos declined 1.7% ($230 million), affected by
 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 14 the fall in the number of quotashares (see Graph 7.8).

 Graph 7.10

 Financial Trust Emissions With respect to profitability, mixed-income funds
 million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)units recorded the best performance, with a monthly return
1,600 45 of 1.9%, followed by variable income and fixed income
1,400 Amount Issued Number of Operations (right axis) 40 funds, with gains of 1.8% and 1.5% respectively. The
1,200 35 increase in the quotation of shares and local sovereign
1,000 30 bonds explained this good performance. Within the
 25 main assets, in the annual accumulated period, mixed-
 800
 20 income funds lead the ranking with an approximate
 600
 15 return of 17%, only surpassed by the IAMC bond index
 400 10 that measures the local evolution of national public
 200 5 securities which registered a profitability of 27%
 0 0 (see Graph 7.9).
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

 The assets of FCIs in foreign currency remained
 without major changes in September, with a reduction
 of only 0.2% (US$ 0.7 million) and placing itself at
 US$ 479 million.

 Financial Trusts9

 In September, the issuances of financial trusts (FF)
 totaled around $1,440 million, excluding those
 intended to finance infrastructure works. Said amount
 was similar to that of the previous month and was
 among the highest of the year (see Graph 7.10).
 Graph 7.11 On the other hand, an issuance was recorded for $55
 million from Servicios Energéticos del Chaco Empresa
 Financial Trust Emissions del Estado Provincial (SECHEEP), which has the purpose
 million $ (accumulated amounts) of financing infrastructure projects in the energy
20,000 sector, specifically the increase in the capacity of
18,000 transmission and distribution of energy in the Chaco
16,000 Rest FF Infrastructure Province.
14,000 9,828
 So far this year, approximately $12,100 million has
12,000 2,177 been issued in FF, compared to just over $19,000 in the
10,000 same period of last year. Said decrease is explained by
8,000
6,000 due to the lower amount of placements linked to
4,000 9,208 9,909 infrastructure project financing. Meanwhile, when
2,000 considering the rest of the issuances, largely backed by
0 assets linked to consumption, the accumulated amount
Jan-Sep 2011 Jan-Sep 2012 reaches $9,900 million, which represents a slight increase
Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. compared to what was issued in the first nine months of
last year (see Chart 7.11).

9 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 15 The main trust settlors of the month were financial entities,
which issued $660 million, registering an increase of 47%
compared to August, although said amount was similar to
that observed in September 2011. For their part, retail
stores placed around $400 million, 40% less than last
month. Meanwhile, mutual associations, cooperatives,
Chart 7.12 non-banking issuers of credit cards and other financial
service providers placed $310 million, an amount above
Senior Bond Cut-off Rates in Pesos the annual average, close to $280 million. In addition to
TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount) personal loans and credit card coupons, said settlors
securitized leasing contracts.
40
35 Fixed Rate There was also a placement in dollars by agricultural
Variable Rate sector companies, which securitized commercial credits.
30 BADLAR private banks

25 The cut-off interest rates of senior bonds in pesos with
20 variable returns continued to follow the evolution of the
BADLAR of private banks (see Chart 7.12). The cut-off
15 rate (average weighted by amount) of bonds with a
10 duration of less than 14 months awarded at variable rate
5 registered a slight increase (0.2 p.p.) compared to the
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 previous month and was placed at 16.7%. The cut-off rate
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others (average weighted by amount) of fixed rate bonds was also
placed at 16.7%, reflecting a slight decrease compared
to the previous month. It should be noted that under this
modality only two operations were registered.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 16

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Sep-11 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary base 261,624 257,787 210,100 190,570 1.5% 37.3%
Money circulation 200,992 198,626 165,181 148,677 1.2% 35.2%
Bills and Coins in public hands 180,743 178,564 144,288 130,626 1.2% 38.4%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 20,248 20,060 20,891 18,048 0.9% 12.2%
Cancellation Checks 1 2 2 0 -38.1% 0
Current account at the BCRA 60,632 59,161 44,919 41,894 2.5% 44.7%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 17,261 18,369 12,071 10,590 -6.0% 63.0%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 70,134 59,633 22,782 29,815 17.6% 135.2%

NOBAC 21,245 25,075 44,889 51,547 -15.3% -58.8%

BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 45,228 45,215 45,983 49,421 0.0% -8.5%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 484,627 472,969 382,886 371,038 2.5% 30.6%
Current account (2) 127,146 134,507 106,893 100,049 -5.5% 27.1%
Savings account 91,891 90,869 73,673 67,699 1.1% 35.7%
Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 246,947 229,184 185,534 187,608 7.8% 31.6%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 8 8 10 10 0.0% -20.0%
Other deposits (3) 18,636 18,400 16,776 15,672 1.3% 18.9%

Private sector deposits 337,476 328,942 262,112 245,742 2.6% 37.3%

Public sector deposits 147,151 144,026 120,774 125,297 2.2% 17.4%
# Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,984 9,275 13,158 15,677 -3.1% -42.7%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 337,585 328,166 268,587 243,393 2.9% 38.7%

Loans to the private sector 305,540 295,805 241,211 218,587 3.3% 39.8%
Advances 45,992 44,730 30,930 28,668 2.8% 60.4%
Documents 63,062 59,993 51,144 47,875 5.1% 31.7%
Mortgages 31,713 31,028 26,835 24,052 2.2% 31.9%
Pledges 19,616 19,019 16,397 14,568 3.1% 34.6%
Personal loans 69,761 67,897 58,115 52,845 2.7% 32.0%
Credit cards 49,315 47,566 39,942 34,198 3.7% 44.2%
Others 26,082 25,572 17,847 16,379 2.0% 59.2%

Loans to the public sector 32,045 32,361 27,377 24,806 -1.0% 29.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6,338 6,818 9,607 9,638 -7.0% -34.2%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + current accounts in 307,890 313,073 251,183 230,678 -1.7% 33.5%
private pesos)

M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 399,781 403,942 324,857 298,377 -1.0% 34.0%
M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + 665,371 651,534 527,177 501,667 2.1% 32.6%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 707,323 694,282 583,612 567,628 1.9% 24.6%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 270,429 266,833 218,627 202,688 1.3% 33.4%
accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 356,259 351,561 288,231 266,545 1.3% 33.7%
M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + 518,220 507,508 406,402 376,370 2.1% 37.7%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 556,021 546,044 458,029 436,705 1.8% 27.3%

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3,837 1.5% 24,740 10.4% 51,524 24.5% 71,054 37.3%
Financial sector 1,292 0.5% 3,672 1.5% -2,741 -1.3% -3,266 -1.7%
Public sector 3,569 1.4% 17,343 7.3% 25,941 12.3% 36,989 19.4%
Private external sector 338 0.1% 4,594 1.9% 41,068 19.5% 33,796 17.7%
BCRA securities -1,166 -0.5% -207 -0.1% -11,554 -5.5% 5,094 2.7%
Others -195 -0.1% -662 -0.3% -1,190 -0.6% -1,560 -0.8%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 13 0.0% -1,375 -3.0% -754 -1.6% -4,193 -8.5%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 73 0.2% 1,012 2.2% 9,367 20.4% 7,628 15.4%
Payment to international organizations -4 0.0% 133 0.3% 86 0.2% 259 0.5%
Other public sector operations -304 -0.7% 1,260 2.7% -666 -1.4% 87 0.2%
Minimum cash requirement 103 0.2% 474 1.0% -807 -1.8% -3,483 -7.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 146 0.3% -4,254 -9.1% -8,735 -19.0% -8,684 -17.6%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12
 (1)
Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.2 12.3 12.2
 Integration 12.4 12.4 12.4
 Position (2) 0.2 0.1 0.1
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 62.2 59.4 58.6
 30 to 59 days 24.5 26.2 25.3
 60 to 89 days 6.2 7.6 9.3
 90 to 179 days 5.4 4.9 4.6
 more than 180 days 1.8 1.9 2.2
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 21.0 20.1 20.1
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 71.6 67.0 57.3
 Position (2) 50.6 46.9 37.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.1 55.9 56.6
 30 to 59 days 22.4 22.2 22.1
 60 to 89 days 9.3 10.0 10.1
 90 to 179 days 10.8 9.4 9.2
 180 to 365 days 2.3 2.5 1.8
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 9.91 9.81 9.63 9.99 9.71
 Amount traded 1,491 1,405 1,303 1,126 1,167

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 11.89 12.28 12.01 14.74 10.22
 60 days or more 13.45 13.51 13.11 16.50 11.22
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 11.60 11.15 11.73 14.76 10.70
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.27 13.93 13.19 18.75 13.08

 In dollars
 30 days 0.54 0.52 0.54 0.33 0.28
 60 days or more 1.11 1.11 0.99 0.69 0.59
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.75 0.64 0.82 0.43 0.41
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.86 0.94 1.11 0.63 0.55

 Active Interest Rates Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 14.89 13.43 11.71 15.98 12.62
 Amount traded (total terms) 253 244 218 226 226

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 21.08 20.80 20.72 26.78 19.33
 Documents on signature alone 17.86 18.42 18.31 22.15 15.61
 Mortgages 16.25 14.83 14.29 16.52 15.08
 Pledged loans 21.03 21.15 21.61 25.10 19.50
 Personal loans 34.28 34.16 33.84 36.46 30.34
 Credit cards n/a 34.70 35.00 33.15 31.44

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 13.49 13.20 12.94 22.56 12.98

 International Interest Rates Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.22 0.24 0.25 0.28 0.23
 6 months 0.67 0.72 0.73 0.78 0.52

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.20
 10 years 1.70 1.66 1.50 1.96 1.96

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 7.50 7.93 8.14 11.00 12.00

 (1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 19 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

 Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 9.29 9.19 9.11 9.13 9.18
 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.51 9.56 9.57

 Amount traded of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 9,299 10,309 10,759 8,454 7,956

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a 12.00 n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 12.33 11.90 11.54 n/a n/a
 9 months 14.10 n/a 13.17 n/a n/a
 12 months 14.51 14.30 13.82 14.26 n/a

 NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks -1.99 -1.94 n/a n/a 0.17
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.56
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.89

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 662 605 482 378 589
# Foreign Exchange Market Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

**Dollar Spot**
- Wholesale 4.67 4.61 4.55 4.29 4.20
- Retail 4.68 4.62 4.56 4.29 4.22

**Dollar Forward**
- NDF 1 month 4.75 4.71 4.68 4.36 4.26
- ROFEX 1 month 4.73 4.68 4.62 4.33 4.23
- Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 972 1011 766 904 1330

**Real (Pesos per Real)** 2.30 2.27 2.24 2.33 2.41

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** 6.01 5.72 5.60 5.64 5.79

# Capital Market Sep-12 Aug-12 Jul-12 Dec-11 Sep-11

**MERVAL**
- Index 2,456 2,432 2,407 2,488 2,687
- Amount traded (millions of pesos) 41 51 47 39 46

**Government Bonds (at parity)**
- BODEN 2015 (US$) 122.68 121.56 118.29 98.40 97.82
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 103.11 98.47 99.88 81.40 74.71
- BODEN 2014 ($) 93.41 93.06 93.51 86.93 79.60
- DISCOUNT ($) 45.64 44.83 45.25 51.96 55.46

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,090 1,261 1,486 980 917
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 358 370 406 409 425

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the bids held each month.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 20

# 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with terms of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Bank Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3\*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**p.b.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Representative Debt Value.

Monetary Report | September 2012 | BCRA | 21
