# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
October 2012

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 6

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 10

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 11

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 12

7. Capital Market | Page 12

 Shares | Page 13

 Public Securities | Page 14

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Common Investment Funds | Page 15

 Financial Trusts | Page 16

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 18

9. Glossary | Page 22

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was November 12, 2012. All figures are provisional and
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Synthesis

• During the month of October, M3 increased 1.5%, accelerating its year-on-year expansion rate driven by 
time deposits in pesos from the private sector. This deposit segment reached a monthly growth of 3% ($4,500 
million) and 52% in the last 12 months.

• So far this year, loans in pesos to the private sector have continued to explain most of the growth in the 
money supply. In October they increased 2.7% ($8,300 million), driven by financing instruments with documents 
and personal loans. Thus, the year-on-year variation rate of loans in pesos to the private sector stood at 37.5%.

• In October, an auction was held under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program. On this occasion, 
$110 million were auctioned, of which $105 million were awarded. Thus, the total awarded since the beginning of 
the program amounts to $5,128 million. For its part, the total funds disbursed reached $3,618 million, which 
represents approximately 70% of the total funds awarded. Among the main destinations of the funds, the acquisition 
of machinery and equipment, and the construction and remodeling of real estate for commercial purposes stand out, 
which together concentrate close to 85% of the disbursed amounts.

• Within the framework of the "Credit line for productive investment" (Communication A 5319), between 
July and October financial entities would have disbursed an amount equivalent to approximately 50% of the credits 
to be placed ($14,900 million). The total disbursed was distributed in similar parts between large companies and 
SMEs, and the sector that received the most credits was the industrial sector, which concentrated 30% of the 
financing; followed by the commercial sector with 23% of participation.

• The bank liquidity ratio of the peso segment (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the current account 
of entities in the Central Bank, net repos, and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC, in terms of the total deposits in 
pesos) decreased by 0.7 percentage points with respect to September, standing at 34.8%.

• In October the first stage of the readjustment of the Minimum Cash regulations came into effect, aimed at 
promoting geographic coverage of the system and service to regions with lower economic potential and lower 
population density. Specifically, as of this month, differential reserve requirement coefficients by zone began to 
apply.

• During the month under analysis, the Central Bank validated increases in the short end of the yield curve 
of LEBAC auctions in the primary market.
• Short-term passive interest rates paid by private entities continued with the upward trend observed in recent months. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged 14.9%, registering an increase of 0.6 p.p. compared to September. For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 12.6%, increasing 0.4 p.p. during the month.

• For its part, active interest rates showed dissimilar behavior. The interest rate applied to loans documented by single-signature instruments remained at the levels of the previous month (17.9%). Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate on loans with pledged guarantee stood at 20.5%, declining 0.4 p.p. during the month; while the interest rate on personal loans decreased 0.7 p.p. in October, averaging 33.6%.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Monetary Aggregates1

**Chart 2.1**

**Monetary Aggregates** In the month of October, monetary aggregates continued showing behavior similar to previous months. The broadest aggregate in pesos (M32) presented an increase of 1.5% (see Chart 2.1) and reached a monthly average balance of $675,290 million. Driven mainly by fixed-term deposits of the private sector, M3 presented year-on-year growth of 33.6%, 1 p.p. greater than that registered in September.

% (variation of monthly averages) %
6 60 
5 Monthly variation of M3 50 Variation y.o.y. private sector fixed-term deposits (right axis)
4 Variation y.o.y. of M3 (right axis) 40
3 30
2 20
1 10
0 0
-1 -10
-2 -20
Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12

Note: M3 includes cash in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA

In October, loans in pesos to the private sector continued explaining the largest part of the increase in private M3. They also contributed to its expansion, although to a lesser extent, operations of the public sector and the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases (see Chart 2.2). On the demand side, all components of private M3 presented increases during the month, observing increases of similar magnitude in means of payment (private M2) and fixed-term impositions.

**Chart 2.2**

**Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates**
(October 2012, in average)
thousands of millions of $
9
8
7 Private M3
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
Foreign Currency Sector Loans to S. Other M2 Private Dep. Fixed-Term3
Purchases Public Sector* Private and Others Priv.

*Includes public sector operations with effect on monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
Source: BCRA

Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector registered a monthly increase of 3% ($4,500 million), verifying increases in impositions of the stratum of $1 million and more ($1,800 million or 2.3%) and in those of less than $1 million ($2,700 million or 3.8%). The monthly growth rates of deposits in both amount strata were among the highest of recent years for October (see Chart 2.3), which favored an advance in the year-on-year variation rate of fixed-term placements in pesos of the private sector, which reached 52%, 2 p.p. more than in September.

**Chart 2.3**

**Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector**

In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average balance
% (variations of monthly averages) October - Monthly Avg. Var.

monthly of deposits showed growth of
% More than $ 1 million
7 52.0 56 %
8 0.7%. The increase in placements belonging to the
6 48 7
6 public sector more than compensated for the decline in those
5 40 5
4 32 4 of the private sector. It is worth recalling that as a conse-

3 2.3 2006 quence of the prudential policies implemented in the
3 24 2 2007
2 16 1 2008 last years, the Argentine financial system presents a
0 2009
1 8 % Less than $ 1 million 2010 low degree of dollarization and a very reduced level of
0 0 4 3.8 2011
3 currency mismatch that allowed it to return without in-
-1 -8 2 2012
1 conveniences all deposits that were requested from it.

-2 Monthly variation -160
-3 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) -24 -1
-2
Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 -3
Source: BCRA -4

2 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 4 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes
cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks
and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
(expressed in pesos), increased 1.5% in the month.

3. Bank Liquidity1

The liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum of cash in
banks, the current account of entities in the Central
Bank, net repos with such entity, and holdings of LEBACs
and NOBACs, in terms of the total deposits in pesos)
averaged October 34.8%, 0.7 p.p. below the previous
month (see Chart 3.1). All components of liquidity showed
a decline in terms of deposits, although the largest reduction
was verified in longer-term assets (LEBACs and NOBACs).

Chart 3.1 In October, the new reserve requirement scheme entered into
effect, established by Communication A 5356. In this
% Bank Liquidity in Pesos*
deposits first stage began the differential reduction – by
(monthly average)
45 zone – of the reserve requirement coefficients with the objective
of promoting the expansion of geographic coverage of
40 the system, attending to zones with lower economic potential
and lower population density to promote universal access of
35 Liquidity
(average October 2012) 34.8 users to financial services. In the month under analysis, the
Cash
30 4.1 % reduction for deposits on demand was 1 p.p. for zone 1 (large
15.6 % CCBCRA
25 Net Repos urban centers and localities with a higher degree of development
LEBACs and NOBACs
and banking coverage) and 2 p.p. for the rest of the zones.
20
12.4 % For fixed-term placements, the reduction of the coefficients
was 0.5 p.p. for zone 1 and 1 p.p. for the other zones.
15
2.7 % Additionally, the gradual elimination of the permitted
deduction of computable cash began4. In this way, for October
10
Jan-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Apr-10 Sep-10 Feb-11 Jul-11 Dec-11 May-12 Oct-12 the deduction of 75% of this item was admitted. The next
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA stage of the change in the reserve requirement regime will be in
December when new reductions in the coefficients will be
implemented on the different types of deposits, at the same
time that deductions will be admitted taking into account the
participation of credit to micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs) in the total of financing to the private
sector.
In the foreign currency segment, entities continued showing increases in the liquidity ratio, which in October averaged 85.9% of dollar deposits. This meant an increase of 5.7 p.p. compared to September, explained both by the deceleration of the decline in deposits and by the cancellation of loans.

4 "Computable cash" is called the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements last March and that as of April can be deducted from the requirement in pesos.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 4. Loans¹ 5

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
6 (monthly average variation) % 70
Loans in pesos to the private sector moderated their growth rate, registering a monthly increase of 2.7% ($8,300 million). Although they continue to grow at a faster pace than in the first part of the year (between January and May the monthly growth rate was around 2%), it decreased compared to what was observed between June and September (see Graph 4.1). When breaking down the contribution of each of the lines to the month's growth, it is verified that financings instrumented with documents and personal loans made the main contributions (1.1 p.p. and 0.8 p.p. respectively).

1 20
0 10
-1 0
Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12
Source: SISCEN For its part, the year-on-year variation rate continued to decelerate and stood at 37.5%, 2.3 p.p. less than in September.

The main commercial lines showed dissimilar behaviors in October. Financings instrumented through documents continued growing at a high rate. The month's increase of 5.6% ($3,510 million) was the highest of recent years for the period, which allowed the year-on-year variation rate of this line to increase from 31.8% in September to 32.5% (see Graph 4.2). When determining the contribution to monthly growth by type of document, it is verified that single-signature documents continued making a greater contribution to growth than the rest of the financings instrumented through documents, behavior that is not observed in the same month of previous years (see Graph 4.3). Various factors would be providing additional impetus to single-signature documents: through this line most of the loans that were previously granted in the foreign currency segment are being channeled and credits linked to the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB) and the "Line of credits for productive investment" (within the framework of Communication A 5319). In contrast, advances registered a slight monthly decrease (0.8%; $350 million). Thus, its balance has remained relatively stable since the end of August. For its part, the remaining commercial financings ("Other loans") registered an increase of 1.2% ($300 million).

In October, an auction was held within the framework of the PFPB. On this occasion $110 million were auctioned, of which $105 million were awarded. BBVA Banco Francés was awarded $51 million, the Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires $50 million, meanwhile

October 2012

Source: BCRA
5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In contrast, in "Monetary and Financial Indicators", the loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 6 whereas the Investment and Foreign Trade Bank obtained $4.5 million. Thus, the total awarded since the beginning of the program amounts to $5,128 million. For its part, the total disbursed funds reaches $3,618 million, which represents approximately 70% of the total awarded funds. Among the main destinations of the funds, the acquisition of machinery and equipment, and the construction and remodeling of real estate stand out, which together concentrate around 85% of the disbursed amounts (see Graph 4.4).

Graph 4.4
Bicentennial Advances
(amounts disbursed by destination)

Acquisition of machinery, equipment and other capital goods 42.6% | Construction, remodeling, improvement and expansion 41.2%

Acquisition of vehicles 2.4% | Other 13.7% | Acquisition of real estate 0.1%

Source: BCRA

Within the framework of the "Credit line for productive investment" (Communication A 5319), between July and October financial entities would have disbursed an amount equivalent to approximately 50% of the credits to be placed ($14,900 million). The total disbursed was distributed in similar parts between large companies and SMEs, and the sector that received the most credit was industrial, which concentrated 30% of the financing; followed by commercial with 23% participation.

Graph 4.5
Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %

[Graph showing monthly variation and year-on-year variation from Oct-06 to Oct-12]

Regarding loans intended to finance family consumption, personal loans maintained their monthly expansion rate with an increase of 3.3% ($2,330 million), above the annual average (see Graph 4.5). For its part, financing instruments with credit cards registered an increase of 2.2% ($1,100 million). During October, the evolution of this type of financing was in line with expectations given the impact of higher sales due to Mother's Day.

Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans continued to grow at a similar rate to previous months, registering an increase of 2.2% ($680 million). For its part, loans with pledge guarantee continued to accelerate their monthly expansion rate, growing in October 3.5% ($700 million). Meanwhile, the year-on-year variation rate shows a downward trend, standing at 32%, 2.7 percentage points less than September.

Graph 4.6
Goods in Financial Leasing and Loans with Real Guarantees
% (in pesos - year-on-year variation)

[Graph showing Leasing, Pledge guarantee, Mortgage, and Total loans to the private sector from Jan-04 to Jan-12]

Source: BCRA

Leasing contracts constitute an alternative to a loan with real guarantee when financing capital goods. This tool has special relevance for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs), which generally have greater difficulties in accessing long-term financing to invest in equipment and/or real estate.
Securities Issued by the Central Bank9

In October the Central Bank validated increases in interest rates for LEBAC auctions in the primary market, fundamentally in the short end of the yield curve. In particular, the interest rates

---

6 It comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at the request of these, for which the lessee pays periodically and for the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value. The information is based on end-of-month data.

7 Last available information.

8 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

9 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.
Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.2 of cutting of the species that are auctioned at a predeter-
 Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market mined rate exhibited increases of 0.8 p.p.. In the same

 thousands of LEBAC NOBACthousands of thousands of
 millions $ millions $ millions $ direction, although with a more moderate increase, the
 16 80 8 More than 24 months 80
 More than 360 days 24 months interest rates of the species of 12 months and 24 months
 From 271 to 360 days Between 18 and 24 months
 14 From 181 to 270 days 7 18 months
 From 91 to 180 days 70 Between 12 and 18 months 70 showed increases that were located around 0.4
 12 months
 Up to 90 days Between 6 and 12 months
 12 Balance at end of month (right axis) 6 6 months p.p (see Chart 5.1). For its part, like the previous
 Maturities 60 Less than 6 60
 Balance at end of month (right axis)
 10 5 Maturities month, NOBAC rates did not register significant
 50 50
 8 4 changes.

 40 40
 6 3
 30 30 In the primary market, LEBACs concentrated 98% of
 4 2
 the amount awarded. Placements resulted in higher
 2 20 1 20
 maturities and were concentrated in short-term periods,

 0 10 0 10 mainly less than 180 days. As for NOBACs, the amount
 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12
 Source: BCRA awarded continued being meager, with scarce offers throughout the month, and resulted lower than the amount that
 matured so the stock continued to decline (see Chart 5.2).

 In this context, the average monthly stock (in nominal
 Chart 5.3 value) of the securities issued by the Central Bank grew

 Interest Rate of LEBAC and Amount Traded in the Secondary 0.6% ($550 million), placing it at $91,930 million.
 Market ANR % LEBACs represented 80% of the total balance.
 15 (monthly rate average weighted by amount) 300
 Upon observing the main holders of securities, on ave-

 14 Average amount of September 13.5 rage, public banks and Mutual Investment Funds
 13.3 250
 Average amount of October
 13 Average rate of September 12.7 12.912.7 (MIF) increased their holdings while private banks
 12.3 12.4
 Average rate of October 200 reduced theirs.
 12 11.6 12.0

 11.1 11.4
 11 10.8 150
 10.5 In the secondary market, the average daily amount
 10.2
 10 9.7 traded was placed at $730 million. Without major
 9.4 100

 9 changes with respect to the behavior registered months

 50 ago, operations with LEBACs concentrated the largest
 8
 part of operations, especially in the segments of maturity
 Days
 7 0
 < 10 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 periods of less than 150 days. The performance

 Source: BCRA registered in the amounts occurred in a context where
 LEBAC interest rates remained relatively stable (see
 Chart 5.3). For its part, the amount traded of NOBACs
 was reduced with respect to the previous month and was
 placed at $35 million daily.
 Chart 5.4
 Interbank Market
 thousands of (operations at 1 business day)
 millions of $ ANR % Central Bank Repurchase Operations1
 5.0 12.0

 4.5 Amount traded Call 11.5
 Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA Without changes since October 2009, the interest rates
 4.0 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0
 Interest rate Call (right axis) of passive repurchases of the Central Bank at 1 and 7 days
 3.5 10.5
 were placed at 9% and 9.5% respectively while those of
 3.0 10.0
 active repurchases remained at 11% and 11.5% for the
 2.5 9.5
 same periods.
 2.0 9.0

 1.5 8.5
 1.0 8.0 The average monthly stock of passive repurchases in all

 0.5 7.5 rounds in which the institution participates decreased 0.7%,

 0.0 7.0 placing it at $17,130 million. Meanwhile, no active

 Oct-09 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 repurchases were registered for the Central Bank.
Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 9 Interbank Markets1

## Graph 5.5
Interest Rate and Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations

% In October, the average interest rate of 1 business day operations in the guaranteed market (REPO trading floor), between financial entities increased 0.1 p.p. and was located at 9.8%. In the same direction, the interest rate in the non-guaranteed market (call) in the segment of 1 business day operations grew 0.3 p.p., reaching 10.1% (see Graph 5.4). As in the previous month, in October there was a notable increase registered in operations involving foreign entities and non-bank financial entities.

19 Intraday Volatility
(2012)
13 %
17
11
Monthly Average
15 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
9
13 7
03-Sep 17-Sep 02-Oct 17-Oct 31-Oct
11
9
7
5
Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12

Source: BCRA

The performance recorded in call market rates occurred in a context where volatility levels expanded slightly. In effect, the average deviation of interest rates of daily call operations agreed at 1 business day advanced 0.2 p.p. (see Graph 5.5).

The average daily volume traded in the interfinancial market declined slightly, although it remains at historically high levels. In the REPO trading floor, the volume remained relatively stable and was located at $2,670 million. Meanwhile, in the call segment, the amount was reduced by $100 million, placing itself at $1,390 million. The decrease in amounts traded between foreign entities and non-bank financial entities explained most of the fall (see Graph 5.6).

## Graph 5.6
Amount Traded of 1 Business Day Call by Group
Millions $ (monthly variation of daily average)

400 Rest
300 Between Domestic Private Entities
Between Foreign Entities and NFNB
200 Total
100
0
-100
-200
-300
Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12

Source: BCRA

## Passive Interest Rates1

Passive interest rates of short term paid by private entities continued with the upward trend observed in recent months. In October, the rate of growth of interest rates accelerated again, which had moderated in September.

In effect, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more for 30-35 days of term – averaged 14.9%, recording an increase of 0.6 p.p. with respect to September and 3.2 p.p. above the average of May, when a change in trend became evident after six months of declines. Nevertheless, BADLAR is still at a significantly lower level than that recorded in December 2011 (3.8 p.p. below; see Graph 5.7).

## Graph 5.7
Interest rates for fixed-term deposits up to 35 days in pesos
% TNA (monthly average - private banks)

26 BADLAR
24 2 Variations
0.6 0.4
Up to $100 thousand 0
22
-2 -1.5
20
-4 Monthly Var. Avg. Dec-11
-3.8 Var. Dec-11
18 -6 18.8
BADLAR Up to $100 thousand Avg. Oct-12

16 14.9
14
12 Avg. Oct-12
10
12.6
8
Jul-08 Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 Mar-10 Aug-10 Jan-11 Jun-11 Nov-11 Apr-12 Sep-12

Source: BCRA

Regarding the BADLAR futures market, no operations were registered in the first two weeks of the month. However, in the second half of October a high amount was traded that exceeded what was negotiated in September. As is customary, operations were concentrated in instruments with 3-month terms. The monthly average of the interest rate of contracts with expiration at the end of October was located at 14.9%.

For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits

## Graph 5.8
# Interest Rates on Loans for Commercial Activities
**Fixed rate (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 12.6%,**
(monthly average)
TNA, % Total Advances in CC
32 Variations increasing 0.4 p.p. during the month.
Discounted Documents p.p
2
Documents at Sole Signature 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.0

28 Advances in current account for more than $10 M - up to 7
days 0 Active Interest Rates¹ 10

24 -2
In October, the interest rates applied to loans to the private
sector showed different behaviors.

20 -4
-4.3

-6 -5.3
16 Monthly Variation

-7.0
-8 12 -8.3 During the month of October the monthly average of the
Var. Dec-11
-10 interest rate on discounted documents was located at
8 Advances DD Advances Doc. Sole
Jun-08 Jul-09 Aug-10 Sep-11 Oct-12 (more $10 CC Signature 18.6%, 0.7 p.p. above the previous month. Meanwhile,
M- 7 days)
Source: BCRA after the decline recorded in September, the interest rate
on documents at sole signature remained unchanged at
17.9%. For its part, the interest rate on financing through
advances in current account averaged 21.4%, registering a
monthly increase of 0.4 p.p., while the corresponding rate
for advances in current account to companies for more
than $10 million and up to 7 days of term was located
0.7 p.p. above the level recorded in September, averaging
Chart 5.9 14.2% (Chart 5.8).
Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantees and those for Consumption
(monthly average)

TNA, % For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate on
40 Pledged Mortgage Mortgages to families Personal loans pledged guarantees was located at 20.5%, declining 0.4 p.p.
35 during the month. In this way, it accumulates in the year a
decrease of close to 4.5 p.p. It is worth noting that in recent
30 months loans corresponding to the "Productive Investment
Credit Line" and those granted under the Bicentennial
25 Productive Financing Program (PFPB) gained participation in
20 the amounts operated, essentially among pledged loans
and financing through documents at sole signature. In this
15 way, part of the monthly decline in the rate of pledged
10 loans and the stagnation in that of documents at sole
Jun-08 Jul-09 Aug-10 Sep-11 Oct-12 signature, is due to the increase in the participation of these
Source: BCRA lines, which are granted at relatively low rates (and longer
terms).

¹⁰ The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses
nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 11 For its part, the interest rate on mortgage loans to
Chart 6.1 families increased 0.6 p.p. during the month, averaging
16%. Meanwhile, the interest rate on personal loans
thousands of BCRA International Reserves decreased 0.7 p.p. in October, accumulating a decline of
millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009 almost 3 p.p. during the year, averaging 33.6% (see Chart
55 5.9).

50 International Reserves and Foreign
Exchange Market¹¹
45

40 International reserves reached a balance of US$45,274 million
on the last day of October (see Chart 6.1), US$264 million
35 above that recorded at the end of September. Among the
factors that explained the increase, the increase in foreign
30 currency current accounts of financial entities at the Central
Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Bank stood out. This more than offset the use of the National
Source: BCRA Treasury accounts at the Central Bank in order to meet public
debt payments in foreign currency.

Chart 6.2

Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
6%
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real On the other hand, during the last days of the month, in
 Depreciation compliance with what was stipulated in the National
 4% Budget, the allocation of US$487 million from inter-
 national reserves was arranged for the payment of
 2% maturities with international credit organizations
 and US$926 million to cancel debt services with
 0% private holders. These amounts were integrated into
 the accounts of the National Treasury at the Central
 -2% Bank intended for such purposes (Account for Pay-
 ments to International Organizations and Argentine
 -4% Debt Reduction Fund respectively).

 Appreciation

 -6% In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 with respect to the currencies of its main trading
 partners, although to a lesser extent than what was
 Source: BCRA recorded in September. In the case of the United
 States dollar, the average quotation was 4.73 $/US$,
 Chart 7.1 1.3% higher than in September (Chart 6.2). For its
 part, the quotation of the real increased 1.2% and
 World Stock Indices was 2.33 $/Real, while that of the euro was 6.14
 130 (in dollars; Base Index 31/10/11=100) $/euro (2.1%). In the forward market (ROFEX) the
 average daily amount traded increased slightly in
 120 relation to September (7%). Likewise, a slight decline
 was observed in the expected quotations for the
 110 coming months.

 100

 90 7. Capital Market 9

 80 MSCI- World
 MSCI-Europe
 MSCI- Latam
 70 S&P 500
 MSCI- Emerging In October, certain caution was observed among
 60 investors, in a period where no news of significant
 Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 impact was registered. Throughout the month Italy
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data and Spain carried out debt placements with favorable
 results, while speculation increased around a possible
11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated. request for external assistance and downward revi-
 sions in the credit rating of the Iberian country. On
 Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 12 the other hand, with respect to Greece, the authori-
 ties of the European Union and the IMF postponed
 the possibility of an agreement, while the possibility
 of new actions aimed at reducing the debt burden
 of that country gained strength. On the other hand,
 in the United States the earnings season had a posi-
 Chart 7.2 tive bias and certain economic indicators came in
 Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and better than expected. Meanwhile, the perceived risk
 % Eurozone increased as a consequence of the possible
 60 (VIX and VStoxx Indices) effect of a series of laws that expire at the end of this
 VIX Index (S&P 500) year and that would imply an increase in taxes.
 50
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 40 Regarding central bank measures, the Bank of Japan
 (BoJ) decided to increase its asset purchase program
 30 by ¥11 trillion, while the Central Bank of Brazil
 (BCB) reduced its reference interest rate (SELIC) by
 20 0.25 p.p. to a historical low of 7.25%. Reductions
 of the same magnitude were observed in the refer-
 10 ence rates of South Korea and Thailand.

 0
 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Equities

 The equity markets exhibited mixed behavior, regis-
 tering in most cases a reduction of the gains accumu-
 Chart 7.3 lated during recent months. The global MSCI fell
 Index in thousands Evolution of the Bovespa Index and the Real R$/US$ 0.8%. In the same direction, although with a more
 55 2.2 pronounced decline, the S&P 500, the main index of
 50 2.1 the United States stock market, was cut by 2% (the
 first monthly decline since May 2012). The European
 45 2.0 market, measured through the MSCI index, was the
 exception to

 40 1.9
35 1.8 October and gained 2.3%, registering the fifth consecutive month of positive results (see Chart 7.1). Expected volatility levels moved in line with the performance registered in stock indices. The index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference Index of the eurozone stock exchange) decreased 0.8 p.p. to a monthly average of 21.7%. Meanwhile, the expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, increased 1 p.p. and was placed at 16.4% (see Chart 7.2).

In this context, emerging equities, measured through the MSCI index, decreased 0.7%. In Latin America, mixed results were observed. The Mexican market, measured through the IPC index, registered no changes compared to the previous month and the IGPA (Chile) increased 0.4%, driven by the performance of the index in local currency since the Chilean peso depreciated against the dollar by 1.3%. For its part, the Bovespa (Brazil) lost 3.8% in dollars, due to the performance of the index in local currency and counteracted the gains registered in September. It should be noted that, since July 2012, the real has remained relatively stable against the dollar (see Chart 7.3).

Chart 7.4
Evolution of the Local Stock Market
% (in pesos) Index
60 4,000 Under this international context, the price of Argentine equities recorded widespread declines.

20 trading sessions
Volatility - historical 22 Interrupting four months of consecutive gains, the MERVAL index lost 6.6% in dollars as a result of the decline of the index in local currency (5.2%; see Chart 7.4) and a depreciation of the Argentine peso against the dollar. The main declines occurred in securities of companies linked to the oil/gas, food and beverages, banking and electricity generation and transportation sectors. The historical volatility of the MERVAL increased 2.4 p.p. to a monthly average of 22% and the trading volumes on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange remained at low levels, standing at $29 million.

50 MERVAL (right axis)
3,500
40 3,000
30 2,500
20 2,000
10 1,500
0
Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Public Securities

In October, the price of emerging fixed income remained relatively stable. Thus, the yield differentials over U.S. Treasury bonds were reduced by 8 b.p., according to the EMBI+, in a context where 10-year Treasury rates widened 10 b.p. (see Chart 7.5).

Chart 7.5
Sovereign Risk Indicators
Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.
550 1,300
500 1,200
450 1,100
400 1,000
350 900
300 800
700
EMBI+
600
EMBI+ Latin America
250 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500
200 400
Oct-11 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12

In Latin America, the return required by investors over U.S. Treasury bonds, according to the EMBI+, remained unchanged. Driven by the performance registered in the last week of the month, the EMBI+ Argentina widened 169 b.p., placing itself at 1,066 b.p. at the end of the month, counteracting the setback registered in September.

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Private Securities

Corporate financing through the placement of Negotiable Obligations (ON) continued showing good performance. In October there were 13 issuances that totaled an amount of $2,572 million, the highest record of 2012 after surpassing the amount verified in September (see Chart 7.6). The behavior of the month was again influenced by two YPF issuances that reached an amount of approximately $2,000 million with terms of 2 and 4 years. Unlike the previous month, this time the placements of the
# Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 14

corporate oil company were denominated in dollars but
payable in pesos at the time of service and accrued
interest rates of 5% and 6.25%. Likewise, the Financial
Entities sector issued throughout the month a

**Graph 7.6**
**Corporate Bond Issuance**
thousands of
millions of $ millions of $ Quantity
400 25
5.5 Average amount per placement
350 Quantity of placements (right axis)
300 20
5.0 total amount of $194 million, followed by Other Financial
Monto in Dollars 250 15
4.5 200 Activities, Securities and Insurance and the agri-
Amount in Pesos 150 10
4.0
100 cultural sector with issuances of $165 million and $131
5
3.5 50
million, respectively.
0 0
3.0 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12

2.5

2.0 Although an increase in the amount placed in dollars

1.5 was observed compared to previous months, in October

1.0 the majority of issuances were again carried out in local

0.5
0.0 currency, and in 67% of cases they will accrue a variable
Oct-06 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12
rate equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus

Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg a margin. Only three placements at fixed rates in pesos
were recorded with a maturity that did not exceed one
year in duration.

The yield required by investors for Negotiable Obliga-
tions issuances increased slightly. Indeed, following
the trend recorded in previous months, the cut-off rate
of securities in pesos at variable rate (rating higher
than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years) stood
at 19.2%, 0.9 p.p above the level recorded in September.
**Graph 7.7**
Likewise, the average cut-off rate of fixed rate issuances
Cut-off Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos
(rating higher than Arg BBB+) stood at 19%, 1.9 p.p
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $
more than in the previous month (see Graph 7.7). In this
30 3,000
case the increase was particularly relevant as a conse-
Amount placed at fixed rate
25 Amount placed at variable rate 2,500 quence of the fact that the September level was excep-
Cut-off rate of variable rate securities *
tionally low due to the placement carried out by YPF.
20 BADLAR of private banks 2,000
Cut-off rate of fixed rate securities **
15 1,500 **Mutual Investment Funds**

10 1,000 In October the assets of Mutual Investment Funds
5 500 (FCI) in national and foreign currency showed an
0 0 important increase. At the end of the month it stood
Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12
at $45,090 million, 12.2% ($4,920 million) above the
(*) With rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating higher than Arg BBB+.
balance recorded in September. This performance is
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC
explained by the behavior recorded in FCI in pesos, which
grew 13% ($4,940 million).

**Graph 7.8**
thousands of Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos thousands of
millions of $ (monthly variation) millions of $ Driven by the increase in the quantity of shares
6.0 50
subscribed, Money Market funds in pesos contributed
 Fixed Income
5.0 45
Money Market
64% of the monthly growth of FCI in pesos (see Graph
 Mixed Return 40
4.0  Variable Return 35 7.8). In October they registered an increase of 22.8%
Stock evolution (right axis)
3.0 30 ($3,160 million) compared to September, contributing
2.0 25 positively to the dynamism recorded in fixed-term
20
1.0 deposits of $1 million and more (see Monetary
15
0.0 Aggregates section). After two months with relatively
10
-1.0 5 modest behavior, fixed income FCI expanded 9.6%
-2.0 0 ($1,740 million), driven by the greater quantity of shares.
Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12
Although to a lesser extent, funds that invest in
Source: CAFCI and BCRA
# Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 15

mixed-income assets continued to contribute positively to the segment's performance, increasing by 1.6% ($80 million). Meanwhile, the variable-income segment recorded a decline of 3.4% ($36 million) as a consequence of the behavior registered in the stock market.

With respect to profitability, fixed-income and Money Market funds registered gains of 0.8%. In third place were the mixed-income funds which registered a monthly return of 0.6%. Meanwhile, variable-income funds verified losses of 3.7%, in line with the performance registered in the Merval.

The equity of the FCI in foreign currency decreased in October by 2.5% (US$10 million), placing it at US$467 million. The performance of fixed-income funds in dollars explained most of the decrease.

Chart 7.9

Issuances of Financial Trusts | Financial Trusts¹²

million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) | units
1,600 | 45 | In October the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled $1,050 million, excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works and productive projects (see Chart 7.9). Said amount was lower than that of recent months due to the smaller number of issuances registered in the month (12 operations were carried out, compared to 17-18 monthly operations between July and September). On the other hand, the Ministry of Production of the Province of Chaco placed $25 million in order to promote livestock activity within the framework of the Chaco Livestock Plan (PGCH). The latter was created in 2010 with the objective of implementing, with contributions from the public budget, a livestock policy of breeding stock retention and genetic improvement. The issuance constitutes an additional source of financing to comply with the PGCH.

Among the settlors, retail trade stood out by issuing $400 million, an amount similar to the previous month and considerably lower than that registered in August. Meanwhile, financial entities placed $330 million in October, half that of September. For their part, mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers placed $290 million, somewhat less than last month. The remainder corresponded to issuances by agricultural sector companies that securitized commercial credits for approximately $60 million and to the FF of the public sector, whose trust assets correspond to certain livestock assets, funds and credits that make up the Livestock Trust Fund created by

¹² Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 16

Decree 2582/04. The remaining issuances were backed exclusively by personal loans.

Chart 7.10

Senior Titles Cut Rates in Pesos
Annual rate; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)

The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos registered an increase, in line with the evolution of BADLAR private banks (see Chart 7.10). In effect, the cut-off rate (average weighted by amount) of BADLAR private banks for titles with variable income registered a slight increase of 0.1 p.p. and was placed at 16.8%. In the segment with fixed income, the cut-off rate (average weighted by amount) was 18.7%, showing an increase
16.8
15 of 2 p.p. with respect to September. In said segment, the transaction corresponding to the FF of Livestock Production of Chaco was recorded, whose cut-off rate was 21.3%, substantially higher than that of the rest of the fixed-rate emissions, in line with the longer average term of this emission, of approximately 1 year.

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 178. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Oct-12 Monthly Last 12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Oct-11
months

Monetary Base 265,214 261,624 210,100 191,897 1.4% 38.2%
Monetary Circulation 203,874 200,992 165,181 149,277 1.4% 36.6%
Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 183,920 180,682 144,288 131,509 1.8% 39.9%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 19,951 20,309 20,891 17,766 -1.8% 12.3%
Cancellation Checks 2 1 2 0 79.6% -
Current account at the BCRA 61,340 60,632 44,919 42,620 1.2% 43.9%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities 17,134 17,261 12,071 9,860 -0.7% 73.8%
Assets 00026

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
In pesos 73,836 70,134 22,782 28,717 5.3% 157.1%

NOBAC 18,091 21,245 44,889 50,097 -14.8% -63.9%

BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 45,076 45,228 45,983 48,038 -0.3% -6.2%

Deposits from the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 491,366 484,465 382,886 374,113 1.4% 31.3%
Current account (2) 128,599 127,153 106,893 100,677 1.1% 27.7%
Savings account 91,734 91,889 73,673 68,773 -0.2% 33.4%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 252,271 246,815 185,534 188,691 2.2% 33.7%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 8 8 10 10 -3.2% -22.6%
Other deposits (3) 18,754 18,600 16,776 15,962 0.8% 17.5%

Deposits from the private sector 343,583 337,453 262,112 246,930 1.8% 39.1%

Deposits from the public sector 147,783 147,012 120,774 127,183 0.5% 16.2%

Deposits from the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 9,043 8,984 13,158 15,875 0.7% -43.0%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 346,084 337,538 268,587 252,929 2.5% 36.8%

Loans to the private sector 313,143 305,484 241,211 227,739 2.5% 37.5%
Advances 45,605 45,952 30,930 29,532 -0.8% 54.4%
Documents 66,608 63,094 51,144 50,277 5.6% 32.5%
Mortgages 32,398 31,716 26,835 24,971 2.2% 29.7%
Pledged loans 20,311 19,616 16,397 15,389 3.5% 32.0%
Personal loans 71,343 69,638 58,115 55,130 2.4% 29.4%
Credit cards 50,483 49,375 39,942 35,527 2.2% 42.1%
Others 26,396 26,092 17,847 16,912 1.2% 56.1%

Loans to the public sector 32,941 32,054 27,377 25,190 2.8% 30.8%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 5,925 6,337 9,607 9,725 -6.5% -39.1%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 312,522 307,836 251,183 232,188 1.5% 34.6%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 404,256 399,725 324,857 300,961 1.1% 34.3%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 675,289 665,148 527,177 505,624 1.5% 33.6%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 718,061 707,103 583,612 572,666 1.5% 25.4%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public+ cancellation checks in pesos+ private current 275,458 270,372 218,627 203,246 1.9% 35.5%
account in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 360,910 356,202 288,231 266,876 1.3% 35.2%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 527,505 518,136 406,402 378,441 1.8% 39.4%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 565,087 555,938 458,029 440,718 1.6% 28.2%
Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 18 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2012 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.590 1.4% 13.111 5.2% 55.114 26.2% 73.317 38.2%
 Financial sector 309 0.1% 2.324 0.9% -2.432 -1.2% -4.098 -2.1%
 Public sector 2.190 0.8% 10.671 4.2% 28.131 13.4% 35.283 18.4%
 Private external sector 494 0.2% 1.412 0.6% 41.562 19.8% 41.100 21.4%
 BCRA Securities 708 0.3% -673 -0.3% -10.846 -5.2% 2.361 1.2%
 Others -110 0.0% -623 -0.2% -1.301 -0.6% -1.330 -0.7%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -152 -0.3% -1.571 -3.4% -907 -2.0% -2.962 -6.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 105 0.2% 305 0.7% 9.472 20.6% 9.350 19.5%
 Payment to international organizations -90 -0.2% -36 -0.1% -4 0.0% 151 0.3%
 Other operations of the public sector -505 -1.1% -832 -1.8% -1.171 -2.5% -1.155 -2.4%
 Minimum cash 527 1.2% 1.015 2.2% -279 -0.6% -2.503 -5.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -190 -0.4% -2.024 -4.3% -8.925 -19.4% -8.806 -18.3%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.2 12.2 12.3
 Integration 12.4 12.4 12.4
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.1
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 63.4 62.2 59.4
 30 to 59 days 22.8 24.5 26.2
 60 to 89 days 7.7 6.2 7.6
 90 to 179 days 4.3 5.4 4.9
 More than 180 days 1.8 1.8 1.9

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.9 20.0 20.1
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 78.0 72.2 67.0
 Position (2) 58.1 52.1 46.9
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 53.2 55.1 55.9
 30 to 59 days 22.0 22.4 22.2
 60 to 89 days 10.2 9.3 10.0
 90 to 179 days 12.1 10.8 9.4
 180 to 365 days 2.3 2.3 2.5
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 19 Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 10.18 9.91 9.81 9.99 11.45
 Amount traded 1.386 1.491 1.405 1.126 1.452

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30 days 13.25 11.89 12.28 14.74 12.91
 60 days or more 14.46 13.45 13.51 16.50 14.32
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.91 11.60 11.15 14.76 13.95
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.91 14.27 13.93 18.75 17.59

 In dollars
 30 days 0.58 0.54 0.52 0.33 0.28
 60 days or more 1.01 1.11 1.11 0.69 0.60
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.78 0.75 0.64 0.43 0.40
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.95 0.86 0.94 0.63 0.52

 Active Interest Rates Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 15.02 14.89 13.43 15.98 14.96
 Amount traded (total terms) 238 253 244 226 232
# Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21.44 21.07 20.80 26.78 21.85
 Documents on sole signature 17.88 17.85 18.42 22.15 18.20
 Mortgage loans 16.44 16.24 14.83 16.52 15.06
 Secured loans 20.53 20.96 21.15 25.10 20.47
 Personal loans 33.64 34.28 34.18 36.46 31.47
 Credit cards n/a 34.58 34.70 33.15 31.74

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14.18 13.49 13.20 22.56 18.18

 International Interest Rates Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

LIBOR
 1 month 0.21 0.22 0.24 0.28 0.24
 6 months 0.58 0.67 0.72 0.78 0.60

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.27 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.27
 10 years 1.72 1.70 1.66 1.96 2.13

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.32 7.50 7.93 11.00 11.78

(1) The data up to June 2010 corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards corresponds to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 20 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.27 9.29 9.19 9.13 9.88
 7 days 9.51 9.50 9.50 9.56 9.70

Traded amount of REPO round repos (daily average) 10.459 9.299 10.309 8.454 8.052

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a 12.00 n/a n/a
 3 months 12.44 12.33 11.90 n/a 13.97
 9 months 14.21 14.10 n/a n/a 14.10
 12 months 14.93 14.51 14.30 14.26 n/a

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a -1.99 -1.94 n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks -1.88 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.08
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.50

Traded amount of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 716 662 605 378 451

 Foreign Exchange Market Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.73 4.67 4.61 4.29 4.22
 Retail 4.74 4.68 4.62 4.29 4.23

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.82 4.75 4.71 4.36 4.32
 ROFEX 1 month 4.80 4.73 4.68 4.33 4.25
 Traded amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 1.048 976 1011 904 1581

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.33 2.30 2.27 2.33 2.39

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 6.14 6.01 5.72 5.64 5.79

 Capital Market Oct-12 Sep-12 Aug-12 Dec-11 Oct-11

MERVAL
 Index 2.414 2.456 2.432 2.488 2.653
 Traded amount (millions of pesos) 32 41 51 39 89

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 120.82 122.68 121.56 98.40 96.59
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 108.83 103.11 98.47 81.40 83.01
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.93 93.41 93.06 86.93 84.72
 DISCOUNT ($) 47.78 45.64 44.83 51.96 52.59

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.121 1.090 1.261 980 1.055
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 336 358 370 409 414

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 21

## 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Stock Price Index.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**VCP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | October 2012 | BCRA | 22
