# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
November 2012

Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 12

 Stocks | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 14

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Investment Mutual Funds | Page 15

 Financial Trusts | Page 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

9. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on December 12, 2012. All figures are provisional and
 subject to revision

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 21. Summary1

• In the month of November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) increased 2.6% and
reached an average monthly balance of $692,780 million. Among its components, both fixed-term
deposits and means of payment showed increases. In particular, fixed-term deposits from the private
sector grew 3.2% in the month, with significant increases observed both in the wholesale segment
(3.6%) and in the segment of less than $1 million (2.7%). In this way, the year-over-year growth of
fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector stood at 50.6%, which represents a historically
elevated variation.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to be the main factor in the expansion of the
money supply. In November they grew 3.9% ($12,300 million), accelerating their monthly growth
rate. The November increase was one of the largest of the year and of those observed in the same
month in previous years. This led to the year-over-year variation rate being placed at 38.7%, 1.2
percentage points above that of October.

• In November a new auction was held under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
On this occasion $480 million were auctioned, of which $450 million were awarded. In this way,
the total funds awarded since the beginning of the program amounts to $5,578 million. Meanwhile,
the total funds disbursed reaches $3,746 million. For its part, within the framework of the "Line of
credits for productive investment" (Communication A 5319), between July and November financial
entities would have disbursed approximately $9,500 million, an amount equivalent to 64% of the
credits to be placed.

• The liquidity ratio of the local currency segment (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the
current account of financial entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, and the holding
of LEBACs and NOBACs, in terms of deposits) decreased 0.3 percentage points with respect to
October, to 34.5%. This decrease took place in a context where loans to the private sector accelerated
their growth rate.

• In the month of November, the short-term passive interest rates paid by private entities main-
tained an upward trend. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private banks – the interest
rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged 15.3%, increasing 0.4
percentage points in the month. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their
fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a similar monthly increase,
averaging 13%.
• Active interest rates showed disparate behavior. The interest rate for overdrafts in current accounts was located at 21.6%, while that for promissory notes averaged 18.1% in November, with increases in the margin in both cases. For its part, the interest rate for pawn loans decreased 0.8 p.p. and averaged 19.7% in the month, accumulating a decline of 5.4 p.p. in what has elapsed of 2012.

• Excluding issues intended to finance infrastructure works, the placement of financial trusts reached in November the highest value of recent years, totaling $1,500 million, 45% above the issues registered in October. Among the trust grantors, mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers, financial entities and retail merchants stood out.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

% Monetary Aggregates - M3 % 2. Monetary Aggregates¹
5 (variation of monthly averages) 50

Monthly variation of M3
4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40 In November, the broader peso aggregate (M3 2)
35.1
presented an increase of 2.6% (see Chart 2.1) and
3 2.630 reached a monthly average balance of $692,780 million.

2.1
2 1.5 20 Driven mainly by deposits belonging to the private
1.4
0.8 sector, the M3 presented year-on-year growth of
1 10
35.1%, 1.6 p.p. greater than that registered in

0 0 October.

-1 -10

-1.3 Regarding private M3³, and as has been occurring since
-2 -20
Nov-07 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12mid-year, its increase was explained fundamentally by
loans in pesos to the private sector (see Chart 2.2). On
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA the side of its components, both means of payment
(private M2) and fixed-term deposits showed increases.

Fixed-term deposits registered a monthly increase of
Chart 2.2 3.2%, which was similar to that in October (see Chart

thousands Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates 2.3). By distinguishing by amount bracket, increases are
of millions of $ (November 2012, in average) verified in the deposits of the wholesale segment (of
14 $1 million and above; 3.6%) and in those of less
M3 Private than $1 million (2.7%; see Chart 2.3). In year-on-year
12
terms, the growth of fixed-term deposits was located at
10
50.6%, remaining at historically elevated levels.

8

6 In the foreign currency segment, the monthly average
balance of total deposits presented growth of 3.1%, with
4
increases in placements belonging to the public sector
2 that more than offset the decrease in those of the pri-
vate sector. It should be recalled that as a consequence
0
Purchases of Public Sector* Loans to S.M2 Private Dep. at Term of prudential policies implemented in recent years, the
Foreign Currency Private and Others Priv. Argentine financial system presents a very reduced level of

*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector. currency mismatch that allowed it to return without
Source: BCRA difficulty all deposits that were requested.

Chart 2.3 Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which includes
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector currency in circulation, cancellation checks and the
% (variations of monthly averages) November - Avg. Monthly Var. total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
More than $1 million (expressed in pesos), showed an increase of 3.3%.
7 50.6 56 %
8 Finalmente, el agregado más amplio, M3*, que incluye
6 48
6 el circulante en poder del público, los cheques cancela-
5 4.1 40 3.6
4.0 4 torios y el total de depósitos en pesos y en moneda ex-
4 3.232
2.8 2 2006 tranjera (expresados en pesos), mostró un aumento de
3 24 0 2007

2 16 2008 3.3%.
-2 2009
10.6 8 Less than $1 million
% 2010
0 0 4 2.7 2011

-1 -8 2 2012
-2 -16 0
 Monthly Variation
 Year-on-year Variation (right axis)-2
 -3 -24
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12-2.9-4

Source: BCRA -6

2 Includes currency in circulation in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos*
 deposits (monthly average)

 45 In a context in which loans to the private sector

 40 accelerated their growth rate, the liquidity ratio

 34.5 (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, the
 35 % of Components

 current account deposits of entities at the Central Bank,
 Cash CC at BCRA
 40 Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs
 30 net repos with such entity, and the holdings of LEBAC
 35

 30 and NOBAC, in terms of deposits) decreased 0.3
 25 25
 p.p. with respect to October. The decline was verified in
 20
 20 15 longer-term assets (holdings of LEBAC and NO-

 10
 BAC) and was partially offset by the other components
 15 5

 0 of bank liquidity. In this way, the liquidity ratio
 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12
 10 averaged 34.5% in the month (see Chart 3.1).
 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.

 Financial entities would have ended the month with
 a surplus in the Minimum Cash position equivalent
 to 0.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2). By
 Chart 3.2 bank group, both public and private banks would have
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos complied with the requirement. November was the second
 % of
 deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position month since the entry into force of the new reserve
 2.0
 requirement scheme, aimed at promoting financial

 1.5 services in areas with lower economic potential and

 1.0 population density. In December, the gradual reduction
 of the coefficients will continue, and the limit of
 0.5
 deduction of computable cash4. Additionally, an addi-
 0.2
 0.0 tional reduction of the requirement will begin based on

 -0.5 the participation of financing for Micro, Small and
 Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) in the total finan-
 -1.0 cing in pesos to the private sector.

 -1.5
 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 In the foreign currency segment, the liquidity ratio aver-
Source: BCRA
 aged 89.4% in November. With respect to the previous
 month, an increase of 3.5 p.p. was verified, explained
 Chart 4.1 mainly by the cancellation of loans in foreign currency.

 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 6 (average monthly variation) % 60 4. Loans1 5

 Monthly Var. %
 5 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 50 Loans in pesos to the private sector presented in

 3.9 38.7 November an increase of 3.9% ($12,300 million),
 4 3.6 3.9 40
 3.3 3.1
 accelerating their monthly growth rate after several
 3 30
 months of moderation in their growth pace (see Chart

 2 20 4.1). The November increase was one of the largest of
 1.3
 1 10 the year and those observed in the same month of previ-
 0.4
 ous years. This led the year-on-year rate of change that
 0 0
 had been decelerating since the end of the previous year,

-1 -10 to stop its trend by standing at 38.7%, 1.2 p.p. above

 Nov-06 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 that of October.

Source: BCRA
4 "Computable cash" is called the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements in the past March and that as of April can be deducted from the requirement in pesos.

5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.

Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.2 Although increases were observed in all lines, those
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector instrumented with documents led the monthly increase
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of November) and financing aimed mainly at
5 Real Guarantee consumption. When considering the contribution of each one
4 Credit Cards of the lines to the month's growth, it is verified that docu-
0.7 0.8 0.6 ments made the main contribution (1.2 p.p.), by
3 0.4 0.7 0.5 1.1 above what was observed in previous years. In second
0.4 0.8 Personal place were credit cards, which also
2 1.4 1.3 1.0 0.6 0.7 contributed to the month's growth to a greater extent
0.1 1.0 0.6 0.4 0.5 0.3 Other financ. than in other years. For their part, personal loans
1 commercial showed a contribution similar to that of previous years (see
0.3 0.5 1.2 Graph 4.2).
0.7 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.2
0 -0.2 0.0 0.3 Documents Within the lines intended for financing business
-0.8 activity, advances grew 1.6% ($710
-1 0.0 Advances million); after registering a decrease in the last
-2 month. When distinguishing by type of advance, it is verified
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 that both those made in current account and "Other
Source: BCRA advances" registered an increase, contributing to the line's
increase in a similar magnitude.

Graph 4.3 For their part, financings instrumented through
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % documents maintained a high rate of expansion,
14 (average monthly variation) 70 with an increase in November of 5.7%
12 Avg. monthly var. 60 ($3,810 million). This increase was similar to that of
10 Year-over-year var. (right axis) 50 October and the highest of recent years for November,
8 40 which allowed a new acceleration in the year-over-year
6 5.7 30 rate of change (6.9 p.p. reaching 39.4%;
4.1 see Graph 4.3). As has been occurring since June, the
4 2.7 20 contribution to monthly growth of documents signed
2.0 1.9 by one party alone continues to be significantly higher
2 0.5 10 than that of the rest of the documents, behavior that is not
0 0 observed in the same month of previous years (see Graph
-0.2 -10 4.4). At least two factors would continue driving docu-
-2 -20 ments signed by one party alone. On one hand, the
Nov-06 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 concentration of a large part of the loans that were
Source: SISCEN previously channeled in the foreign currency segment.
On the other hand, credits linked to the Bicentennial
Graph 4.4 Line and to the "Credit line for productive investment"
Contribution to monthly growth (granted under Circular A 5319).
%
12 Other documents In November, a new auction was held within the
Documents signed by one party framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing
10 Program (PFPB). On this occasion $480 million were
8 auctioned, of which $450 million were awarded. In this
6 way, the total funds awarded since the beginning of the
4 program amounts to $5,578 million. Meanwhile, the
2 total funds disbursed reaches $3,746 million, which
0 represents approximately 67% of the total funds
-2 awarded. When distinguishing the amounts disbursed
by destination, it is observed that program resources are
directed mainly to the acquisition of machinery, equipment
and other capital goods, and to the
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov
 construction and remodeling. Together, said destina-
 November 2012

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.5 tions concentrate 85% of the total amount disbursed
 by the program (see Chart 4.5).

 Bicentennial Advances
 (amounts disbursed by destination) With respect to financing associated princi-
 Construction, pally to families, personal loans regis-
 remodeling, improvement and tered in November an increase of 3.3% ($2,300 milli-
 expansion on), maintaining its relatively stable monthly expansion
 42% rate. For its part, financing arrangements imple-
 mented with credit cards registered an increase
 of 6.9% ($3,490 million), an increase that was the
 Purchase Vehicles highest of the last years for November (see
 2% Purchase Real Estate Chart 4.6).
 Purchase machinery, 0%
 equipment and other bs Other
 capital 43% 13%

 Source: BCRA

 Within the framework of the "Credit line for productive
 investment" (Communication A 5319), between July and No-
 vember financial entities would have disbursed approxi-
 mately $9,500 million, an amount equivalent to 64% of
 the credits to be placed. Likewise, favored by the impulse
 from this line, financing with real guarantee grew above
 the previous months. In effect, mortgage loans accelerated
 their monthly expansion rate compared to what they had
 been showing during the previous months. In November,
 they registered growth of 2.8% ($900 million) which was
 the highest of the year (see Chart 4.7). Similarly, loans
 with pledge guarantee continued increasing their monthly

 Chart 4.6 growth rate, registering in November an increase of
 4.3% ($880 million).
 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 9 90 Financing granted by financial entities
 Avg. monthly variation under the form of leasing contracts6 has been showing
 8 Year-over-year var. (right axis) 80 in recent months an upward trend. In effect,
 6.9
 7 70 according to the latest available information, finan-
 6.0
 6 60 cing instruments implemented through leasing
 operations registered in October an increase of 3% ($190 mi-
 5 50 llion; see Chart 4.8), accumulating in the last three
 4.1
 43.2 40 months an increase of 5.6% ($350 million). The incipient
 3 2.3 2.6 30 dynamism shown by said financing would be driven
 2.2
 2 20 by the "Credit line for productive investment" (Communica-
 tion A 5319), since part of these loans would be channeled
 1 10 through leasing operations.

 0 0 Loans in foreign currency to the private sector,
-1 -10 destined mainly to pre-financing of exports, showed
 Nov-06 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12
Source: BCRA a decrease of 4.8% (U$S 280 million) in the month and
 of 42.6% year-over-year. However, since mid-August
 a decreasing trend has been observed in the daily rate
 Chart 4.7 of decline. In effect, while in July the daily average
 reduction reached approximately
 % Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 5 (monthly and year-over-year variation) 50

 4 Monthly variation 40 Chart 4.8
 Year-over-year var. (right axis)
 Avg. annual monthly variation
 3 2.830
 2.6
 2.1 2.1
 2 20
 1.2

 1 10

 0.2

 0 0

-1 -10
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12

Source: BCRA

6 It comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable) leased to third parties, especially acquired by the entity at
the request of the latter, for which the lessee pays periodically and for the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral right
to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value. The information corresponds to end-of-month data.

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 7 Chart 4.8 of in July the daily average reduction reached close
Financial Leasing of Goods in Dollars of US$44 million, fell to around US$24 million in August-September, dropping to US$14.5 million in October, to be positioned at values close to US$8 million in November (see Graph 4.9). This moderation takes place in a context of stabilization in the flow of decline of deposits in foreign currency and stability in the interest rate charged for demand notes (the main line that represents around 80% of the total loans in foreign currency).

Within the financing in foreign currency and distinguishing loans by economic activity, it is verified that the manufacturing industry and primary production receive the largest part of the resources in foreign currency, concentrating between both sectors more than 80% of the total. The latest available information shows that foreign currency financing to said productive sectors continued to decline in September. This behavior reflects a marked contrast with what was observed in the peso segment, showing a substitution of foreign currency loans for peso financing. In fact, loans in pesos to primary activity and manufacturing showed significant increases in the second and third quarter. In particular, between June and September they grew 16.5% ($ 4,800 million) and 14.8% ($ 6,400 million), respectively, registering in year-over-year terms a growth of 49% and 44% in one and the other case.

5. Interest Rates 7

Securities Issued by the Central Bank8

In November the interest rates of the Central Bank securities auctions remained relatively stable. LEBACs continued to concentrate the largest part of the awarded amount and did not register modifications in interest rates. The placements made during the month had shorter terms. The interest rate of the shortest LEBAC, which corresponded to a 30-day term, was located at 11.3%, while the one that corresponded to the species with maturity around 700 days reached 16.8% (see Graph 5.1). For its part, the interest rate cut of the NOBACs rose 0.2 p.p., in a period where only one placement of this type of securities was registered in the primary market.

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.2 Following the trend registered in the last twelve months, the placements of LEBAC resulted
thousands of thousands of thousands of again higher than the maturities and the stock
 millions $ LEBAC NOBACmillions $millions $
18 90 8 90 nominal monthly average increased 2.1% ($1,540
 More than 360 days More than 24 months
 From 271 to 360 days 24 months
 From 181 to 270 days Between 18 and 24 months millions) reaching $75,370 millions. Meanwhile, the
16 80 7 18 months 80
 From 91 to 180 days Between 12 and 18 months
 Up to 90 days 12 months amount awarded of NOBAC was meager (it reached
14 70 Between 6 and 12 months
 Balance at end of month (right axis) 6 6 months 70
 Maturities Less than 6 $10 millions) and was lower than the amount that matured, so
12 Balance at end of month (right axis)
 60 5 Maturities 60
10 the stock of notes continued to decrease to

 50 4 50 $15,480 millions (see Chart 5.2). Thus, the stock
 8
 6 40 3 40 nominal monthly average of Central Bank securities
 4 30 2 30
 decreased to $90,850 millions, explained by the

 2 20 1 20 decrease in holdings of public banks.

 0 10 0 10
 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC
Source: BCRA
 increased slightly, observing in the shorter
 terms differences of around 1 p.p between the maximum
 and minimum interest rate (see Chart 5.3); the daily
 average amount operated of LEBAC reached $800
 millions, $90 millions higher than the level recorded the
 previous month. For its part, in line with the
 behavior recorded in the primary market, the
 Chart 5.3 amount operated of NOBAC decreased again and was
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Secondary Market
 TNA % (monthly average rate) placed at an average of $25 millions daily.
 15

 Range of rates recorded only in November
 14 Range of rates recorded in both October and November 13.5 13.5 13.713.8
 November Central Bank Repurchase Operations1
 12.8 13.0 13.213.5
 13 October 12.6 13.3

 12.4 12.7 12.7 12.9
 12.1 In November there were no changes in the interest rates
 12 11.7 12.3 12.4
 11.4 12.0
 of the Central Bank's repurchase operations.
 10.9 11.4 11.6
 11 10.6 11.1 Indeed, the interest rates of passive repurchases at 1 and
 10.8
 10.0 10.5
 10 9.8 10.2 7 days remained at 9% and 9.5%; while the

 9.7
 9.4 interest rates of active repurchases for the same terms
 9
 Days remained at 11% and 11.5% respectively.

 8
 <10102030405060708090100110120130140150
 Note: the sum of both areas of interest rate range represent the difference between the maximum and minimum rate recorded in November.The monthly average stock of passive repurchases in all
Source: BCRA
 trading sessions in which the institution participates grew 3.6%
 being placed at $17,750 millions, as a consequence of the
 performance recorded in the operations of the banks.

 Interbank Markets1

 Chart 5.4
 Interbank Market
 thousands of (operations at 1 business day)
 millions of $ TNA % the interest rates in the interbank market contin-
 6.0 12.0
 Amount operated REPO trading session excluding BCRA ued with a slight upward trend. The average interest rate
 Amount operated Call
 5.0 Interest rate REPO trading session excluding BCRA (right axis) 11.0 of operations at 1 business day between financial entities
 Interest rate Call (right axis)
 in the guaranteed market (REPO trading session), where
 4.0 10.0
 the largest volume of operations is concentrated, was
 3.0 9.0 placed at 9.9%, while the interest rate in the

 2.0 8.0 non-guaranteed market (call) in the same segment of
 1.0 7.0 operations was placed at 10.1% (see Chart 5.4).

 0.0 6.0
 Nov-09 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12
Source: BCRA In this way, the spread between both interest rates
 was maintained, a situation that has been verified since October. This
 behavior occurs in a context where in the call
 market a greater demand for funds is observed by Non-Bank Financial Entities
# Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 9

**Graph 5.5** (EFNB), mainly in entities whose assets are destined to grant pawn loans (see Graph 5.5).

**Non-Banking Financial Entities in the Call Market**
These entities, which capture resources at an interest rate 1 p.p. higher than the market average, registered a creditor position of $200 million in November (see Graph 5.6), and captured resources mainly from national and foreign private entities.

For its part, the amount traded in call remained relatively stable around $1,400 million, while in the repo round it grew $440 million to reach $3,100 million, where the behavior of public banks stood out as fund providers.

**Millions of $ (monthly average net position by group)**

[Graph 5.5 data showing Pawn Items and Other Items from Nov-09 to Nov-12]

Source: BCRA

---

## **Passive Interest Rates¹**

In November, the short-term interest rates paid by private financial entities registered monthly increases, continuing with the upward trend that began in June.

**Graph 5.6**
**Call Market**
Millions of $ (monthly average net position by group of entities)

[Graph 5.6 data showing EFNB, Public, Private National, and Foreign entities from Nov-09 to Nov-12]

Source: BCRA

In effect, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged 15.3% in November, increasing 0.4 p.p. during the month. However, the BADLAR is still 3.5 p.p. below the level observed in December 2011 (see Graph 5.7).

With respect to the BADLAR futures market, a lower amount was traded than observed in October, when it had reached a high level. As in previous months, operations concentrated in short-term instruments (in November, up to 2 months maturity). The monthly average of the interest rate for contracts maturing at the end of November was placed at 15.3%, declining 0.1 p.p. compared to the same maturity in October.

**Graph 5.7**
**Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos at 30-35 days**
% Annual Nominal Rate (daily data - private banks)

[Graph 5.7 showing BADLAR and Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100,000 with monthly variations from Jun-08 to Oct-12]

Average Nov-12: 15.3% (BADLAR), 13.0% (Up to $100,000)
Average Dec-12: 18.8%
Monthly Variation: 0.4 p.p. (both rates)
Variation Dec-11: -3.5 p.p.

Source: BCRA

Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p., averaging 13% in November. In this way, since May it has accumulated an increase close to 2 p.p.

---

## **Active Interest Rates¹⁹**

Regarding loan interest rates, a moderation was observed in the increase of the rate corresponding to overdrafts in current account, which grew 0.1 p.p. during the month. In this sense, the average interest rate for the total of overdrafts in current account to the private sector was placed at 21.6% while the corresponding one for overdrafts to companies for more than

**Graph 5.8**
**Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities**

---

¹⁹ The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and origination fees nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

---

**Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 10**
TNA, % (monthly average)
30 Total Overdrafts in CC Monthly Variation $10 million and up to 7 days maturity was located at 14.3%
p.p
Overdrafts in current account for more than $10 M -1 (see Graph 5.8). For its part, the interest rate of
up to 7 days
27
discounted documents increased by 0.4 p.p. above
0
the level observed in October, and averaged
24
19%. Meanwhile, the interest rate of documents at
-1
sole signature showed a monthly increase of 0.2 p.p., after
21
having decreased in September and having remained in
-2
18 October. Thus, in November, the monthly average of the
interest rate of documents at sole signature was located
-3 15
at 18.1% (see Graph 5.9). It should be noted that this line
12 -4 Overdrafts in current account
Overdrafts for more than $10 M - up to 7 days (which like secured and mortgage loans
9 -5
includes part of the loans corresponding to the
May-08 Feb-09 Nov-09 Aug-10 May-11 Feb-12 Nov-12 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12
"Productive Investment Credit Line" and those granted
Source: BCRA
under the Bicentenary Productive Financing Program
(PFPB)), increased its participation in the amounts
Graph 5.9
operated in recent months. These loans are granted at
relatively lower rates and longer terms, which is why a
Interest Rates of Loans Financed via Documents
greater participation of the longer maturity stratum is
(monthly average)
TNA, %
Interest Rate Variation
observed (see Graph 5.10).
32 Discounted Documents
1.0 0.4 0.3
-0.5 Documents at Sole Signature
-2.0
28 -3.5 For its part, the interest rate on loans with
-5.0 -4.0
-6.5 Monthly Var. secured guarantee continued with the downward trend
24 -8.0 -6.7 Accumulated Var. in 2012 observed since the beginning of the year. In November,
DD DSF
it averaged 19.7%, decreasing 0.8 p.p. and accumulating
p.p
20 a decline of 5.4 p.p. during the year. With respect to
mortgage loans intended for families, the monthly
16
average of the interest rate was located at 16.3%, 0.2
12
p.p. above the October average. Meanwhile, the
May-08 Feb-09 Nov-09 Aug-10 May-11 Feb-12 Nov-12 interest rate of personal loans averaged
Source: BCRA
33.7%, increasing 0.1 p.p. in the month (see Graph
5.10).

Graph 5.10 International Reserves and Foreign
Participation by maturity stratum in Documents at Sole Signature
Exchange Market10
(monthly average)
Less than 90 days From 90 to 364 days More than 1 year
100%

90% International reserves remained
80%
relatively stable in November, reaching a balance of
70%
US$45,238 million on the last day of the month,
60%
50% (see Graph 6.1). This was explained by the combination
40% of several factors. On one hand, there are those that
30% implied an increase in reserves, such as the increase in
20% minimum cash accounts and the purchases of foreign
10% currency by the Central Bank in the Single and Free
0%
Exchange Market (MULC); on the other hand, those that
Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12
Source: BCRA caused a decline in reserves, fundamentally the use of the
10 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified. National Treasury accounts in the Central Bank in order to
Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 11 Graph 6.1 meet public debt payments in foreign currency.

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
55 against the U.S. dollar and the euro, while it appreciated
Nov-12
50 in relation to the real. The average quotations were 4.8
thousands of Variation Factors $/US$, (1.4% higher than in October), 6.16 $/euro (0.3%)
45 millions u$s (November 2012) and 2.32 $/real (-0.5%) respectively. In the forward market
40 0.3 (ROFEX) the average daily amount operated was
0.2
35
0.1
30 was placed at $893 million, 15% below the previous
 0.0
25 month. In turn, through the contracts entered into
-0.1

20 in this market, no modification was observed in the
 -0.2
 -0.3 expected quotations for the coming months
15 International Reserves Foreign Currency Purchase Sector Cash Other
 (Graph 6.2).

10

Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12
Source: BCRA

 7. Capital Market 9

 As in October, in November international financial
 markets continued operating with caution, conditioned by
 the delay in obtaining an agreement between Greece, the
 European authorities and the IMF, which finally occurred
 Graph 6.2 at the end of the month, added to data and economic
 estimates that were negative in Europe. Likewise, in the
 $/US$ Foreign Exchange Market Futures United States, investors focused on negotiations
 (average monthly price) related to possible fiscal adjustments at the
5.30 beginning of 2013.

5.20 Jun-12
 Sep-12
 Oct-12 Although during the last few weeks the main
 5.10 Nov-12 central banks did not adopt policy measures as
 significant as in previous months, it is worth mentioning
5.00 the measures of the Japanese and Brazilian authorities.
 The Bank of Japan launched the Loan Support Program,
4.90 through which it complemented the already existing
 Growth-Support Funding Facility with the Stimulating
4.80 Bank Lending Facility. Both lines are characterized by
 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 providing long-term funds at reduced interest rates to
Source: own elaboration based on ROFEX. the financial system; and they differ from each other in
 the funding limit (¥5.5 trillion and unlimited
 respectively) and by the recipients of said funds. For its
 part, the Central Bank of Brazil actively intervened
 through swaps to prevent excessive depreciation of the
 real.

 Graph 7.1 World Stock Indices In this international context, domestic assets
130 (in dollars; Base Index 30/11/11=100) exhibited certain volatility caused by litigation linked
120 to the restructuring of Argentine sovereign debt,
 driven by Vulture Funds in New York courts.

110
 100 MSCI- World
 MSCI-Europe Stocks
 MSCI- Latam The main stock indices closed the month with mostly
90 S&P 500
 MSCI- Emerging positive results. In the global framework, the MSCI
 global rose again, increasing 1.1%. The European
80 market, also measured through the MSCI index,
 70 continued with the upward trend recorded since mid-
 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 year and registered the largest increase of the month,
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 12 Graph 7.2 3.1%. For its part, the S&P 500, the main index of the
 Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and United States market, recorded a gain of 0.3% (see
 % Graph 7.1). In turn, the expected volatility levels
60 Eurozone continued to decline in Europe, narrowing the existing
 (VIX and VStoxx Index) gap with respect to the North American market. Indeed,
50 VIX Index (S&P 500) the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone) (Reference Index of the eurozone stock exchange) fell
40 again, this time by 1.4 percentage points to a monthly
 average of 20.4%. Meanwhile, the expected volatility
30 of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index,
 barely rose 0.3 percentage points to 16.7% (see
20 Graph 7.2).

10
 In this context, emerging variable income, measured
 0 through the MSCI index, rose 1.2%. The exception to
 this behavior was recorded in the MSCI Latin America
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 index, which fell again, this time, 1.8%. Mixed results
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data were observed in the region. On one hand, the Bovespa
 (Brazil) fell 4.2% in dollars,

 Graph 7.3
# Index in thousands Evolution of the Bovespa Index and the Real R$/US$
 driven exclusively by the depreciation of the
 55 2.2 local currency that exceeded the level around 2.03 reals

 50 2.1 per dollar that had been observed since July (see Chart 7.3).

 45 2.0 Likewise, declines were recorded in the IGBVL (Peru) and the

 40 1.9 IGPA (Chile) that fell back 2.9% and 2.8%

 35 1.8 respectively, as a consequence of the declines

 30 1.7 observed in the indices in local currency. For its part,

 25 1.6 the Mexican market, measured through the IPC index,
 rose 1.5% compared to the previous month, as
 20 Bovespa (Brazil) in dollars 1.5 a result of the increase in both the index in local
 15 Real Quotation (R$/US$) 1.4 currency and the quotation of its currency.

 10 1.3
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg In the local market, the quotation of Argentine
 equities measured through the MERVAL index
 recovered during the month and gained 2.6% in dollars as
 a result of an advance in the index in local currency
 (4.1%), product of the good performance recorded in the
 last week of the month. The behavior of the local stock
 market was not homogeneous and occurred in a
 
Chart 7.4 Evolution of the Local Stock Market context where volatility levels showed an upward
 % Index
 (in pesos) trend (see Chart 7.4). The main increases occurred in
 60 4,000 banking stocks while the largest declines were
 50 Historical volatility 22 sessions observed in companies linked to the energy sector. The
 MERVAL (right axis) 3,500 historical volatility of the MERVAL increased,
 40 ending the month at around 27%. For its part,
 3,000
 30 the trading volumes on the Buenos Aires Stock
 2,500 Exchange remained at low levels,
 20 standing at $26 million.

 10 2,000

 0 1,500
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.5 Public Securities

 Sovereign Risk Indicators
 Spread in b.p Spread in b.p
 500 1400 Like in October, the emerging fixed income quotation
 1300
 remained relatively stable. Nevertheless, the yield
 450
 1200 differentials over U.S. Treasury bonds were reduced by
 400 1100 10 b.p., according to the EMBI+, as a consequence of the
 1000 increase recorded in the treasuries rate (see Chart 7.5).
 350 900
 800
 300 700 Argentine public securities recorded some
 EMBI+ volatility affected by litigation linked to Argentine
 EMBI+ Latin America 600
 250 sovereign debt restructuring, driven by Vulture
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500
 Funds in New York courts (see Chart 7.5). At the end of
 200 400
 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 the month, EMBI+ Argentina widened by 74 b.p.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg standing at 1,144 b.p., after recording levels close to
 1,300 b.p. throughout the month.

 Private Securities

 Chart 7.6
 In November, the domestic corporate debt market
 Issuance of Corporate Bonds continued to be active. 21 issues were recorded, mainly
 billions of in local currency, for a total amount of
 pesos
 3.0 Others $2,060 million. Although the record is 20% lower
 Agricultural Sector
 Retail Trade than October, when a three-year maximum was reached,
 2.5 Real Estate Activities and Construction
 Other Financial, Stock Exchange and Insurance Activities it constitutes a historically high amount (see Chart 7.6).
 Financial Entities
 2.0 Energy
 1.5 Like in the two previous months, November's behavior
 was influenced by an issuance from YPF that placed
 1.0 $750 million at a term of just over
0.5 of 4 years. The oil company continues to be an important participant in the debt market, where it has placed $4,267 million in what has elapsed of 2012 (32% of the total).

**Source: Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg**

Likewise, after two months with low emission levels, the Financial Entities sector financed itself with $752 million, driven by the performance recorded in Non-Banking Financial Entities, with placements of $486 million. Finally, the performance recorded in the food and beverage sector stood out, which represented 20% of the total amount, as a consequence of the emission by Molinos Río de la Plata.

**Graph 7.7**
**Cut-off Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos**

**TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $**

Throughout the month the cost of financing increased in emissions at variable rate, although at a slower rate than that recorded in October. The cut-off interest rate of titles in pesos at variable rate (rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years) was located at 19.4%, registering a monthly growth of 0.4 p.p. Meanwhile, the average cut-off rate of emissions at fixed rate (rating superior to Arg BBB+) remained at 19% (see Graph 7.7).

**(*) With rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating superior to Arg BBB+.**
**Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC**

**Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 14 Graph 7.8 Investment Common Funds**

**thousands of Equity of Investment Common Funds in Pesos thousands of Following the strong advance recorded in October, the equity**
**millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $**

of Investment Common Funds (FCI) in domestic and foreign currency registered a slight decline in November. At the end of the month it was located at $44,760 million, 0.7% ($320 million) below the balance recorded the previous month. The FCI in pesos, which represent 95% of total equity, were reduced 0.9% as a consequence of the behavior recorded in Money Market funds (see Graph 7.8).

Following the growth recorded in October, the equity of Money Market funds decreased 4.2% ($720 million), with redemptions of quotas. This performance was partially offset by funds that invest in mixed income assets, which recorded increases of 6.1% ($310 million), and variable income funds which expanded 4% ($40 million). Meanwhile, fixed income funds remained stable during the month.

**Graph 7.9**
**% Estimated Performance of Assets**
**(profitability in pesos)**

Variable income funds led the monthly ranking with an approximate return of 4.3%, in line with the behavior recorded in the local stock market. Meanwhile, mixed income and fixed income funds recorded gains of 1.5% and 1.3% respectively (see Graph 7.9).

With minimal incidence in the performance of equity,
5.0 4.1 4.3 total, the FCIs in foreign currency grew 0.5%
 2.8 1.3 1.5 1.3 1.4 0.7 (US$2 million), placing themselves at US$470 million. Mixed
 0.0 income and variable income funds explained the totality
 -2 -2 of the increase.
 -5.0
 Bond Index FCI Fixed Fixed Dollar Money Variable Income Merval FCI
 IAMC Income Mixed Market Index
Source: BCRA

Financial Trusts11

In November, emissions of financial trusts (FF) totaled $1,530 million, with no emissions of trusts destined to finance infrastructure works having been registered (see Graph 7.10). Said amount

Graph 7.10
Emissions of Financial Trusts

millions $ (excluding those destined to finance infrastructure works)
1,600 Average Jan-Nov resulted in the largest of recent years, similar to that of De-
 $1,100M
1,400 cember 2011, all without considering emissions related to
 Average 2011 infrastructure projects. For its part, a monthly growth of
1,200 Average 2008 $1,050M 45% was observed in the total of emissions, an increase
 $820M partially explained by the moderate level of emission
1,000 Average 2010 Average 2007 and operations in October ($1,053 million in 12 opera-
 $730M Average 2009 $700M tions). Thus, the emissions of November placed themselves
 800 Average 2006 $550M sensibly above the average from January to November
 $580M of 2012, close to $1,100 million.

 600

 400

 200

 0
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
 Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

11 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 15 Graph 7.11 Among the settlors, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank
 credit card issuers stood out, by placing $600 million,
 Cutting Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos more than doubling the amount from October. Meanwhile,
 TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - weighted monthly average by amount) financial entities securitized $560 million in November,
 40 exhibiting a monthly increase of 70%. For their part,
 retail commerce establishments placed $330 million,
 35 Fixed Rate somewhat less than last month.
 Variable Rate
 30 BADLAR private banks The remainder corresponded to an emission of selected
 SMEs associated with agricultural production that securi-
 25 tized bills of exchange for approximately $25 million.
 20
 18.3 The interest cutting rates of senior titles in pesos with
 17.1 variable returns continued accompanying the evolution of
 15 the BADLAR private banks (see Graph 7.11). In effect,
 the cutting rate (weighted average by amount) of titles
 10 with variable returns registered a slight increase (0.3 p.p)
 5 with respect to October and placed itself at 17.1%. In
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 the segment with fixed returns, the cutting rate (weighted
 average by amount) placed itself at 18.3%, registering a
Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and others decrease of 0.4 p.p. It should be noted that under this mo-
 dality, only four operations were registered.

Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 16

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Nov-12 Monthly Last 12 Oct-12 Dec-11 Nov-11
 months

 Monetary Base 271,961 265,214 210,100 196,055 2.5% 38.7%
 Monetary Circulation 207,564 203,874 165,181 152,703 1.8% 35.9%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 186,412 183,928 144,288 135,323 1.4% 37.8%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 21,150 19,943 20,891 17,377 6.1% 21.7%
 Canceling Checks 2 2 2 0 5.0% -
 Current Account at the BCRA 64,397 61,340 44,919 43,352 5.0% 48.5%

 Stock of Passes
 Liabilities 17,749 17,134 12,071 9,797 3.6% 81.2%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value) 90,852 91,927 67,672 73,075 -1.2% 24.3%
 In banks 79,610 80,838 59,351 65,064 -1.5% 22.4%
LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repo operations)
 In pesos 75,374 73,836 22,782 25,619 2.1% 194.2%

 NOBAC 15,478 18,091 44,889 47,455 -14.4% -67.4%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 45,316 45,076 45,983 46,465 0.5% -2.5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 506,363 491,369 382,886 377,382 3.1% 34.2%
 Current account (2) 138,935 128,611 106,893 100,636 8.0% 38.1%
 Savings account 93,883 91,736 73,673 67,234 2.3% 39.6%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 253,733 252,261 185,534 193,552 0.6% 31.1%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 7 8 10 10 -6.1% -27.3%
 Other deposits (3) 19,805 18,753 16,776 15,950 5.6% 24.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 353,834 343,576 262,112 251,725 3.0% 40.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 152,529 147,793 120,774 125,657 3.2% 21.4%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,320 9,043 13,158 14,145 3.1% -34.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 358,336 346,161 268,587 261,682 3.5% 36.9%

 Loans to the private sector 325,295 313,225 241,211 234,463 3.9% 38.7%
 Advances 46,310 45,597 30,930 30,137 1.6% 53.7%
 Documents 70,433 66,620 51,144 50,534 5.7% 39.4%
 Mortgages 33,302 32,398 26,835 25,989 2.8% 28.1%
 Pledges 21,190 20,311 16,397 16,180 4.3% 31.0%
 Personal loans 73,415 71,334 58,115 57,169 2.9% 28.4%
 Credit cards 54,093 50,571 39,942 36,990 7.0% 46.2%
 Others 26,553 26,394 17,847 17,464 0.6% 52.0%

 Loans to the public sector 33,041 32,936 27,377 27,219 0.3% 21.4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,641 5,924 9,607 9,893 -4.8% -43.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account) 325,349 312,542 251,183 235,961 4.1% 37.9%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 419,232 404,278 324,857 303,195 3.7% 38.3%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 692,777 675,300 527,177 512,707 2.6% 35.1%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 737,474 718,072 583,612 572,978 2.7% 28.7%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 281,750 275,472 218,627 207,473 2.3% 35.8%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 368,151 360,927 288,231 271,347 2.0% 35.7%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 540,248 527,506 406,402 387,051 2.4% 39.6%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 577,611 565,088 458,029 442,615 2.2% 30.5%

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2012 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 6,747 2.5% 14,175 5.5% 61,861 29.4% 75,906 38.7%
 Financial sector -440 -0.2% 1,161 0.5% -2,872 -1.4% -4,876 -2.5%
 Public sector 4,655 1.8% 10,414 4.0% 32,786 15.6% 37,338 19.0%
 Private external sector 614 0.2% 1,447 0.6% 42,176 20.1% 47,457 24.2%
 BCRA securities 2,055 0.8% 1,596 0.6% -8,791 -4.2% -2,468 -1.3%
 Others -137 -0.1% -443 -0.2% -1,438 -0.7% -1,545 -0.8%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 240 0.5% 101 0.2% -667 -1.4% -1,149 -2.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 129 0.3% 307 0.7% 9,601 20.9% 10,835 23.3%
 Payment to international organizations -28 -0.1% -121 -0.3% -31 -0.1% 77 0.2%
 Other public sector operations 1,120 2.5% 311 0.7% -51 -0.1% -1,192 -2.6%
 Minimum cash 553 1.2% 1,184 2.6% 274 0.6% -234 -0.5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1,535 -3.4% -1,579 -3.5% -10,460 -22.7% -10,635 -22.9%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.5 12.2 12.2
 Integration 12.6 12.4 12.4
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 63.3 63.4 62.2
 30 to 59 days 24.4 22.8 24.5
 60 to 89 days 7.2 7.7 6.2
 90 to 179 days 3.4 4.3 5.4
 more than 180 days 1.7 1.8 1.8
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 20.1 20.1 20.0
 Integration (includes defect in resource application) 82.5 78.5 72.2
 Position (2) 62.5 58.5 52.1
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 52.1 53.2 55.1
 30 to 59 days 22.3 22.0 22.4
 60 to 89 days 10.2 10.2 9.3
 90 to 179 days 13.4 12.1 10.8
 180 to 365 days 1.8 2.3 2.3
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data on Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 10.24 10.18 9.91 9.99 10.96
 Amount traded 1,422 1,387 1,491 1,126 1,216

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 days 13.05 13.25 11.89 14.74 14.62
 60 days or more 15.02 14.46 13.45 16.50 16.33
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.93 12.91 11.60 14.76 15.84
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 15.30 14.91 14.27 18.75 19.87

 In dollars
 30 days 0.64 0.58 0.54 0.33 0.30
 60 days or more 1.10 1.01 1.11 0.69 0.72
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.77 0.78 0.75 0.43 0.39
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.95 0.95 0.86 0.63 0.56

 Active Interest Rates Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 15.13 15.02 14.89 15.98 17.89
 Amount traded (total maturities) 262 238 253 226 251

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 21.56 21.44 21.07 26.78 25.67
 Documents on signature alone 18.14 17.88 17.85 22.15 20.54
 Mortgages 16.95 16.44 16.24 16.52 15.78
 Pledges 19.63 20.50 20.96 25.10 23.10
 Personal loans 33.84 33.64 34.28 36.46 34.01
 Credit cards n/a 34.16 34.62 33.15 31.96

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14.28 14.18 13.49 22.56 23.21

 International Interest Rates Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

LIBOR
 1 month 0.21 0.21 0.22 0.28 0.25
 6 months 0.53 0.58 0.67 0.78 0.68

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.26 0.27 0.25 0.25 0.25
 10 years 1.64 1.72 1.70 1.96 2.00

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.25 7.32 7.50 11.00 11.48

(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 19 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 9.35 9.27 9.29 9.13 9.60
 7 days 9.51 9.51 9.50 9.56 9.91

Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 12,516 10,459 9,299 8,454 7,811
LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 11.30 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months 12.34 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 12.88 12.44 12.33 n/a 13.97
 9 months 14.56 14.21 14.10 n/a 14.08
 12 months n/a 14.93 14.51 14.26 14.27

NOBAC Margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a -1.99 n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a -1.88 n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 809 716 662 378 497

 Foreign Exchange Market Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.80 4.73 4.67 4.29 4.26
 Retail 4.80 4.74 4.68 4.29 4.27

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 4.91 4.82 4.75 4.36 4.40
 ROFEX 1 month 4.87 4.80 4.73 4.33 4.30
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 893 10 489 769 041 209

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.32 2.33 2.30 2.33 2.39

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 6.16 6.14 6.01 5.64 5.78

 Capital Market Nov-12 Oct-12 Sep-12 Dec-11 Nov-11

MERVAL
 Index 2,348 2,414 2,456 2,488 2,614
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 32 32 41 39 43

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 116.08 120.82 122.68 98.40 97.05
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 97.15 108.83 103.11 81.40 88.50
 BODEN 2014 ($) 92.25 93.93 93.41 86.93 84.97
 DISCOUNT ($) 44.98 47.78 45.64 51.96 50.46

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,502 1,121 1,090 980 1,033
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 356 336 358 409 415

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 20 9. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days
(Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y/y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation plus sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Transactions.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Representative Value of Debt.

 Monetary Report | November 2012 | BCRA | 21
