# Monthly Monetary Report
Monthly Monetary Report
December 2012

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Interest Rates | Page 10

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 10

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 11

 Interbank Markets | Page 11

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 12

 Active Interest Rates | Page 12

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 13

7. Capital Market | Page 14

 Stocks | Page 15

 Public Securities | Page 16

 Private Securities | Page 16

 Common Investment Funds | Page 17

 Financial Trusts | Page 18

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 20

9. Glossary | Page 24

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was January 9, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• During the last month of each year (December) monetary aggregates present a notable seasonal behavior. The payment of the complementary annual half-salary, the higher spending of families during the holiday period and the beginning of summer recess generate an increase in the demand for transactional money and a moderation in the growth rate of fixed-term deposits. In December 2012, private M2 in pesos grew 7.4%, in line with the average growth observed during the month of December over the last 3 years, while fixed-term deposits of the private sector in pesos increased 2.2%, above the growth recorded in recent years for this month.

• Private M3 increased 5.8% in the last month of the year, standing out again among the factors that explained its increase were loans in pesos to the private sector. These latter ended the year as the main driver of aggregate growth. To a lesser extent, BCRA foreign currency purchases and public sector operations also contributed to its expansion.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector ended the year with growth of 40.5%. In the last two months of 2012 the year-on-year rate of change accumulated an increase of 3 p.p.. The growth recorded in December, of 4.3% ($14,030 million), exceeded that of the same month in 2011, highlighting the dynamism of commercial credit lines.

• Until the first half of December financial entities have disbursed approximately 91% ($13,650 million) of credits to be placed through the "Credit line for productive investment". The total granted was distributed in similar parts between large companies and SMEs. The projection of disbursements made during the second half of December and those that will be executed during the first half of 2013 (the latter from operations agreed with more than one disbursement) indicate that the degree of fulfillment of the line will exceed 100%. In 2013, the BCRA will again promote this financing line considering, on this occasion, 5% of private sector deposits in pesos from November 2012 ($17,000 million).

• In December a new auction was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). On this occasion, $220 million was auctioned, of which $206.9 million was awarded. Thus, throughout 2012, $1,670 million was awarded and a total of $5,784 million since the beginning of the PFPB.
• The peso liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum, in terms of total peso deposits, of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) stood at 34.1%, 0.4 percentage points below November. During the month there was an increase in shorter-term assets to the detriment of longer-term assets (decrease in LEBAC and NOBAC holdings and increase in cash in banks and the balance of the current account of entities at the Central Bank).

• Short-term interest rates paid by private financial entities continued with the upward trend observed in recent months. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate for private banks averaged 15.4% in December, increasing 0.1 percentage points during the month, although standing 3.4 percentage points below the December 2011 level. Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100,000 and up to 35 days) recorded a monthly increase of 0.2 percentage points, averaging 13.2% in December. As in the wholesale segment, it stood 1 percentage point below the December 2011 level.

• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector registered dissimilar movements in December. While those granted with real collateral remained stable, those corresponding to commercial and consumer lines increased in different magnitudes. However, most were positioned at levels below the values recorded a year earlier.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 % (variation of monthly averages) % Driven mainly by deposits from the private sector,
 5 50 the broader peso aggregate (M3 2) presented an
 Monthly variation of M3 increase of 4.6% in December (see Chart 2.1)
 4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40
 37.4
 3 30 With a monthly average balance of $724,500 million,
 M3 ended the year with year-on-year growth of
 2 20
 37.4%.
 1 10
 For its part, private M3 3 increased 5.8% in the month,
 0 0 again highlighting within the factors that explained its
 increase loans in pesos to the private sector; the same
 -1 -10 ended the year as the main driver of aggregate growth
 (see Chart 2.2). To a lesser extent, contributing to the
 -2 -20
 expansion, both for the month and for the year, were
 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 BCRA foreign exchange purchases and public sector
 operations.
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total peso deposits. Source: BCRA
 Chart 2.2

 thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates Private M3 aggregates presented in December a
 millions of $ notable behavior. The payment of the mid-year comple-
 120 (total 2012, average) mentary salary, greater spending by families during
 the holiday period and the beginning of summer recess
 100 lead to an increase in demand for transactional money
 and a moderation in the growth rate of fixed-term place-
 80 ments. In particular, in December 2012, private M2 4
 in pesos grew 7.4%, in line with the average growth for
 60 the month of December over the last 3 years, while
 fixed-term deposits of the private sector in pesos in-
 40
 creased...
 20

 0
Foreign Currency Purchases Public Sector* Loans to Private Sector M2 Private Deposits on Term
 and Other Private*
 *Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
 Source: BCRA
 
increased 2.2%, below the monthly growth of the
last months (which exceeded 3%). However, the
monthly increase achieved in December by fixed-
term placements was the largest of recent years
 Graph 2.3 for the period (see Graph 2.3). When distinguishing by
 amount bracket, increases are observed in the im-
Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector positions of the wholesale segment (of $1 million
 % (variations of monthly averages) December - Avg. Monthly Var. and more; 3.8%) and in those of less than $1 million
 % (0.6%). In 2012, the growth rate of fixed-term
7 56 % More than $1 million 3.8 deposits in pesos of the private sector reached
 51.6 4 51.6% ($55,400 million), one of the historically
6 48 3 highest values. Thus, the growth of this type of
5 40 2 placements far exceeded that recorded by sight
1 32 0 deposits in 2009 and was the one that concentrat-
 -1 2006 ed the increase of deposits in pesos of the private
4 2.2 24 -2 2007 sector, which totaled 42% in the year.
3 1.9 1.6 -3 2008
1 16 -4 In the foreign currency segment, the monthly
2 8 Less than $1 million 2009 average balance of total deposits increased 0.7%,
 0.3 % 2010 driven by placements belonging to the public sec-
1 0 4 2011 tor. With respect to those belonging to the private
 -0.7 -8 2 2012 sector, although its monthly average balance
-1 -1.1 Monthly variation 1 0.6 remained essentially stable, throughout the month
-2 Year-over-year variation (right axis) -16 0 a growth close to US$200 million was observed.
-3 -24 -1 It should be recalled that as a consequence of
 -2 the prudential policies implemented in recent
Dic-07 Dic-08 Dic-09 Dic-10 Dic-11 Dic-12 -3 years, the Argentine financial system presents a
 Source: BCRA -4 low degree of dollarization and a very reduced
 level of currency mismatch; these characteristics
2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos of the private non-
financial sector.
4 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in current account and savings
accounts in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 4 allowed it to return without difficulties all deposit
 withdrawals in the course of 2012.

Finally, the broadest aggregate, M3*, which in-
cludes cash in circulation held by the public, can-
cellation checks and the total deposits in pesos
and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos),
showed a monthly increase of 4.5%, completing
a growth of 32% in 2012.

In accordance with its multiple mandate and in
compliance with what is established in article 42
of the Organic Charter, at the end of 2012 the
BCRA presented its objectives and plans for the
development of monetary, financial, credit and
exchange rate policy5.

Regarding the exchange rate and international
reserves policy, the objective of the BCRA is to
maintain an administered floating regime, limiting
exchange rate volatility. It also proposes to con-
solidate the accumulation of reserves, which in
turn will allow continuing with the debt reduction
policy with private holders and, in particular, with
respect to debt in foreign currency.

The objective of credit policy is to deepen the
credit channel, increasing the credit-to-GDP ratio
and simultaneously increasing the participation of
long-term productive financing, particularly that
aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises,
promoting the incorporation of the different re-
gions of the country.
Regarding financial policy, the objective is to increase
inclusion and democratization of access to financial ser-
vices and guarantee the stability of the system, improv-
ing prudential regulation and incorporating internation-
ally consensual standards from the G20 that prove com-
patible with the objectives outlined by the policies es-
tablished by the BCRA.

The strategic function that the BCRA has been perform-
ing in terms of Treasury financing is also considered,
in accordance with what is established by the Organic
Charter and the National Budget Law. This financing

5 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/polmon/Programacion_2013.pdf

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 5 provides room to deploy a fiscal policy consistent
with the economic cycle.

Finally, and with respect to monetary policy, it will
be that which is compatible with the rest of the pre-
viously mentioned policies and with compliance with
the new multiple mandate.

3. Bank Liquidity1

Chart 3.1

Bank Liquidity in Pesos In a month with higher demand for transactional money
% of deposits (monthly average) by families and companies, the liquidity of
45
CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity financial entities decreased, with a change also be-
40 37.3 38.2
36.8 37.5 38.5 37.2 36.4 35.8 35.5 34.8 34.5 34.1 ing verified in the composition of the liquidity ratio,
35.0 34.9
35 typical of December months. In this way, the liquidity
30 ratio (calculated as the sum, in terms of total deposits
13.9
25 in pesos, of cash in banks, the current account of
entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity
20 2.7 and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs) was posi-
15 tioned at 34.1%, 0.4 p.p. below November (see Chart
4.7 3.1). Likewise, an increase in shorter-term assets was
10 registered to the detriment of longer-term assets (de-
5 12.8 crease in holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs and increase
0 in cash in banks and the balance of the current account
Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12
of entities at the Central Bank). This dynamic, typical
Source: BCRA
of the last months of the year, is explained by two fac-
tors: the greater seasonal demand for transactional mon-
ey generates entities to accumulate greater cash bal-
ances to meet withdrawals; on the other hand, since
a quarterly Minimum Cash position is in effect (Decem-
ber 2012 - February 2013) entities can over-integrate in
December (increasing the balances of their current ac-
Chart 3.2 counts at the BCRA). In this way, the Minimum Cash
position of the total system ended the month with a
Minimum Cash Position in Pesos surplus equivalent to 0.2% of total deposits in pesos
% of (see Chart 3.2).
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position
2.5
In December, a decrease was implemented again, from
2.0
75% to 25%, in the permitted deduction of computable
1.5 cash.6 This decrease was accompanied by a new reduc-
1.0 tion in reserve coefficients according to the location of
the branch where the deposits are held. Thus, the coeffi-
0.5
0.2 cient for sight deposits in Zone I (more banked) changed
0.0 to 17.5% (-0.5 p.p.) and the corresponding one for sight
-0.5 placements in the rest of the zones was reduced to 16%
-1.0 (-1 p.p.). In the case of time deposits, the coefficients
-1.5 for deposits in Zone I decreased 0.25 p.p., while those
Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12
Source: BCRA applied in the rest of the zones were reduced 0.5 p.p. In
turn, implementation began to...

---

6 "Computable cash" is called the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements in the past March and
that from April onwards can be deducted from the peso requirement.
# Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 6

the additional reduction of reserve requirements – for amounts ranging from the equivalent of 0.25% of deposits up to 3% of deposits – depending on the participation of financing to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in the total of loans in pesos to the private sector. Thus, December was the third month in which the new reserve requirement scheme was in effect, aimed, on one hand, at promoting financial services in areas with lower economic potential and population density and, on the other, at directing credit towards smaller-sized companies.

**Graph 4.1**
% Loans in Pesos to Private Sector
(average monthly variation) % 60
Monthly Variation
Year-over-year variation (right axis)
5 4.6 50
4.1 4.3
4.0 40.5
4 40

3.0 30
3 2.5
2 20
1 0.6 10

0 0

-1 -10
Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12

Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, the average liquidity ratio for December was equivalent to 93.3% of dollar deposits, which meant an increase of 3.7 percentage points with respect to the previous month.

## 4. Loans¹ 7

**Graph 4.2**
% Documents in Pesos to Private Sector % 
(average monthly variation)
14 70
12 Average monthly variation 60
10 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50
8.1
8 40
6.2
6 30
4.1 4.6
4 3.8 20
2 1.2 10

0 0

-2 -10
-2.4
-4 -20
Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12

Source: BCRA

Loans in pesos to the private sector ended the year with growth of 40.5% year-over-year. In the last two months of 2012 the year-over-year variation rate accumulated an increase of 3 percentage points, after showing since the end of 2011 a gradual deceleration (see Graph 4.1). The growth recorded in December, of 4.3% ($14,030 million), exceeded that of the same month in 2011 and was similar to that observed in the 2006 and 2007 period, highlighting the dynamism of commercial lines.

Loans aimed at financing commercial activities accelerated their monthly growth rate, as expected for this time of year, in which companies have greater liquidity needs since they must cover the payment of half the annual supplementary salary. The financings implemented through documents showed in December an increase of 8.1% ($5,700 million), markedly above that recorded in recent years for this month. As a consequence, the year-over-year growth rate continued increasing and reached 48.9%, 9.5 percentage points more than in November (see Graph 4.2).

**Graph 4.3**

% Contribution to Monthly Growth
12
10 Other documents
Documents at sole signature
8

6

4

2

0

-2

-4
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
December 2012
Source: BCRA

In the last semester of the year, documents at sole signature showed a contribution significantly higher than that of the rest of the documents, behavior that was not observed in the first part of the year nor in the same month of previous years (see Graph 4.3). The dynamism of this type of document was contributed to, in addition to seasonal considerations, by the granting of loans linked to the Bicentenary Line and to the "Line of credits for productive investment" (within the framework of Communiqué A 5319), as well as the substitution with loans in pesos of lines that were previously granted in foreign currency.

**Graph 4.4**

% Advances in Pesos to Private Sector %
(average monthly variation)
14 70
12 Average monthly variation 60
10 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50
8 40

Meanwhile, advances recorded in the month an increase of 2.3% ($1,080 million), similar to that observed in December in recent years (see Graph 4.4).

---

¹ The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
6 30
 3,9
 4 2,8 2,7 20 Up to the first half of December, financial entities
 2,4 2,32,6
 2 10 have disbursed approximately 91%

 0 0 ($13,650 million) of the credits to be placed through the

 -2 -0,8 -10 "Credit Line for Productive Investment". The total

 -4 -20 granted was distributed in similar parts between large

 -6 -30 companies and SMEs. The projection of disbursements
 -5,1
 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12made during the second half of December and
 Source: BCRA those that will be realized during the first semester of
 2013 (the latter coming from operations agreed upon
 with more than one disbursement) indicate that the
 degree of compliance of the line will exceed 100%. In 2013,
 BCRA will again promote this financing line
 Chart 4.5 considering, on this occasion, 5% of private sector

 Bicentennial Advances deposits in pesos from November 2012
 % (amounts disbursed by company size and purpose)
100 ($17,000 million).
 3 1
 2 15 Other
 90
 80 2 In December a new auction was held within the frame-

 70 Property Acquisition work of the Productive Financing Program of the Bicen-
 57
 60 68 38 tennial (PFPB). On this occasion, $220 million were
 50 Vehicle Acquisition auctioned, of which $206.9 million were awarded:

 40 $160 million to Banco de la Nación Argentina, $30 mi-

 30 Construction, remodeling, llion to Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, $11.9
 44 improvement and expansion
 20 40 million to Banco Credicoop and the remaining $5 million
 10 26 to BBVA Banco Francés. Thus, $1,670 million were
 Acquisition of machinery, equipment
 0 and other capital goods awarded throughout the year and a total of $5,784 million
 Small Medium Large since the beginning of PFPB. The total resources
Fuente: BCRA actually disbursed reaches $3,896 million, which
 represents approximately 67% of what was awarded.
 Distinguishing by company size, large firms were
 recipients of 77.3% of the funds disbursed through
 November (latest available information), while medium
 and small enterprises had a participation of 14.3%
 and 8.4%, respectively. Considering the purpose of
 Chart 4.6 these funds, somewhat different behaviors were
 Loans with Real Guarantee by Recipient observed depending on the size of the establishments.
 % (participation in new loans)
100 In the case of small and medium enterprises, most of

 90 the resources were allocated to construction and
 80 35,9
 Natural Persons remodeling of properties. Meanwhile, large firms
 70 63,1 Legal Persons allocated a smaller proportion of resources to that
 74,5 item, with the purchase of machinery, equipment and
 60
 89,7 other capital goods being the main destination of the
 50 resources (see Chart 4.5).

 40

 30 64,1 Regarding financing aimed mainly at families, personal

 20 36,9 loans moderated their growth rate, registering in the
 10 25,5 month an increase of 2.8% ($2,020 million). However,
 10,3 the year-on-year rate of variation showed an increase
 0
 Jan-12 Dec-12 Jan-12 Dec-12 of 1 percentage point and was placed at 29.2%, after
 Mortgage Pledge twelve months of reduction. For its part, financing
 Source: BCRA instruments with credit cards grew 3.9% ($2,100 million),

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 8 reducing its monthly growth rate following the significant
 Chart 4.7 increase from the previous month.

Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector Loans with real guarantee continued to grow at elevated
 millions of US$ rates compared to those recorded in the first ten
 60 Daily Variation months of the year. Mortgage loans
 40 Average Daily Variation

 20

 0

 -20 -9,7 -6,8

 -21,5 -16,0
 -40 -28,0
-43.9 -43.5 registered in December an increase of 3.5% ($1,170 million) and loans with pledge guarantee grew 4.5% ($960 million) in the period. The greater dynamism that these financings have been showing is explained in part by the boost coming from the "Line of credits for productive investment". The effective orientation towards productive sectors is evidenced by the greater participation shown by legal entities within the new loans granted. In the case of mortgage loans, the proportion of legal entities as recipients of funds increased from 26% in January to 64% in December, while in pledge loans the same ratio went from 10% to 37% (see Graph 4.6).

Loans in foreign currency to the private sector, aimed fundamentally at pre-financing of exports, continued reducing the rate of decline, presenting in December a decrease of 1.5% (US$85 million). In this sense, the daily average reduction that in June and July exceeded US$40 million, began to reduce gradually and sustainedly from August onwards, standing in the last month at US$6.8 million (see Graph 4.7).

Loans to the private sector continued increasing their proportion with respect to the product throughout 2012. The ratio of total loans to the private sector (pesos and foreign currency) with respect to GDP was located in December 2012 at 15.4%, a figure that would rise to 16.2% considering the balances at the end of December and including financing through leasing and accrued interest. Distinguishing by major loan lines, those destined to finance commercial activities continued having greater relative weight, representing in terms of GDP 7.4%. Meanwhile, consumer loans and loans with real guarantee ended the year at 5.6% and 2.4% of GDP, respectively. Thus, after registering a decrease in 2009, the level of total credit with respect to GDP showed strong recovery from 2010 onwards, accumulating from that year an increase of 4.4 p.p.. Half of the same was explained by the growth of mainly commercial lines (see Graph 4.8).

On the other hand, financing granted by financial entities under the form of leasing contracts continued with the upward trend initiated in mid-year, after a period of marked stability. In November they registered an increase of 3.8% ($250 million; see Graph 4.9), accelerating its monthly expansion rate; while the year-over-year variation rate, which had been decelerating, registered an increase and stood at

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 9

Graph 5.1
Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market
thousands of LEBAC NOBAC thousands of thousands of was located at 14%. The incipient dynamism of said finan-
millions $ millions $ millions $
18 More than 360 days 90 8 More than 24 months 90 ciations can be attributed to the impulse coming from the
From 271 to 360 days 24 months
From 181 to 270 days Between 18 and 24 months
16 80 7 18 months 80 "Line of credits for productive investment" (Communica-
From 91 to 180 days Between 12 and 18 months
14 Up to 90 days 12 months
Balance at end of month (right axis) 70 6 Between 6 and 12 months 70 tion A 5319), since part of these loans would be
Maturities 6 months
12 Less than 6
Balance at end of month (right axis) channeled through leasing operations.
60 5 Maturities 60
10
50 4 50
8
40 3 40 5. Interest Rates 9
6

4 30 2 30

2 20 1 20 Securities issued by the Central Bank10

0 10 0 10
Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 In December, the interest rates of the auctions of
Source: BCRA
BCRA securities remained stable. Thus, in the last
auction of the month the interest rate for the security
of shorter term, with 60 days, was located at 12%; while
the interest rate at 720 days remained at 17%. During the
year, the interest rate curve of LEBAC in the primary
market steepened, registering increases in the longer
maturities.

Graph 5.2

LEBAC Interest Rate in the Secondary Market
TNA % (average monthly rate)
14
13.0
13 12.7 12.8 The nominal stock of BCRA securities was reduced to
12.4 12.8 13.0
12.1 12.6 $87,700 million and the decline was explained by the
12.4
12 11.6 11.8 12.1
11.4 11.7 behavior of the LEBAC stock (see Graph 5.1). In 2012,
10.8 11.4 the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC was one of the main
11
10.9 Range of rates recorded only in December
10.2 10.6 sterilization instruments, with a December average
9.8 Range of rates recorded both in December and in November
10 10.0 balance 31% higher than that of the same month in 2011.
9.8 December

November
9
In the secondary market, the average daily amount
Days
8 operated in December reached $760 million, registering

<10 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 a decline of $65 million compared to the November level.
Note: the sum of both areas of interest rate range represent the difference between the maximum and minimum rate recorded in November.
Source: BCRA 97% of the amount operated was LEBAC, mainly in the
segments below 90 days; with interest rates that
remained relatively stable during the month (see Graph 5.2). For its part, the amount operated of NOBAC
continued being meager and was located at an average of $20 million daily.

8 It comprises the value of capital goods (personal property and real estate) leased to third parties, especially acquired by the entity
at the request of these, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to
exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value. The information is based on data at end of month, so
the last known data corresponds to the month of November.
9 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
10 In this section the figures correspond to end of month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 10 Central Bank Repo Operations1

Graph 5.3
Interbank Market
thousands of The interest rates of active repos at 1 and 7 days of the
millions of $ TNA %
6.0 12.0 Central Bank remained at 11% and 11.5% respectively,
Amount operated REPO round excluding BCRA

Amount operated in Call while no operations were registered during the
5.0 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis) 11.0

Interest rate Call at 1 business day (right axis) month. For its part, the interest rates of the operations
4.0 10.0 rates of passive repos continued at 9% and 9.5% for the same terms; the average monthly stock of passive
3.0 9.0 repos in all rounds in which the institution partici-

2.0 8.0 pates was located at $17,430 million, 2% below the average registered in November. During the course of
1.0 7.0 2012 there were no changes in the interest rates of repo operations in which the Central Bank partici-

0.0 6.0 pates.
Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12
Source: BCRA
Interbank Markets¹

Although they maintained moderate dynamics, interest rates in the interfinancial market continued with
Chart 5.4 an upward trend. In December the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the unsecured
Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day market (call) increased 0.3 p.p., placing itself at 10.5%.
% Likewise, verifying a more modest increase, the aver-
21 Intraday Volatility
% (2012) age interest rate of operations at 1 business day be-
15 10.5
19 tween financial entities in the guaranteed market
Monthly Average 13 (REPO round), where the largest volume of operations
17 11 Average ± 1 Std Deviation is concentrated, was located at 10%, 0.1 p.p above
15 9 the level registered the previous month. In this way,
7 the gap between the interest rates of both markets
13 01-Nov 22-Nov 13-Dec widened (see Chart 5.3). Throughout 2012 the inter-
est rates of the interfinancial markets registered an
11 increase, which was 0.3 p.p in the case of the guaran-
9 teed market and 0.7 p.p in the unsecured market.

7

5
Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 The performance registered in the interest rates of the
Source: BCRA interfinancial market occurred together with higher le-
vels of volatility in the call, registering an increase of
1 p.p in the average deviation of the interest rates of
daily operations agreed at 1 business day. This was
driven mainly by the performance registered in the
Chart 5.5 second half of the month in operations between do-
Call Market mestic private entities as fund providers and non-

millions of $ (average monthly net position by group of entities) banking financial entities as fund takers (see Chart
5.4).
500

400

300 The amount traded in the interfinancial market de-
creased $600 million in December. In the call segment
200 the average daily amount traded fell slightly, placing
100 itself around $1,380 million, while in REPO it redu-
0 ced $550 million to $2,560 million.
-100

-200 EFNB
-300 Public
-400 Priv. Nat. When observing the distribution of the amount traded
Foreign in the call market by type of entity, a behavior was
-500 verified that intensified in the last two months: public
Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 entities were the largest net fund providers, by $160
Source: BCRA million daily, followed by domestic private entities,
with an average daily contribution of $120 million.
Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 11 While foreign entities and non-banking financial enti-
ties were net fund takers (see Chart 5.5).

Chart 5.6 Passive Interest Rates¹
Interest Rates and Amounts Traded by Fixed-Term Deposits up to 35 days
% TNA (average monthly - private banks) millions $

The short-term interest rates paid by private financial 26 Variations Fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand 2,000
entities showed moderate increases, p.p.
24 2 Monthly Var. Var. Dec-11 BADLAR 1,800 continuing with the upward trend observed in
0.1 0.2
1
22 0 1,600 recent months.
-1 -1.0
20 -2 1,400 In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private
-3
18 -4 -3.4 1,200 banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and
-5
16 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand 1,000 [continues...]
14 800 more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged in December
 15.4%, increasing by 0.1 p.p. in the month. Meanwhile, the
 12 600
 BADLAR of private banks was located 3.4 p.p. be-
 10 400
 low the December 2011 level (Chart 5.6).
 8 200
 Jul-08 Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 Mar-10 Aug-10 Jan-11 Jun-11 Nov-11 Apr-12 Sep-12
 Source: BCRA
 With respect to the BADLAR futures market,
 the amount traded in December was markedly supe-
 rior to that observed in November. Only contracts
 were traded with maturity on December 31,
 whose average monthly interest rate was located at
 15.3%, 0.8 p.p. below the level it presented in No-
 vember. However, for the coming months a mode-
 Chart 5.7 rate increase in the BADLAR rate is expected that,
 according to closing prices, toward March 2013 would
 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities be situated around 16.3%.
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % Total Overdrafts in CC
 32 Discounted Documents p.p. Variations
 2
 Single Signature Documents 0.9
 28 Overdrafts in current account for more than $10 M - up to 70.2 0.1 0.2 Meanwhile, in the retail segment, the interest rate
 days
 0
 paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits
 24
 (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a monthly increase
 -2
 of 0.2 p.p., averaging 13.2% in December.
 -4 -3.1
 20 Nevertheless, despite the increases in the second half
 -6 -5.0
 16 of the year, the retail interest rate was located 1 p.p. be-
 -6.6 Monthly Variation
 -8 low the December 2011 level.
 12 -8.1 Var. Dec-11

 -10
 8 Overdrafts DD Overdrafts SSF Active Interest Rates1 11
 (more than $10 current account
 Jun-08 Jul-09 Aug-10 Sep-11 Oct-12 - 7 days)
 Source: BCRA
 The interest rates applied to loans to the pri-
 vate sector registered dissimilar movements in De-
 cember. While those associated with operations
 granted with real collateral remained stable, those
 corresponding to commercial and consumption lines
 increased in different magnitudes.

11 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation
and origination expenses or other charges (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 12 The rate for overdrafts in current account averaged
 Chart 5.8 21.8% in the month, increasing by 0.2 p.p., while
 Interest Rates on Personal Loans and with Real Collateral the corresponding rate for overdrafts in current account for
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % Variations companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days
 p.p.
 Pledge Loans 1.0 0.4
 50 maturity was located at 14.4%, 0.2 p.p. above the No-
 -0.5 0.0 0.00.0
 Mortgage to families -2.0 vember average. Meanwhile, the interest rates applied
 42 -3.5 Monthly Var. -2.3
 Personal to financing through documents showed monthly
 -5.0 Var. Dec-11

 -6.5 -5.5 increases of 0.1 p.p. in the case of discounted docu-
 34 Mortgages Pledge Loans Personal ments and 0.9 p.p. in the case of single signature docu-
 ments. Thus, in the first case, the average interest rate

 26 for December was located at 19.1%, while the rate for
 single signature documents averaged 19%. In the case

 18 of single signature documents, the monthly increase
 was related to a lower participation of loans corres-

 10 ponding to the "Productive Investment Credit Line"
 Jun-08 Jul-09 Aug-10 Sep-11 Oct-12 and those granted under the Bicentennial Productive
 Source: BCRA Financing Program (PFPB), which are granted at
 lower rates. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the
 interest rates corresponding to commercial lines were
 Chart 6.1 located at considerably lower levels than those recorded
 in December 2011. While
 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009
 55
Dec-12 that the interest rate on current account overdrafts ac-
 50

 45 cumulated a reduction of 5 p.p. in 2012; that of discounted
 thousands of Variation Factors
 millions u$s (December 2012) documents decreased 6.6 p.p. in the year and
 40 2.0
 that of documents at single signature completed a drop of
 35 1.0
 3.1 p.p. (see Graph 5.7).
 30 0.0

 25 -1.0
 For its part, among the longer-term lines, the interest
 -2.0
 20 rates on those with real guarantee remained relatively
 -3.0
 15 International Purchases Public Minimum Other stable throughout the month. In particular, the
 Reserves Currency Sector Cash
 10 interest rate on pawn loans remained at 19.6%, after
 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12
 Source: BCRA having registered a downward trend since the beginning of
 the year. In this way, in 2012 it accumulated a decline of
 5.5 p.p.. Regarding mortgage loans intended for families,
 the monthly average of the interest rate was located at
 16.2%, similar both to the level of November and to that
 Graphic 6.2 of December 2011. In contrast, the interest rate on per-
 sonal loans was located at 34.2%, increasing 0.4 p.p.
 Foreign Exchange Market
 $/Euro
 $/US$ (average quotations) $/Real in the month, although it still remains 2.3 p.p. below the
 6.5 2012 3.8
 $/US$ (Reference) average of December 2011 (see Graph 5.9).

 6.1 $/Euro 3.4
 $/Real (right axis)
 5.7 3.0
 International Reserves and For-
 5.3 +13.7% 2.6
 eign Exchange Market12
 4.9 2.2
 +0.9%

 4.5 1.8 The balance of international reserves reached
 4.1 1.4 US$43,290 million on the last day of the year (see
 +13.8%
 Graph 6.1). With respect to November, reserves
 3.7 1.0
 Dec-09 Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 decreased by US$1,947 million, mainly as a
 Source: BCRA consequence of the fall in the balances in the National
 Treasury accounts at the Central Bank (US$3,012

12 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 13 million) resulting from the payment of public debt in
 Graph 7.1 foreign currency. During December the main payment
 was that of the GDP-linked coupon for US$2,600 mil-
 World Stock Indices lion.
 130 (in dollars; Base Index 30/11/11=100)
 These movements more than offset the inflow of
 120
 foreign currency associated with purchases by the
 110
 Central Bank in the Unified and Free Exchange Market
 100 (MULC) for US$1,098 million. In the year, the Central
 Bank purchased foreign currency for US$9,200 million,
 MSCI- World
 90 MSCI-Europe nearly tripling the net purchases made in 2011. In turn,
 MSCI- Latam as a consequence of the national public sector debt
 80 S&P 500
 reduction policy, through the use of accounts created
 MSCI- Emerging
 for this purpose (Argentine Debt Reduction Fund and
 70 Account for Payment to International Organizations),
 Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 in 2012 approximately US$7,850 million were allocated
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data to various payments to both private debt holders and
 international credit organizations. These operations
 constituted the main factors that explained the annual
 decline (US$3,086 million) in international reserves.
 Graph 7.2

 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and
 60 Eurozone
 (VIX and VStoxx Index)
 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 50 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 with respect to the currencies of its main trading
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 40 partners. In this way, the quotations of the United States
 dollar, the real and the euro averaged in the last month
 30 of the year 4.88 $/US$, 2.35 $/real and 6.41 $/euro,
 respectively (Graph 6.2). This implied a monthly varia-
 tion of
20 1.7%, 1.3% and 4% for each case. Over the year, the accumulated increase in quotations was 13.8% for the dollar, 0.9% in the case of the real and 13.7% for the euro. Regarding the depreciation expectation, in the term market (ROFEX) the expected quotations in December for the following months arising from the contracts traded in this market were located slightly above those of the previous month. Likewise, the average daily amount traded was located at $816 million, 8.5% below the previous month.

Chart 7.3 7. Capital Market 10

Index in thousands Evolution of the Bovespa Index and the Real R$/US$

55 2.2
International financial markets ended the month with a positive tone. Greece closed the debt buyback and received a new disbursement of external financing after the agreement reached with the IMF and European authorities. Both Spain and Italy registered good results in their debt placements, despite that in the latter case there were political tensions associated with the resignation of the Prime Minister. However, and beyond a certain recent improvement in international financial markets, the level of uncertainty regarding the trajectory of the world economy continues to be elevated. In the United States the negotiations around possible tax increases at the beginning of 2013, which finally dissipated, represented a conditioning factor in investor expectations again.

Within monetary policy measures, the Federal Reserve announced, before the expiration of the "Twist" operation, a new program to purchase Treasury securities in the market for US$45,000 million monthly starting in January 2013. Likewise, it emphasized that, as long as long-term inflation expectations remain stable, the evolution of the labor market will be one of the main objectives of its actions. In the same direction and in line with market expectations, the Bank of Japan increased the amount of its asset purchase program, in a context where the Japanese economy is being negatively affected by the dynamics of domestic consumption and exports.

Following the behavior registered in November, the global MSCI advanced 0.9%. The European market, also measured through the MSCI index, expanded its gains after registering an increase of 3.7% and ended the year with a positive return of 17.2%. Likewise, the S&P 500, the main index of the United States market, registered a gain of 0.7% and ended the year with an increase of 13.4% (see Chart 7.1). In December, the expected volatility measures increased slightly in the North American market, while they continued to decline in Europe. Thus, after thirteen months both measurements converged to the same levels. The index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference index of the eurozone stock exchange) fell again, on this occasion by 2.7 p.p., placing itself at a monthly average of 17.6%. Meanwhile, the expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, rose 1 p.p. to 17.7% (see Chart 7.2).

Chart 7.4

Evolution of the Local Stock Market
% Index
(in pesos)
60 4,000
50 Historical Volatility 22 sessions
MERVAL (right axis) 3,500
40
3,000
30 Stocks
2,500
20
2,000
10
1,500
0
Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Chart 7.5

Return of Stock Indices in 2012
(annual return in dollars)
IPC (Mexico)
MSCI-Europe
MSCI-Emerging

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 14
IGPA (Chile) Emerging equity continued to register good

S&P 500 (United States) performance and, measured through the MSCI index,

MSCI- World rose 4.8%. Likewise, counteracting the losses

IGBVL (Peru) recorded months ago, the MSCI Latin America

MSCI-Japan index rebounded 6.1%. In the region, the Bovespa (Brazil)

MSCI-Latin America advanced 10.6% in dollars, driven by the

SHCOMP (China) performance of the index in local currency (recorded a

Merval (Argentina) gain of 6.1%) and an appreciation of the real of 4.1%

Bovespa (Brazil) (see Chart 7.3).

-10-5051015202530 Likewise, positive results were verified in the IPC

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg (Mexico) and the IGPA (Chile) that advanced 4.5% and 3.7%

respectively, thanks to the increase in the indices in

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 15 local currency.

In this international context and as a consequence of

the decrease in the risk perceived by investors

following the payment of debt securities linked to GDP, in

the local market the equity quotation, measured

through the MERVAL index, registered a strong advance and

gained 18% in dollars. The main increases occurred in

bank securities and in the energy sector. With the

improvement in quotations, the volumes traded in the

Buenos Aires Stock Exchange grew $27

million, reaching $54 million.

Chart 7.6 Thus, despite a volatile international context

Sovereign Risk Indicators originated in the crisis of European countries

Spread in b.p Spread in b.p (mainly Greece and Spain) first and in the

500 1400 fiscal situation of the United States afterwards, the

1300 main stock exchanges in the world ended 2012 with

450 1200 gains (see Chart 7.5). In this sense, it was

400 1100 relevant for the stability of financial markets

1000 the continuity of the stimulus policy carried out

350 900 by the main central banks in the world.

800

300 700

EMBI+

EMBI+ Latin America 600

250 Public Securities

EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500

200 400

Dec-11 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Just as in recent months, in December the

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg quotation of emerging fixed income remained stable.

However, the yield differentials over

Chart 7.7 United States Treasury bonds were reduced 14

billions of $ b.p, according to EMBI+, reaching 255 b.p. as

Corporate Bond Issuance a consequence of the increase recorded in the Treasury

6.0 Private Securities rate. In this context, the risk differential over

Annual Placement Amount Participation Treasuries of Argentina's sovereign securities

Others was reduced 138 b.p., reaching 1,002 b.p. at

5.0 Industrial 32 the end of December (see Chart 7.6).

Retail Trade 54

Real Estate Activities and Construction

4.0 In December, corporate financing through

Financial Sector the placement of Negotiable Obligations (ON) regis-

Energy tered a placement amount of $5,620 million, which repre-

3.0 sents the best performance of the year 2012. This value also

results in one of the highest reached in recent

2.0 years (see Chart 7.7).

1.0 Accentuating the behavior registered in previous

0.0 months, the amount placed in December was influenced

Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 again by YPF emissions. The oil company,

Source: Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg which continues to expand its financing in the

local market, carried out four placements for a total

of $5,107 million. Two of them, which represented

72% of the total, were made at approximately 4 and 6 years

and will pay an interest rate equivalent to the

BADLAR private banks plus margins that

were located at 4.3 p.p and 4.8 p.p, respectively. Likewise,

YPF issued $150 million intended mainly
# Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 16

to the retail public using financial entities as the principal intermediary. This title has a maturity of 1 year and will accrue a fixed interest rate of 19% per annum. Finally, it made a placement in dollars but payable in pesos (dollar linked) for the equivalent of US$258 million at 4 years. The rest of the sectors registered modest behavior. The financial sector issued $300 million, followed by the electricity sector which placed $155 million and the industrial sector, which placed $49 million distributed in three titles, two of them belonging to the SME companies segment.

In variable rate emissions, which comprise the majority of placements, the financing cost required by investors remained stable. The cut-off rate of peso-denominated titles at variable rate (rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years) was located at 19.6%. Likewise, as in October and November, the average cut-off rate of fixed rate emissions (rating superior to Arg BBB+) remained at 19% (see Chart 7.8).

Thus, throughout 2012 the corporate debt market showed very active, accumulating a placed amount of $18,860 million, a figure that doubles the volume registered in 2011. This behavior was driven by the performance recorded in the energy sector which represented 54% of the total, where the role of YPF stood out. The oil company made emissions of $9,370 million. Without considering the amount placed by this company, the total amount placed also increased, 5% with respect to 2011. The financial sector represented 32% of the total with a placed amount of $5,835 million, 4.3% higher than the previous year.

## Investment Funds in Common Funds

In December the assets of the Investment Funds in Common Funds (FCI) in national and foreign currency increased 0.7% ($300 million) and was located at the end of the month at $45,060 million. The FCI in pesos, which represent 95% of total assets, grew 0.9% driven by the increase recorded in Money Market funds, which expanded 4.3% ($700 million; see Chart 7.9) promoted by the increase in the number of quota shares. Likewise, the advance of funds that invest in mixed-income assets stood out with monthly increases of 6.1% ($330 million) and variable income that, thanks to the good performance of the stock market, grew 13.2% ($140 million). The growth of these segments was partly offset by funds that invest in fixed-income assets that fell 4.4% ($860 million) after the redemption of quota shares.

Thus, in 2012 the agents strengthened the use of FCIs

---

# Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 17
Issuances of Financial Trusts as an investment instrument, channeling their surpluses
(excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) from income for managing their liquidity or with a view to
millions $
2,100 medium and long-term. The assets of the funds in

1,800 pesos grew 5.6% ($16,100 million) led by fixed
1,500 income funds, Money Market and mixed income.

1,200

900 In December, in line with the behavior recorded
in the local stock market, variable income funds
600 led the ranking with an approximate monthly return
300 of 15.6%, followed by mixed income funds
which gained 3% and fixed income funds with returns
0 of 1.9%. In this sense, within the main reference

Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 assets in the capital market, Argentine sovereign bonds
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others registered the best performance
with advances of 37%, according to the IAMC index. In
second place were mixed income and fixed income
funds with annual gains of 23% and 22%, respectively.
Chart 7.12 Likewise, thanks to the good performance recorded
in recent months, following the behavior of the
Issuances of Financial Trusts MERVAL index, variable income funds accumulated
(accumulated amounts) a gain of 13% for the year.
millions of $

24,000
For its part, in December the FCI in foreign currency
Infrastructure FF fell 0.5% (US$10 million) positioning itself at US$460
18,000 10,858 million. Mixed income and variable income funds
Other 2,334 explained the entirety of the decline.
9,956

12,000
Financial Trusts13
3,067
588
14,531 In December, the issuances of financial trusts (FF)
6,000 12,558 totaled slightly more than $2,000 million (excluding
5,155 6,951 8,729 9,853 those intended to finance productive projects and
6,624 8,398 infrastructure works), which represented an increase
0 of 30% compared to the previous month. Part of the increase
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 is explained by higher spending characteristic of year-end.
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others Thus, December's issuances marked a historic record
(see Chart 7.11). On the other hand, the third series
of FF Albanesi Gas ($132 million) was placed, which
Chart 7.13 has the purpose of financing the expansion of gas
transportation capacity. Thus, FF issuances backed
Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos fundamentally by assets linked to consumption
TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly weighted average by amount) accumulated in the year around $14,530 million, a
40 16% more compared to the previous year. For its part,
35 Fixed rate issuances linked to the financing of productive
30 Variable rate projects and infrastructure works accumulated in the year
BADLAR private banks slightly more than $2,330 million (see Chart 7.12).

25

20 Financial entities and retail shops placed in December
15 the largest amounts since records have been kept,
10 doubling the volume of securitized assets in November.
5 The amount issued by financial entities

Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

13 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
# Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 18

financial institutions reached $1,120 million. In addition to loans linked to consumption, they also securitized leasing contracts and pledge loans. For their part, retail businesses placed $710 million and the underlying assets corresponded entirely to personal loans and credit card vouchers. Meanwhile, mutual societies, cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers placed $130 million, one of the lowest amounts of the year. The remainder corresponded to companies in the agricultural sector that securitized commercial credits.

The interest rates of senior securities in pesos, with a duration less than 14 months, registered a slight monthly increase, in line with the behavior of the BADLAR private banks rate. The cutoff rate of securities with variable yield was placed at 17.2% and that of fixed-rate securities at 18.4%, registering in both cases an increase of 0.1 p.p. with respect to the previous month (see Chart 7.13). For their part, the values of fiduciary debt class A of the FF Albanesi Gas, whose average term was somewhat greater than 14 months, was placed with a differential margin of 4.8 p.p. over the BADLAR private banks rate.

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 19

**8. Monetary and Financial Indicators**

*Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.*

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Dec-12 | Monthly averages Nov-12 | Ene-12 | Dec-11 | Monthly | Percentage variations Last 12 months |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 292,138 | 271,961 | 220,630 | 210,100 | 7.4% | 39.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 224,211 | 207,564 | 170,304 | 165,181 | 8.0% | 35.7% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 199,381 | 186,415 | 149,948 | 144,288 | 7.0% | 38.2% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 24,827 | 21,147 | 20,354 | 20,891 | 17.4% | 18.8% |
| Cancellatory Checks | 4 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 47.7% | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 67,927 | 64,397 | 50,326 | 44,919 | 5.5% | 51.2% |
| **Stock of Repo Operations** | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 17,432 | 17,749 | 15,732 | 12,071 | -1.8% | 44.4% |
| Assets | 0000 | | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | 88,681 | 90,852 | 71,860 | 67,672 | -2.4% | 31.0% |
| In banks | 77,641 | 79,610 | 63,894 | 59,351 | -2.5% | 30.8% |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repo operations)** | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 74,569 | 75,374 | 29,587 | 22,782 | -1.1% | 227.3% |
| **NOBAC** | 14,112 | 15,478 | 42,274 | 44,889 | -8.8% | -68.6% |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009** | 44,134 | 45,316 | 46,557 | 45,983 | -2.6% | -4.0% |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 525,118 | 506,331 | 398,953 | 382,886 | 3.7% | 37.1% |
| Current account (2) | 151,056 | 138,940 | 121,060 | 106,893 | 8.7% | 41.3% |
| Savings account | 104,714 | 93,884 | 75,513 | 73,673 | 11.5% | 42.1% |
| Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER | 248,833 | 253,728 | 186,532 | 185,534 | -1.9% | 34.1% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 7 | 7 | 9 | 10 | -3.7% | -30.0% |
| Other deposits (3) | 20,508 | 19,772 | 15,839 | 16,776 | 3.7% | 22.2% |
| **Deposits of the private sector** | 372,469 | 353,841 | 270,558 | 262,112 | 5.3% | 42.1% |
| **Deposits of the public sector** | 152,649 | 152,490 | 128,395 | 120,774 | 0.1% | 26.4% |
| **Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 9,386 | 9,320 | 13,371 | 13,158 | 0.7% | -28.7% |
| **Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 373,807 | 358,263 | 273,003 | 268,587 | 4.3% | 39.2% |
| **Loans to the private sector** | 339,007 | 325,231 | 245,931 | 241,211 | 4.2% | 40.5% |
| Advances | 47,376 | 46,298 | 31,081 | 30,930 | 2.3% | 53.2% |
| Documents | 76,173 | 70,474 | 51,968 | 51,144 | 8.1% | 48.9% |
| Mortgages | 34,473 | 33,302 | 27,499 | 26,835 | 3.5% | 28.5% |
| Pledge loans | 22,140 | 21,189 | 16,756 | 16,397 | 4.5% | 35.0% |
| Personal loans | 75,073 | 73,301 | 58,868 | 58,115 | 2.4% | 29.2% |
| Credit cards | 56,219 | 54,120 | 41,856 | 39,942 | 3.9% | 40.8% |
| Others | 27,552 | 26,547 | 17,901 | 17,847 | 3.8% | 54.4% |
| **Loans to the public sector** | 34,800 | 33,032 | 27,072 | 27,377 | 5.4% | 27.1% |
| **Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 5,550 | 5,640 | 9,576 | 9,607 | -1.6% | -42.2% |
| **Total monetary aggregates (1)** | | | | | | |
| M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account | 350,441 | 325,357 | 271,010 | 251,183 | 7.7% | 39.5% |
# MONETARY AGGREGATES

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 455.155 419.241 346.522 324.857 8.6% 40.1%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + 724.503 692.748 548.902 527.177 4.6% 37.4%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 770.319 737.445 606.668 583.612 4.5% 32.0%

Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + private 299.370 281.769 225.420 218.627 6.2% 36.9%
current accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 395.540 368.172 295.657 288.231 7.4% 37.2%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + 571.853 540.258 420.508 406.402 5.8% 40.7%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 609.706 577.622 472.736 458.029 5.6% 33.1%

# MONETARY REPORT | DECEMBER 2012 | BCRA | 20 AVERAGE VARIATIONS

Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2012 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 20.176 7.4% 30.514 11.7% 82.038 39.0% 82.038 39.0%
Financial Sector 490 0.2% 359 0.1% -2.382 -1.1% -2.382 -1.1%
Public Sector 13.712 5.0% 20.557 7.9% 46.498 22.1% 46.498 22.1%
Private External Sector 2.997 1.1% 4.106 1.6% 45.174 21.5% 45.174 21.5%
BCRA Securities 3.281 1.2% 6.043 2.3% -5.510 -2.6% -5.510 -2.6%
Other -304 -0.1% -552 -0.2% -1.742 -0.8% -1.742 -0.8%

BCRA International Reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.182 -2.6% -1.094 -2.4% -1.849 -4.0% -1.849 -4.0%
Foreign Exchange Market Intervention 616 1.4% 850 1.9% 10.217 22.2% 10.217 22.2%
Payment to International Organizations 78 0.2% -40 -0.1% 46 0.1% 46 0.1%
Other Public Sector Operations -1.873 -4.1% -1.257 -2.8% -1.923 -4.2% -1.923 -4.2%
Minimum Cash 107 0.2% 1.188 2.6% 381 0.8% 381 0.8%
Other (including exchange rate valuation) -110 -0.2% -1.835 -4.1% -10.570 -23.0% -10.570 -23.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Figures are provisional, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | Dec-12 | Nov-12 | Oct-12 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **(1)** | | | |
| **National Currency** | % of total deposits in pesos | | |
| Requirement | 12.6 | 12.5 | 12.2 |
| Integration | 12.8 | 12.6 | 12.4 |
| Position (2) | 0.2 | 0.1 | 0.2 |
| **Maturity Structure of Fixed-Term Deposits** | % | | |
| **used for the requirement calculation (3)** | | | |
| Up to 29 days | 65.4 | 63.3 | 63.4 |
| 30 to 59 days | 23.7 | 24.4 | 22.8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.7 | 7.2 | 7.7 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3.6 | 3.4 | 4.3 |
| More than 180 days | 1.6 | 1.7 | 1.8 |
| **Foreign Currency** | % of total deposits in foreign currency | | |
| Requirement | 20.1 | 20.0 | 20.1 |
| Integration (includes resource application default) | 85.2 | 83.0 | 78.5 |
| Position (2) | 65.1 | 63.0 | 58.5 |
| **Maturity Structure of Fixed-Term Deposits** | % | | |
| **used for the requirement calculation (3)** | | | |
| Up to 29 days | 53.1 | 52.1 | 53.2 |
| 30 to 59 days | 22.1 | 22.3 | 22.0 |
| 60 to 89 days | 10.5 | 10.2 | 10.2 |
| 90 to 179 days | 12.4 | 13.4 | 12.1 |
| 180 to 365 days | 1.8 | 1.8 | 2.3 |
| More than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

# MONETARY REPORT | DECEMBER 2012 | BCRA | 21 Interest Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

| **Passive Interest Rates** | **Dec-12** | **Nov-12** | **Oct-12** | **Jan-12** | **Dec-11** |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** | | | | | |
| Rate | 10.77 | 10.24 | 10.18 | 9.63 | 9.99 |
| Amount Operated | 1.313 | 1.422 | 1.387 | 1.291 | 1.126 |
# FIXED TERM DEPOSITS

## In pesos
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 30 days | 13.73 | 13.05 | 13.25 | 13.21 | 14.74 |
| 60 days or more | 15.63 | 15.02 | 14.46 | 14.84 | 16.50 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 13.43 | 12.93 | 12.91 | 12.41 | 14.76 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 15.37 | 15.30 | 14.91 | 16.06 | 18.75 |

## In dollars
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 30 days | 0.57 | 0.64 | 0.58 | 0.30 | 0.33 |
| 60 days or more | 1.10 | 1.10 | 1.01 | 0.69 | 0.69 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.65 | 0.77 | 0.78 | 0.45 | 0.43 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.61 | 0.95 | 0.95 | 0.65 | 0.63 |

# ACTIVE INTEREST RATES Dec-12 Nov-12 Oct-12 Jan-12 Dec-11

## Repo in pesos
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 15.57 | 15.13 | 15.02 | 13.30 | 15.98 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 230 | 262 | 238 | 207 | 226 |

## Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Overdrafts in current account | 21.78 | 21.55 | 21.44 | 25.14 | 26.78 |
| Single signature documents | 19.00 | 18.14 | 17.88 | 21.55 | 22.15 |
| Mortgage loans | 17.25 | 16.95 | 16.44 | 15.93 | 16.52 |
| Pledge loans | 19.61 | 19.63 | 20.50 | 26.13 | 25.10 |
| Personal loans | 34.21 | 33.84 | 33.64 | 37.54 | 36.46 |
| Credit cards | n/a | 34.28 | 34.16 | 34.17 | 33.15 |
| Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 14.44 | 14.29 | 14.18 | 18.70 | 22.56 |

# INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES Dec-12 Nov-12 Oct-12 Jan-12 Dec-11

## LIBOR
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 month | 0.21 | 0.21 | 0.21 | 0.28 | 0.28 |
| 6 months | 0.51 | 0.53 | 0.58 | 0.80 | 0.78 |

## US Treasury Bond
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2 years | 0.25 | 0.26 | 0.27 | 0.23 | 0.25 |
| 10 years | 1.70 | 1.64 | 1.72 | 1.94 | 1.96 |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| FED Funds Rate | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SELIC (at 1 year) | 7.25 | 7.25 | 7.32 | 10.76 | 11.00 |

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES Dec-12 Nov-12 Oct-12 Jan-12 Dec-11

## BCRA repo rates
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities 1 day | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 |
| Liabilities 7 days | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 |
| Assets 7 days | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 |

## Repo total round rates
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 day | 9.36 | 9.35 | 9.27 | 9.06 | 9.13 |
| 7 days | 9.53 | 9.51 | 9.51 | 9.50 | 9.56 |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Amount operated in repo round (daily average) | 10,111 | 12,516 | 10,459 | 10,130 | 8,454 |

## LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 month | 11.60 | 11.30 | n/o | n/o | n/o |
| 2 months | 11.98 | 12.34 | n/o | n/o | n/o |
| 3 months | 12.93 | 12.88 | 12.44 | n/o | n/o |
| 9 months | 14.52 | 14.56 | 14.21 | n/o | n/o |
| 12 months | 14.99 | n/o | 14.93 | n/o | 14.26 |

## NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 9 months BADLAR Private Banks | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o |
| 1 year BADLAR Private Banks | n/o | n/o | -1.88 | n/o | n/o |
| 2 years BADLAR Private Banks | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o |
| 3 years BADLAR Private Banks | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) | 786 | 809 | 716 | 494 | 378 |

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Dec-12 Nov-12 Oct-12 Jan-12 Dec-11

## Dollar Spot
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Wholesale | 4.88 | 4.80 | 4.73 | 4.32 | 4.29 |
| Retail | 4.88 | 4.80 | 4.74 | 4.33 | 4.29 |

## Future Dollar
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| NDF 1 month | 4.98 | 4.91 | 4.82 | 4.37 | 4.36 |
| ROFEX 1 month | 4.95 | 4.87 | 4.80 | 4.35 | 4.33 |
| Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 816 | 893 | 1,048 | 1,075 | 904 |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Real (Pesos per Real) | 2.35 | 2.32 | 2.33 | 2.42 | 2.33 |

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Euro (Pesos per Euro) | 6.41 | 6.16 | 6.14 | 5.58 | 5.64 |

# CAPITAL MARKET Dec-12 Nov-12 Oct-12 Jan-12 Dec-11

## MERVAL
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Index | 2,672 | 2,348 | 2,414 | 2,806 | 2,488 |
| Amount operated (millions of pesos) | 54 | 32 | 32 | 52 | 39 |

## Government Bonds (at par)
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| BODEN 2015 (US$) | 120.57 | 116.08 | 120.82 | 102.14 | 98.40 |
| DISCOUNT (US$ - New York Law) | 97.99 | 97.15 | 108.83 | 83.27 | 81.40 |
| BODEN 2014 ($) | 92.24 | 92.25 | 93.93 | 90.45 | 86.93 |
| DISCOUNT ($) | 46.02 | 44.98 | 47.78 | 54.50 | 51.96 |

## Country Risk (basis points)
| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 1,204 | 1,502 | 1,121 | 828 | 980 |
| EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) | 324 | 356 | 336 | 405 | 409 |

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 23

## 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-on-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Negotiated Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**FV:** Face Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | December 2012 | BCRA | 24
