# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Capital Markets | Page 13

 Shares | Page 13

 Public Securities | Page 14

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Investment Mutual Funds | Page 15

 Financial Trusts | Page 16

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 18

10. Glossary | Page 22

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was August 9, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 21. Summary¹
• In July, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector accumulated a record monthly increase, which reached $10,500 million, comprised of both placements of $1 million and more as well as retail deposits (of less than $1 million). In this way, the year-over-year growth rate of fixed-term deposits from the private sector continued to be at historically elevated levels. When comparing the average balance of July with that recorded a year ago, it is observed that these placements accumulated an increase of 44%.

• As a consequence of the increase observed in fixed-term deposits and the increase in circulation, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) grew 2.7% in the month of July. Cash in the hands of the public was associated with seasonal factors linked to winter vacations and the collection of the half-year complementary salary bonus. For its part, deposits from the private sector also showed very good performance. In this way, in the last 12 months M3 accumulated an increase of 29.7%.

• The main factor that explained the monthly growth of M3 continued to be the increase in peso loans to the private sector, which in July reached 3% ($11,670 million), the largest of the last six months. Thus, these financings reached a year-over-year variation of 39.3%. In line with what occurred in previous years, the lines with essentially commercial destinations were those that explained most of the month's increase. Indeed, the financings implemented through documents and advances made the main contributions to the month's growth.

• According to the latest available information, corresponding to June, financing granted in the form of leasing contracts significantly increased their monthly rate of variation, showing an increase of 6.1% ($470 million) in the month, the largest since September 2011.

• In a context where the growth of peso loans to the private sector exceeded that of deposits in the same currency, a decrease was observed in the liquidity ratio of the peso segment of financial institutions (sum of cash in banks, the current account of institutions at the Central Bank, net transactions with that entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC, in terms of total peso deposits), which averaged 31.5%, 1.1 p.p. below June. The decrease was concentrated in longer-term assets (holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC), whose participation with respect to deposits fell 0.6 p.p., and in reverse repurchase operations, with a decline in their participation of approximately 0.3 p.p.. This decrease occurs in a general context in which banking liquidity remains ample.

• The interest rates paid by financial institutions to depositors (passive) showed a slight increase in July. Indeed, the interest rate on total new fixed-term operations in pesos averaged 14.95% in July, approximately 0.2 p.p. above that corresponding to June.

• The interest rates applied to peso loans to the private sector (active) also showed slight increases in July. In particular, in the case of the rates on loans granted through promissory notes and those corresponding to credits with real guarantees, the increases were the result of a reduced comparison base, due to the fact that in June there was a greater concentration of financing granted within the framework of the Line of Credit for Productive Investment – which are granted at lower interest rates and with longer terms –, as usually occurs during the months in which the deadlines of the stages of this line expire.

• In July, corporate debt issuances in the local market totaled approximately $2,500 million, 8.5% above the previous month. This performance occurred in a context where the number of placements increased, going from 10 issuances in June to 22 in July; with most of them denominated in local currency.
• Financial trust fund issuances marked a new record (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works), totaling just over $2,060 million. This amount represented an increase of close to 70% compared to the previous month. The significant amount issued during the month was accompanied by an increase in the number of operations, which reached 22, compared to a monthly average of 17 operations in the first semester of the year.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Graph 2.1
Monetary Aggregates - M3 In July, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
% (variation of monthly averages)
Monthly variation of M3 % (M32) presented growth of 2.7% (see Graph
5 50 July - Monthly Average Variation
4.4 Year-on-year Variation of M3 (right axis) 4.4 2.1). Among its components, the currency in

4 3.7 40 circulation held by the public stood out, whose increase
Fixed-term deposits
was associated with seasonal factors linked to winter
3 30 Public Sector vacations and the collection of the complementary half-
2.7 29.7 Private Sector
year bonus. For its part, deposits from the private sector

Demand also showed very good performance. In this way, in year-
2 20 Deposits
on-year terms, M3 reached a variation of 29.7%.
1 10 Bills and
Coins

0 0 The main factor explaining the monthly growth of
Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 -5 0 5 10 15 thousands of M3 continued to be the increase in peso loans to
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA millions of $ the private sector. The operations of the public sector
and, to a lesser extent, the foreign currency purchases of
Graph 2.2 the Central Bank also contributed to the expansion (see
Graph 2.2).
thousands of Factors Explaining the Variation of M3
millions of $ (July 2013, on average)

25 The total of peso deposits presented growth of 1.6% in
July, with reductions in the placements of the public
20 sector that were more than offset by the increase in
those of the private sector. With regard to the latter,
15 they registered growth of 3%, similar to that of June,
with increases in both demand deposits (3.8%) and
10 those agreed on a fixed-term basis (2.3%).
5
In July, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private
0 sector accumulated a record monthly increase, which
Foreign Currency Purchases Public Sector* Loans to Private S. Others M3 reached $10,500 million (see Graph 2.3). Thus, at the
*Includes public sector operations with effects on the monetary base and public sector loans.
Source: BCRA end of the month, the balance of these placements exceeded
$202,400 million. The July increase was made up of both
placements of $1 million and more as well as retail deposits
Graph 2.3 (of less than $1 million).

thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector
millions of $ The wholesale deposits, after the more sluggish growth
12 Jul-13 during the first part of the month, associated with greater
10.5 liquidity needs of companies to pay the complementary
Variation of the month half-year bonus, resumed an upward trend during the
10 Monthly average variation of the last 12 months
second half of the month and explained more than 60%
8 of the monthly increase. For their part, retail deposits
increased their monthly growth rate to 4.7%, one of the
6 highest observed for the same month during previous
4 years. In this way, the year-on-year growth rate of fixed-
term deposits from the private sector continued to be at
2 historically elevated levels. When comparing the average
0 balance of July with that recorded a year ago,

-2

-4
Jan-04 Jan-05 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13
Source: BCRA
2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 4 observes that these placements accumulated an increase of 44%.

For its part, in July, the average balance of the monetary base increased 4% ($12,600 million) with respect to the average of June, 2.4 p.p. less than the increase recorded in the same month of 2012. As a consequence, its year-on-year growth rate decreased almost 3 p.p., placing itself at 28.4%. Part of the monthly increase in the monetary base was explained by an expansion associated with public sector operations, mainly due to the transfer of funds by the government from peso accounts at the Central Bank to accounts in commercial banks. In turn, to supply the increase in demand for cash associated with winter vacations and the collection of the mid-year complementary salary payment, the Central Bank provided liquidity to the market through its monetary regulation instruments: $2,500 million from the partial renewal of its securities (LEBAC and NOBAC) and $2,000 million from the decline in its reverse repurchase operations. Net foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank in the Single Free Exchange Market also explained, on average, an increase in the monetary base.

For its part, the total of deposits in foreign currency maintained its balance essentially stable, with reductions observed in placements belonging to the private sector that were offset by the increase in those belonging to the public sector.

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, which comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks, CEDIN and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), presented a growth of 2.6%, accumulating a year-on-year variation of 27.9%.

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

In July, in a context where the growth of loans in pesos to the private sector exceeded that of deposits in the same currency, the liquidity of the peso segment of the entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of the entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase operations with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC, in terms of total deposits in pesos) decreased, although it continued to be ample. It averaged 31.5%, a value 1.1 p.p. lower than that of June (see Graph 3.1). The decrease was concentrated in longer-term assets (holding of LEBAC and NOBAC), whose participation with respect to deposits fell 0.6 p.p., and in repurchase operations, with a decline in their participation of approximately 0.3 p.p.. As for the minimum cash requirement regime, the requirement for the month was met with an excess equivalent to approximately 0.2% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2).

For its part, the average liquidity of the foreign currency segment amounted to 107.1% of dollar deposits, 3.1% above June.

## 4. Loans¹ ³ ⁴

In July, loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited an increase of 3% ($11,670 million), the ma-
-1.0 0 higher than the last six months, reaching an interannual
variation of 39.3% (see Chart 4.1). In line with what
happened in previous years, the lines with essentially
Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 commercial purpose were those that explained most of
Source: BCRA the month's increase. Indeed, financings implemented
through documents and advances made the main con-
Chart 4.2 tributions to the month's growth (1.1 and 0.8 p.p., re-
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector spectively; see Chart 4.2).

% (contribution by line to growth in the months of July)
6 Real Guarantee
5 0.6 Credit The lines essentially oriented toward companies showed
0.5 Cards good performance. Advances grew 6.2% ($3,240 million),
0.4
4 0.8 0.4 favored by high liquidity demand from companies during
0.8 Personal the first days of the month, on the occasion of payment
3 0.8 0.5
1.0 0.3 1.6 0.4 of the annual mid-year bonus. This increase was similar
2 0.1 0.3 0.4 Other Financ. to that shown in July of last year and was among the
1.8 0.5 1.8
0.0 0.4 1.3 1.1 Commercial highest of recent years for the period. Thus, the inter-
1 0.4 0.0
1.2 0.5 0.5 1.1 0.9 0.8 Documents annual variation rate of that line remained around 30%
0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.7 -0.1
0.0 -0.1 -0.3 (see Chart 4.3). For its part, financings implemented
-1 Advances through documents continued accelerating their monthly
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 expansion rate, showing an increase of 5.1% ($4,440 mil-
Source: BCRA lion). It should be noted that part of this increase is ex-
plained by the significant positive "statistical carryover"
left by June, because in the last two business days of
Chart 4.3 that month, and as a consequence of the closure of the
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % deadline for compliance with the second phase of loans
14 70 (monthly average variation) granted within the framework of the Productive Invest-
12 Monthly avg. var. 60 ment Credit Line (LCIP), strong increases were recorded.
Interannual var. (right axis)
10 50 In interannual terms, financings implemented through
8 6.9 40 documents grew 60.6%. Finally, the remaining commer-
6.1 6.2
6 4.6 30 cial financings, grouped under the heading "Other
4 20 loans", registered an increase of 4.8% ($1,500 million)
2 1.5 2.1 1.4 10 during the period.

0 0
-2 -10
-4 -20
-6 -30
Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13
Source: BCRA

3 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolios
from entities to financial trusts.
4 In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period.
In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 6 During the month of July, the BCRA continued to make
disbursements of funds awarded in the auctions within
the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing
Program (PFPB). The resources effectively disbursed in
Chart 4.4 July totaled $282 million. In this way, the total funds
disbursed since the beginning of PFPB amounted to
% Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
8 80 $5,236 million, approximately 75% of what was award-
ed ($6,921 million).
7 70
6 Monthly avg. variation 60
The lines oriented to finance, mainly, family consump-
Interannual var. (right axis)
5 4.6 50 tion were affected by seasonal factors, which resulted
4 40 in lower dynamism in these lines. On one hand, the re-
3.3 ceipt of the annual mid-year bonus usually motivates a
3 30
2.0 1.8 1.8 1.8
2 20 decline
1 10 in the demand for new personal loans and in

 0.1 credit card consumption, as well as the
 0 0
 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 partial cancellation of balances, that is, of debts

 Source: BCRA contracted previously. On the other hand, in July strong
 maturities of certain credit cards are concentrated,
 designed especially to finance the purchase of products,
 supplies and services from agricultural and livestock
 sector producers. As a consequence, personal loans
 decreased their monthly growth rate, registering an
 increase of 1.8% ($1,540 million), although they
 maintained their year-over-year growth rate at around
 31% (see Chart 4.4). For their part, credit card
 financing decreased 1.3% ($860 million), although in
 Chart 4.5 the last 12 months they accumulated growth close
 Goods in Financial Lease in Pesos to 40%.

 % %
 10 Monthly Var. 100
 8 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 80 Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans

 6 60 registered an increase of 2.6% ($990 million), favored

 4 40 by the positive "statistical carryover" left by June. In

 2 20 this way, they continued increasing their monthly

 0 0 growth rate and exhibited the largest increase of the

 -2 -20 last six months. In year-over-year terms they also

 -4 -40 showed acceleration. In effect, in the last twelve months

 -6 -60 they registered a variation close to 30%, 1.1 p.p. above

 -8 -80 that observed in June. For their part, credits with

 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 chattel mortgage guarantees grew 3.1% ($820 million),
 Source: BCRA which implied a year-over-year variation of 47% in July,
 1.5 p.p. more than the previous month.

 According to the latest available information, corre-
 sponding to the month of June, financing granted under
 the form of leasing contracts5 significantly increased
 their monthly variation rate, showing in the month an
 increase of 6.1% ($470 million), the largest since
 September 2011. In this way, their year-over-year varia-
 tion rate continued accelerating and reached 34%, regis-
 tering an increase of almost 7 p.p. with respect to May
 (see Chart 4.5). The greater dynamism of these finan-

5 Comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, especially acquired by the entity
at the request of these parties, for which the lessee pays periodically and for the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right
to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

 Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 7 cing is explained, to a large extent, by the impulse coming
 Chart 5.1 from the LCIP6 since some of these loans are being
 Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary and Secondary Market channeled through leasing operations.

 A.N.R. % (weighted average rate by amount)
 20 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 17.9 18.1 decreased 5.2% (U$S 260 million). Thus, the average
 18 balance for the month was located at around U$S 4,700
 16.3 16.8
 16 15.6 million.
 15.2

 Primary market 30-07-13
 14 5. Interest Rates7
 Primary market 25-06-13
 Secondary market 30-07-13 Titles Issued by the Central Bank8

 12
 Secondary market 25-06-13 The interest rates of placements in the primary market
 remained relatively stable in July. For the third consecu-
 10 tive month, only fixed-rate titles were awarded. In this
 Days sense, the interest rate of LEBAC placements for the
 8 shortest terms, 90 days and
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600
 Source: BCRA

 Chart 5.2

 Balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in Pesos thousands of millions (end of month) %
 120 35
 NOBAC
 LEBAC 30
 100 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC / Total Deposits (right axis)
110 days, which are auctioned at a predetermined rate, were located at 15.2% and 15.6%, respectively. Likewise, the longer-term rate, which this time was awarded with a maturity of 420 days, stood at 18.1% (see Graph 5.1).

Just as in June, the offers were concentrated in securities with a maturity of between 90 to 180 days, which represented 57% of the total awarded. Likewise, given that the average term of the new placements was below what the stock showed in June, the average life of the balance in circulation was located at approximately 194 days.

Graph 5.3
Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market
Up to 15 days From 15 to 30 days From 30 to 60 days At the end of the month, the balance of Central Bank securities in total circulation was reduced by $933 million, positioning itself at $106,323 million, an amount that represents 18% of total deposits (see Graph 5.2). The balance in circulation of LEBAC decreased by $178 million, while that of NOBAC did so by $755 million, with which the participation of the latter fell again, positioning itself at 5.4% of the total stock. With respect to the evolution of holdings, the reduction was driven by lower holdings in banks, which was partially offset by the performance recorded in Investment Funds (FCI).

6 See Communication A 5319.
7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 8 In the secondary market, the average amount traded decreased by $160 million in July, positioning itself at $1,080 million daily. Securities under 60 days concentrated almost all of the operations (see Graph 5.3), in which private banks and FCI mainly participate. With respect to the agreed rates, following the behavior recorded in previous months, some volatility was observed in the interest rates of short-term LEBAC.

Central Bank Repo Operations¹

Unchanged from the previous month, the Central Bank's passive repo rates for 1 and 7-day terms were positioned at 9% and 9.5%, while the active repo interest rates for the same terms were positioned at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

The average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this institution participates, decreased again in July, this time by 16.9%, positioning itself at $9,644 million. In the month, no active repos were arranged for the entity.

Interfinancial Markets¹

In July, the average interest rate of operations for 1 business day in the unguaranteed market (call) was positioned at 13.4%, while the average interest rate of operations for 1 business day between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) stood at

Graph 5.4
Call Market
millions of $ (average monthly net position by group of entities)

EFNB
Public
Private National
Foreign
-800 13.1%.
Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13
Source: BCRA

With respect to the amounts traded, the average daily trading volume increased again, driven both by the call market, where the amount grew $220 million, and by the REPO round, where the average volume operated in the month expanded $100 million. The net position registered in the call market by the different groups of entities remained without major changes compared to the previous month: national private entities, non-banking financial entities and public entities resulted as net lenders, while foreign entities resulted again as the only net recipients of funds (see Chart 5.4).

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

The interest rates paid by financial entities to depositors showed a slight increase in July. In effect, the interest rate on the total of new time operations in pesos averaged 14.95% in July, approximately 0.2 p.p. above that corresponding to June.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 9 Considering exclusively private banks, the interest rate paid on their fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 14.5% in July, 0.5 p.p. above June, while the BADLAR – interest rate on deposits of $1 million and more, between 30 and 35 days term – averaged 17.2%, with a monthly increase of 0.7 p.p..

**Active Interest Rates¹ 9**

The interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector (active) showed slight increases in July.

In particular, the interest rate on overdrafts in current account averaged 23.2%, exhibiting a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p.. The monthly average of the interest rate on overdrafts in current account to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days term was located Chart 5.5 at 17.3%, with an increase of 0.5 p.p. in the month.

**Chart 5.5**
**Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those Intended for Consumption**
**(monthly average)**
TNA, Pawned 2.5 p.p. Variations

% 1.5 For its part, the interest rate applied to document 1.5
Mortgages to 0.9 0.8 discounts increased 1 p.p. in the month, 0.6 0.4
45 Physical Persons 0.5 averaging 20.9%. Likewise, the interest rate on
40 Personal -0.5 -0.4 financings implemented through unsigned
-1.5 Monthly Var. Var. Dec-12 documents averaged 20.8%. It should be
35 Mortgages Pawned Personal
30 recalled that in June, and as a result of the completion of the
25 second stage of the LCIP, a concentration was recorded
20 in the granting of commercial loans, within the framework
of that line, which is granted at a significantly lower 15
interest rate and with longer terms, 10
Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 behavior that is not usually repeated in the first month

Source: BCRA of a new stage of the line.

The average interest rate applied to loans with real guarantee was also affected by the lower participation of productive lines. The monthly average of the interest rate on loans granted with pawn guarantee was located at 20.5%. Likewise, the interest rate on mortgage loans to physical persons averaged 15.8%. For its part, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 34.8%, increasing 0.8 p.p. in the month (Chart 5.5).

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market.**

The balance of international reserves remained practically unchanged in July, totaling US$37,049 million on the last day of the month (see Chart 6.1). The monthly increase was US$43 million, already

---

**Footnote:**
9 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other outlays (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.
# Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 10

that net sales of foreign currency by the Central Bank
Chart 6.1 in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market

International Reserves of the BCRA (MULC) and the outflow of foreign currency due to
billions of US$ (SDR allocations from 2009 excluded) public sector operations were more than offset by the

60 increase in minimum cash accounts and the

 Jul-13 positive result obtained by the appreciation of the US
50 dollar with respect to other currencies.

40
 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the
30 US dollar (see Chart 6.2) and the euro, while it

20 appreciated against the real. The average July quotations
 were 5.44 $/US$, and 7.13 $/euro
10 (3.5%) and 2.42 $/real, which meant a change with
 0 respect to June of 2.1%, 1.3%, and -1.9%, respectively.
 Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 Mar-10 Aug-10 Jan-11 Jun-11 Nov-11 Apr-12 Sep-12 Feb-13 Jul-13 Meanwhile, in the dollar futures market (ROFEX),
 Source: BCRA the average daily trading amount was $890 million,
 23% higher than in June, which was associated with
Chart 6.2 an increase in the volume of contracts concluded. In
 turn, during July an increase was observed in the
 $/US$ Nominal Reference Exchange Rate expectation of depreciation for the coming months.
 6.0
 Daily Quotation

 Monthly Average Quotation
 5.5
 7. Main Policy Measures of
 5.0 +2.1% Other Central Banks

 4.5
 Among the measures adopted during the month by other central
4.0 banks, those that stood out, within developed countries,

 were the decisions of the US Federal Reserve (FED),
3.5 the European Central Bank (ECB), and the Bank of
 Jan-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12 Jul-12 Dec-12 May-13 England (BoE). These decisions were taken in a
 * A positive/negative variation indicates depreciation/appreciation of the nominal exchange rate. context where the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
 Source: BCRA published, in mid-July, an update of its projections
 made in April in the World Economic Outlook.
 Table 7.1 From these projections and from the publication in
 Year Projection 2013 different countries of their respective Purchasing
 Period of WEO Announcement Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 Managers Index it follows that the scenario of recovery
 Global GDP 3.6 3.5 3.3 3.1 of the level of global activity is maintained, with better
 Advanced Economies 1.5 1.4 1.2 1.2 prospects for developed countries, although worse
 United States 2.1 2.1 1.9 1.7 for emerging ones (see Table 7.1).
 Euro Zone 0.2 -0.2 -0.3 -0.6
 Germany 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.3
 France 0.4 0.3 -0.1 -0.2 The FED kept its quantitative expansion program
 Italy -0.7 -1 -1.5 -1.8 unchanged at US$85,000 million monthly. Although
 Spain -1.3 -1.5 -1.6 -1.6 it had previously anticipated that it would probably
 Japan 1.2 1.2 1.6 2 reduce this program before year-end, it also made
 United Kingdom 1.1 1.0 0.7 0.9 mention that if the inflation rate persists below the
 Canada 2 1.8 1.5 1.7 target of 2% it could jeopardize economic recovery
 Other Advanced Economies 3 2.7 2.5 2.3 (see Chart 7.1)¹⁰. Nevertheless, market consensus
 Emerging and Developing Countries 5.6 5.5 5.3 5 expects the pace of asset purchases to decrease
 China 8.2 8.2 8 7.8 effectively by the end of 2013.
 India 6 5.9 5.7 5.6
 Brazil 4 3.5 3 2.5 For its part, at its July 4 meeting, the Governing
 Green color indicates improvements in projections compared to the previous estimate. Council (GC) of the ECB decided to maintain its interest rate
 Red color indicates a downward correction of the projection.
 Source: Own elaboration based on IMF data

¹⁰ This is so because inflation rates at extremely low levels could potentially lead to the emergence of a deflationary process, with its negative implications for the level of activity.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 11

Chart 7.1

(Text continues but cuts off at "decided to maintain its interest rate")
% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States ary policy interest rate, which applies to the Main
7 Refinancing Operations (MRO), at 0.5% (historical
6 Personal Consumption Expenditures minimum). It also did not modify the corresponding
 Inflation Target * rate corridor for the credit and deposit facility, which
5 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures remained at 1% and 0%, respectively (see Chart
 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 7.2).
4 CPI
 CPI Core
3
2 However, for the first time in the history of the ECB, the

1 Governing Council decided to provide a perspective
 regarding the future evolution of its policy, by stating
0 that it expects that the MRO will not increase above
 current levels for an extended period. The ECB took
-1 this decision following the announcement of the FED
-2 (in the previous meeting in mid-June) in which it
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 anticipated that it could reduce the pace of asset
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).purchases before the end of the year, which generated
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" employment, an increase in the stress of debt markets. Although
moderate long-term interest rates, and stable prices. Regarding the latter, in the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012 the Bank's president refused to confirm that
a target of 2% annual variation for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term was set. this was the reason, he stated that recent liquidity
 restrictions in the Eurozone debt markets (following
 the FED's decision) are a factor that could negatively
 Chart 7.2 affect economic growth. Along with this, he did not
 rule out lowering the MRO below its current value, nor
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target bringing the deposit facility rate into negative territory.
 %
7

6 Monetary Policy Rate On the other hand, on July 4, the Monetary Policy
 Inflation Rate Committee (MPC) of the BoE decided to keep unchanged
5
 Inflation Target both its monetary policy interest rate – Bank Rate –
4 (0.5%, see Chart 7.3), as well as its quantitative easing
 Rate Corridor program – Asset Purchase Facility (APF) –, which remains
3 at £375,000 million, unchanged from a year ago.
2

1
 In Mark Carney's first meeting as BoE president, the
0 MPC decided to give certainty to the market regarding
 that it does not validate market expectations that
-1 indicate a rise in the Bank Rate by mid-2015, taking
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 into account the current state of the English economy
Source: Own elaboration based on ECB. and its prospects for the coming years. This no change
The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate in market expectations, just as in the Eurozone, had occurred following the Federal Reserve meeting in mid-June.
 Before the FED's meeting, the market did not expect a
 Chart 7.3 rise in the Bank Rate before 2016.

 Interest Rate, Inflation Rate and Target, and Monetary Policy Additionally, during the analyzed period many central
 £ Thousands banks were active seeking to prevent excessive
 % Conventional Millions depreciation of their currencies. Among them, the
6 England 400 Central Bank of Brazil (BCB), which intervened in
 350 the futures market through swaps (with no impact on
5
 reserves). Furthermore, the Monetary Policy Committee
 300

4 250

3 200 
 Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis)
2 Monetary Policy Rate 150
 Inflation Rate
 100
1 Inflation Target
 50

0 0
Jan-06 Aug-06 Mar-07 Oct-07 May-08 Dec-08 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13
Source: own elaboration based on BankofEngland.co.uk (COPOM) of the BCB decided to increase the target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 8.5%. This is the third

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 12 consecutive increase (0.25 p.p. in April and 0.5 p.p. in

Chart 7.4 May), following the expansionary cycle that began in August

Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target 2011 (see Chart 7.4).

% Brazil
18
Reference Interest Rate (right axis) Other central banks that acted seeking to reverse the

Inflation Rate (right axis)
Inflation Target Limits (right axis) depreciation trend of their local currency (see Chart

14 7.5) were the monetary authorities of India,
Turkey and Indonesia. The first two did so by
10 increasing the interest rates corresponding to the
ceiling of their interest rate corridors, while the
Central Bank of Indonesia raised the interest rate
6 corresponding to the floor of the corridor.

2 8. Capital Market
Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13
Source: own elaboration based on BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br
Equities¹¹

In July, variable income assets in the main stock
exchanges closed higher, driven by expectations of
Chart 8.1 the continuity of monetary stimulus from the main
World Stock Indices central banks and an earnings season in the United
150 (in dollars; Base Index 31/07/11=100)
States with results, in most cases, better than
MSCI- World expected by the market. Within the stock exchanges
S&P 500
130 of advanced economies, the S&P 500, the main
MSCI-Europe index of the United States market advanced 4.9% and the
120 MSCI- Emerging European market, measured through the MSCI index, gained
110 MSCI- Latam 8.6% (see Chart 8.1). Along with the increase in
100 prices, expected volatility decreased,
90 mainly in the United States where the
80 volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the
70 VIX index, fell 3.2 p.p. to 13.9 p.p. (see Chart 8.2).

60

50
Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

In this context, the price of variable income assets
of emerging economies moved slightly higher and
measured through the MSCI Emerging index gained
Chart 8.2 0.8%. In contrast to this performance, the MSCI
Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and Latin America registered a decline
% Eurozone of 1.1% driven mainly by the Bovespa
60 (VIX and VStoxx Indices) (Brazil), benchmark index for the region, which fell
55 0.4% and in the IGPA (Chile) which registered a
50 decline of 8.1%, the highest since September 2011.

Index VIX (S&P 500)
45 Index VStoxx 50 (Eurozone)

40

35 In the case of Brazil, the declines in stock indices
30 occurred as a result of the depreciation of the real
25 against the dollar, while in Chile they were a
20 consequence of the decline in the index in local
15 currency. For its part, counteracting this behavior,
10 the IPC (Mexico) stands out, which gained 2.1%,
Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 driven by the appreciation of the Mexican peso
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data against the dollar (see Chart 8.3).

¹¹ Unless otherwise specified, the variation of the indices is expressed in US dollars.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 13 Chart 8.3 After the losses recorded in May and June, the
Latin American Stock Indices local reference index (Merval) measured in dollars
120 (in dollars; Base Index 30/06/11 = 100) recovered part of the lost ground and closed July with
110 a gain of 10.4% monthly. Increases were observed in
100 most sectors, together with an increase of 8.9% in
90 operating volume, which was $45 million.

80
70 Public Titles

 60 Merval (Argentina)

 IPC (Mexico)
 Bovespa (Brasil) In July, the returns on public titles of emerging
 50
 IGPA (Chile) economies grew approximately 10 basis points. This
 performance occurred in a context where the returns on
 40 American public debt increased in longer-term titles.
 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 In effect, the 10-year title expanded by 9 basis points
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data and the 30-year title did so by 14 basis points, reaching
 3.6%. In this way, the yield differentials of emerging
 sovereign titles over treasuries decreased slightly,
 according to the EMBI+, reaching 338 basis points at
 the end of the month. Likewise, at the regional level,
 the returns decreased slightly, so the EMBI Latin
 Chart 8.4 America fell by 16 basis points, reaching 410 basis
 points.

 Sovereign Risk Indicators
 Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.
 550 1400 In this context, in Argentina, the yield differential of
 1300 public titles was reduced by 87 basis points, placing
 500
 1200 itself at the end of the month at 1,112 basis points
 (see Chart 8.4).
 450 1100

 1000
 400 Private Titles
 900
 350 800

 300 700 In July, the emissions in the local corporate debt
 EMBI+ 600 market totaled a nominal amount of approximately
 250 EMBI+ Latin America $2,500 million, 8.5% higher than the previous month
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500 (see Chart 8.5). This performance occurred in a context
 200 400 where the number of placements increased, going from
 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 10 emissions in June to 22 in July; with most of them
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg denominated in local currency.

 Chart 8.5 Corporate Bonds Emission

 thousands of The amount issued was influenced by placements from
 millions of $ millions of $ Quantity two companies linked to the food industry sector that
 600 25 turned to the market for $965 million, followed by the
 6.0 Average amount per placement
 500 Quantity of placements (right axis) 20 financial sector which continues to expand its funding
 5.5 Denominated in Dollars sources through placements of Negotiable Obligations
 400 5.0 Denominated in Pesos 15 (ON), this time for $731 million. Along with these
 300 two sectors, two emissions from YPF were observed,
 10
 4.5 200 for approximately $600 million. One of them was
 4.0 100 5 aimed at the retail segment, was for 1 year, of the
 3.5 0 0 bullet type and will earn an annual interest rate of
 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 19%, similar to the cost recorded in previous emissions
 3.0
 2.5 of equal conditions. In this sense, since December 2012
 2.0 the oil company has already raised $850 million in the
 1.5 retail segment (see Chart 7.5).
 1.0
 0.5
 0.0 With respect to the financing cost, in the variable rate
 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 emissions, the interest rate that titles with a rating
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA. superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years
 earned remained relatively stable and was located at
 Chart 8.6 20.9%. Likewise, the interest rate of fixed-rate
 Interest Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos placements in pesos with a rating superior to Arg
 TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) BBB+ was located at 20.4%, partly influenced by the
 30 YPF emission, since in the rest of the placements the
 25 Interest rate of variable rate titles * rate increased to 21% (see Chart 8.6).
 Interest rate of fixed rate titles **
 BADLAR of private banks
 20

 15

 10

 5

 0
Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13

(*) With rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating superior to Arg BBB+.

Source: BCRA based on CNV, IAMC and BCBA. Finally with data as of June 2013, according to information from the National Securities Commission (CNV), the stock of ON was located at $69,461 million, registering an increase of 62% compared to the same period of the previous year. As in June, the greater part are liabilities of the energy and financial sector.

Graph 8.7

thousands of Patrimony of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
thousands of
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $ Mutual Investment Funds

7.0 70

6.0 Money Market
Fixed Income 60 As of end of July, the patrimony of the FCIs in national
5.0 Mixed Income and foreign currency was located at $60,470 million,
Variable Income 50
4.0 increasing by $3,170 million (5.5%). This is the
Evolution of stock (axis)
3.0 40 greatest monthly expansion since March and occurs
2.0 30 following the monthly declines of a seasonal nature
1.0
20 recorded in May and June.
0.0
-1.0 10 The FCIs in pesos, which represent almost the totality of the
-2.0 0 industry, drove the monthly increase,
Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI mainly as a consequence of the performance
registered in the fixed income funds, which increased their patrimony by $1,590 million (7.7%). In the same direction, although with more moderate behavior, the Money Market funds, used for the management of shorter-term liquidity, registered an increase of $620 million (3.2%). In both cases the expansion was driven by the behavior recorded in the quantity of quotas. For their part, the funds that invest in mixed income assets grew $440 million (4.7%) and the variable income funds increased $160 million (13.5%), thanks to the improvement in the prices of the main local stock market assets (see Graph 8.7).

Graph 8.8

Portfolio Composition SME and Infrastructure Funds
(July 2013)

SME Infrastructure Within the segment of fixed income and mixed income funds
6.1 34.4 in pesos, in recent months the increase registered in funds
37.9 that invest an important percentage of their portfolio in
17.1
21.6 instruments for SMEs and Infrastructure stood out,
mainly post-dated checks, financial trusts and private
3.2
10.2 1.7 securities (see Graph 8.8). Performance was driven by
38.5
28.7 insurance companies, since they constitute investments
approved by the Eligibility Committee within the
FCIs and Trusts Other Assets and Liabilities Private Bonds framework of the application of Section k of the
Public Titles Post-dated Checks Insurance Activity Regulation, which requires insurance companies and ART to invest a proportion of their assets in productive investments. In this context, the patrimony of the SME and Infrastructure funds went from $1,900 million in December 2012 to slightly exceeding $4,000 million in July 2013 and explain 14% of the total growth of the industry (see Graph 8.9).

Graph 8.9

Patrimony of SME and Infrastructure Funds in Pesos
in millions $

4,400

4,000 Infrastructure Funds
3,600 SME Funds
3,200

2,800 With respect to the profitability of FCIs in pesos,
2,400 pulled by the performance registered in the local stock
2,000 market, the variable income funds gained 12.7% in July,
1,600 recovering part of the losses registered in the previous
1,200 month. In this way, they are the segment with the best
800 relative performance accumulating a gain of 12.7% so far
400 this year. For their part, the mixed income funds grew
0 3.8%, the fixed income funds expanded 2.6% and the funds

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 15
Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13

Money Market recorded an average monthly return of 0.9%.

Source: BCRA based on CAFCI

Finally, following the sharp decline recorded in June, the FCIs in foreign currency were reduced by US$10 million and were positioned at US$348 million. Most of it is concentrated in fixed income funds, which represent 80% of the total.

Financial Trusts12

In July, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) recorded a new record (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works), totaling slightly more than $2,060 million (see Chart 8.10). This amount represented an increase of close to 70% compared to the previous month and was positioned slightly above what was observed in December of last year. The important amount issued in the month was accompanied by an increase in the number of operations. In fact, in the last month 22 placements were recorded, compared to a monthly average of 17 operations in the first semester of the year.

Chart 8.10 Financial Trusts Issuances
millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
%
Amount issued in the month | 2,100 | 60
Monthly average of amount issued in the year
12-month moving average variation i.a. (right axis) | 1,800 | 40
1,460
1,500
20 | 1,210
1,200 | 1,050
820 | 0
900 | 730
700 | 550 | -20
600
300 | -40
0 | -60
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

Among the settlors, financial entities stood out again, being responsible for 40% of the total issued in the month. They placed around $820 million, the largest amount so far this year. In addition to personal loans, they also securitized leasing contracts. On their part, retail businesses securitized consumption-related assets for $645 million (31% of the total), an amount similar to the average of the previous two-month period and that of April. Mutual associations, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers issued close to $440 million, registering a slight increase compared to the previous month. Among the assets securitized by this type of settlors were personal loans, credit card coupons, leasing contracts and pawn credits. The rest corresponded to an FF that has the purpose of investing in the real estate market with the proceeds from the placement, with the settlors being those who end up as subscribers of the fiduciary debt securities. There was also recorded a placement by a company in the agricultural sector that securitized commercial credits.

All senior titles in pesos with duration of less than 14 months were placed at variable rate. The cut rate (weighted average by amount) of this type of titles was positioned at 17.5%, registering an increase of 0.8 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Chart 8.11).

Chart 8.11
Cut Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos
(duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)
TIR; %
40
35 | Fixed rate
    | Variable rate
30 | BADLAR private banks
25
20
15
10
5
Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13

Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 17

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system | Jul-13 | Monthly | Last 12 | Jun-13 | Dec-12 | Jul-12
 | | | months |

12 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 16
Monetary Base 323.597 311.003 292.138 252.103 4.0% 28.4%
 Monetary Circulation 249.827 238.161 224.211 194.841 4.9% 28.2%
 Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public 226.681 214.501 199.335 175.027 5.7% 29.5%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 23.143 23.658 24.872 19.812 -2.2% 16.8%
 Cancellatory Checks 2 2 4 0 15.3% -
 Current account at the BCRA 73.770 72.842 67.927 57.263 1.3% 28.8%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 9.644 11.604 17.432 18.941 -16.9% -49.1%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 106.037 107.720 88.681 87.054 -1.6% 21.8%
 In banks 92.020 94.392 77.641 77.144 -2.5% 19.3%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 99.752 101.240 74.569 60.979 -1.5% 63.6%

 NOBAC 6.285 6.480 14.112 26.075 -3.0% -75.9%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 37.310 38.234 44.134 46.647 -2.4% -20.0%

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 595.027 585.794 525.028 458.760 1.6% 29.7%
 Current account (2) 159.814 159.631 150.959 130.927 0.1% 22.1%
 Savings account 125.020 117.128 104.730 93.367 6.7% 33.9%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 287.496 286.401 248.802 215.417 0.4% 33.5%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 6 7 7 8 -8.6% -25.5%
 Other deposits (3) 22.691 22.627 20.530 19.041 0.3% 19.2%

 Deposits of the private sector 433.206 420.554 372.490 322.396 3.0% 34.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 161.821 165.240 152.538 136.364 -2.1% 18.7%

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 8.306 8.300 9.393 9.674 0.1% -14.1%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 435.193 423.817 373.913 316.565 2.7% 37.5%

 Loans to the private sector 397.762 386.506 339.103 285.456 2.9% 39.3%
 Overdrafts 55.170 51.932 47.326 42.376 6.2% 30.2%
 Documents 91.954 87.515 76.170 57.274 5.1% 60.6%
 Mortgage loans 39.468 38.475 34.475 30.381 2.6% 29.9%
 Pledge loans 27.241 26.419 22.135 18.532 3.1% 47.0%
 Personal loans 86.869 85.742 75.069 66.132 1.3% 31.4%
 Credit cards 64.278 65.141 56.352 45.942 -1.3% 39.9%
 Others 32.782 31.281 27.576 24.820 4.8% 32.1%

 Loans to the public sector 37.432 37.312 34.810 31.109 0.3% 20.3%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 4.726 4.983 5.549 7.602 -5.2% -37.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 386.498 374.134 350.298 305.956 3.3% 26.3%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 511.518 491.262 455.028 399.323 4.1% 28.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 821.710 800.297 724.367 633.789 2.7% 29.7%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 866.917 844.538 770.217 677.822 2.6% 27.9%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 334.579 323.080 299.301 261.681 3.6% 27.9%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 448.924 428.588 395.489 348.849 4.7% 28.7%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 659.889 635.057 571.829 497.425 3.9% 32.7%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 697.609 672.439 609.684 536.944 3.7% 29.9%

 Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 18 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 12.594 4.0% 25.940 8.7% 31.460 10.8% 71.494 28.4%
 Financial sector 2.100 0.7% 4.474 1.5% 8.984 3.1% 11.358 4.5%
 Public sector 6.402 2.1% 11.258 3.8% 21.830 7.5% 50.868 20.2%
 Private external sector 1.670 0.5% 6.864 2.3% 9.429 3.2% 14.452 5.7%
 BCRA Securities 2.466 0.8% 3.853 1.3% -7.140 -2.4% -2.477 -1.0%
 Others -44 0.0% -510 -0.2% -1.643 -0.6% -2.707 -1.1%
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE BCRA EXCLUDING SDR ALLOCATIONS

2009 -924 -2.4% -2,765 -6.9% -6,824 -15.5% -9,337 -20.0%

**Intervention in the foreign exchange market** 313 0.8% 1,304 3.3% 1,823 4.1% 2,873 6.2%

**Payment to international organizations** 24 0.1% 269 0.7% 191 0.4% 205 0.4%

**Other public sector operations** -1,167 -3.1% -3,809 -9.5% -6,686 -15.2% -8,271 -17.7%

**Minimum cash** 108 0.3% 69 0.2% -970 -2.2% 706 1.5%

**Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation)** -202 -0.5% -598 -1.5% -1,181 -2.7% -4,850 -10.4%

---

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

**Sources:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

---

# Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

| | Jul-13 | Jun-13 | May-13 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** |
| Requirement | 12.2 | 12.1 | 12.1 |
| Integration | 12.3 | 12.4 | 12.3 |
| Position (2) | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.2 |
| **Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %** |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (3)** |
| Up to 29 days | 61.6 | 61.3 | 60.9 |
| 30 to 59 days | 25.0 | 25.2 | 25.3 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8.3 | 8.4 | 8.3 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3.7 | 4.0 | 4.4 |
| More than 180 days | 1.3 | 1.1 | 1.1 |
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** |
| Requirement | 19.1 | 19.2 | 19.3 |
| Integration (includes resource application default) | 95.1 | 95.5 | 94.4 |
| Position (2) | 76.0 | 76.3 | 75.2 |
| **Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %** |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (3)** |
| Up to 29 days | 50.8 | 49.9 | 48.4 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.6 | 23.4 | 22.5 |
| 60 to 89 days | 11.7 | 10.2 | 11.5 |
| 90 to 179 days | 13.2 | 14.0 | 14.8 |
| 180 to 365 days | 2.6 | 2.4 | 2.6 |
| More than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.

**Source:** BCRA

---

*Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.*

# Passive Interest Rates

| | Jul-13 | Jun-13 | May-13 | Dec-12 | Jul-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (15 days)** |
| Rate | 13.62 | 13.23 | 13.72 | 10.77 | 9.63 |
| Amount operated | 2,181 | 1,960 | 1,671 | 1,313 | 1,303 |
| **Fixed Term** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30-44 days | 14.97 | 15.08 | 14.61 | 13.69 | 11.58 |
| 60 days or more | 15.46 | 13.47 | 13.12 | 15.43 | 11.60 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 15.65 | 15.22 | 14.88 | 13.43 | 11.73 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 17.24 | 16.58 | 15.73 | 15.37 | 13.19 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30-44 days | 0.49 | 0.50 | 0.51 | 0.60 | 0.55 |
| 60 days or more | 0.85 | 0.98 | 1.00 | 1.11 | 1.00 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.57 | 0.62 | 0.60 | 0.65 | 0.82 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.65 | 0.70 | 0.80 | 0.61 | 1.11 |

# Active Interest Rates

| | Jul-13 | Jun-13 | May-13 | Dec-12 | Jul-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 18.17 | 18.28 | 17.19 | 15.57 | 11.71 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 277 | 247 | 272 | 235 | 218 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** |
| Advances on current account | 23.19 | 22.82 | 22.56 | 21.79 | 20.72 |
| Documents on signature alone | 20.83 | 19.08 | 19.26 | 18.58 | 18.25 |
| Mortgages | 15.87 | 14.63 | 16.12 | 17.23 | 14.29 |
| Pledge loans | 20.48 | 18.99 | 19.15 | 19.60 | 21.61 |
| Personal loans | 34.76 | 33.79 | 34.26 | 34.31 | 33.88 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 32.30 | 32.47 | 34.69 | 35.01 |
| Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 17.32 | 16.82 | 17.57 | 14.44 | 12.94 |

# International Interest Rates

| | Jul-13 | Jun-13 | May-13 | Dec-12 | Jul-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** |
| 1 month | 0.19 | 0.19 | 0.20 | 0.21 | 0.25 |
| 6 months | 0.40 | 0.41 | 0.42 | 0.51 | 0.73 |
| **US Treasury Bond** |
| 2 years | 0.33 | 0.32 | 0.24 | 0.25 | 0.25 |
| 10 years | 2.55 | 2.27 | 1.93 | 1.70 | 1.50 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 8.36 | 8.00 | 7.57 | 7.25 | 8.14 |
(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 20 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Jul-13 Jun-13 May-13 Dec-12 Jul-12

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total repo round rates
 1 day 10.97 10.17 10.64 9.36 9.11
 7 days 10.20 9.57 9.63 9.53 9.51

Amount traded in repo round (daily average) 7,875 8,139 10,820 10,111 10,759

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 11.60 n/o
 2 months 14.94 14.73 14.73 11.98 n/o
 3 months 15.42 15.31 14.75 12.93 11.54
 9 months n/o n/o 15.97 14.52 13.17
 12 months 17.94 17.95 17.16 14.99 13.82

NOBAC spread in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,078 1,243 1,115 786 482

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-13 Jun-13 May-13 Dec-12 Jul-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 5.44 5.33 5.24 4.88 4.55
 Retail 5.44 5.33 5.24 4.88 4.56

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.61 5.46 5.38 4.98 4.68
 ROFEX 1 month 5.49 5.41 5.32 4.95 4.62
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 891 723 916 818 766

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.42 2.46 2.57 2.35 2.24

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 7.13 7.04 6.80 6.41 5.60

 Capital Market Jul-13 Jun-13 May-13 Dec-12 Jul-12

MERVAL
 Index 3,283 3,213 3,679 2,672 2,407
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 53 46 64 54 47

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 134.52 130.67 146.58 120.57 118.29
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 91.05 90.78 103.90 97.99 99.88
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.09 93.27 93.45 92.24 93.51
 DISCOUNT ($) 45.44 47.68 50.52 46.02 45.25

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,273 1,402 1,337 1,204 1,486
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 379 384 318 298 381

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 21 10. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentenary Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
BP: Basis Points.
pp: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | July 2013 | BCRA | 22
