# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

   • Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

   • Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

   • Interbank Markets | Page 9

   • Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

   • Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Capital Market | Page 12

   • Stocks | Page 12

   • Public Securities | Page 13

   • Private Securities | Page 13

   • Investment Mutual Funds | Page 14

   • Financial Trusts | Page 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was October 9, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 2

---

1. Summary
• In September, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed a monthly growth of 1.8%, with a year-on-year rate of change relatively stable around 29%. For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate (private M3) increased 1.9% in the month, accumulating an increase of 31.5% y.o.y.. Among the components of private M3, fixed-term placements increased 2.9% and continued gaining participation within the aggregate, reaching a weight of 31%. In this way, the year-on-year growth rate of fixed-term deposits in the private sector continued at historically elevated levels, standing at 40.9%.

• The factors that explained the monthly expansion of private M3 were loans in pesos to the private sector and public sector operations. Considering the first nine months of 2013, credit in pesos to the private sector was the main driving factor of private M3, which was fostered by BCRA policies aimed at promoting financing for productive activity.

• The broad liquidity ratio in pesos (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repo transactions with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC in terms of peso deposits) increased 0.2 p.p., standing at 32% in September. This increase was explained by the increase in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities. For its part, the minimum cash position is estimated to be in surplus by the equivalent of 0.2% of deposits, in line with what was recorded in recent months.

• In September, loans in pesos to the private sector continued growing at a similar pace to what they have shown since May, registering an increase of 3% ($12,370 million) and reaching a year-on-year expansion rate of 37.5%. Among the lines that showed greater dynamism, those destined mainly for commercial activity (advances and documents) and personal loans stood out. Advances registered an increase higher than expected for this time of year, with a growth of 3.9%, which led to its year-on-year rate of change increasing 1.4 p.p. and reaching 28.9%. For its part, financing instruments through documents presented an increase of 4.2%, among the highest of this year, and its year-on-year rate of change remained at historically elevated levels (55.6%).

• The Central Bank policies aimed at inducing banks to expand their credit portfolio to SMEs, among which stands out the requirement to grant at least 50% of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP) to this type of companies, have been recording satisfactory results. The most notable data is represented by the evolution of financing with 3 years and more maturity that had little significant weight and, as a consequence of growing at very high rates in the last year, doubled their participation in the amounts granted between the second quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of this year.

• In the month, a new auction was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). On this occasion $570 million were auctioned, of which $550 million were awarded. The total funds disbursed since the beginning of the PFPB amounts to $5,572 million, which represents 73% of the awarded amount.

• Money market interest rates again showed dissimilar movements in September. Those paid by financial entities to depositors showed a slight increase. On the other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate for promissory notes stood at 20.7%, declining 0.2 p.p. in the month. That corresponding to mortgage loans granted to families also declined, while those of the rest of the financing lines presented limited increases.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

**Chart 2.1**

**Monetary Aggregates - M3**
In September, the broadest monetary aggregate in
pesos (M3²) presented a monthly growth of 1.8%,
with a year-over-year variation rate relatively sta-
ble around 29% (see Chart 2.1). For its part, the
broadest private monetary aggregate (Private M3³)
presented a monthly growth of 1.9%, accumulating
in the last twelve months an increase of 31.5%. In
the month, the increase in peso loans to the private
sector continued to be the main factor in the creation
of the aggregate, followed by public sector operations.
Likewise, and considering the first nine months of
2013, credit in pesos to the private sector consoli-
dated as the main driving factor of Private M3,
behavior promoted by active policies aimed at en-
couraging financing for productive activity (see
Chart 2.2).

**Chart 2.2**

**Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates**
(January-September 2013, in average)

Among the components of Private M3, in September,
fixed-term deposits increased 2.9% (see Chart
2.3) and continued gaining participation within the
aggregate, reaching a weight of 31%. Distinguishing
by amount bracket, both deposits of less than $1 million
(2.6%) and placements belonging to the wholesale
segment (3.1%) increased. In this way, the year-over-
year growth rate of fixed-term deposits of the private
sector continued at historically elevated levels, stand-
ing at 40.9%. Meanwhile, the means of payment pre-
sented an increase of 1.4% in September, mainly ex-
plained by the increase in sight deposits and, within
these, by placements in current accounts.

**Chart 2.3**

**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
(variations of monthly averages)

Regarding primary money creation, in September,
the average balance of the monetary base increased
1% ($3,300 million). Again, the growth was lower
than that of the same month in 2012, which prompted
a reduction of 0.6 p.p. in the year-over-year variation
rate, which reached 26%.

Regarding deposits in foreign currency, the average
monthly balance registered an increase, driven by
placements from both the public sector and the
private sector.

The broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, which in-
cludes currency in circulation held by the public, can-
cellatory checks, CEDINs and the total of deposits in
pesos and foreign currency (expressed in pesos), pre-
sented a

**Chart 3.1**

---

**Footnotes:**
¹ Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
² Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
³ Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

**Source: BCRA** | Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 4
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos* growth of 2%, accumulating an inter-
deposits (monthly average)
45 annual variation of 28.1%.

40

35 32.0 Finally, it should be noted that on September 30, the
Agosto 2013 Septiembre 2013
30 3.8 3.6 Cash deadline for adhering to the capital disclosure regime
14.6
CCBCRA (Decree 1503/2013) was extended for three months.
14.1
25 During the first three months of this regime's validity,
Net Repos
20 12.0 8,046 instruments were subscribed for a total amount of
12.0 LEBACs and
1.9 1.7 NOBACs US$342 million. Part of these certificates have already
15 been paid off, after accrediting the application of the
10 CEDIN to the admitted destinations (see Com. "A" 5447).
Thus, as of September, the amount of certificates in cir-
Ene-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Abr-10 Sep-10 Feb-11 Jul-11 Dic-11 May-12 Oct-12 Mar-13 Ago-13
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value. culation amounts to US$272 million.
Source: BCRA

3. Bank Liquidity1

Chart 3.2

% of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos In September, the broad liquidity ratio in pesos (sum
deposits Quarterly Position
2.6 Surplus of cash in banks, the current account of entities at
Accumulated Position
2.0 Daily Position ATM Deduction the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the
1.4 holding of LEBAC and NOBAC in terms of deposits in
0.8 pesos) increased 0.2 p.p., reaching 32% (see Chart 3.1).
0.2 0.2 Among the ratio's components, the increase was ex-
-0.4 plained by LEBACs and NOBACs, while shorter-term
-1.0 assets, in terms of deposits, decreased (cash in banks
-1.6 and net repos with the Central Bank) or remained stable
Implementation of the -2.2 (current account at the Central Bank). This increase in
new reserve requirements scheme
-2.8 liquidity was observed in both public and private banks.
Ago-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dic-12 Ene-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Abr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Ago-13 Sep-13
Source: BCRA For its part, the minimum cash position is estimated as
surplus by the equivalent of 0.2% of deposits, in line with
what was recorded in recent months.

Chart 4.1
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Meanwhile, liquidity in the foreign currency segment
(variation of monthly average balance) %
6 60 (variation of monthly average balance) continued at elevated
5 Var. % monthly 5.1 levels and rose to 118.3% of dollar deposits for the
Interannual Variation (right axis) 50 monthly average, 7.1 p.p. above August.
4 3.6 40
3.4
3 2.7 3.0 30 4. Loans 1 4 5
2.2
2 20 In September, loans in pesos to the private sector con-
1.1
1 10 tinued growing at a similar pace to that shown since
0 0 May, registering an increase of 3% (ARS 12,370 million),
with an interannual variation as of September of 37.5%
-1 -10
Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 (see Chart 4.1). Among the credit lines that showed
Source: BCRA

4 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
5 In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals)
agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans agreed, minus amortizations
and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 5 greater dynamism, those aimed at commercial activity
Chart 4.2 (advances and documents) and personal loans stood out.

% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 (variation of monthly average balance) 70 Loans aimed at financing commercial activities accel-
12 Var. monthly 60 erated their monthly expansion pace. Loans for...
Var. i.a. (right axis)
10 50
8 40 advances recorded in September an increase greater than
 6 4.8 30 expected for this time of year, with growth of 3.9%
 3.9
 4 2.8 20 ($2,200 million). In fact, said increase was markedly
 2.2
 2 0.5 10 above that observed in September of other years, which
 0 0 led to its year-on-year growth rate increasing 1.4 p.p.
 -2 -0.8 -10 and reaching 28.9% (see Chart 4.2). When examining
 -4-2.5 -20 the daily balance evolution of advances, it is verified
 -6 -30 that after remaining relatively stable between March
 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 and June, beginning in July they started to show an
 Source: BCRA upward trend (see Chart 4.3). For its part, financings
 implemented through documents presented in Septem-
 ber an increase of 4.2% ($3,970 million). Its increase
 Chart 4.3 was among the highest of this year and its year-on-year
 Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector variation rate remained at historically high levels (55.6%).
thousands of (daily balance - base index average 7 days as of 12-31-12)
 millions of $ When considering the daily balance trajectory, an in-
 76 crease in slope is observed in September compared to
 2013
 2012 July and August (see Chart 4.4).
 71
 2011
 2010 Having passed the midpoint of the period corresponding
 66
 2009 to the third phase of the "Productive Investment Credit
 2008
 61 Line" (LCIP), an increase in amounts granted through
 56 single-signature documents began to be observed. Dis-
 51 tinguishing by term range and interest rate bracket,
 46 it is verified that said increase concentrated in finan-
 41 cing agreed at 15.25% and in term brackets of 3 years
 31-Dec 31-Jan 28-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul 31-Aug 30-Sep and onwards, gaining participation in the total (see
 Source: BCRA Chart 4.5). These rate and term conditions align with
 those established in the LCIP requirements (Communica-
 tions "A" 5380 and 5449).

 On the other hand, continuing with the policy of stimu-
 Chart 4.4 lating productive credit, in September a new auction
 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector was held within the framework of the Bicentennial
thousands of
 millions of $ (daily balance - base index average 7 days as of 12-31-12) Productive Financing Program (PFPB). On this occasion
114 $570 million was put up for auction, of which $550
 2013 million was awarded ($420 million to Banco de la Na-
109
 2012 ción Argentina and $130 million to Banco de la Provincia
104 2011 de Buenos Aires). For its part, the total funds disburse-
 2010
 99 ment since the beginning of the PFPB amounts to $5,572
 2009
 94 2008 million, around 73% of what was awarded.

 89
 The policies aimed at inducing banks to expand their
 84
 credit portfolio to SMEs, among which stands out the
 79
 requirement to grant at least 50% of the LCIP to these
 74
 holders, have been registering satisfactory results.
 31-Dec 31-Jan 28-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul 31-Aug 30-Sep Since the fourth quarter of 2012, the year-on-year varia-
 Source: BCRA tion rate of new credits granted through the set of lines
 Chart 4.5 (excluding advances and considering the monthly aver-
 Single-Signature Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector age of each quarter) to this group of companies exceeds
 Amounts granted by TNA range Amounts granted by 80% and in the third quarter of 2013 reached 94%. The
 (fixed or renegotiable interest rate) term range most notable figure is represented by the evolution of
 % % financings of 3 years and more that had little significant
100 15.51 and above 100 weight and, as a consequence of growing at very high rates
90 90 in the last year, doubled their participation in amounts
80 15.25 to 15.5 80 4 and more
70 15.25 70 3 to 4 years
60 60
 15.01 to 15.25 3 to 4 years
50 15.01 50 2 to 3 years
40 40 granted between the second quarter of 2012 and the third
 30 14.5 and 15.01 30 Less than 2
 14 to 14.5 20 years quarter of this year (see Chart 4.6).
 20
 10 Less than 14 10
 0 0 The lines aimed at financing mainly family consump-
 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 tion showed differentiated behaviors during the month of
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA September. On one hand, personal loans continued to
 increase their monthly expansion rate, registering in the
 period an increase of 3.3% ($2,900 million), one of the
 highest of the year and similar to that evidenced in
 September of the past year. In this way, its year-over-
 Chart 4.6 year variation continued to remain stable at around 31%.
 Evolution of amounts granted to SMEs, according to term* Meanwhile, credit card financings grew in September
 thousands of 1.9% ($1,280 million), after registering the highest increase
 millions of $ of the year in August. In year-over-year terms, its growth
 14 rate has fluctuated since the beginning of the year around
 3 and more years 40%.
 12.6
 12 1 to 3 years 10.9
 Less than 1 year 8.9 8.4 Regarding loans with real collateral, mortgages contin-
 10 Avg. Monthly ued to exhibit modest growth, while loans with pledge
 6.5 collateral accelerated their monthly expansion rate. The
 8 4.9 4.7 4.4 5.2 4.2 increase registered in the month by mortgage credits was
 6 4 3.5 1.5% ($610 million), in line with that of the previous
 month. In the last twelve months they accumulated an
 2 increase of 28.3%. It should be noted that when analyzing
 0 the evolution of the amounts granted, a certain boost
 I Qtr 11 III Qtr 11 I Qtr 12 III Qtr 12 I Qtr 13 III Qtr 13 from higher placements under the LCIP framework can be
 * Excluded Advances observed, traction that would gain more strength as the
 Source: BCRA deadline for this third stage of implementation of the
 line approaches (see Charts 4.7). Meanwhile, loans with
 pledge collateral grew 2.9% ($810 million), an increase
 Chart 4.7 that was higher than in August and similar to that
 thousands of Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector observed in September of the past year. Thus, its year-
 millions $ (amounts granted) over-year variation remained relatively stable, standing at
 2.0 LCIP - Stage 1 LCIP - Stage 2 LCIP - Stage 3 46.4% (see Charts 4.8).
 1.8
 1.6 According to the latest available information, corre-
 1.4 sponding to the month of August, financings granted
 1.2 under the form of leasing contracts6 showed an increase
 1.0 of 3.4% ($286 million), surpassing the increase of the
 0.8 previous month. Likewise, its year-over-year variation
 0.6 rate continued to accelerate, reaching 39.5% in August,
 0.4 3 percentage points more than in July.
 0.2
 0.0
 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Regarding the segment in foreign currency, loans to
 Source: BCRA the private sector decreased in the month by 3.4%
(US$150 million), reaching an average monthly balance
6 Comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at
 of around US$4,300 million.
their request, for which the lessee pays periodically and for the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the
purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

 Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 7 Chart 4.8
 % Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % 
 7 (avg. monthly and year-over-year variation) 80
 6 Monthly variation 5.6 70 5. Interest Rates7
 5.1 Y-o-y var. (right axis) 60
 5 50
 4 3.5
 3.1 2.9 40 Central Bank Issued Securities8
 3 2.0 1.8 30
 2 20
 1 10
 0 0
 -1 -10
-2 -20
Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13

In the primary market, the interest rates for LEBAC and NOBAC placements remained stable, and continued to be awarded only at fixed rates. In this way, at the end of the month the interest rates for LEBAC placements with the shortest terms auctioned – at 90 days and 100 days, with a predetermined cutoff rate – were located at 15.2% and 15.5% respectively. On the other hand, the interest rate of the species with the longest maturity – with a term of 440 days – stood at 18.1% (see Graph 5.1).

Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.1**
LEBAC Interest Rate in Primary and Secondary Markets
A.N.R. % (weighted average rate by amount)

20
17.9 18.1
18 16.9
16.6
16 15.2 15.5 15.8
14 Primary market 24-09-13
Primary market 27-08-13
12 Secondary market 24-09-13
Secondary market 27-08-13
10
Days
8
0 80 160 240 320 400 480 560

Source: BCRA

Market offers came primarily from banks, and although they were again concentrated in species of up to 180 days, there was an increase in placements exceeding 360 days (see Graph 5.2).

The amount placed in the month was greater than maturities, so the outstanding balance increased $5,940 million. The increase was driven by bank demand, while the rest of the holders reduced their holdings (see Graph 5.3). In this way, the outstanding balance stood at $116,680 million and represented 18% of total deposits.

**Graph 5.2**
Amount Awarded of LEBAC in the Primary Market
(as a percentage of total)

%
Up to 90 days | 91 to 180 days | 181 to 270 days | 271 to 360 days | More than 360 days

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13

Source: BCRA

In the secondary market, LEBAC interest rates, corresponding mainly to species with shorter residual terms than those regularly auctioned by the BCRA, registered punctual increases during the month, although they averaged levels similar to those observed in August. The average amount traded in the market was reduced by $93 million, placing it at $1,068 million daily. Almost no operations were recorded with NOBAC.

**Central Bank Reverse Repurchase Operations¹**

Again without changes, the Central Bank's passive reverse repurchase rates remained at 9% and 9.5% for terms of 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the interest rates for active reverse repurchases for the same terms, were located at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

The average balance of passive reverse repurchases for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this institution participates, was slightly reduced (2.3%) and stood at $14,900 million. During the month, no active reverse repurchases continued to be arranged for the entity.

**Graph 5.3**
Holdings of Central Bank Securities
(stock at end of month, monthly variation)

thousands of
millions $

10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10

Others
FCIs
Private Banks
Public Banks

Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13

Source: BCRA

**Interfinancial Markets¹**

The interest rates in the interfinancial markets remained relatively stable in September. In the unsecured market (call), the average interest rate for operations at 1 business day was located at 12%. For its part, the average interest rate for operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) stood at 11.7%.

**Graph 5.4**

The average daily trading volume also remained...

---

¹ The interest rates referenced in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (A.N.R.).
² In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 8
Interfinancial Markets showed relatively stable performance, standing at $4,740 million.
billions of $ (average daily amount traded)
17 In the REPO round, excluding operations in which
15 Passive Repos for the BCRA the BCRA intervenes, the average volume traded
Active Repos for the BCRA
14 Call in the month was situated at $2,910 million and in the
12 Repos between financial entities (REPO round)
call market at approximately $1,830 million (see Chart
11 5.4). With respect to the net position registered in the

9
call market, foreign entities again
8
proved to be the only net borrowers, while the rest
6
5 of entities were net lenders, a behavior

3 recorded in the four previous months (see

2 Chart 5.5).

0
Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Passive Interest Rates1
Source: BCRA

The interest rates paid by financial entities
to depositors registered increases in the month
Chart 5.5 of September. The interest rate on the total of new
Call Market fixed-term operations in pesos averaged 15.5%, evi-

millions of $ (average monthly net position by group of entities)
1,000 dencing a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p..

800

600 In particular, the short-term passive interest rates

400 paid by private banks also registered increases. The interest rate paid by private
200 banks for their deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days
0 averaged 15.2%, exhibiting a monthly increase of 0.4
-200 p.p.. For its part, in the wholesale segment, the BAD-
-400 EFNB LAR of private banks – interest rate on deposits
- Public of $1 million and more than 30-35 days of maturity – increased
Priv. Nat.
-600
-800 Foreign 0.3 p.p. in the month, averaging 18%.
-1,000
Sep-10 Ene-11 May-11 Sep-11 Ene-12 May-12 Sep-12 Ene-13 May-13 Sep-13

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 9 Chart 6.1 Active Interest Rates1 9

thousands of BCRA International Reserves

millions of US$ (excluding 2009 SDR allocations) The interest rates applied on loans in pe-

60 sos to the private sector registered dissimilar behaviors.
Sep-13
thousands.
50

40 The interest rate on overdrafts in current account

Payment averaged 23.5%, increasing 0.2 p.p. in the month. In
30 BONAR VII
particular, the interest rate corresponding to over-

20 drafts granted to companies, for more than $10 million and
up to 7 days of maturity, was situated at 17.4%, registering a
10 monthly increase of 0.4 p.p..

0
Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Regarding financing implemented through
Source: BCRA
documents, interest rates presented
mixed behaviors. The monthly average of the
interest rate on single-signature documents was situated
at 20.7%, declining 0.2 p.p. in the month. On the
Chart 6.2 other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate
corresponding to document discounting increased
thousands of thousands of
millions of US$ Public External Debt and International Reserves millions of US$
150 55 0.6 p.p. with respect to August and moved to 22.1%.

External public debt 50

125 Stock of international reserves (right axis) 45 For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate

40 on personal loans was situated at 36.3%. Meanwhile,
100 Cancellation of 35 among loans with real guarantees, the interest rate
Debt to the IMF
30 on those granted with chattel mortgage averaged
75
25 21.7%; while, as in August, the monthly average
50 20 of the interest rate on mortgage loans
15 granted to individuals showed a
25 10
decline of 0.2 p.p., situated at 15.3%
5

0 0
Dec-94 Dec-97 Dec-00 Dec-03 Dec-06 Dec-09 Dec-12 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange
Source: Own elaboration based on INDEC data Market.
The balance of international reserves was US$34,471 million on the last day of September (see Graph 6.1). This level represented a decrease of approximately US$1,900 million compared to the end of August, explained fundamentally by the payment of public debt in foreign currency (BONAR VII) and, to a lesser extent, by net sales of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC). During recent years, the evolution of the balance of international reserves has been associated with the debt reduction strategy and was accompanied by a decrease in external debt (see Graph 6.3).

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the US dollar and the euro, while it reversed the appreciation with respect to the real, which had been observed in the last four months. In this way, the average quotations for September were 5.74 $/US$, and 7.67 $/euro (3.5%) and 2.53 $/real, which represented a variation with respect to August of 2.8%, 3.1% and 5.9%, respectively (see Graph 6.4). For its part, an increase was observed in the expectation of depreciation for the coming months in the futures market (ROFEX), with an average daily amount traded stable in relation to August ($1,800 million).

## 7. Main Measures of Monetary Policy from Other Central Banks

During September, most of the major central banks maintained the bias of their respective monetary policies unchanged. Only some slight adjustments were recorded, mainly in emerging countries, and driven by cyclical and concrete issues.

On September 5, both the European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England (BoE) and the Bank of Japan (BoJ) met. The three monetary authorities decided to keep their monetary policies unchanged, within a framework of relatively positive activity indicators (see Graph 7.1). In this way, the ECB maintained its monetary policy interest rate, which it applies to Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the historical minimum of 0.5%. On this occasion, the ECB president was cautious regarding the better activity indicators, while he reiterated that he expects the monetary policy rate to remain at current levels for an extended period. For its part, the BoE continued to maintain that it will keep the monetary policy interest rate – Bank Rate – at 0.5%, and that it will not modify its asset purchase program (Asset Purchase Facility, currently at £375,000 million) until unemployment falls below 7% (currently at 7.7%). Finally, the BoJ maintained the objective of doubling the monetary base between April 2013 and April of
# FEDERAL RESERVE MEETINGS
Germany France United Kingdom USA Japan (right axis)
2015

3    0.9
Likewise, in mid-month, the Federal Reserve of the
2.5  0.8
United States (FED) chose to maintain the pace of its
asset purchase program at US$85,000 million
2    0.7
per month. It is worth remembering that in May the FED had
announced the possibility of eventual reduction in
1.5  0.6
the pace of purchases (tapering), an event to which the
markets had assigned high probabilities at this
1    0.5
meeting. However, although encouraging data were
Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 recorded in the labor market, the FED highlighted a
Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg

10 Principal due to its influence on the Argentine economy and on global trends.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 11 slowdown in economic activity and financial
conditions, with risks remaining associated with a slow
Graph 7.3 recovery in the labor market.
Exchange Rate
Local currency per dollar. Index 01/05/2013 = 100
130  5-Sep: ECB, BoE and 18-Sep:
Japan Meeting FED Meeting
These decisions were reflected in the evolution of
Brazil South Africa Israel Chile
125
different markets. On one hand, the yields of the main
Uruguay Russia Peru Colombia
financial assets stopped growing while the depreciation
120
Indonesia Turkey India process of emerging market currencies, which began in
May with the tapering announcement, partially reversed
115
(see Graphs 7.2 and 7.3).

110

105 Given the incipient appreciation of emerging market
currencies, some central banks adjusted their policies.
100
The Central Bank of Turkey reduced the minimum
95 amount of its daily foreign exchange sales auctions from
01-May-13 22-May-13 12-Jun-13 03-Jul-13 24-Jul-13 14-Aug-13 04-Sep-13 25-Sep-13 US$100 million to US$20 million. The Reserve Bank of
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg India, which had implemented temporary measures to
address strong volatility, reduced the percentage of the
minimum daily reserve requirement from 99% to 95%
Graph 8.1 (originally at 70%) and shortened the upper limit of the
World Stock Indices rate corridor from +3 p.p. to +2 p.p. above the monetary
(in dollars; Base index 31/07/11=100) policy interest rate (originally at +1 p.p.).

160

150

140

130

120

110

100 MSCI- World
90
80 S&P 500

70 MSCI-Europe
MSCI- Emerging
60
MSCI- Latam
50
Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

8. Capital Market

Shares11

Equity assets in the main stock exchanges ended September in positive territory.
Within advanced economies, the S&P 500, the main index of the United States market,
advanced 3% and the European market, measured through the MSCI index, gained
8.7% (see Graph 8.1). In this context, expected volatility expanded, both in Europe
where the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (benchmark index of the
eurozone stock exchange) increased 0.5 p.p., and in the United States where the S&P
500 volatility, measured through the VIX index, rose 0.7 p.p. (see Graph 8.2).

Graph 8.2

% Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and Eurozone
(VIX and VStoxx Index)
60

55
VIX Index (S&P 500)
50 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10
Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13

Driven by the recovery of risk appetite, the quotations of equity assets from
emerging economies recovered, following the declines recorded in August. Measured
through the MSCI index, emerging markets advanced 6.2%, while Latin American
markets gained 8.4%. The Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark index for the region, gained
12.6%, the IPC (Mexico) 4% and the IGPA (Chile)
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

11 Unless otherwise specified, the variation of the indices is expressed in US dollars.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 12 advanced 5.8%. In all cases, growth
Chart 8.3 occurred both due to the performance of the index in
Latin America Stock Indices local currency and due to currency appreciation against the
(in dollars; Base index 30/06/11 = 100) dollar (see Chart 8.3).

Merval (Argentina)
IPC (Mexico) The local benchmark index (Merval) measured in dollars
Bovespa (Brazil) again registered positive performance and ended the
IGPA (Chile) month with a gain of 19%, driven by the increase in the
quotation of banking and energy company securities.
Following September's performance, the local stock
exchange accumulated an advance of 42% for the year.
The average daily volume traded in shares during
September was located at $111 million, which marked a
monthly increase of 35.2%.

Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Public Securities

In September, the yields on US public debt decreased.
Chart 8.4 The 10-year bond yield was cut by almost 20 basis
Spread in b.p. Sovereign Risk Indicators points, reaching 2.6%. In this context, the yield
Spread in b.p. differentials of emerging sovereign securities over
treasuries decreased by 22 b.p., according to the EMBI+,
reaching 347 b.p. at the end of August. At the regional
level, the EMBI Latin America fell 20 b.p., reaching 415
EMBI+ b.p. At Argentina, the yield differential of public
EMBI+ Latin America securities decreased by 135 b.p., reaching 1,035 b.p. at
EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) the end of the month (see Chart 8.4).

Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

Private Securities

In September, company financing through debt placement
totaled $486 million (see Chart 8.5). As in previous
months, most of the placements were denominated in
pesos and concentrated in periods of less than 2 years.
With respect to issuers, the agricultural sector was the
main issuer of the month with an amount of $217
Chart 8.5 million. In second place was a company from the food
Corporate Bond Issuance sector that issued $150 million, followed by the financial
billions of $ sector, with placements of $118 million.
millions of $ Quantity
Average amount per placement For its part, although the energy sector made no debt
Quantity of placements (right axis) placements for the second consecutive month, at the end
of September the exit to the market of YPF stood out,
Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 which subscribed a bond for US$150 million in the
international market under New York Law, which will be
settled in the first days of October. This is the first
placement since May 2012 by a local listed company
abroad. The security, which matures in August 2018,
enjoys a special guarantee given by the rights of sale of
Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 certain exports. Interest and amortization will be made in
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA quarterly coupons accruing LIBOR plus 7.50 percentage
points payable in dollars, excluding the first accrual
Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 13 period, for which the rate will be 7.76%.
Chart 8.6
Interest Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos * With respect to the cost of financing, in the
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount)
Interest rate of variable rate securities *
Interest Rate of Fixed Rate Securities ** Emissions at variable rate, the interest rate that accrues on securities with a rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 2 years remained stable, positioned at 21.2%. (see Chart 8.6). It should be noted that during September no fixed rate placements were made.

Common Investment Funds

In September, the equity of Common Investment Funds (FCIs) in national and foreign currency increased $1,410 million (2.2%) and was positioned at the end of the month at $64,590 million. FCIs in pesos, which represent almost the entirety of the industry, drove the monthly increase as a consequence of the good performance observed in mixed return funds, and to a lesser extent, by money market funds.

The funds that invest in mixed return assets registered their second best monthly performance of this year, growing $1,040 million (10%). The increase in the valuation of portfolio assets, supported by the increase in the quantity of fund shares contributed to the growth of the segment monthly. Likewise, money market funds expanded $780 million (3.8%), driven mainly by the increase in the quantity of fund shares. For their part, variable return funds verified an increase of $300 million (24%) as a consequence of the increase in the valuation of the main local stock market assets.

Counteracting this behavior, after two months of consecutive growth, fixed return funds fell back $760 million (2.6%) driven by the redemption of fund shares (see Chart 8.7).

With respect to the profitability recorded, variable return funds continued to be those with the best relative performance, registering an estimated monthly return of around 20% and accumulating a gain of 70% for what has gone by of the year. Likewise, mixed return and fixed return funds registered monthly gains of 3.4% and 2.6%, respectively. Finally, money market funds once again verified an average monthly profitability of 0.9%. The high composition of their equity in sight accounts and REPO operations explains their lower profitability compared to the rest of the segments (see Chart 8.8).

Finally, the equity of funds in foreign currency grew after four months of consecutive declines. The equity increased US$3 million and was positioned at US$346 million, driven exclusively by mixed return funds.

Financial Trusts

In September, emissions of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $1,640 million, including a placement of $56 million intended to finance infrastructure works in the Province of Chaco to increase the capacity of transmission and distribution of electrical energy (see Chart 8.9).

Among the settlors, retail commerce and financial entities stood out, concentrating in
millions $ (excluding those destined to finance infrastructure works)
2,100 in both cases close to 40% of the month's issuances.
Retail businesses issued around $650
1,800 million, showing a slight increase compared to the

1,510
1,500 1,200 volume of securitized assets in the previous month. For their
1,200 1,050 part, financial entities placed $630 million,
730M 820M
900 700 showing a decrease compared to the high amounts
550
of July and August and reaching a value similar to that of
600
June. Meanwhile, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank
300 issuers of credit cards and other providers of

0 financial services issued $260 million (16% of the

Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 total), recording a decrease of 24% compared to
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others August. The remainder corresponded to issuances from a group
of SMEs belonging to the agricultural sector and to the FF
mentioned from the energy sector that issued Energy
Services of Chaco Provincial State Company
(SECHEEP). With the exception of these two issuances, the
rest of the FF were backed by loans linked to consumption
(personal loans and credit card vouchers).

Regarding the cut-off interest rates, the weighted average
by amount corresponding to senior titles in pesos with
duration of less than 14 months and agreed at variable rate
recorded an increase of 1.1 percentage points and was
placed at 19.5%. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment no
operations were agreed.

12 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 159. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Sep-13 Monthly Last 12 Aug-13 Dec-12 Sep-12
months

Monetary base 329,769 326,429 292,138 261,624 1.0% 26.0%
Monetary circulation 254,326 252,804 224,211 200,992 0.6% 26.5%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 231,355 229,485 199,335 180,684 0.8% 28.0%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 22,970 23,317 24,872 20,307 -1.5% 13.1%
Cancellation Checks 2 2 4 0 5.1% -
Current account at the BCRA 75,443 73,625 67,927 60,632 2.5% 24.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 14,892 15,235 17,432 17,261 -2.3% -13.7%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 113,561 107,354 88,681 91,379 5.8% 24.3%
In banks 98,905 93,425 77,641 81,114 5.9% 21.9%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 108,809 101,755 74,569 70,134 6.9% 55.1%

NOBAC 4,753 5,599 14,112 21,245 -15.1% -77.6%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 35,612 37,001 44,134 45,228 -3.8% -21.3%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 626,962 613,253 525,028 484,466 2.2% 29.4%
Current account (2) 171,847 167,844 150,959 127,171 2.4% 35.1%
Savings account 124,791 122,578 104,730 91,894 1.8% 35.8%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER 306,890 299,738 248,802 246,793 2.4% 24.4%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 6 7 7 8 -10.6% -25.0%
Other deposits (3) 23,428 23,087 20,530 18,601 1.5% 26.0%

Private sector deposits 449,911 439,239 372,490 337,481 2.4% 33.3%

Public sector deposits 177,050 174,014 152,538 146,985 1.7% 20.5%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 8,150 8,033 9,393 8,985 1.5% -9.3%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 457,312 445,705 373,913 337,523 2.6% 35.5%

Loans to the private sector 420,091 408,198 339,103 305,469 2.9% 37.5%
Advances 59,232 57,026 47,326 45,950 3.9% 28.9%
Documents 98,195 94,226 76,170 63,094 4.2% 55.6%
Mortgages 40,687 40,075 34,475 31,715 1.5% 28.3%
Pledges 28,716 27,905 22,135 19,613 2.9% 46.4%
Personal 91,125 88,697 75,069 69,629 2.7% 30.9%
Credit cards 69,053 67,777 56,352 49,384 1.9% 39.8%
Others 33,084 32,492 27,576 26,084 1.8% 26.8%
Loans to the public sector 37.221 37.507 34.810 32.053 -0.8% 16.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.293 4.439 5.549 6.337 -3.3% -32.3%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 403.203 397.330 350.298 307.856 1.5% 31.0%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 527.994 519.908 455.028 399.750 1.6% 32.1%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 858.318 842.740 724.367 665.151 1.8% 29.0%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 905.591 887.675 770.217 707.109 2.0% 28.1%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 342.738 337.341 299.301 270.395 1.6% 26.8%
pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 454.924 448.578 395.489 356.229 1.4% 27.7%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 681.268 668.726 571.829 518.166 1.9% 31.5%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 720.890 706.785 609.684 555.971 2.0% 29.7%

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.340 1.0% 18.765 6.0% 37.631 12.9% 68.145 26.0%
Financial sector 459 0.1% -2.820 -0.9% 4.063 1.4% 4.422 1.7%
Public sector 11.147 3.4% 28.002 9.0% 43.430 14.9% 63.987 24.5%
Private external sector -4.187 -1.3% -4.251 -1.4% 3.507 1.2% 7.613 2.9%
BCRA securities -3.754 -1.1% -1.817 -0.6% -11.423 -3.9% -5.379 -2.1%
Other -326 -0.1% -347 -0.1% -1.946 -0.7% -2.498 -1.0%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.389 -3.8% -2.622 -6.9% -8.522 -19.3% -9.616 -21.3%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -735 -2.0% -737 -1.9% 773 1.8% 1.624 3.6%
Payment to international organizations 92 0.2% 83 0.2% 249 0.6% 209 0.5%
Other public sector operations 7.004 18.9% 6.886 18.0% 1.366 3.1% 109 0.2%
Minimum cash 216 0.6% 206 0.5% -872 -2.0% 316 0.7%
Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -7.966 -21.5% -9.059 -23.7% -10.039 -22.7% -11.874 -26.3%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month compared to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.7 11.7 12.1
 Integration 11.9 11.9 12.3
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 63.0 63.2 61.6
 30 to 59 days 24.6 24.6 25.0
 60 to 89 days 7.0 7.0 8.3
 90 to 179 days 3.8 3.8 3.7
 More than 180 days 1.5 1.4 1.3
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.1 19.0 19.3
 Integration (includes default in the application of resources) 104.8 102.1 98.5
 Position (2) 85.7 83.1 79.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.8 48.6 50.8
 30 to 59 days 23.1 23.9 21.6
 60 to 89 days 11.4 11.9 11.7
 90 to 179 days 12.2 12.3 13.2
 180 to 365 days 3.4 3.3 2.6
 More than 365 days 0.0 0.0 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration
(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 12.19 11.98 13.64 10.71 9.92
 Amount traded 1,874 1,855 2,183 1,313 1,491

Fixed-term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 15.57 15.22 14.96 13.69 11.96
 60 days or more 15.80 14.33 15.46 15.43 11.65
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 15.18 14.79 15.65 13.43 11.60
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.00 17.70 17.24 15.37 14.27

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.47 0.49 0.49 0.60 0.54
 60 days or more 0.95 0.89 0.85 1.11 1.22
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.57 0.57 0.65 0.75
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.61 0.68 0.65 0.61 0.86

 Active Interest Rates Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 18.23 17.64 18.17 15.57 14.89
 Amount traded (total terms) 259 263 277 235 253

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 23.54 23.38 23.17 21.79 21.08
 Documents on simple signature 20.66 20.87 20.84 18.58 17.99
 Mortgage loans 16.20 16.42 15.87 17.23 16.24
 Collateral loans 21.71 20.64 20.48 19.60 20.96
 Personal loans 36.26 35.75 34.91 34.31 34.32
 Credit cards n/d 34.51 34.11 34.90 34.62

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 17.39 17.03 17.32 14.44 13.49

 International Interest Rates Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.18 0.18 0.19 0.21 0.22
 6 months 0.38 0.40 0.40 0.51 0.67

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.39 0.34 0.33 0.25 0.25
 10 years 2.80 2.72 2.55 1.70 1.70

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 9.00 8.57 8.36 7.25 7.50

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and montos in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 10.04 9.84 10.97 9.36 9.29
 7 days 10.03 10.19 10.20 9.53 9.50

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 8,488 11,291 7,875 10,111 9,299

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 11.60 n/o
 2 months n/o 14.94 14.94 11.98 n/o
 3 months 15.34 15.45 15.42 12.93 12.33
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 14.52 14.10
 12 months 17.89 17.88 17.94 14.99 14.51

NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o -1.99
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,068 1,161 1,078 786 662

 Foreign Exchange Market Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 5.74 5.58 5.44 4.88 4.67
 Retail 5.75 5.58 5.44 4.88 4.68

Dollar Futures
 NDF 1 month 5.97 5.76 5.61 4.98 4.75
 ROFEX 1 month 5.87 5.69 5.55 4.95 4.73
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,799 1,762 891 818 976

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.53 2.39 2.42 2.35 2.30

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 7.67 7.44 7.13 6.41 6.01

 Capital Market Sep-13 Aug-13 Jul-13 Dec-12 Sep-12

MERVAL
 Index 4,531 3,744 3,283 2,672 2,456
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 120 86 53 54 41

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 145.78 142.04 134.52 120.57 122.68
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 100.15 97.83 91.05 97.99 103.11
 BODEN 2014 ($) 94.64 93.77 93.09 92.24 93.41
 DISCOUNT ($) 48.50 45.11 45.44 46.02 45.64

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,118 1,112 1,273 1,204 1,090
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 381 386 379 298 336
(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 19 10. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad two-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | September 2013 | BCRA | 20
