# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 10

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 11

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 12

7. Main Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

8. Capital Market | Page 14

 Stocks | Page 14

 Public Securities | Page 15

 Private Securities | Page 15

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 16

 Financial Trusts | Page 17

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 19

10. Glossary | Page 23

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on June 12, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to
revision

Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 21. Summary1
• In May, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) reached $783 billion, which implied a growth of 2.1%. In year-on-year terms, M3 continued to soften its expansion rate, reaching a variation of 33%, which was 0.7 p.p. lower than that recorded in April. The month of May usually has a distinctive behavior explained by strong tax payment deadlines that produce a transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector, which is visible in an increase in public sector deposits and a certain deceleration in the growth of private sector loans. The growth of loans to the private sector continued to be the main factor explaining the expansion of monetary aggregates, followed by the Central Bank's foreign currency purchases.

• The correlate of the aforementioned transfer of deposits from the private sector to the public sector is the reallocation of banking liquidity from private banks to public banks. Thus, while the broad liquidity ratio for all entities practically did not change compared to the previous month (it decreased 0.2 p.p. and was located at 33.3%), an increase in liquidity in public banks (1.1 p.p.) and a decrease in private financial entities (-1.4 p.p.) were recorded.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with its dynamism with a monthly growth rate of 2.8% ($10,245 million), which represents an acceleration in its expansion rate that exceeds the increase observed in the same month of the previous year. Thus, the year-on-year variation rate of loans registered an increase of 0.6 p.p. with respect to April and was located at 42.8%. The monthly increase was driven, mainly, by financing instrumented with documents and personal loans.

• Distinguishing the total of loans in pesos to the private sector by type of recipient, virtuous behavior in financing productive activity is evident, originating from the measures deployed to facilitate companies' access to bank loans. Since 2012, loans granted to legal entities have grown above those destined for natural persons, presenting in April 2013 (last available information) a year-on-year variation rate of 54.5% and 33.4%, respectively. As a consequence, loans to legal entities increased their participation in the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector.

• The redistribution of liquidity among the different groups of financial entities (typical of the seasonality of the month of May) in a context of sustained growth of loans to the private sector generated a temporary increase in shorter-term interest rates. Said increase was more pronounced in the interfinancial market. The average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the call market increased 2.4 p.p., placing itself at 13.6%. In turn, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the REPO round grew 3.4 p.p., placing itself at 14.2%. Nevertheless, the increases were temporary and these interest rates ended May at levels similar to those observed in April.

• Among the interest rates on loans to the private sector, that of advances to companies of up to 7 days was the one most influenced by the specific liquidity conditions and its average monthly value increased 2.6 p.p. The rest of the active interest rates showed more limited increases, with the exception of those corresponding to lines granted with real guarantee, which remained relatively stable compared to April. The interest rates paid by private financial entities for time deposits also increased in May. As is customary, this increase was led by the rates of the wholesale segment and the BADLAR of private banks averaged 15.7%, registering an increase of...
an increase of 0.7 p.p. in the month. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 13.5%, increasing 0.3 p.p. in the month.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 % (variation of monthly averages) % In May, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
 5 50
 Monthly variation of M3 (M32) reached $783 billion, which implied a
 4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40
 3.4 growth of 2.1%. In year-on-year terms, the M3
 2.8 2.733.0 continued softening its expansion rate, reaching
 3 30
 2.1 a variation of 33%, which was 0.7 p.p. lower than
 2 1.5 20
 the one registered in April (see Graph 2.1). Given that May is
 1 10 a month with heavy tax payment maturities, there is
 0.4
 a transfer of resources from the private sector to the
 0 0
 public, which is reflected in an increase in public sector
 -1 -10
 deposits and some deceleration in the growth of private
 -2 -20
 sector placements. Among the components of M3, time
 May-08 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 deposits stand out, which reached 37% of the balance of this
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA aggregate, one of the highest values since 2004.

 Graph 2.2 For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates (M3 private3) showed a monthly increase of 1.5%,
 millions of $ (May 2013, on average)
 12 accumulating in the last 12 months an expansion of
 10 M3 Private 35.3%, 1.1 p.p. less than in April. The growth of
 8 loans in pesos to the private sector continued to be
 6 the main explanatory factor for the increase, followed
 4 by Central Bank purchases of foreign currency, while
 2 public sector operations proved contractionary (see
 0 Graph 2.2).
 -2
 -4 Among private sector deposits in pesos, time placements
 -6 stand out, which recorded a monthly growth of 2.7%,
 Purchases of Public Sector* Loans to Private Sector Other M2 Private Time Deposits
 Foreign Currency and Others Priv. surpassing the increase from previous years for May (see
 *Includes public sector operations with effect on monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector. Graph 2.3). Distinguishing by amount bracket, it is verified
 Source: BCRA
 that placements belonging to the segment of $1 million
 and over were those that drove the increase, despite the
 liquidity demand from companies to face tax payment
 Graph 2.3 maturities. With a year-on-year variation of 45.4%,
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector time deposits continued to show historically high growth.
 % (variations of monthly averages) May - Average Monthly Variation
 %
 7 56 % More than $1 million
 6 48 6 4.4
 45.4 4 With respect to the foreign currency segment,
 5 40 2
 4 32 deposits presented a reduction of 0.9% in the month,
 0
 3 2.7 24 -2 with decreases in private sector placements that were
 2 1.8 1.8 16 -4 2007 partially offset by the increase in those belonging to
 -6 2008
 1 0.5 8 Less than $1 million 2009 the public sector.
 0.1 %
 0 0 6 2010
 4 2011
 -1 -8 2 2012 In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate (M3*)
 0.8 2013
 -2 -16 0 which comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory
 -2.0 Monthly variation -2 checks and total deposits in pesos and
 -3 Year-on-year variation (right axis) -24 Abr-08 Abr-09 Abr-10 Abr-11 Abr-12 Abr-13 -4
 Source: BCRA -6

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.
# Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 4 

**Graph 3.1** in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed growth of 2.1%, accumulating an inter-annual variation of 28.2% (average monthly deposits).

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Liquidity - May 2013**

The correlate of the transfer of deposits from the private sector to the public sector as a result of the concentration of tax payment due dates is observed in the reallocation of bank liquidity from private banks to public banks. The broad liquidity ratio⁴ for all entities decreased slightly, 0.2 p.p., and stood at 33.3% (see Graph 3.1), with an increase in liquidity in public banks (1.1 p.p.) and a decrease in private financial entities (-1.4 p.p.). In this context, the repos of entities with the Central Bank showed changes: while the repos of public entities increased in terms of deposits, private entities reduced them to their minimum value in the last 12 months, always expressed as a percentage of deposits.

The reserve requirement would have been met by entities with an excess minimum cash position equivalent to 0.2% of peso deposits, which would be in line with what was observed in previous months (see Graph 3.2).

Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity continued at elevated levels. In May it stood at 102.6% of dollar deposits.

## 4. Loans¹ ⁵ ⁶

**% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**

In May, loans in pesos to the private sector grew 2.8% ($10,245 million), accelerating its monthly expansion rate and exceeding the increase observed in the same month of the previous year. Thus, the year-on-year variation rate of credit recorded an increase of 0.6 p.p. compared to April and stood at 42.8% (see Graph 4.1). The month's increase was driven, mainly, by financing implemented with documents and personal loans, which contributed 0.7 p.p. each to May's growth. The contribution of documents was higher than that of the same month of the previous year.

---

**Footnotes:**

4 The bank liquidity ratio is measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC of financial entities with respect to deposits in pesos.

5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios of entities to financial trusts.

6 In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
# Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 5

...do, while that of personal loans was similar to that of
2012 (see Graph 4.2).

## Graph 4.2
**Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of May)

The lines destined mainly for commercial purposes presented dissimilar behaviors in May. On one hand, loans instrumented through documents showed greater dynamism than in previous months, registering a monthly increase of 2.9% ($2,410 million). The year-on-year rate of variation of these commercial lines continued to increase and reached 67.2%, a value that is positioned above those observed prior to the slowdown at the end of 2011 (see Graph 4.3). On the other hand, advances (in current account and "other advances") presented an increase of 0.9% ($450 million), lower in comparison with the same month in previous years, in a context of rising short-term active interest rates. As a consequence, a moderation was observed in the year-on-year growth rate of this type of loans, which was around 42%. This behavior of advances occurred in a context where some specific tensions were registered in banking liquidity (as a result of the transfer of banking liquidity from private banks to public entities) that produced transitory increases in interest rates in interbank markets (call and REPO trading) and in the advance rates on current accounts to companies of up to 7 days. It is worth mentioning that advances on current accounts in pesos, with agreement, and from 1 to 7 days term, represent 31% of the total balance of advances (see Graph 4.4) and that they mostly correspond to operations of large companies for amounts exceeding $10 million. Throughout May, the interest rate of this segment increased 2.4 p.p., reaching a peak of 19.7% by mid-month. Being very short the term of validity of the agreement with the bank, the interest rate of advances on current account from 1 to 7 days responded quickly to market changes, which occurred at a slower pace in those with longer-term agreements. For its part, the remaining commercial financing, grouped under the heading "Other loans", registered an increase of 5.5% ($1,580 million).

## Graph 4.3
**% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector** %
(average monthly variation)

Regarding the lines aimed at financing family consumption, personal loans registered an increase of 3.1% in May ($2,500 million), while the year-on-year rate of variation was positioned at 31.3%, 0.5 p.p. more than in April. Meanwhile, financing with credit cards grew 2.9% ($1,780 million), accelerating its monthly expansion rate after presenting moderate increases in March and April. The year-on-year rate of variation of loans with credit cards increased 2.4 p.p. compared to the previous month and reached 42.7%.

## Graph 4.4
**Advances on Current Account in Pesos to the Private Sector**
% (participation by agreement term - average monthly balance)

With respect to loans with real guarantees, mortgages...

## Graph 4.5
# Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

grew 1.7% ($620 million), the largest increase in the last four months, while its year-over-year rate of change remained relatively stable at 27.5%. For its part, pledge loans, which since the beginning of the year had been growing around 2.5%, registered in May an increase of 3.7% ($910 million).

In this way, they continued to accelerate their year-over-year rate of change, which stood in May at 42.3%, with an increase of 3.5 p.p. compared to the previous month. In the case of lines with real guarantee, when considering the new loans granted by type of recipient, a greater participation of legal entities continues to be verified to the detriment of natural persons, especially in mortgage loans. Likewise, when distinguishing new loans by interest rate range, a greater participation is evident of those that belong to the segments of lower interest rates, close to those required in the "Credit Line for Productive Investment"7 (see Charts 4.5 and 4.6).

% (amounts granted by TNA range - fixed or renegotiable rate)

**Chart 4.5**
Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

100
90  15.51 and above
80  15.25 to 15.5
70  
60  15.25
50  15.01 to 15.25
40  
30  15.01
20  14.5 and 15.01
10  14 to 14.5
0  Less than 14
May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13
Source: BCRA

**Chart 4.6**
Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

% (amounts granted by TNA range - fixed or renegotiable rate)

100
90  15.51 and above
80  15.25 to 15.5
70  
60  15.25
50  15.01 to 15.25
40  
30  15.01
20  14.5 and 15.01
10  14 to 14.5
0  Less than 14
May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13
Source: BCRA

In this sense, preliminary data on the second round of the "Credit Line for Productive Investment" indicate that by the month of May more than half of the target amount for the first semester of 2013 has been granted, set at $17,408 million. Furthermore, so far this year approximately $3,100 million has been disbursed corresponding to the remainder of loans committed in 2012, which had been agreed upon in a staggered manner. In this way, considering both the projects already financed corresponding to the first semester of this year as well as disbursements of previous staggered loans, between January and May 2013 credits totaling approximately $12,000 million were effectuated.

In May a new auction was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). On this occasion, $440 million was auctioned, of which $421.3 million was awarded. In this way, the total amount awarded since the beginning of the PFPB reaches $6,921 million, while the loans disbursed amount to a total of $4,786 million.

**Chart 4.7**
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

% 
Year-over-year var. of balances at end of month | Participation in balance at end of April
60 | 100
54.5
50 | 13.0 | 14.3
40 | 42.2 | 44.2 | 80 | 43.1 | 46.7
33.4 | 30.1 | 32.4
30 | 60
20 | 40
10 | 56.9 | 53.3
0 | 20
-10 | Natural Persons | 0
-20 | Legal Entities | 2012 | 2013
Jan-04 | Nov-05 | Sep-07 | Jul-09 | May-11 | Mar-13
 | SMEs
 | Other Legal Entities
Source: BCRA

Distinguishing the total of loans in pesos to the private sector by type of recipient, positive data are evident in terms of the policy objective that constitutes the orientation of financing to the productive sector. Since 2012 loans granted to legal entities grow above those destined for natural persons, presenting in April 2013 (last in-

7 See Communications 5319 and 5380.
# Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 7

an interannual variation rate of 54.5% and 33.4%, respectively. As a consequence, loans to legal entities increased their participation in the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector. In effect, they went from representing approximately 43% of the total in 2012 to about 47% in April of this year (see Graph 4.7). It should be noted that although since last year part of the financing in foreign currency that was being granted to companies was redirected to the peso segment, even considering the total of financing in local and foreign currency, it is verified that in the last 12 months those granted to legal entities have grown above those allocated to individuals.

**May 2013**

**April 2013**

**December 2012**

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, fundamentally to the export sector, decreased 0.6% (US$32 million), registering a monthly average balance of around US$5,150 million.

Source: BCRA

## 5. Interest Rates⁸

**Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁹**

In May the Central Bank validated increases in LEBAC interest rates throughout the entire yield curve. In this way, in the last auction of the month, the interest rates for placements at predetermined interest rates, with terms of 70 days and 90 days, were placed at 14.7% and 15% respectively, registering increases of approximately 1 p.p. Likewise, the longer-term rate, for 350 days, was situated at 17.8%, 1.9 p.p. above the yield observed in the same term the previous month (see Graph 5.1).

In the primary market, LEBACs covered the entirety of monthly placements and were conducted with an average term of around 216 days. It should be noted that for the last May auction the Central Bank made changes in the allocation mechanism for LEBACs at predetermined rates, which covers the two shortest maturities of each auction, rewarding banks that capture fixed-term deposits of smaller amounts, which are regularly considered retail.¹⁰ In this way, it was determined that banks that show an increase in their fixed-term deposits of less than one million pesos, may participate with 10% more of the quota that already corresponded to them (based on the growth of the total fixed-term deposits of the private sector in the last 4 weeks). Therefore, even if they have not registered an increase in the total fixed-term deposits of the private sector, the entities can participate in these auctions if they had an increase in their fixed-term deposits of less than $1 million.

---

⁸ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

⁹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

¹⁰ See Communication P 50.219 and B 10.299.
Awarded at Predetermined Rate
80 Monthly Average
67 The total amount awarded of LEBAC (including finan-
70
 cial entities and remaining holders) resulted 1.3%
60 52
 51 49 ($1,300 million) higher than maturities, so the
50 45 44 42 45
 balance was located in VN $100,900 million at the end
40 40 42 38
 of May. Meanwhile, the balance in NOBAC was reduced
40 32
 26 for the third consecutive month, this time 29.3% ($2,700
30 22
 million), positioning itself in VN $6,500 million (see
20
 Chart 5.2). In this way, the participation of NOBAC in
10
 5 the total stock continued to decrease and came to repre-
0
 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13sent only 6% of the balance of securities.

Source: BCRA
 As a consequence of this dynamic, at the end of May
 the balance in circulation of the securities issued by the
 Central Bank decreased 1.3% ($1,400 million) with res-
 Chart 5.4 pect to the one in effect at the end of April, positioning
 itself at $107,400 million. The decrease was driven by
 thousands of Holdings of Central Bank Securities declines in the holdings of private banks and, to a lesser
 millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) extent, by Mutual Funds (FCI). In this way, the total
10 stock remained around 17% of total deposits (see
8 Chart 5.4).
6
 In the secondary market, LEBAC interest rates regis-
4 tered certain volatility, mainly in shorter terms, in line
2 with the performance recorded in interfinancial market
0 rates. At the end of May, increases were observed in
-2 terms greater than 20 days, while interest rates for
-4 Other shorter terms returned to the levels of late April,
-6 FCIs causing a steepening of the yield curve. The average
 Private Banks daily amount traded registered a decline of $370 million
-8 Public Banks reaching $910 million. For its part, the traded volume
 Total Stock of NOBAC continued to be meager in relation to LEBAC
-10
 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13operations, positioning itself at $30 million daily.

Source: BCRA
 Chart 5.5 Central Bank Repo Operations¹

 thousands of Interfinancial Market
 millions of $ TNA %
 6 15
 The interest rate corridor of Central Bank repos remai-
 Amount traded REPO market excluding BCRA ned unchanged. Passive repo rates were positioned at
 Amount traded in Call 14 9% and 9.5%, for terms of 1 and 7 business days,
5
 Interest rate REPO market excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis) 13 while active repo interest rates for the same terms were
 Call interest rate at 1 business day (right axis)
 4 12 positioned at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

 11
3
 The average stock of passive repos for the Central
10
 Bank, including all modalities of operations in which
2 9 this institution participates, increased 11.6%, positioning
 8 itself at $15,200 million, while no active repos were
1 arranged for the entity.
7
0 6
 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 9 Interbank Markets¹

Chart 5.6
 Call Market thousands of billions
 % (operations at 1 business day) of $ In May, the interest rates in the interfinancial market
20 4.0
 Amount traded in April (right axis) registered increases. The observed behavior is
18 Amount traded in May (right axis) 3.5
 associated, on one hand, with the liquidity policy of
16 Interest rates April 2013 some financial entities that decided to over-comply
 Interest rates May 2013 3.0
14 with minimum cash requirements during the first days
 of the month, and, on the other hand, with the already
12 2.5 mentioned redistribution of liquidity from the financial
10 2.0 entities
8 1.5
6 private entities to public entities as a result of tax expi-
 1.0
 4 rations. However, the increases were

 2 0.5
 transitory and at the end of the month interest rates

 0 0.0 were located at the same levels as at the end of April.
 t-1 t t+1 t+2 t+3 t+4 t+5 t+6 t+7 t+8 t+9 t+10 t+11 t+12 t+13 t+14 t+15 t+16 t+17 t+18 t+19 t+20
 t-1 corresponds to March 26, 2013 and April 30, 2013 The average interest rate of 1 business day operations
Source: BCRA
 in the unsecured market (call) increased
 2.4 p.p., placing itself at 13.6%. In turn, the average inte-
 rest rate of 1 business day operations between finan-
 cial entities in the secured market (REPO round)
 Graph 5.7 increased 3.4 p.p., placing itself at 14.2% (see Graph
 Call Market 5.5).
 millions of $ (average monthly net position by group of entities)

 600

 500 The performance of interest rates in the interfinan-

 400
 300 cial market occurred in a context where the average

 200 daily volume traded increased, mainly

 100 in the call market where the amount increased $300 mi-

 0 llion, placing itself at $1,670 million (see Graph 5.6).

 -100
 -200 Although to a lesser extent, in the REPO round the volume

 -300 EFNB expanded $90 million and was placed at $3,000 million.
 -400 Public
 Priv. Nat.
 -500 Foreign
 In the call market domestic private entities
 -600
 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 reduced their position as net lenders, while

Source: BCRA
 public entities increased it. Meanwhile, nonbank
 financial entities moved from a receiver position
 in April to net lenders, while foreign entities were the
 only net receivers of funds (see Graph 5.7).

 Passive Interest Rates¹

 Graph 5.8 The interest rates paid by private financial entities

 %, y-o-y var. Loans and Deposits in Pesos in Private Banks % again increased in May. As
 65 (monthly average) 40
 is customary, this increase was led by rates in the
 Total Deposits (y-o-y var.)
 55 35 wholesale segment.
 Loans to Private Sector (y-o-y var.)

 BADLAR (right axis) 30
 45
 Indeed, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate
 25
 35 for deposits of $1 million and more, between 30 and 35 da-

 20 ys of maturity – averaged 15.7%, registering an increase

 25 of 0.7 p.p. in the month. As usually happens in contexts
 15
 in which loan growth exceeds deposit expansion, the BADLAR
 15 of private banks began to increase gradually in March and,
 10
 5 5 in the last three months, accumulated an increase of 1 p.p.

 -5 0 (Graph 5.8). This increase more than offset the
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 decreases of the first two months of the year. Thus, in May
 the BADLAR of private banks was located 0.4 p.p. above
 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 10 the level of December 2012 (Graph 5.9)

 Graph 5.9
 Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days
 % Annual Rate (daily data - private banks)

 28 BADLAR Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100 thousand Regarding the BADLAR futures market,

 Variations in May only contracts with expiration at the end
 p.p
 24 1.0 Monthly Var. Var. Dec-12 of that month were traded, with an average rate of

 0.8 15.7%. In turn, the amount traded was considerably
 0.7
 0.6
 20 lower than that negotiated in recent months.
 0.4 0.4
 0.3 0.3 Avg. May-13

 0.2 15.7
 16 0.0 In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by

 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
 private banks for their fixed-term deposits up to

 12 Avg. May-13 $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 13.5%, increasing

 13.5 0.3 p.p. in the month. In this way, this interest rate

 8 is 0.3 p.p. above the level of last December.
 Jun-08 Feb-09 Oct-09 Jun-10 Feb-11 Oct-11 Jun-12 Feb-13
 Source: BCRA

 Active Interest Rates¹ 11
**Graph 5.10 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities**
**(monthly average)**

In May, the interest rates applied on peso-denominated loans to the private sector presented increases, with the exception of those applied on loans with real guarantee.

TNA, % Discounted Documents

32 Variations
p.p.
Total Advances in CC 4.0
Monthly Var. Dec-12 Var.
Among the interest rates of the commercial lines, increases were observed, mainly in advances in current account. The interest rate charged for advances in current account averaged 22.5%, with a monthly increase of 0.9 p.p.. Meanwhile, the monthly average corresponding to advances to companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days of term was located at 17.6%, with an increase of 2.6 p.p. in the month.

28 Advances in current account for more than $10 M -3.5
up to 7 days 3.1
Single signature documents 3.0
24 2.6
2.5
20 2.0
1.5
It is worth noting that the increases concentrated in the first days of the month, in line with the behavior of interest rates in interbank markets. However, in the second half of the month, interest rates on advances in current account began to gradually decline. For its part, both the interest rate on discounted documents and that on financings implemented through single signature documents averaged 19.2%, increasing 0.4 p.p. and 0.6 p.p. respectively (Graph 5.10).

16 1.0 0.9 0.8
0.6 0.7
0.5 0.4
12 0.2
0.0
8 Advances Advances DSF DD
in cta cte (more $10 M -
Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13 7 days)
Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.11**

**Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those Intended for Consumption**
**(monthly average)**

Pawned Loans Variations
TNA, % 1 p.p. 0.9
50 Mortgage
45 Physical Persons
-0 0.6
-0.2 0.0 -0.4 -0.2
-1
40 Personal
-2 -1.3
Monthly Var. Dec-12 Var.
35 Mortgage Pawned Personal

Among the longer-term lines, interest rates presented heterogeneous behaviors. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 34.1%, registering its first monthly increase (0.9 p.p.) after three months of decreases. Meanwhile, among loans with real guarantee, the interest rate applied on pawned loans remained unchanged at 19.2%, maintaining its lowest level since August 2011, while the monthly average charged for mortgage loans granted to physical persons was located at 14.9%, 0.2 p.p. below April and reaching its lowest level since October 2011 (Graph 5.11).

30

25

20

15

10
Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11 Nov-11 Jul-12 Mar-13
Source: BCRA

11 The interest rates referenced in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and issuance expenses or other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

**Graph 6.1**

**International Reserves of the BCRA**
*thousands of
millions of US$ (excluding SDR allocations)*

60
May-13

50

40 millions of u$s (May 2013)
0.5
30 0.0
Factors of Variation of International Reserves

6. **International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**12

The balance of international reserves of the Central Bank
-0.5 Central was located at US$38,551 million on the last day of
 20
 May (see Graph 6.1), US$981 million lower than at the
 -1.0
 end of April. The variation was explained,
 -1.5
 Reserves Foreign Purchase of Public Minimum fundamentally, by the cancellation of debt
 International Currency Sector Cash Others denominated in dollars, and, to a lesser extent, by the
 0
 Oct-08 Mar-09 Aug-09 Jan-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12 Jul-12 Dec-12 May-13 drop in the exchange rate of other currencies with respect
 Source: BCRA to the United States dollar and the decrease in current
 accounts in foreign currency of financial entities at the
 Central Bank. Nevertheless, the effect of said factors
 Graph 6.2
 was partially offset by the increase in reserves
 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate associated with currency purchases in the Single and
 6% Free Exchange Market (MULC) by the Central Bank,
 Depreciation
 4% which totaled US$391 million in the month.

 2% In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 against the United States dollar and the euro, while it
 0%
 appreciated slightly, and for the first time in the last six
 -2% months, with respect to the real. The average May
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real
 Appreciation quotations were 5.24 $/US$ (1.6% higher than in April),
 -4%
 2.57 $/real (-0.4%) and 6.8 $/euro (1%, see Graph 6.2).
 For its part, the average daily amount traded in the
 -6%
 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 futures market (ROFEX) was $915 million, 5% lower
 Source: BCRA than in April. This was caused mainly by the quantity
 of contracts traded, while the expectation of depreciation
 for the coming months remained stable.

 Graph 7.1
 7. Main Measures of Monetary Policy from
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target Other Central Banks
 % eurozone

 7
 Monetary Policy Rate In May, among the monetary policy measures of other
 6
 central banks, the decision of the European Central
 5 Inflation Rate
 Bank (ECB) to reduce its monetary policy interest rate
 4 Inflation Target
 to a historic minimum stood out, the one that it applies
 Corridor of Rates
 3 to the Main Refinancing Operations (MRO). It also
 2 modified the rates corresponding to the lending
 1 facility and deposit facility, bringing them to 1% and
 0
 0%, respectively, and thus reducing the width of the
 -1
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 corridor, from ±0.75 p.p. to ±0.5 p.p. (see Graph 7.1)
 Source: own elaboration based on ECB.
 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% y.o.y. Furthermore, at the press conference following the
12 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 12 announcement, the president of the ECB stated that the
 Graph 7.2
 Bank was operationally ready to take the deposit
 % Inflation Rate and Target facility rate into negative territory. Likewise, the ECB
 6 United States
 Personal Consumption Expenditures decided to extend the method of liquidity provision at
 5 Inflation Target
 a fixed interest rate and through the full-allotment
 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures
 4 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean mechanism13 until at least July 2014.
 CPI
 3 CPI Core The ECB also stated that it is working with other
 1.89%
 2 organisms in the eurozone in search of a mechanism
 1.47% 1.43%
 1.13% 1 that allows it to revitalize funding for SMEs and reduce
 0.97%
 0 fragmentation in the interest rate of granting and the
 -1 conditions of this type of loans among the member
 -2
 countries of the Monetary Union. This measure is in
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 the same direction as the one taken by the Bank of
 England (BoE) at the end of April14.
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BEA.gov and the FED website. The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime. It has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target was set for an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.

In the case of the USA, throughout the month there were various statements from members of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FED) that indicate there would be a consensus to maintain the level of asset purchases at US$85,000 million monthly until December. The reasons justifying this consensus are directly associated with the FED's dual mandate. Indeed, most recent price indicators are anticipating a slowdown in inflation, within the framework of a labor market that shows slight improvements. In the case of the deflator of household spending (PCE), the inflation measure preferred by the FED, the March figure is at 0.97%, clearly below the FED's long-term objective of 2% (see Graph 7.2). However, towards the end of the month, given the greater increase in real estate market prices and an improvement in consumer confidence, the market began to fear that the FED would reduce the pace of asset purchases before December, which increased volatility in the fixed income and variable income markets of the USA.

In Japan, following the decision of the central bank (BoJ) to substantially change its monetary policy seeking to double the monetary base by April 2015, volatility in asset markets increased markedly (see Capital Markets). The BoJ had announced that it seeks to achieve an inflation rate of 2% "as soon as possible, although with a two-year horizon". To achieve doubling its monetary base in that period, the BoJ is conducting open market operations through which it also seeks to increase the maturity of its portfolio of Japanese Treasury bonds while, in turn, trying to decrease their yields. Although in the first days after the measure was adopted it managed to reduce the yield of its bonds, later this began to increase (see Graph 7.3 for the case of the 10-year bond), thereby complicating the BoJ's objective of achieving greater monetary stimulus that allows it to leave behind almost thirteen years of deflation15.

**Graph 7.3**
Yield of the Japanese Ten-Year Bond (%)

**Graph 7.4**
Currencies of Japan's main trading partners
(local currency with respect to yen - base index 100 = 31-Dec-12)

**Table 7.1**
Summary Table of Modifications to Reference Interest Rates

Country | Monetary Policy Rate | Variation (p.p.) | Value of the Current TPM

---

13 The total requested amount is awarded.

14 The BoE modified its credit program - Funding for Lending Scheme - increasing incentives for the banking system to lend to SMEs.

Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 13
Brazil Selic 0.50 8.00%
Turkey 1-Week Repo Rate -0.50 4.50% Furthermore, during May the central banks of
Israel Monetary Policy Rate -0.25 (x2) 1.25%
Eurozone MRO -0.25 0.50% countries that, directly or indirectly, were affected
Australia Overnight Cash Rate -0.25 2.75% by the monetary stimulus launched by the Bank of Japan,
India Active Repo Rate (LAF) -0.25 7.25% adopted measures to prevent further appreciation of
Thailand Repurchase Rate -0.25 2.50%
South Korea 1-Week Repo Rate -0.25 2.50% their respective currencies (see chart 7.4). Among these,
Source: websites of the respective Central Banks. we can highlight the monetary authorities of
Australia, Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan, Israel and
New Zealand that either took specific measures
Chart 7.5 regarding the foreign exchange market, or attempted
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil % to indirectly influence it, either through
22 Industrial Production (Year-on-year Var.) 18
Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-on-year Var.) declarations by their authorities, or by reducing the
18 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
Inflation Rate (right axis) interest rate differential with respect to more
14 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14
10 12 developed economies (see Table 7.1).
6 10
2 8
-2 6 For its part, the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) decided
-6
-10 4 to increase the target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 8%.
-14 2 This is the second increase in the Selic target
-18 0
since July 2011 (see Chart 7.5). This increase occurs
Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13
Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br in a context where April inflation (6.49% y.o.y.)
is located at the upper limit of the target (4.5% ± 2 p.p.),
8. Capital Markets 10 although the growth in activity levels in the first quarter
Shares16 was lower than projected by the market.

The quotation of equity assets registered
Chart 8.1 declines as a consequence of the performance registered
World Stock Indices
150 (in dollars; Base Index 31/05/12=100) in the stock markets of Asia and Latin America.
140 MSCI- World Within the main markets of advanced economies,
MSCI-Europe
130 Japan's NIKKEI fell 5.7%. Meanwhile the
MSCI-Latam
120 S&P 500 S&P 500, the main index of the United States market,
MSCI-Emerging
110 gained 2.1% and the European market, measured through
100
the MSCI index, verified a gain of 0.5% (see
90
Chart 8.1). This performance occurred in a context
80
where volatility levels rose compared to the previous
70
month. The expected volatility of the S&P 500,
60
measured through the VIX index, rose 0.5 p.p., while
50
the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50
May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13
(Reference index for the eurozone stock exchange)
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
grew 2.8 p.p. (see Chart 8.2).

15 Some market operators interpret this increase in bond yields as a signal of market confidence that the BoJ will meet its inflation target. Believing that inflation would increase in the short term, the market divests from fixed income assets.
16 Unless otherwise specified, index variations are expressed in United States dollars.

Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 14 What could be seen as a change in trend
Chart 8.2 from what had been observed in recent months, the
% Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and quotation of equity assets from emerging economies
Eurozone
(VIX and VStoxx Index) moved downward, in a month where net capital
60
outflows were observed in international funds
55
50 Index VIX (S&P 500) that specialize in shares. From this
# INDEX VStoxx 50 (Eurozone)

In this way, the MSCI Emerging index fell back 0.4% in the month. Even more pronounced was the fall of the MSCI Latin America index which registered a loss of 7.2% as a consequence of the performance recorded in most of the main stock markets. The Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark index for the region, fell 10.5% in dollars, the IPC (Mexico) 6.8% and the IGPA (Chile) 7.7%. In all cases this behavior was explained both by the depreciation of their currencies against the dollar and by the evolution of the indices in local currency. The Real depreciated 7% against the dollar, the Chilean peso 6.3% and the Mexican peso 5.6%.

Following this behavior, the local benchmark index (Merval) measured in dollars closed with a monthly fall of 10.9%, reversing the gains registered in the previous month (see Graph 8.3). With the exception of two securities, the declines were observed in all sectors, standing out the fall in banks. The volume of operations averaged $95 million daily, 26% higher than recorded in the previous month.

## Public Securities

In May the returns of North American public debt increased. In particular the return of 10-year treasuries registered an increase of 46 basis points. In this context the yield differentials of emerging sovereign securities over North American Treasury bonds widened, according to the EMBI+, 18 basis points, placing themselves at 296 basis points. At the regional level the EMBI Latin America increased 35 basis points reaching 381 basis points.

In Argentina, in contrast to the regional trend, the risk differential over treasuries was reduced 43 basis points, placing itself at the end of the month at 1,167 basis points (see Graph 8.4).

## Private Securities

In May in the local corporate debt market, placements were observed for a nominal amount of $1,880 million, compared to the $4,440 million registered in the previous month (in April the amount issued had been influenced by YPF placements which represented 68% of the total). Throughout May there were 20 emissions recorded, of which 19 were denominated in pesos, while one was constituted in dollars, with payments in pesos adjustable according to the evolution of the exchange rate, by a company belonging to the agricultural sector.

Financial Entities were the principal issuers of the month, with an amount of $1,006 million, and they have accumulated in what has been 2013 $3,753 million, 23% of the total placed. The second group of companies that made the most placements in the month were those in the energy sector, with emissions of $380 million, while the firms that dedicate themselves to Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities went into debt for $296 million and those in the agricultural sector did so in
May-10 Aug-10 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 $194 million (see Graph 8.5).
Source: BCRA based on IAMC, CNV and BCBA

Similarly to what was observed for the rest of the monetary market interest rates, the cost of financing in the variable rate peso segment increased during the month, although the variation is more pronounced because the April rates of private securities had been exceptionally reduced due to YPF placements. The cut rate (of securities with a rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years) widened 1.5 p.p. and was placed at 19.4%. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate peso segment (rating higher than Arg BBB+), the interest rate remained unchanged at 19% (see Graph 8.6).

Graph 8.6
Cut Rate of Negotiable Bonds in Pesos
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount)
30
25  Cut rate of variable rate securities *
Cut rate of fixed rate securities **
BADLAR of private banks
20

15

10

5

0
May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13

(*) With a rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With a rating higher than Arg BBB+.
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC

## Mutual Investment Funds

Following the growth recorded in the first four months of the year, the assets of mutual investment funds (FCI) in domestic and foreign currency decreased 0.8% ($470 million) and was placed at $58,480 million (see Graph 8.7). This behavior would have a certain seasonal character as a consequence of the use of resources to meet tax payment deadlines.

Within the peso FCI segment, which represents 96% of total assets, a decrease of $310 million (0.6%) was observed, driven by fixed income funds, which fell $210 million (0.8%) contributing 45% of the variation. In the same direction, funds that invest in variable income assets decreased $190 million (12.4%) as a consequence of the performance recorded in the local stock market. Meanwhile, counteracting this behavior, mixed income funds grew $20 million (0.2%) and Money Market funds increased in the month by $70 million (0.4%, see Graph 8.8).

Graph 8.7
Total Assets of Mutual Investment Funds thousands of
% million of $
15 70 Variation monthly
60 Balance (right axis)
10 50

5 40

30
0
20
-5
10

-10 0
May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

Regarding the profitability of peso FCI, variable income funds declined on average 9.3% during the month and mixed income funds lost 1.2%. Meanwhile, Money Market funds gained on average 0.8% and fixed income funds 0.2%. However, year to date, variable income funds continue to be the best performers and accumulate a gain of 21%, in line with the behavior of the local stock market (see Graph 8.9).

Graph 8.8
Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
thousands of million of $
7.0

6.0  Fixed Income
Money Market
5.0  Mixed Income

4.0  Variable Income
Total
3.0

2.0

1.0

0.0

-1.0

-2.0
May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

For its part, FCI in foreign currency was reduced 7.8% (US$40 million) until registering assets around US$470 million. Fixed income and variable income funds explained almost all of the decline.

## Financial Trusts

In May, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $1,790 million, registering an increase of 12% compared to April. The total placed in the month was the highest following the record registered in December of last year (see Graph 8.10). In the

Graph 8.9

[Text appears to continue but is cut off in the source material]

Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 16
% Estimated Performance of Assets same direction, there was an increase in the quantity of
 25 (profitability in pesos) operations in the month, as 21
 22 21 placements were made, 5 more than April and the highest
 20 number since November 2012.
 17
 15 14
 11 With respect to the fiduciaries, retail commerce
 10 8
 6 placed a record amount close to $1,000 million
 5 4
 1,3 0,2 1,3 0,8 (43% more than in April and almost double that of the
 0 same month in 2012). In this way, they were responsible
 -1,2 for more than half of the volume of securitized assets in
 -5 Accumulated 2013 the month. For their part, financial entities issued
 -5,9 -9,3 -9,2 $510 million, an amount similar to that of the previous
 -10 May 2013 month and 53% more than in May of last year. The assets
 -15 securitized by both types of fiduciaries corresponded to
 Merval Index FCI of Return Index of Dollar FCI of Return FCI of Return Fixed Term Money credits linked to consumption. Meanwhile, mutuals,
 Variable $ Bonds IAMC Mixed $ Fixed $ Wholesale Market $ cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other
 Source: BCRA financial service providers securitized assets for approximately
 $230 million, among which were loans associated with
 consumption and secured loans. This amount represented
 Chart 8.10 a decrease of 48% compared to what was issued in the
 Financial Trusts Emissions previous month and 60% in relation to May 2012. It
 millions of $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) units should be noted that the remainder corresponded to
 2.100 45 placements by companies in the agricultural sector that
 40 securitized commercial credits.
 1.800 Amount issued
 Quantity of operations (right axis) 35
 The cut-off interest rate (average weighted by
 1.500 amount) of senior titles in pesos with duration less
 30
 1.200 than 14 months and agreed at variable rate registered
 25 an increase. In effect, it was located at 17.5%, 1.8 p.p.
 900 20 above that registered in April, accompanying the
 15 behavior of the BADLAR private banks rate, although
 600
 10 the increase of the latter was quite minor (see
 300 5 Chart 8.11). As in the previous month, in the fixed rate
 0 0 segment, a single placement was registered, whose
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 cut-off rate was 15.5%, 0.9 p.p. below that observed
 Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others in April.

17 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 17 Chart 8.11
 Cut-Off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos
 TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)

 40 BADLAR - Variable Rate Spread
 35 BADLAR private banks
 30 Variable rate
 Fixed rate
 25

 20

 15

 10

 5

 0
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13

Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and others

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 189. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables May-13 Monthly Last 12 Apr-13 Dec-12 May-12
 months

 Monetary base 300,486 297,658 292,138 223,779 1.0% 34.3%
 Monetary circulation 229,551 228,055 224,211 172,401 0.7% 33.1%
 Bills and coins in public hands 208,408 205,372 199,335 154,278 1.5% 35.1%
 Bills and coins in financial entities 21,142 22,681 24,872 18,121 -6.8% 16.7%
 Cancellation checks 2 2 4 0 -1.7% -
 Current account at the BCRA 70,935 69,603 67,927 51,378 1.9% 38.1%

 Stock of Pass-Throughs
 Liabilities 15,206 13,626 17,432 28,111 11.6% -45.9%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 107,589 102,078 88,681 85,619 5.4% 25.7%
 In banks 95,021 92,996 77,641 75,905 2.2% 25.2%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for pass-throughs)
 In pesos 99,592 91,837 74,569 56,646 8.4% 75.8%

 NOBAC 7,996 10,241 14,112 28,974 -21.9% -72.4%
International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 39.015 40.075 44.134 47.436 -2.6% -17.8%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 574.586 561.216 525.028 434.453 2.4% 32.3%
 Current account (2) 153.883 151.331 150.959 120.779 1.7% 27.4%
 Savings account 109.136 110.190 104.730 79.286 -1.0% 37.6%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 289.942 277.754 248.802 216.896 4.4% 33.7%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 7 7 7 9 0.0% -19.9%
 Other deposits (3) 21.618 21.934 20.530 17.483 -1.4% 23.7%

 Deposits of the private sector 407.848 401.587 372.490 301.142 1.6% 35.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 166.738 159.629 152.538 133.311 4.5% 25.1%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.305 8.383 9.393 12.576 -0.9% -34.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 414.103 403.744 373.913 293.668 2.6% 41.0%

 Loans to the private sector 376.849 367.023 339.103 263.926 2.7% 42.8%
 Advances 52.438 51.985 47.326 36.950 0.9% 41.9%
 Documents 84.320 81.909 76.170 50.433 2.9% 67.2%
 Mortgages 37.578 36.958 34.475 29.463 1.7% 27.5%
 Pledges 25.310 24.402 22.135 17.780 3.7% 42.3%
 Personal 83.837 81.759 75.069 63.862 2.5% 31.3%
 Credit cards 63.328 61.551 56.352 44.383 2.9% 42.7%
 Others 30.038 28.458 27.576 21.055 5.5% 42.7%

 Loans to the public sector 37.254 36.721 34.810 29.742 1.5% 25.3%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.158 5.190 5.549 9.213 -0.6% -44.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 362.292 356.704 350.298 275.059 1.6% 31.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 471.429 466.895 455.028 354.345 1.0% 33.0%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 782.996 766.589 724.367 588.732 2.1% 33.0%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 826.478 809.789 770.217 644.682 2.1% 28.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 314.071 309.838 299.301 240.115 1.4% 30.8%
 private in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 412.556 408.081 395.489 313.564 1.1% 31.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 616.258 606.961 571.829 455.421 1.5% 35.3%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 653.849 644.468 609.684 506.727 1.5% 29.0%

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 19 Average variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.829 1.0% 8.096 2.8% 8.349 2.9% 76.707 34.3%
 Financial sector -1.414 -0.5% 3.344 1.1% 3.096 1.1% 15.314 6.8%
 Public sector 1.883 0.6% 2.663 0.9% 12.454 4.3% 51.901 23.2%
 Private external sector 2.320 0.8% 2.436 0.8% 4.884 1.7% 17.670 7.9%
 BCRA Securities 389 0.1% 526 0.2% -10.603 -3.6% -5.463 -2.4%
 Others -348 -0.1% -874 -0.3% -1.482 -0.5% -2.715 -1.2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.060 -2.6% -3.165 -7.5% -5.118 -11.6% -8.420 -17.8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 447 1.1% 466 1.1% 967 2.2% 3.744 7.9%
 Payment to international organizations -55 -0.1% -188 -0.4% -133 -0.3% -52 -0.1%
 Other public sector operations -1.295 -3.2% -2.476 -5.9% -4.173 -9.5% -4.534 -9.6%
 Minimum cash 97 0.2% -292 -0.7% -942 -2.1% -609 -1.3%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -254 -0.6% -675 -1.6% -838 -1.9% -6.970 -14.7%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.0 12.1 12.0
 Integration 12.3 12.3 12.2
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 60.9 60.7 59.6
 30 to 59 days 25.3 24.3 23.0
 60 to 89 days 8.3 9.3 10.2
 90 to 179 days 4.4 4.5 6.0
 more than 180 days 1.1 1.1 1.2
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.2 19.4 19.5
 Integration (includes resource application default) 94.1 91.5 88.8
 Position (2) 74.9 72.1 69.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 48.4 51.0 51.7
 30 to 59 days 22.5 22.2 23.8
 60 to 89 days 11.5 10.6 9.9
 90 to 179 days 14.8 13.0 11.3
 180 to 365 days 2.6 3.1 3.2
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 20 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 13.72 11.59 12.02 10.77 9.31
 Amount traded 1,671 1,390 1,511 1,313 1,181

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 14.61 13.97 13.52 13.69 11.26
 60 days or more 13.12 13.13 13.58 15.43 11.28
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.88 14.50 13.19 13.43 11.08
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 15.73 15.08 14.83 15.37 11.71

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.51 0.51 0.55 0.60 0.39
 60 days or more 1.00 0.87 1.03 1.11 0.85
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.60 0.63 0.68 0.65 0.42
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.80 0.75 0.93 0.61 0.62

 Active Interest Rates May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 17.19 15.32 14.75 15.57 11.41
 Amount traded (total maturities) 272 249 221 235 236

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account overdrafts 22.55 21.69 21.35 21.79 20.99
 Documents on sole signature 19.25 18.64 18.82 18.58 17.59
 Mortgage loans 16.12 14.62 16.75 17.23 13.85
 Pledge loans 19.17 19.24 19.72 19.60 22.37
 Personal loans 34.14 33.28 34.20 34.31 34.73
 Credit cards n/d 33.10 33.45 34.90 34.91

 Current account overdrafts -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 17.57 14.94 14.55 14.44 12.49

 International Interest Rates May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.21 0.24
 6 months 0.42 0.44 0.45 0.51 0.73

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.24 0.23 0.25 0.25 0.27
 10 years 1.93 1.72 1.95 1.70 1.78

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.57 7.38 7.25 7.25 8.95

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 21 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 8.53 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50
Overnight REPO round rates
 1 day 10.64 9.72 10.04 9.36 9.03
 7 days 9.63 9.68 9.60 9.53 9.50

Amount traded in REPO round (daily average) 10,820 10,364 7,054 10,111 14,288

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 11.60 n/a
 2 months 14.73 13.13 12.96 11.98 11.10
 3 months 14.75 13.33 13.35 12.93 11.80
 9 months 15.97 15.21 15.05 14.52 12.40
 12 months 17.16 15.60 15.47 14.99 n/a

NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a -2.68 n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in secondary market (daily average) 1,115 1,356 1,134 786 878

 Foreign Exchange Market May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 5.24 5.16 5.08 4.88 4.45
 Retail 5.24 5.16 5.09 4.88 4.46

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.38 5.28 5.28 4.98 4.61
 ROFEX 1 month 5.27 5.24 5.16 4.95 4.50
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 915 963 1,054 818 1,159

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.57 2.58 2.57 2.35 2.24

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 6.80 6.73 6.60 6.41 5.69

 Capital Market May-13 Apr-13 Mar-13 Dec-12 May-12

MERVAL
 Index 3,679 3,506 3,368 2,672 2,255
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 64 95 75 54 46

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 146.58 149.81 140.21 120.57 110.64
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 103.90 103.73 99.52 97.99 86.15
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.45 94.85 96.29 92.24 92.38
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.52 52.28 50.62 46.02 47.52

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,337 1,273 1,350 1,204 1,269
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 318 314 313 298 380

(1) Correspond to averages of the results from the auctions of each month.
Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 22 10. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and for terms of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y-o-y: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, peso-denominated cancelatory checks and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, peso-denominated cancelatory checks and total peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentenary Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

PN: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | May 2013 | BCRA | 23
