# January 2013 Monthly Monetary Report
January 2013

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 11

 Shares | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 13

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Investment Mutual Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is stated: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on February 13, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Synthesis

• In January 2013, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, increased 3.2%, which implied a year-over-year variation of 36.2% (1.2 p.p. lower than the increase in December). The monthly growth of private M3 (3.4%) was led by the behavior of time-fixed placements. Once again, the increase in monetary aggregates was driven mainly by the increase in peso loans granted to the private sector.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 5.7% in the month of January, recovering its growth rate, once the period of greater demand for transactional money by families and companies characteristic of year-end was overcome. The monthly increase in January was the highest of the last 12 months and one of the highest of recent years. The year-over-year rate of increase stood at 50.2%.

• The monthly increase in peso loans to the private sector reached 3.1% ($10,390 million) and was one of the highest of recent years for this period. Thus, the year-over-year rate of change continued to increase, registering an increase of 1.1 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching 41.7%. The lines that made the greatest contribution to the month's growth were financings implemented with documents and those carried out through credit cards.

• As of December 2012, the total credits disbursed through the Productive Investment Line amounted to $16,763 million. Of the total disbursed, 47% corresponded to large companies and 53% to SMEs. Once the granting of loans that were agreed in tranches is finalized, the total will amount to $17,993 million, a figure that will exceed by 20% the target established in the Central Bank of Argentina's regulations.

• In January 2013, Auction No. 20 was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program. Of the $420 million that were auctioned on this occasion, $400 million were awarded. Since the beginning of the program, the awarded resources amounted to $6,185 million, of which $4,176 million were disbursed.

• The peso liquidity ratio (the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC as a proportion of the total deposits in pesos) stood at 33.8%, 0.3 p.p. below December; with a reduction in current accounts and cash in banks and an increase in passive repos for the Central Bank. Although financial entities increased their holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC in absolute terms, their balance remained stable as a percentage of peso deposits.
• Among passive interest rates, the BADLAR of private banks – for deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity – averaged 15.1%, declining 0.2 p.p. during the month. On the other hand, the average value of the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days remained at 13.2%.

• The interest rates of the different financing lines to the private sector in January showed dissimilar movements compared to December 2012. The interest rate corresponding to overdrafts in current account averaged 21.5%, declining 0.2 p.p. in the month of January, while those applied to the rest of the commercial lines showed slight increases, which in no case exceeded 0.5 p.p.. In some cases, as well as for pawn loans, the monthly increase in interest rates was related to the lower participation of productive financing lines during the summer recess period, when commercial activity tends to decrease. In contrast, the monthly average of the interest rate charged for mortgage loans intended for families was 15.9%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. in January. On the other hand, the interest rate applied to personal loans averaged 35%, with a monthly increase of 0.7 p.p..

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 % (variation of monthly averages) % During the month of January 2013, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos, M32, grew 3.2% (see Chart
 5 50
 Monthly variation of M3 4.4 4.1 2.1). Its monthly average balance, which reached $747,800
 4 Year-over-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40
 3.4 2.6 36.2 million, implied a year-over-year variation of 36.2% (1.2
 3 30 p.p. lower than that of December).
 1.3
 2 20 The broadest private monetary aggregate (M3 priva-

 1 10 te3) grew 3.4% in January, driven by the increase in peso loans granted to the private sector
 (see Chart 2.2). Other factors that generated
 0 0
 an expansion of the monetary aggregates were the
 -1 -10
 purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA and the operations of the

 -2 -20
 monetary institution with the public sector. However,
 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13
 the effect of these last two factors was associated

 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA
 fundamentally with operations carried out during
 the last days of 2012.

 Chart 2.2
 thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Aggregates
 millions of $
 (January 2013, on average) Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector
 12 M3 Private
 increased 5.7% in January, recovering its growth rate,
 10 once the period of greater demand for transactional
 8 money by families and companies characteristic of
 year-end was surpassed (see Chart 2.3). Said monthly
 6
 increase was the highest of the last 12 months and one
 4 of the highest in recent years. The year-over-year variation
 2 continued at high levels, standing at 50.2%. This dynamism
 0 was observed both in placements of $1 million and more as
 Purchases of Public Sector* Loans to S.M2 Private Deposits at Term
 Foreign Currency Private and Others Priv.
*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector. 6.9% and 4.4%, respectively.
Source: BCRA

For its part, the means of payment of the private sector decelerated their monthly growth rate, which moved to

**Chart 2.3**
**Fixed Term Deposits of the Private Sector**
% (variations of monthly averages) % January - Monthly Average Variation

7 6.7 56 More than $ 1 million reach 2.7%, as is customary once the period of greater year-end
50.2 %
6 5.7 48 10 expenses concludes.

5 40 8 In reference to the segment in foreign currency, deposits
5.5 6.9
4 3.5 3.4 32 presented an average monthly increase of 2.2%. This growth
4 24 2
1.8 2007 was driven by placements belonging to the public sector, since
2 16 0
2008 those corresponding to the private sector maintained their
1 8 % Less than $ 1 million average balance stable.

0 Monthly variation 0
-1 -8 8 2010
2009
Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, which
Variation y.o.y. (right axis) 6 2011
-2 -16 4.4 2012 comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks and
-3 -24 4 the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency
Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 2013 (expressed in pesos), presented a growth of 3.3% between
0
January 2013 and December 2012.

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 4

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

**Chart 3.1** In January, financial entities applied funds derived from
the increase in peso deposits to the purchase of LEBACs and
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos* NOBACs and to the increase in the balance of repurchase
45 agreements with the Central Bank, as well as to the granting
40 of loans in pesos to the private sector. Liquidity (measured
35 33.8 from the ratio between the sum of cash in banks, the current
account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase
December 2012 January 2013 agreements with such entity and the holding of LEBACs and
30 4.3
4.7 13.9 Cash in the Central Bank NOBACs and deposits in pesos) reached 33.8% (see Chart 3.1).
CCBCRA
25 Net Repurchase Agreements In this way, an increase in repurchase agreements with the
13.9 Central Bank (0.5 p.p.) was verified, more than offset by
LEBACs and NOBACs
20 the decrease in cash in banks (0.4 p.p.) and the current
15 12.9 12.4 account of entities in the Central Bank (0.5 p.p.). Meanwhile,
2.7 3.2 the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC remained stable as a
10 proportion of total deposits in pesos.

Jan-09 Jun-09 Nov-09 Apr-10 Sep-10 Feb-11 Jul-11 Dec-11 May-12 Oct-12
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts in the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at fair value.
Source: BCRA

**Chart 3.2**

**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos** The causes that originated the aforementioned movements
were linked to seasonal matters (lower demand for liquidity
% of
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position by families and companies in relation to December) and the
2.5 evolution of the quarterly Minimum Cash Position (December
2.0 2012 - February 2013). With respect to the latter, financial
1.5 entities had accumulated at the end of December a surplus
1.0 equivalent to 0.7% of deposits in pesos, which, given its
0.5 0.6 ample room, allows them to compensate with lower balances
0.0 in current accounts in the Central Bank (lower integration of
-0.5 reserve requirements) in the following two months. Following
-1.0 the changes observed in the balances of the different liquid
-1.5 assets, it is estimated that the surplus
Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13
Source: BCRA accumulated at the end of January was equivalent to 0.6% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

The liquidity ratio of the foreign currency segment
Chart 4.1 averaged 93.9% of deposits in dollars in January,

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector which meant a slight increase (0.6 p.p.) compared to the
6 (average monthly variation) % 60
 previous month.
 Monthly var. %

 5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50

 41.7 4. Loans¹ 4
 4 40
 3.2 3.1
 3.0
 3 30
 2.3 The monthly increase in peso loans to the private
 2.1
 2 1.4 20 sector was positioned at 3.1% in January ($10,390 million),
 resulting in one of the highest in recent years for the
 1 10
 0.3 first month of the year. The year-on-year rate of variation
 0 0 continued to increase, reaching 41.7% (1.1 p.p.
-1 -10 higher than in December, see Chart 4.1). The lines that
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13made a greater contribution to the growth of the month
Source: BCRA were the financings implemented with documents

4 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of 
entities to financial trusts.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 5Chart 4.2 (0.9 p.p.) and those carried out through credit cards
 (0.8 p.p.). The contribution of documents was one of the
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector highest for a month of January, while that of financi-
 % (contribution by line to growth in the months of January) ngs with credit cards was similar to that observed in other
4 Real Guarantee
 years in that month (see Chart 4.2).
 3 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.5 Credit Cards
 2 0.7 0.8 0.1 0.7 0.8 Loans associated with commercial activity usually
 0.4 Personal show more moderate monthly growth in January due to
 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.5
 1.3 0.8 seasonal reasons; however, on this occasion the different
 1 0.1 0.4 0.9 lines that comprise financing through documents
 0.1 1.0 0.4 Other commercial
 showed differentiated behaviors. While discounted and
 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.3 financings
 0.0 0.4 0.3 purchased advances ("other documents") followed the
 0 0.1
-0.7 -0.6 -0.7 -0.2 0.1 Documents seasonal pattern, single-signature documents
 -1 maintained the high growth levels they had been registe-
 -2 Advances ring since mid-2012 (see Chart 4.3). To explain the beha-
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 vior of this latter line, it is necessary to consider, on one
Source: BCRA hand, that these financings were favored by the "statistical
 carry-over" left by December as a consequence of specific
 operations for high amounts agreed at the end of that
Chart 4.3 month. On the other hand, that single-signature docu-
 % Contribution to monthly growth ments have been receiving an additional boost from several
 factors: the concentration of a large part of loans that
12 previously were channeled in the foreign currency seg-
10 Other documents ment, the credits linked to the Bicentennial Line, and
 8 Single-signature documents those originated in the "Line of credits for productive
 investment" (granted under Communications "A" 5319
 6 and "A" 5380). Overall, the total loans granted under
 4 the form of documents increased 4.2% ($3,200 million)
 2 in January, above what was observed in the same period
 0 of 2012. Thus, its year-on-year rate of variation continued
 -2 to accelerate, reaching 52.8%, showing an increase of 3.8
 -4 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Chart 4.4).
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan
 January 2012-2013 For its part, advances showed an increase similar to that
Source: BCRA of the previous month, of 2.4% ($1,160 million), despite
 January being a month in which these usually present
Chart 4.4 declines or moderate increases (see Chart 4.5).
# DOCUMENTS IN PESOS TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR

In January, tender No. 20 was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). Of the $420 million that were auctioned on this occasion, $400 million were awarded. Thus, the resources awarded since the beginning of the program amounted to $6,185 million, of which $4,176 million were disbursed.

The loans intended essentially to finance family consumption showed dissimilar behaviors in January. On one hand, credit card financings grew 4.7% ($2,670 million), somewhat more than in December, favored by the acceleration observed in the second half of that month, which left a significant statistical carryover. The year-over-year rate of variation of these financings stood at 41%, remaining stable compared to the previous month and showing some deceleration since mid-last year. Meanwhile, personal loans continued to moderate their monthly expansion rate, registering an increase of 2.2% in January ($1,650 million). In year-over-year terms, they grew 28.6%, somewhat less than in December.

Loans with real guarantee decreased their monthly growth rate in January since, in a period of lower commercial activity, there were fewer placements associated with the "Line of credits for productive investment". Mortgage loans registered an increase of 3.2% ($1,110 million), while chattel loans grew in the month 2.6% ($585 million).

The loans granted by financial entities in the form of leasing contracts continued to accelerate their monthly growth rate. After remaining stable in the first seven months of last year, from August onwards a sustained increase began to be observed in the balance of these financings. The dynamism of recent months is explained in part by the impulse coming from the "Line of credits for productive investment" (Communication "A" 5319) since some of these loans are being channeled through leasing operations. According to the latest available information, in December they showed a monthly increase of 5% ($340 million). For its part, its year-over-year rate of variation stood at 17.1%, increasing 3.1 p.p. compared to November (see Chart 4.6).

According to the latest available information, as of December 2012, the total of credits disbursed through the "Line of credits for productive investment" totaled $16,763 million, exceeding the target set by the Central Bank for the entire year (Communication A 5319). Of the total disbursed, 47% corresponded to large companies and 53% to SMEs. Once the granting of loans that were agreed in tranches is finalized, the total will amount to $17,993 million.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
-100 private sector, fundamentally to the export sector, registered a decrease of 1.9% (US$ 105 million) in
-120
 01-Jun 01-Jul 01-Aug 01-Sep 01-Oct 01-Nov 01-Dec 01-Jantheir average monthly balance. Nevertheless, when considering
Source: BCRA
 the evolution of the daily balance, from mid-January

5 Includes the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, especially acquired by the entity at the request of the latter, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the purchase option, paying the residual value previously established.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.1 began to show an upward trend. In
 effect, the balance on January 31 resulted US$ 100 million
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary and Secondary Market higher than that in effect on December 31 last year. In January,
 T.N.A % (weighted average rate by amount) the average daily variation of loans in foreign

 18 currency reached US$ 4.9 million, after several
 17.0
 17 months of reductions in balances (see Graph
 16 15.8
 14.9 4.7). This phenomenon is partly related to the seasonal
 15 14.4 increase in credit card financing in foreign
 13.9
 14 currency.
 13 12.8
 Auction of 29-01-13 
 12 12.6 Auction of 28-12-12 5. Interest Rates6
 12.1
 Secondary 29-01-13
 11
 Secondary 28-12-12
 10 
 9 Days
 8 Securities issued by the Central Bank7
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Source: BCRA
 In January, the interest rates on the Central Bank's securities
 auctions remained stable. Among those corresponding to
 LEBAC, minor variations were recorded in the terms of between
 100 and 180 days, while in the remaining brackets no changes
 were recorded.

 Graph 5.2 
 In the final auctions of the month, the interest rate for
 Amount Adjudicated of Securities in the Primary Market placements at 56 days was placed at 12.07% and that of
 thousands of thousands of thousands of placements at 728 days at 17% (see Graph 5.1). For
 millions $ LEBAC NOBACmillions $millions $
 30 90 8 More than 24 months 90 the NOBAC, with still modest volumes, placements with
 More than 360 days 24 months
 From 271 to 360 days Between 18 and 24 months terms of less than 200 days were observed again, with an
 From 181 to 270 days 7 18 months 80
 25 From 91 to 180 days 80 Between 12 and 18 months interest rate around 12.8%.
 12 months
 Up to 90 days 6 Between 6 and 12 months 70
 End of month balance (right axis) 6 months
 20 Maturities 70 Less than 6 
 5 End of month balance (right axis)60
 Maturities The stability recorded in the interest rates of the auctions
 15 60 4 50 occurred in a context of high liquidity and significant
 10 50 3 40 demand for Central Bank securities, mostly LEBAC. In
 2 30 January, the institution absorbed more than $10,000 million
 5 40 1 20 through placements of securities, so that, at the end of the
 0 30 0 10 month, the stock of LEBAC and NOBAC in circulation
 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13increased 15%, placing itself at $100,900 million (see
Source: BCRA
 Graph 5.2). The greater holdings of banks and FCIs explained
 almost all of the monthly increase (see Graph 5.3).

 Graph 5.3 
 Although placements were made in all brackets, the new
 Holdings of Central Bank Securities emissions concentrated in terms of less than 180 days.
 thousands of (stock at end of month, monthly variation) In this way, the average maturity of adjudications was
 millions $ placed around 8 months.
 10
 8 In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC
 6
 4
 2
0
registered a decline of approximately 1 p.p. in the
-2
Other shorter terms in a context where the average
-4 FCIs
daily amount traded registered an increase, placing itself
-6 Public Banks
Private Banks at $1,040 million. For its part, the traded volume of
-8 Total Stock
-10 NOBAC continued to be meager in relation to the opera-

Ene-10 May-10 Sep-10 Ene-11 May-11 Sep-11 Ene-12 May-12 Sep-12 Ene-13 tions with LEBAC, although it registered an increase with

Source: BCRA respect to previous months, reaching $74 million.

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to month-end data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.4 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1

thousands of Interbank Market
millions of $ TNA % The interest rates of the Central Bank's repurchase agree-
6 12
ment operations remained at values similar to those obser-
Amount traded in REPO round excluding BCRA

Amount traded in Call ved since October 2009: the rates for passive repurchase
5 Interest rate in REPO round excluding BCRA a 1 business day (right axis) 11
agreements at 1 and 7 days maturity continued at 9% and
Interest rate Call a 1 business day (right axis)
9.5%, respectively, and at 11% and 11.5% for active repur-
4 10
chase agreements at those same maturities. Meanwhile, after
3 9
increasing by almost 20% monthly, the average balance of
passive repurchase agreements in all the rounds in which
2 8
the BCRA participates was located around $20,900 million.
1 7 Meanwhile, no active repurchase agreements were registe-
0 6 red for the institution.
Ene-10 May-10 Sep-10 Ene-11 May-11 Sep-11 Ene-12 May-12 Sep-12 Ene-13
Source: BCRA Interbank Markets1

In the first month of the year, the interest rates of the in-
terbank market did not register significant changes. The
average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in
Chart 5.5 the unsecured market (call) increased 0.1 p.p., placing it-
self at 10.5%. Meanwhile, the average interest rate of ope-
Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day
% rations at 1 business day between financial entities in the
21 Intraday Volatility secured market (REPO round) decreased 0.1 p.p. placing
% (last three months)
15 itself at 9.9%. In this way, the existing gap between the in-
19 Monthly average
13 Average ± 1 Standard Deviation terest rates of both markets widened slightly (see Chart 5.4).
17
11
15 9 As in December, the variability of operations agreed at 1
business day in the call market remained elevated, placing
7 itself at an average of 20.5% (see Chart 5.5) with respect
13 01-Nov 22-Nov 13-Dec 07-Jan 25-Jan
to the monthly daily average rate, which was mainly expla-
11
ined by operations between domestic private entities as
9 funds providers and non-banking financial entities as
7 funds recipients.
5
Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 The amount traded increased, mainly in the REPO mar-
Source: BCRA
ket, where an increase of 15.4% was verified in the daily
average negotiated, placing itself at $2,800 million. Like-
wise, in the call segment the average daily amount traded
grew 3.5%, placing itself around $1,360 million. Foreign
Chart 5.6 entities and non-banking financial entities resulted as net
Call Market funds takers, with domestic private entities being the only
millions of $ (net position prom. monthly per group of entities) net funds providers of the month as public entities moved
500 to register a slightly debtor position in call after 12 months
(see Chart 5.6).
400

300

200
Passive Interest Rates1

100

0

-100
-200
 EFNB In January, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest rate for
 -300 Public
 Priv. Nat. deposits of $1 million and more at 30-35 days maturity
 -400 Foreign
 -500 – averaged 15.1%, declining 0.2 p.p. in the

 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13month (Chart 5.7). When analyzing the evolution by type of
Source: BCRA
 depositor, it is observed that the decrease is explained

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 9Chart 5.7 by the decline in the interest rate paid to companies and

 Fixed Term Deposit Interest Rates in Pesos 30-35 days financial service providers (in both cases, the monthly
% APA (daily data - private banks) decrease was 0.4 p.p.) while the interest rates paid to

28 the public sector and to natural persons remained
 BADLAR Fixed Term Deposits up to $100 thousand
 p.p. Monthly Variations practically unchanged (see Chart 5.8).
 2
24 1
 0
20 -1

 -2 With respect to the BADLAR futures market, in January
 BADLAR Avg. Jan-13
 -3 short-term contracts were traded, with maturity of less
16 -4 Fixed term deposits up to $100 thousand (30-35 days) 15.1
 than three months. In particular, more than 90% of the
 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13
 total traded in the month were contracts maturing on
12
 Avg. Jan-13 January 31, whose interest rate averaged 15.3%.

 13.2
 8
 Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13
Source: BCRA For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate
 paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up
 Chart 5.8 to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) remained without

 Interest Rates by Depositor changes compared to the average observed in
 % (private banks - more than $1 million, 30-35 days maturity) December (13.2%).
24 Natural Persons Public Sector Companies Fin.Serv. Total General

 Amount Traded by Depositor
 (monthly average)
 Active Interest Rates1 8
 100%
 80%

 60% In January, the interest rates of the different loan lines
 20 18 40%
 showed disparate movements compared to the previous
 month.
 16 20%

 0%
 14 May-08 Jan-09 Sep-09 May-10 Jan-11 Sep-11 May-12 Jan-13
 The majority of interest rates applied to commercial
 12
 lines increased slightly, with the exception of that
 10 corresponding to overdrafts, which averaged 21.5%,
 8 declining 0.2 p.p. in January.

 May-08 Jan-09 Sep-09 May-10 Jan-11 Sep-11 May-12 Jan-13Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate on
Source: BCRA
 overdrafts to companies for more than $10 million and
Chart 5.9 up to 7 days maturity9 stood at 14.5%, increasing 0.1 p.p.
 On the other hand, the interest rate applied to discounted
 Interest Rates of Loans to Commercial Activities documents averaged 19.3%, registering an increase of 0.2
TNA, % (monthly average) p.p. compared to December, while that corresponding to
32 Total Overdrafts documents at face value increased 0.4 p.p., after averaging
 Discounted Documents 19.4% in January (Chart 5.9). In this case, part of the
28 Documents at Face Value monthly increase is due to the lower participation that
 Overdrafts for more than $10 M - up to 7 days this month had the loans corresponding to the "Credit
 24 Line for Productive Investment" and those granted
 within the framework of the PFPB, which are granted at
 20 lower rates and longer terms. In effect, in January the
 16 participation of the longest maturity stratum showed a
 decline compared to what was observed during previous
 12 months (Chart 5.10).

 8
 Source: BCRAJun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13
8 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

9 Overdrafts in current accounts to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity represent approximately 20% of the total overdrafts in current accounts.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 10 Graph 5.10 Something similar occurred in the case of pledge loans,

 Participation by maturity bracket in Single Signature Documents where the lower participation of productive lines (monthly average) determined, to a large extent, the monthly increase of

 Less than 90 days From 90 to 364 days More than 1 year 1.7 p.p. in the interest rate, which stood in January at
 100%
 90% 21.3%. In contrast, the monthly average of the interest rate
 80% charged for mortgage loans intended for families was
 70% 15.9%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. in the month. On the other
 60% hand, the interest rate applied to personal loans aver-
 50% aged 35%, with a monthly increase of 0.7 p.p. (see Graph
 40% 5.11).
 30%

 20%

 10%

 0%
 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 International Reserves and Foreign

Source: BCRA Exchange Market 10

The balance of international reserves ended January at
 US$42,531 million (see Graph 6.1). This represented
 a decrease of US$760 million with respect to
Graph 5.11 December. The variation in foreign currency current
 accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank and
 Interest Rates of Loans with Real Guarantees and those for Consumption the payment of public sector obligations negatively
 (monthly average) affected the stock of reserves, while the purchase
 TNA, % Pledge Mortgages to families Personal of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the Single
 50 Monthly variation and Free Exchange Market (MULC), which totaled
 p.p. US$99 million, partially compensated for that effect.
 2.0 1.7
 45
 0.7
 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
 40 0.5 against the currencies of its main trading partners.
 -1.0 -0.4 Thus, in January, the quotations of the United States
 35 Mortgages Pledge Personal dollar and the euro increased 1.4% and 2.7%, respective-
 30 ly (a rate of increase lower than in December), reaching
 25 an average of 4.95 $/US$, and 6.58 $/euro in each case.
 20 The average quotation of the Brazilian Real was 2.44
 15 $/Real, 3.7% higher than in December. In the forward
 10 market (ROFEX), the depreciation expectation for the
 Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13 coming months was practically unchanged in relation
 Source: BCRA to what was observed in past periods. The average daily
 amount traded in such market was close to $685 million,
 16% lower than the previous month.
Graph 6.1

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves 7. Capital Market 10
 millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

55
 Jan-13 International financial markets ended the month with a
50 positive tone. In the eurozone, the repayment to the
45 European Central Bank (ECB) of part of the funds it had
40 injected through the extraordinary 3-year financing line
35 LTRO3 (see graph 7.1) contributed to the strengthening
30 of the Euro with respect to the Dollar and the Yen. In
25 the United States, the closing of negotiations around the
20 fiscal cliff issue had a favorable impact, in a context
15 where labor market indicators came out better than
10 expected. In
 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13
 Source: BCRA

10 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 11 Graph 7.1 of the labor market turned out better than expected. In
# Long Term Refinancing Operations as a percentage of the effect, job creation over the last
45% "Broad Deposits" three months averaged 200,000 positions (see Graph

40% Portugal 7.2). Meanwhile, U.S. GDP for the fourth quar-
 Ireland 34.1%
 (Portugal) ter contracted 0.1% compared to the previous quarter, in
35% Spain 30.2%
 Italy (Spain) part influenced by the negative effects of Hurricane
30%
 28.8% Sandy and by uncertainty surrounding the outcome of
25% (Ireland)
 21.1% the aforementioned fiscal policy negotiations.
20% (Italy)

15% Within monetary policy measures, the Bank

10% of Japan (BoJ) modified its inflation target, which

 5% went from 1% to 2% for the short term; in an economy

 0% in which deflation has been recorded for most of the
 Jan-08 Aug-08 Mar-09 Oct-09 May-10 Dec-10 Jul-11 Feb-12 Sep-12past years. Furthermore, the BoJ decided that starting
Source: pages of the respective Central Banks.
 in January 2014, when the current phase of the asset
 purchase program expires, it will implement a new one
 for the equivalent of US$110,000 million annually in
 net terms (a stimulus lower than expected by the
 market). Eligible securities will consist mainly of short-
 term public debt.
Graph 7.2

 Monthly Job Creation
 In thousands Non-Agricultural
of jobs Employment
500

300 Following the behavior recorded in December, the

100 MSCI global advanced 5% in January. The European
 market, measured through the MSCI index, obtained a
-100 gain of 5.9%. Likewise, the S&P 500, the main index of

-300 the U.S. stock market, registered a gain of 5%, one of
 the best Januaries in recent years (see Graph 7.3). The
-500
 Recessions risk perceived by investors decreased, as judged by the

 Job creation decrease in expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured
-700 through the VIX index, which fell 4 p.p., reaching
 13.5%.
-900
 Jan-70 Jan-74 Jan-78 Jan-82 Jan-86 Jan-90 Jan-94 Jan-98 Jan-02 Jan-06 Jan-10 Likewise, the index measuring volatility of the Stoxx
 50 (benchmark index of the eurozone stock exchange)
Source: Own elaboration based on BLS.gov fell again, this time by 1.5 p.p., positioning itself at
 a monthly average of 16.1%.

 In line with the behavior recorded in the markets of
 Graph 7.3 advanced economies, emerging equities,
 measured through the MSCI index, registered gains of
World Stock Indices 1.3% in January. Accentuating this behavior, the MSCI
130 (in dollars; Base Index 30/11/11=100) Latin America index gained 3.1% in the month, following the

125 rebound of 6.1% recorded in December. The Bovespa

120 (Brazil), the benchmark index for the region, registered

115 modest behavior and gained 0.8% following the strong

110 advance recorded in the previous month. For its part,

105 the IGPA (Chile) and the IPC (Mexico) in dollars grew
100 7% and 4.8% respectively.
 MSCI-World
 95 MSCI-Europe
 Favored by a better international context, the local
 90 MSCI-Latam
 S&P 500 stock market registered positive performance
 85 MSCI-Emerging
 80 for the second consecutive month. Solely in the month

 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13of January, the MERVAL index gained 19.7% in dollars.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data The main increases occurred in securities from the
 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 12 Graph 7.4 energy and telecommunications sectors. The average
 Sovereign Risk Indicators daily volume traded in stocks during January was
 Spread in p.b Spread in p.b of $59 million, marking a monthly increase of 10%,
 500 1400
 1300 registering the highest value observed since October
 2009.
 450 1200

 1100
 400 Public Securities
 1000

 350 900 In January, the yield differential between bonds

 800
 300 700
# EMBI+

EMBI+ Latin America - 600 emerging sovereigns over U.S. Treasury bonds
250
EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) - 500 increased by 10 b.p. according to the spread
200 400 measured by the EMBI+ index, positioning itself at 259 b.p. in
Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg a context where the 10-year Treasury rate
increased 23 b.p. The risk differential over the
Treasuries of Argentina's sovereign securities
increased 110 b.p., positioning itself at 1,102 b.p. at the end of
January (see Chart 7.4).

## Chart 7.5
Corporate Bond Issuance Private Securities

billions of $ millions of $ Quantity
400 25
5.5 Average amount per placement
350 In January, corporate financing through the
Quantity of placements (right axis) 20
5.0 Amount in Dollars 300
Amount in Pesos 250 15 issuance of Negotiable Obligations (ON) registered a
4.5 200
volume lower than that recorded in previous months. In
150 10 a month where YPF, the principal market participant
4.0
100
5 in the second half of 2012, did not make any
3.5 50
0 0
3.0 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 placements, total emissions reached $991 million
2.5 (see Chart 7.5).
2.0
1.5
1.0 The total quantities placed remained at levels similar
0.5 to those of 2012, although a sharp decline was observed
0.0 in the average amount issued. Financial Entities were
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13
Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg the main placers in January with an amount of $590
million, followed by industrial companies in the Food
and Beverage sector, which placed $376 million.

## Chart 7.6
Cut-off Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) Following the trend recorded in the last two
30
years, most of the emissions were carried out in local
Cut-off rate of variable rate securities* currency. For variable rate emissions, the cost of
25 Cut-off rate of fixed rate securities** financing remained stable in January in relation to
BADLAR of private banks the last months of 2012. Thus, the cut-off rate of
20 securities in pesos at variable rate (rating superior
to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years)
15 positioned itself at 19.6%. Likewise, the average
cut-off rate for fixed rate emissions (rating superior
10 to Arg BBB+) decreased 0.1 p.p. to 18.9%
(see Chart 7.6).
5

Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13
(*) With rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating superior to Arg BBB+.
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC

## Mutual Investment Funds

In January, the purchase of shares in Mutual Investment
Funds (FCI) continued to attract investors.

Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 13 ## Chart 7.7
The patrimony of FCI grew $6,110 million
thousands of Patrimony of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos thousands of (13.6%) in the month, positioning itself at $51,170 million.
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
7.0 60

 Fixed Income The increase recorded in January was driven by all
6.0
Money Market 50 segments of FCI in pesos, although the performance
5.0  Mixed Income recorded in fixed income funds stood out,
 Variable Income
4.0 Evolution of stock (right 40 which contributed 60% of the monthly expansion
3.0 axis) after growing $3,670 million (19.4%; see Chart
30 7.7). Likewise, Money Market funds expanded
2.0
$1,320 million (7.8%) and funds that invest
1.0 20 in mixed income assets registered a monthly increase
0.0 of $720 million (12.5%). Finally, it should be noted

-1.0 10
-2.0 0 tackled variable income funds that, again in line
 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13
Source: CAFCI and BCRA with the good performance of the stock market,
 registered the best performance for the month of January
 of recent years and grew $290 million (23.7%).

 Just as in December, in January the funds of
 Chart 7.8 variable income and the local stock market constituted

 Estimated Performance of Assets the best investment instrument, registering an esti-
 % (monthly profitability in pesos January 2013)
 25 mated monthly return around 21%. Far behind it
 was followed by the IAMC Index, the reference in the
 20
 local bond market, and mixed income and fixed
 15 income funds (see Chart 7.8).

 10 FCIs in foreign currency ended the month of
 January with a portfolio of US$478 million, 3.8%
 5
 (US$20 million) higher than the level registered in
 0 December. This behavior was driven by advances
 Merval Index Variable Fixed Bond Index IAMC Mixed Fixed Rate Dollar Fixed Term Money
 Income Index Income FCI Income FCI Market
 Funds Funds Funds
Source: BCRA Financial Trusts11

 In January, emissions of financial trusts (FF)
 totaled just over $1,100 million through 19
 placements (with no infrastructure trusts being
 registered). As is usual, the volume of
Chart 7.9 securitized assets in January was positioned below
 that of December. However, the level of January
 Financial Trusts Emissions
 million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) units emissions was the highest in relation to the same
2,100 45 month of previous years, registering an inter-annual
 Amount Issued
1,800 Number of Operations (right axis) 40 increase of almost 30% (see Chart 7.9).

 35
1,500
 30 Regarding the different types of settlors,
1,200 25 retail businesses issued $490 million,
 0
 900 20 showing a 30% decline from the record level of
 15 December. In order of importance, they were
 600
 10 followed by mutual funds, cooperatives and non-
 300 5 bank credit card issuers, which more than doubled
 0 0 what was placed in December, reaching values
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13close to $340 million (see Chart 7.10). For its part,
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and
 financial entities placed $75 million. Additionally,
11 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 14Chart 7.10 5 placements of agricultural sector companies
 were registered, mostly in dollars, which totaled
 Amounts Issued by Type of Settlor
 (excludes public sector and others linked to infrastructure financing) $198 million. With the exception of these emissions,
million $ which were backed by commercial credits, the
1,200 Other underlying assets were entirely related to
1,000 personal loans and credit card coupons.

 800 Retail Businesses
 The interest rates cut-off of senior titles with
 600 variable rates in pesos, with a duration less than
 Mutual Funds, Cooperatives 14 months, registered a slight decline, in line with
 400 and Non-Bank Credit the behavior of BADLAR private banks. The cut-
 Card Issuers off rate of titles with variable yield was positioned
 200 Financial Entities at 16.9%, registering a decline of 0.3 p.p. compared
 0 to the previous month (see Chart 7.11). Meanwhile,
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13in the month of January there were no recorded
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and other sources emissions of securities representing senior debt at
 fixed rate.

 Chart 7.11

 Cut-Off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos
 TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)

 40

 35 Fixed Rate

 Variable Rate
 30 BADLAR Private Banks

 25

 20

 16.9
 15 15.1

 10
5
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 158. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Jan-13 Monthly Last 12 Dec-12 Nov-12 Jan-12
 months

 Monetary base 298.282 292.138 271.961 220.630 2.1% 35.2%
 Monetary circulation 231.169 224.211 207.564 170.304 3.1% 35.7%
 Bills and Coins held by the public 207.674 199.335 186.409 149.948 4.2% 38.5%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 23.494 24.872 21.153 20.354 -5.5% 15.4%
 Cancellatory Checks 2 4 2 0 -57.5% -
 Current account at the BCRA 67.112 67.927 64.397 50.326 -1.2% 33.4%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 20.871 17.432 17.749 15.732 19.7% 32.7%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 92.714 88.681 90.852 71.860 4.5% 29.0%
 In banks 80.691 77.641 79.610 63.894 3.9% 26.3%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 79.268 74.569 75.374 29.587 6.3% 167.9%

 NOBAC 13.446 14.112 15.478 42.274 -4.7% -68.2%

 BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 42.954 44.134 45.316 46.557 -2.7% -7.7%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 540.109 525.016 506.310 398.953 2.9% 35.4%
 Current account (2) 160.073 150.959 138.915 121.060 6.0% 32.2%
 Savings account 107.326 104.730 93.889 75.513 2.5% 42.1%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 252.521 248.802 253.829 186.532 1.5% 35.4%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 7 7 7 9 1.8% -21.4%
 Other deposits (3) 20.182 20.517 19.670 15.839 -1.6% 27.4%

 Deposits of the private sector 383.397 372.479 353.853 270.558 2.9% 41.7%

 Deposits of the public sector 156.712 152.537 152.457 128.395 2.7% 22.1%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9.594 9.388 9.321 13.371 2.2% -28.2%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 384.369 373.954 358.276 273.003 2.8% 40.8%

 Loans to the private sector 348.450 339.124 325.253 245.931 2.8% 41.7%
 Advances 48.530 47.375 46.297 31.081 2.4% 56.1%
 Documents 79.385 76.169 70.474 51.968 4.2% 52.8%
 Mortgage loans 35.583 34.473 33.303 27.499 3.2% 29.4%
 Pledge loans 22.681 22.137 21.189 16.756 2.5% 35.4%
 Personal loans 75.696 75.068 73.299 58.868 0.8% 28.6%
 Credit cards 59.004 56.331 54.146 41.856 4.7% 41.0%
 Others 27.571 27.570 26.545 17.901 0.0% 54.0%

 Loans to the public sector 35.918 34.830 33.023 27.072 3.1% 32.7%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 5.443 5.549 5.640 9.576 -1.9% -43.2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account 367.749 350.298 325.326 271.010 5.0% 35.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 475.074 455.028 419.215 346.522 4.4% 37.1%
 M3 (Bills and Coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 747.785 724.355 692.721 548.902 3.2% 36.2%
 total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 795.249 770.180 737.422 606.668 3.3% 31.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 308.333 299.301 281.766 225.420 3.0% 36.8%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 406.011 395.486 368.173 295.657 2.7% 37.3%
 M3 (Bills and Coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 591.073 571.817 540.264 420.508 3.4% 40.6%
 total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 629.496 609.671 577.628 472.736 3.3% 33.2%

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONETARY BASE

Monetary base 6.144 2.1% 33.068 12.5% 6.144 2.1% 77.652 35.2%
Financial sector -3.216 -1.1% -3.165 -1.2% -3.216 -1.1% -2.155 -1.0%
Public sector 9.316 3.2% 27.683 10.4% 9.316 3.2% 47.981 21.7%
Private external sector 2.443 0.8% 6.055 2.3% 2.443 0.8% 38.161 17.3%
BCRA Titles -2.121 -0.7% 3.215 1.2% -2.121 -0.7% -4.545 -2.1%
Others -279 -0.1% -721 -0.3% -279 -0.1% -1.790 -0.8%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.180 -2.7% -2.122 -4.7% -1.180 -2.7% -3.603 -7.7%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 499 1.1% 1.244 2.8% 499 1.1% 8.516 18.3%
Payment to international organizations 165 0.4% 215 0.5% 165 0.4% 18 0.0%
Other public sector operations -1.680 -3.8% -2.433 -5.4% -1.680 -3.8% -2.048 -4.4%
Minimum cash -85 -0.2% 576 1.3% -85 -0.2% -164 -0.4%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -79 -0.2% -1.724 -3.8% -79 -0.2% -9.925 -21.3%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 | Jan-13 | Dec-12 | Nov-12
---|---|---|---
 | (1) | (2) |
**National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** |
Requirement | 12.0 | 12.1 | 12.5
Integration | 12.6 | 12.8 | 12.6
Position (3) | 0.6 | 0.7 | 0.1
**Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %** | |
**used for the requirement calculation (3)** |
Up to 29 days | 67.2 | 65.4 | 63.3
30 to 59 days | 19.5 | 23.7 | 24.4
60 to 89 days | 7.4 | 5.7 | 7.2
90 to 179 days | 4.2 | 3.6 | 3.4
More than 180 days | 1.7 | 1.6 | 1.7
**Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** |
Requirement | 19.8 | 20.0 | 20.0
Integration (includes default application of resources) | 86.1 | 85.7 | 83.0
Position (3) | 66.3 | 65.7 | 63.0
**Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %** |
**used for the requirement calculation (4)** |
Up to 29 days | 50.4 | 53.1 | 52.1
30 to 59 days | 23.3 | 22.1 | 22.3
60 to 89 days | 12.5 | 10.5 | 10.2
90 to 179 days | 11.8 | 12.4 | 13.4
180 to 365 days | 2.0 | 1.8 | 1.8
More than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in national currency.

(3) Position = Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates

| | Jan-13 | Dec-12 | Nov-12 | Dec-11 | Jan-12
---|---|---|---|---|---
**Call in pesos (at 15 days)** |
Rate | 10.85 | 10.77 | 10.24 | 9.99 | 9.63
Amount traded | 1.361 | 1.313 | 1.422 | 1.126 | 1.291
**Fixed-term Deposits** |
**In pesos** |
30 days | 13.43 | 13.73 | 13.05 | 14.74 | 13.21
60 days or more | 14.73 | 15.63 | 15.02 | 16.50 | 14.84
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 13.04 | 13.43 | 12.93 | 14.76 | 12.41
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 15.14 | 15.37 | 15.30 | 18.75 | 16.06
**In dollars** |
30 days | 0.56 | 0.57 | 0.64 | 0.33 | 0.30
60 days or more | 1.02 | 1.10 | 1.10 | 0.69 | 0.69
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.68 | 0.65 | 0.77 | 0.43 | 0.45
BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.70 | 0.61 | 0.95 | 0.63 | 0.65

# Active Interest Rates

| | Jan-13 | Dec-12 | Nov-12 | Dec-11 | Jan-12
---|---|---|---|---|---
**Repurchase agreements in pesos** |
Gross interest rate at 30 days | 13.93 | 15.57 | 15.13 | 15.98 | 13.30
Amount traded (total terms) | 198 | 235 | 262 | 226 | 207
**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** |
Overdrafts in current account | 21.55 | 21.77 | 21.55 | 26.78 | 25.14
Documents on sole signature | 19.39 | 19.00 | 18.14 | 22.15 | 21.55
Mortgages | 16.62 | 17.23 | 16.95 | 16.52 | 15.93
Pledges | 21.27 | 19.60 | 19.63 | 25.10 | 26.13
Personal loans | 34.97 | 34.31 | 33.84 | 36.46 | 37.54
Credit cards | s/d | 34.64 | 34.28 | 33.15 | 34.17
Advances in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14.49 14.44 14.29 22.56 18.70

 International Interest Rates Jan-13 Dec-12 Nov-12 Dec-11 Jan-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.21 0.21 0.21 0.28 0.28
 6 months 0.49 0.51 0.53 0.78 0.80

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.26 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.23
 10 years 1.88 1.70 1.64 1.96 1.94

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.25 7.25 7.25 11.00 10.76

(1) Data through June 2010 corresponds to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-13 Dec-12 Nov-12 Dec-11 Jan-12

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO trading floor repo rates
 1 day 9.28 9.36 9.35 9.13 9.06
 7 days 9.52 9.53 9.51 9.56 9.50

Amount traded in REPO trading floor repos (daily average) 11,578 10,111 12,516 8,454 10,130

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o 11.60 11.30 n/o n/o
 2 months 12.28 11.98 12.34 n/o n/o
 3 months 12.87 12.93 12.88 n/o n/o
 9 months n/o 14.52 14.56 n/o n/o
 12 months 14.96 14.99 n/o 14.26 n/o

Margin of NOBAC in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,017 786 809 378 494

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-13 Dec-12 Nov-12 Dec-11 Jan-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 4.95 4.88 4.80 4.29 4.32
 Retail 4.95 4.88 4.80 4.29 4.33

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.05 4.98 4.91 4.36 4.37
 ROFEX 1 month 5.02 4.95 4.87 4.33 4.35
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 684 818 893 904 1,075

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.44 2.35 2.32 2.33 2.42

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 6.58 6.41 6.16 5.64 5.58

 Capital Market Jan-13 Dec-12 Nov-12 Dec-11 Jan-12

MERVAL
 Index 3,176 2,672 2,348 2,488 2,806
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 65 54 32 39 52

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 127.44 120.57 116.08 98.40 102.14
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.65 97.99 97.15 81.40 83.27
 BODEN 2014 ($) 94.77 92.24 92.25 86.93 90.45
 DISCOUNT ($) 49.46 46.02 44.98 51.96 54.50

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond 1,262 1,204 1,502 980 828
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 288 298 325 390 388

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 199. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

IIF: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Money supply, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public plus total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Representative Debt Value.

---

Monetary Report | January 2013 | BCRA | 20
