# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Main Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

8. Capital Market | Page 14

 Stocks | Page 14

 Public Securities | Page 15

 Private Securities | Page 15

 Investment Funds | Page 16

 Financial Trusts | Page 17

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 19

10. Glossary | Page 23

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on May 13, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• During the month of April, the monthly growth of monetary aggregates was driven by loans in pesos to the private sector and foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank. The effect of these factors was partially offset by the contraction generated by public sector operations. In the month, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) continued to moderate its growth rate, with an interannual variation of 33.7%, which was 0.7 p.p. lower than in March. In the same sense, the broadest private monetary aggregate (M3 private) showed an increase of 1.2% in April, accumulating over the last twelve months an increase of 36.4%, 1.6 p.p. less than in March.

• With an interannual variation of 44%, fixed-term placements continued to grow at historically elevated rates. They continued to stand out among the components of M3, registering a monthly growth of 1.5%, with increases verified in both the segment of $1 million and more and in the bracket of less than $1 million.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector increased their monthly growth rate compared to the previous two-month period, registering in April an increase of 2% ($7,180 million) and exhibiting an interannual variation rate around 42%. Over the last twelve months, commercial lines stood out for their dynamism; in particular, financing granted through documents and advances, which reached interannual growth rates of 62.8% and 47.4%, respectively.

• The credit-boosting policies for productive activity carried out by the BCRA have favored the increase in the participation of SMEs in the total of loans in pesos. The "Productive Investment Credit Line" has also generated an extension in the term of new credits granted to SMEs and greater participation of those granted at lower interest rates.

• The broad liquidity ratio (measured as the ratio between the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC and deposits in pesos) stood at 33.5%, declining 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month. By component, a decrease was verified in the balance of LEBAC and NOBAC and cash in banks, while net repos with the Central Bank increased. In April, the interest rates paid by private financial entities increased slightly. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private banks averaged 15.1%, increasing 0.3 p.p. in the month. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a monthly increase of 0.1 p.p., averaging 13.2%.

• The interest rates of most loan lines to the private sector continued to decline. Among loans with real guarantees, in April there was an increase in the participation of loans corresponding to the "Productive Investment Credit Line" and those granted under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program, which are granted at lower rates and longer terms. The interest rate applied to loans with chattel mortgage guarantees averaged 19.2%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. and reaching its lowest level since August 2011. For its part, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 33.3%, declining 0.9 p.p. in the month.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

2. Monetary Aggregates1

% Monetary Aggregates - M3
(variation of monthly averages) %

5 50
Monthly variation of M3 The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M32) contin-
4 Interannual variation of M3 (right axis) 40
ued to moderate its growth rate. In April, it presented a
33.7 monthly increase of 1.1%, which implied an...
1,8 2,1 year-on-year variation of 33.7%, 0.7 p.p. lower than the one regis-
 2 1,7 20 tered during the month of March (see Chart 2.1).
 1,1
 1,0
 1 10
 In the same sense, the broader private monetary
 0 0 aggregate (Private M34) grew 1.2% in April, accumu-
 -1 -10 lating in the last twelve months an increase of 36.4%,
 -1,0
 -2 -20 1.6 p.p. less than in March. As in previous periods, the
 monthly growth was driven by peso-denominated loans

 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13to the private sector (see Chart 2.2).

 Note: M3 includes currency in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA
 Purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank also
 contributed to the expansion. These expansionary effects
 Chart 2.2 resulted in partial offset by the contraction generated
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates by public sector operations.
 of millions
 of $
 (April 2013, on average)
 8

 7 Private M3
 Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector
 6
 registered a monthly growth of 1.5% (see Chart 2.3),
 5
 with increases verified in both the segment of $1 million
 4
 3 and above as well as in the tier of less than $1 million.
 2 With a year-on-year variation of 44%, fixed-term place-
 1 ments continued growing at historically elevated rates.
 0 It is worth noting that during the second quarter, given
 -1 the greater demand for liquidity by the private sector to
 -2 meet tax payment obligations, it is expected to observe
 Purchases of Public Sector* Loans to S.Other M2 Private Dep. at Fixed-some moderation in the monthly growth pace of these
 Foreign Sector Private and Other Priv. Term placements.
 Exchange
 *Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
 Source: BCRA
 Regarding the foreign currency segment, deposits
 showed a 2% reduction, with decreases both in place-
 Chart 2.3 ments belonging to the public sector and in those corre-
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector sponding to the private sector.
 % %
 7 (monthly average variations) 56
 Monthly Variation Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate (M3*) which
 6 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 48
 44.0 comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancel-
 5 4.2 40 latory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and in
 4 32 foreign currency (expressed in pesos), showed a monthly
 2.7
 3 24 growth of 1% and reached an expansion rate of 28.3%
 2.0
 2 1.516 year-on-year, 0.7 p.p. lower than in March.
 1.0
 1 8

 0 0

 -1 -8

 -2 -16

 -3 -2.4 -24

 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13

 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 4

 Chart 3.1 3. Bank Liquidity1

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos*
 of deposits In April, the broad liquidity ratio (measured as the
 (monthly average)
 45 quotient between the sum of cash, the current account
 40 at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with
 35 % of Components 33.5 such entity and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs,
 of deposits Effectivo CC in BCRA all of them from financial entities, and deposits in
 30 40 Net Repurchase Agreements LEBACs and NOBACs pesos) was located at 33.5%, declining 0.4 p.p. with
 35 33.5
 respect to the previous month (see Chart 3.1). By compo-
 25 30
 nent, a decrease was verified in the balance of LEBACs
 20 20
 and NOBACs and in cash held in banks, while an in-
 15 15
 crease was observed in net repurchase agreements with
 10 10
 5 the Central Bank.
 5 0
Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13

0 For its part, the balance of the current account of the enti-
Apr-07 Dec-07 Aug-08 Apr-09 Dec-09 Aug-10 Apr-11 Dec-11 Aug-12 Apr-13
* Includes effects in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value. ties at the Central Bank was higher than the requirement
for the month by the equivalent of 0.2% of peso deposits,
a surplus similar to that recorded in recent periods.

Graph 4.1 Meanwhile, the liquidity ratio of the foreign currency

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

6 60% segment continued at elevated levels, and in April it
Monthly average variation
Year-on-year variation (right axis) stood at 99.7% of dollar deposits.

5 50

4 40
3.3 3.1 4. Loans 1 4 5
3 2.9 2.7 30

2.0
2 1.7 20 Loans in pesos to the private sector increased their

1 0.9 10 monthly growth rate, recording in April an increase of 2%
($7,180 million). This was higher than that of the same
0 0 month in 2012. The year-on-year variation rate of credit

-1 -10 to the private sector continues to be located, since the

Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 beginning of the year, around 42% (see Graph 4.1), high-
Source: BCRA lighting the growth of financings granted through docu-
ments and advances.

Graph 4.2

% Advances and Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector Among the lines with mainly commercial purposes, the
80 (year-on-year variation of monthly average balances) performance of advances stood out. Said financings

70 accelerated their growth pace, registering an increase of

60 Advances Documents 2% ($1,020 million) in a context of greater demand for

50 liquidity by companies, given the beginning of the period

40 of greater tax maturity deadlines. Meanwhile, loans

30 instrumented through documents moderated their

20 monthly expansion pace with respect to March, showing

10 an increase of 1.7% ($1,350 million). Nevertheless, both

0 types of financings showed better performance than in

-10 the same month of last year, so the year-on-year varia-

-20 tion rate of advances reached 47.4% and the correspond-
Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13
Source: BCRA ing one for documents 62.8%, increasing by around 3

4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of the entities to financial trusts.
5 In the present report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) concerted in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans concerted, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 5 p.p. with respect to March in both cases (see Graph 4.2).
For its part, the "Other loans" item, with mostly
Graph 4.3 commercial purposes, registered an increase of 4.1%

% Loans in Pesos to Legal Entities ($1,115 million) during the month.
(participation in the balance at the end of March of each year)

100 When considering loans in pesos to legal entities by

90 24.5 25.3 29.8 28.8 30.4 type of company, in recent years there has been an increase

80 in the participation of Small and Medium-sized Enter-

70 prises (SMEs), favored by the "Credit Line for Productive

60 Investment". Indeed, the ratio of loans to SMEs with

50 respect to the total of loans to companies went from

40 75.5 74.7 70.2 71.2 69.6 being located below 25% in 2009 to being located above

30 30% in 2013 (see

20

10

0
Graph 4.3). The influence of this stimulus line on productive activity regarding loans to SMEs is also evident when analyzing the terms of new loans. In this sense, an increase is observed in the participation of longer-term strata (1 to 5 years and 5 to 10 years) starting from September 2012, a trend that is interrupted temporarily in January and February 2013, due to seasonal factors linked to the period of lower commercial activity (see Graph 4.4). Additionally, and when also considering the agreed interest rates, it is noted that in loans granted for longer terms there is greater participation of lower interest rate segments, close to those required in the "Line of Credits for Productive Investment"6 (see Graph 4.5).

Regarding the PFPB, in April a new tender was held through which a total of $110 million was awarded. Thus, the total amount awarded since the beginning of this program reaches $6,500 million. Likewise, the total resources effectively disbursed amounts to $4,560 million (see Graph 4.6).

It should be noted that, effective as of May 2, the Secretary of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises and Regional Development modified the regulations to determine if a company is considered a MiPyME7, more than doubling the maximum sales amount required. The BCRA then decided to partially modify the provision regarding the proportion that financial entities must grant to MiPyMEs during the first semester of the year, within the framework of the "Line of Credits for Productive Investment". Although the requirement continues to be 50% of the total, at least half of that quota must be agreed with companies that were considered MiPyMEs according to the criteria in effect until April 30, 2013 (see Communication "A" 5419).

For its part, the lines aimed at financing family consumption continued to show differentiated behaviors. On one hand, personal loans registered an increase of 2.9% ($2,320 million), in line with the monthly expansion rate that has been

---

**Note:** The text cuts off at the end. The last phrase "in line with the monthly expansion rate that has been" appears incomplete in the source material.
3 30 since the second half of 2012. Thus, the year-on-year
 2 20 variation rate remained around 30%
 1 10 (see Graph 4.7). On the other hand, financing with
 0 0 credit cards registered a modest increase in
 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 the month, of 0.6% ($370 million), although they still
 Source: BCRA register an important year-on-year variation rate, close to
 40%.

 Regarding loans with real collateral, pledged
 loans presented in April an increase of 2.5% ($600 mil-
 lion). They continued accelerating their year-on-year
 Graph 4.7 growth rate, registering in the last twelve months an

 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 increase of 38.9%. For their part, mortgage loans
 8 90
 7 Monthly variation 80 grew 1.1% ($400 million), somewhat less than in
 Annual var. i.a. (right axis) March, and presented a year-on-year variation of 27.7%.
 6 Average annual monthly var. 70
 5.2 60 It should be noted that new mortgage loans
 5 50 totaled in April $890 million, an amount similar to that
 4 3,8 40 of the previous month. Likewise, when distinguishing said
 3,0 resources by type of recipient, it is verified that more than
 3 2,7 2,7 2,8 40 60% of the total was granted to legal entities, a fact that
 30
 is explained by the impetus from the "Credit line
 2 20 for productive investment", since traditionally
 1,1 mortgage financing was destined for families
 1 10 (see Graph 4.8).
 0 0
 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13

 Source: BCRA
 According to the latest available information⁸, in March
 the financing granted by financial entities under the
 form of leasing contracts⁹ accelerated their monthly
 Graph 4.8 expansion rate with respect to the previous two-month
 Mortgages in Pesos to the Private Sector Legal Entities
 (amounts granted by recipient) Physical Persons period, registering an increase of 2.3% ($165 million).
 % Likewise, the year-on-year variation rate continued
 100
 increasing and in March reached 21.7%, 2.4 p.p. more
 90
 than in February (see Graph 4.6). The dynamism that
 80
 these financing options have been showing since August
 70
 2012 is explained, in large measure, by the impetus
 60
 coming from the "Credit line for productive
 50
 investment" since some of these loans are channeled
 40
 through leasing operations.
 30

 20 Finally, the monthly average balance of loans
 10 in foreign currency to the private sector, fundamentally
 0 to the export sector, remained unchanged in
 Source: BRCAJan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13

8 Leasing information is available with a one-month lag.
9 It comprises the value of capital goods (personal and real property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at the
request of these, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral right to exercise
the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 7 April at around US$5,200 million. It should be mentioned
 Graph 4.9 that part of the loans that until the first quarter
 Goods in Financial Leasing in Pesos of 2012 were granted in foreign currency continue
 % % to be channeled through the peso segment.
 10 Monthly var. 100
 8 I.a. var. (right axis) 80 5. Interest Rates¹⁰
 6 60
 4 Securities issued by the Central Bank¹¹
 40
 2
 20
 0 During the first weeks of April the interest rates

 -2 0 of the Central Bank Securities auctions remained
 -4 -20 unchanged, while in the last auction of the month
 -6 -40 they increased around 0.5 p.p.. Thus, at the end of the
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 month, the interest rates of the placements
Source: BCRA operations at 70 days and 100 days, with predetermined values, were positioned at 13.4% and 14%, respectively.
Likewise, the long-term rate, corresponding to 500 days, stood at 16.4% (see Chart 5.1).

LEBACs concentrated again almost the totality
Chart 5.1 of monthly placements in the primary market.
LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
T.N.A % (last auctions of the month) The awarded securities concentrated in short
18 terms, mainly with a maturity of less than 180
17 days, which represented 67% of the total placed. In this
16,4 way, the average maturity of the stock decreased and
16 was positioned around 224 days.
15,2 15,5 15,9
15 14,6 The total awarded amount of LEBAC (including
14,0 financial entities and other holders) was $3,222
14 13,4 million and was higher than maturities so the
13 April 2013 balance was positioned at VN $99,640 million. Meanwhile, the
March 2013 balance of NOBACs decreased $2,150 million (19%)
February 2013 after two months with almost no changes, positioning itself at
12
January 2013 VN $9,160 million (see Chart 5.2). Thus, the participa-
11 tion of NOBACs in the total stock decreased again, rep-
10 Days resenting 8% of the total. As a consequence of this dy-
9 namic, at the end of the month the stock of LEBAC
Source: BCRA 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 and NOBAC in circulation increased $1,070 million (1%),
positioning itself at $108,800 million (see Chart 5.2). The
increase was driven by greater holdings of private banks
Chart 5.2 and, to a lesser extent, of Common Investment Funds
Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market (FCI). In this way, the stock is equivalent to 24.3% of
thousands of LEBAC NOBAC thousands of thousands of total deposits of the private sector, 0.8 p.p. less than
millions $ millions $ millions $ in March.
40 1108 More than 24 months 85
More than 360 days 24 months
From 271 to 360 days Between 18 and 24 months In the secondary market, interest rates on LEBACs de-
35 1007 18 months 75
creased, in a context where the average daily traded
From 181 to 270 days Between 12 and 18 months
From 91 to 180 days 12 months amount continued growing, positioning itself at a histor-
30 906 65
Until 90 days Between 6 and 12 months ical maximum of $1,360 million. For its part, with scarce
25 Balance at end of month (right axis) 6 months 80 5 Less than 6 55 participation in the total, the trading volume of NOBACs
Maturities
20 70 4 45 was positioned at an average of $72 million daily.

15 60 3 35
Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations¹
10 50 2 25
5 40 1 15 The interest rates on passive repurchase agreements of
0 30 0 5 the Central Bank remained unchanged and were posi-
Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 tioned at 9% and 9.5%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively;
Source: BCRA while the interest rates on active repurchase agreements
for the same terms, were positioned at 11% and 11.5%,
10 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA). respectively.
11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.3 The average stock of passive repurchase agreements for
thousands of Holdings of Securities of the Central Bank the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations
millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly change) in which this institution participates, increased 11%,
10 positioning itself at $13,630 million. During the month of
8 April, no active repurchase agreements were concluded
for the Central Bank.
6

4 Interbank Markets¹

2

0

-2

-4 Others
-6 FCIs
Public Banks
-8 Private Banks
-10 Total Stock
Apr-10 Aug-10 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13

Source: BCRA
**Graph 5.4 Interfinancial Market**
(thousands of operations at 1 business day)
(millions of $) (%)

After the increase recorded on the last business day of March and the first days of April, in a context of several holidays (two of them coinciding with the start of a new computation period for minimum cash), the interest rates of the interfinancial market verified a decreasing trend and ended April at levels similar to those recorded at the beginning of the year. In this way, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the unsecured market (call) decreased 0.75 p.p. with respect to March, placing itself at 11.2%.

Likewise, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) was reduced 0.45 p.p., placing itself at 10.8% (see Graph 5.4).

Jointly with the decrease in interest rates, a reduction in volatility levels was observed during the month. Indeed, the dispersion between the interest rates agreed each day with respect to the average of that same day was reduced 0.9 p.p. until reaching 1.9 p.p. (see Graph 5.5).

**Graph 5.5 Interest Rate and Deviation of Call Operations at 1 Business Day**
(%)

The amount traded in the interfinancial market was placed at $4,000 million daily. In the REPO market, volume remained relatively stable, placing itself at $2,600 million. Meanwhile, in call it was reduced by $130 million to a daily average of $1,400 million (see Graph 5.6).

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

In April, the interest rates paid by private financial entities increased slightly.

In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more, at T.N.A. (weighted average rate by amount) in pesos between 30 and 35 days maturity – averaged 15.1%, increasing 0.3 p.p. during the month (see Graph 5.7). This monthly increase was associated mainly with the interest rates paid to companies, since those paid to the public sector remained virtually unchanged, while those aimed at families and financial services companies increased more slightly (see Graph 5.8). Nevertheless, this increase did not compensate for the decrease recorded in the first two months, so that the BADLAR was placed 0.3 p.p. below the level observed in December 2012.

With regard to the BADLAR futures market, contracts were traded almost exclusively with maturity at the end of April, with an average rate of 15.2%. In turn, the amount traded was approximately half of that negotiated in March.

**Graph 5.6 Interfinancial Market at 1 Business Day**
(thousands of millions) (%)

**Graph 5.7 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days**
(%) T.N.A. (daily data N private banks)

For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) registered a monthly increase of 0.1 p.p., averaging 13.2%. In this [way...]
0.5 0.3
in this way, the retail interest rate reversed the declines
0.1 0.0
observed in the first two months and is at the
20 0.0
level of last December.
-0.5 -0.3 Avg. Apr-13
15.1
16 -1.0

BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
Active Interest Rates1 12
12 Avg. Apr-13

13.2
8 In general, and with few exceptions, during the month

Jun-08 Feb-09 Oct-09 Jun-10 Feb-11 Oct-11 Jun-12 Feb-13 of April the interest rates applied to loans
Source: BCRA in pesos to the private sector continued with the
downward trend initiated in February.

The interest rates on commercial lines showed
heterogeneous behaviors: while those
Chart 5.8
charged for overdrafts recorded an increase during
Participation by depositor Monthly variation by depositor the month, those associated with financings
(April average) 0.5%, TNA (wholesale segment - April) through documents continued to decline. The
Individuals; 6% Fin.Serv.; 9% Public Sector; 23% monthly average of the interest rate on overdrafts
was 21.7%, while that applied to companies
0.4
for more than $10 million and up to 7 days was
0.3 located at 14.9%. In both cases, a monthly
increase of 0.4 percentage points was verified,
0.2 which was concentrated in the first days of
April, in line with the punctual increase in
0.1 interbank market rates. After these increases,
the interest rates on overdrafts began to decline
Companies; 62% gradually throughout the month. For its part,
0.0 the interest rate on discounted documents
Source: BCRA Individuals Public Sector Companies Fin.Serv. BADLAR averaged 18.8%, while that of financings
arranged through promissory notes averaged
12 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation 18.6%, registering in both cases a decline of 0.2
and origination fees nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total percentage points during the month (Chart 5.9).
financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 10 Chart 5.9
Interest Rates on Commercial Activities Loans
(monthly average)
TNA, % Discounted Documents Variations
32 Total Overdrafts p.p
1.0
28 Overdrafts for more than $10 M -
up to 7 days Promissory Notes 0.5
0.5 0.4 0.4
24 Within the longer-term credit lines, all interest
rates showed declines. In particular, among loans
20 0.0
with real collateral, in April an increase was
-0.1
recorded in the participation of loans
-0.2 -0.2
16 -0.2 corresponding to the "Productive Investment
-0.2 Credit Line" and those granted under the PFPB,
-0.5
which are granted at lower rates and longer
12 terms. The interest rate applied to loans with
Monthly Var. Var. Dec-12 pledge collateral averaged 19.2%, decreasing
-1.0
8 Overdrafts Overdrafts DSF DD 0.5 p.p. and reaching its lowest level since August
Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13 (more $10 M- 2011. The monthly average of the rate charged for
7 days) mortgage loans granted to individuals was
Source: BCRA located at 15.1%, 0.8 p.p. below the March
level. In this way, the rates on loans with real
collateral are 0.4 p.p. and 1.1 p.p. below the
December level, respectively. For its part, the
Chart 5.10 interest rate on personal loans averaged 33.3%,
declining 0.9 p.p. during the month, with an
Interest Rates on Loans with Real Collateral and Consumer Loans accumulated decrease in the year of 1 p.p.
(monthly average) (Chart 5.10).
TNA, Pledge Collateral 0.5 p.p. Variations
50% Mortgage Collateral -0.5 -0.4
45 Individuals -0.5
-0.8 -0.9 6. International Reserves and
-1.5 -1.1 -1.0
40 Personal
-2.5 Monthly Var. Var. Dec-12 Foreign Exchange Market13
 35 Mortgage Pawning Personal

 30
 The balance of international reserves totaled at the end of
 25 April US$39,532 million (see Chart 6.1),

 20 decreasing US$914 million compared to March. The

 15 main factor that explained such variation was the debt

 10 payment by the public sector, partially offset by foreign
 currency purchases by the Central Bank in the Único y
 Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11 Nov-11 Jul-12 Mar-13 Libre de Cambios Market (MULC) and by the increase in
 Source: BCRA foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at
 the Central Bank. Additionally, the stock of reserves was
 Chart 6.1 also negatively affected by the decline in the quotation
 of some assets that are part of the same.
 BCRA International Reserves
 thousands of
 millions of US$ (excluding 2009 SDR allocations) In the foreign exchange market, the peso continued
 60
 Apr-13 depreciating against the currencies of our country's main
 50
 millions trading partners. The average quotations for April were
 of u$s (April 2013) 5.16 $/US$ (1.4% higher than in March), 2.58 $/Real
 1.0 (0.5%) and 6.73 $/Euro (2%, see Chart 6.2). In this way,
 0.5
 30 0.0 the peso maintains a stable depreciation rate with respect
 -0.5 to the dollar in what has elapsed so far this year, while
 20 -1.0
 with respect to the Real the depreciation was less than
 -1.5
 10 -2.0 that observed in the previous month. Meanwhile, in
 Intern. Purchase of Public Effective Other relation to the Euro, the appreciation registered the
 Reserves Foreign Currency Sector Minimum
 0 previous month was reversed. The average daily amount
 Sep-08 Feb-09 Jul-09 Dec-09 May-10 Oct-10 Mar-11 Aug-11 Jan-12 Jun-12 Nov-12 Apr-13 negotiated in the futures market (ROFEX) was the
 Source: BCRA maximum of the last eleven months ($1,056 million),
 while the contracts concluded showed a slight decrease in
13 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated. the expectation of depreciation for the coming months.

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 11
 
 Chart 6.2

 Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
 6%
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real Depreciation 7. Main Policy Measures of

 4% Other Central Banks

 2%
 In April, the World Economic Outlook (WEO) of the
 0% International Monetary Fund (IMF) was published, where
 a downward revision of growth projections for the main
 -2% economies is observed. In particular, the largest
 -4% reductions in estimates for 2013 (see Table 7.1) occurred
 Appreciation
 in the case of Italy, Brazil, France, and the United Kingdom
 -6%
 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 because, in general, it is estimated that the meager
 Source: BCRA performance of external demand would not be able to
 compensate for weak domestic demand. Likewise, the
 IMF noted that the global economy would no longer be
 showing a two-speed recovery (emerging countries with
 strong growth and advanced countries with weak
 performance) but rather three. Emerging and developing
 countries would continue showing robust growth; while,
 on the side of advanced economies, growth below
 expectations would be registered in the USA, and a
 contraction in the Eurozone.
It is in this context of worse projections that central
Table 7.1 banks were more cautious and awaiting new economic
 data. In fact, few monetary policy measures were
 Year Projection 2013 Estimation recorded at the international level, where those
 2012
Period of WEO Communiqué Apr-13 Apr-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 adopted by the monetary authorities of Japan and
Brazil stood out.
Global GDP 3.2 4.1 3.6 3.5 3.3
Advanced Economies 1.2 2 1.5 1.4 1.2
United States 2.2 2.4 2.1 2 1.9Among advanced economies, the Federal Reserve of
Euro Zone -0.6 0.9 0.2 -0.2 -0.3
Germany 0.9 1.5 0.9 0.6 0.6the United States (FED) was not scheduled to meet and,
France 0 1 0.4 0.3 -0.1
Italy -2.4 -0.3 -0.7 -1 -1.5therefore, maintained its reference interest rate
Spain -1.4 0.1 -1.3 -1.5 -1.6
Japan 2 1.7 1.2 1.2 1.6objective (the Federal Funds Rate, FFR) in the 0-0.25%
United Kingdom 0.2 2 1.1 1 0.7
Canada 1.8 2.2 2 1.8 1.5range and continued its asset purchase program of
Other Advanced Economies 1.8 3.5 3 2.7 2.5
Emerging and Developing Countries 5.1 6 5.6 5.5 5.3US$85 billion. In its latest press release (March 2013),
China 7.8 8.8 8.2 8.2 8
India 4 7.3 6 5.9 5.7the president of the FED, Ben Bernanke, had again
Brazil 0.9 4.1 4 3.5 3
Green color indicates improvements in projections compared to the previous estimate. Red highlighted that such policies will be maintained as long as:
color indicates a downward correction to the projection.
Source: own elaboration based on IMF data 1. The unemployment rate remains above 6.5% of
the labor force.

2. The inflation projected for the next two years
does not deviate more than half a percentage
point from the long-term inflation target of 2%.

3. Long-term inflation expectations remain
stable.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 12 In this sense, Bernanke had noted that the failure to
meet one or more of these conditions would not
necessarily imply an immediate increase in the FFR,
but rather in that case the FED would evaluate whether
that failure is due to transitory or permanent factors.
Finally, he had also emphasized that for the FED to
begin reducing its asset purchase program, it will first
have to ensure that there is a permanent improvement
in the labor market.

Chart 7.1
Currencies of Japan's Main Trading Partners
(local currency with respect to yen N base index 100 = 31 Dec 12)
 105 April 04
BoJ Meeting
 100

 95For its part, the European Central Bank (ECB)
maintained its monetary policy interest rate unchanged
 90 at 0.75%. Likewise, the president of the ECB, Mario
Draghi, stated that there are still no signs of
 improvement in the macroeconomic indicators of the
 US$ Euro Thailand region, so he affirmed that the Bank is ready to take
 Malaysia Indonesia Vietnam
 85 measures, which was interpreted by the market as
 Philippines India South Korea
indicating that it would lower the monetary policy rate
 Russia New Zealand Australia
 80 in the May or June meeting.14
 31-Dec-12 14-Jan-13 28-Jan-13 11-Feb-13 25-Feb-13 11-Mar-13 25-Mar-13 08-Apr-13 22-Apr-13
 Source: Bloomberg
 In the same sense, the Bank of England (BoE)
maintained its monetary policy interest rate (at 0.5%)
and the amount of its quantitative easing program (at
£375 billion). This decision was made despite the
poor performance of the level of economic activity,
since first quarter GDP grew only 0.3%
(seasonally adjusted compared to the previous quarter).
At the end of the month, the BoE announced changes
to its credit program - Funding for Lending Scheme -
which increases incentives for the banking system to
Chart 7.2 lend to SMEs.
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
% Brazil % As already mentioned, one of the most notable
 18 10
 Reference Interest Rate events of the month was the announcement of the
 16 Inflation Rate (right axis) 8 "program of
14 quantitative and qualitative expansion" by the Bank
 6of Japan (BoJ) – and its consequent impact on the exchange
 12 rate of the main advanced economies and Southeast
 4Asia.
 10

 8 2At the beginning of April, the BoJ announced an aggressive
 expansionary measure, accompanied by a reform in the
 6 0implementation of its monetary policy. With the
 Ene-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Abr-08 Ene-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Abr-11 Ene-12 Oct-12
 objective of reaching 2% inflation "as soon as
 possible, although with a two-year horizon", the BoJ
 stopped using the interbank market rate for one
 business day as its main operating instrument and moved
 to having a monetary base target. The Bank
 will conduct open market operations with the
 intention of increasing the base by the equivalent of
 US$70,000 million per month and, therefore, doubling it in
 the next two years. In this process it will seek

14 The rate was reduced by 0.25 p.p. in its meeting corresponding to May 2.

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 13 to increase the maturity and amount of Japanese Treasury
 bonds that it plans to purchase per month.

 As a consequence of this new program, which
 would lead to a marked and widespread depreciation of
 the yen (see Chart 7.1), in the press releases of
 the central banks of several Southeast Asian countries
 emphasis was placed on the problem of the
 Chart 8.1 World Stock Indices appreciation of their currencies. Many of the
 (in dollars; Base Index 01/02/12=100)
 140 exports from these countries compete directly with
 130 Japanese exports, fundamentally in the
 120 electronic and automotive industries. Therefore, the
 110 monetary authorities began to consider the
 100 implementation of new measures aimed at
 MSCIN World offsetting the appreciation of their currencies.
 MSCIN Europe
 90
 MSCIN Latam
 S&P 500 For its part, among Latin American countries,
 80 MSCIN Emerging
 the increase in the Selic rate by the Central
 70 Bank of Brazil (BCB) stood out. The increase in inflation
 Abr-12 Jun-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13 in recent months and its proximity to the upper limit of
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data the target range (see Chart 7.2) drove the BCB's
 decision to increase by 0.25 p.p. to 7.5% the Selic rate
 target for the first time since July 2011.
 Likewise, as evidenced by the COPOM statement and
 recent statements by the BCB president, the Bank left
 open the possibility of a new increase in its reference
 interest rate in its upcoming meetings.

 Chart 8.2 8. Capital Markets10

 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and
 60 Eurozone
 (VIX and VStoxx Index) Stocks15

 50

 40 International financial markets again
 registered positive results driven mainly by the earnings
 30 season in the United States which showed better results than
 expected, progress in the formation of a new
 20 government in Italy and the continuity of monetary stimulus
 by the main central banks.
 10 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx Index 50 (Eurozone) Thus, the global MSCI registered an advance of 2.9%. The S&P
 0 500, the main index of the United States market
 Abr-09 Oct-09 Abr-10 Oct-10 Abr-11 Oct-11 Abr-12 Oct-12 Abr-13
 gained 1.8% and the European market, measured through the
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data MSCI index, verified a gain of 5% (see Chart 8.1). In
 this context, volatility levels remained
 low, although with slight increases compared to the
 previous month. The expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured
 through the VIX index, rose 0.8 p.p., while the
 index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 (Reference
 index of the eurozone stock exchange) grew 1 p.p.
 reaching a monthly average of 20.5% (see Chart
 8.2).

15 Unless otherwise specified, the variation of the indices is expressed in United States dollars.
# Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 14

**Chart 8.3 Assets of emerging economies, measured through
Evolution of the Local Stock Market the MSCI index, retreated 0.4% in the month. In this
Index context, the MSCI Latin America index registered a
% (in pesos)
60 4,000 loss of 1.1% driven by the performance recorded
50 Historical volatility 22 trading sessions in the IPC (Mexico), which fell 2.5%. Meanwhile, the
MERVAL (right axis) 3,500 Bovespa (Brazil), the benchmark index for the region,
40 remained virtually unchanged.
3,000
30 Unlike the general trend recorded in the
2,500 region, the Merval measured in dollars closed with a
20 new advance, this time of 9.3%, and accumulates in
10 2,000 what has gone by of the year a gain of 27.6% (see
Chart 8.3). The securities with the best monthly
0 1,500 performance belong to the metallurgy and banking
Apr-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 sectors. In April, the behavior of prices was
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data accompanied by a volume of operations that averaged
$95 million daily, 26% higher than that recorded the
previous month.

# Public Securities

**Chart 8.4 In April the quotations of emerging sovereign secu-
Indicators of Sovereign Risk rities remained relatively stable. Thus, in a
Spread in b.p Spread in b.p.rities context where the return on United States Treasury
500 1,400 bonds at 10 years was reduced 17 b.p.,
1,300 positioning itself at the end of the month at 1.67%,
450 1,200 the differential in returns of emerging sovereign
1,100 securities over United States Treasury bonds
400 1,000 decreased, according to the EMBI+, 20 b.p. placing
900 itself at 277 b.p..
350 800
700 In Argentina, the quotations of sovereign securities
300 EMBI+ recovered. Thus, the risk differential over
EMBI+ Latin America 600 treasuries was reduced 97 b.p. positioning itself at
250 500 the end of April at 1,210 b.p. (see Chart 8.4).
EMBI+ Argentina (right axis)
200 400
Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

# Private Securities

In April, corporate financing through the placement
of Negotiable Bonds (ON) verified its second highest
**Chart 8.5 record. Placements were observed for a nominal
Corporate Bond Issuance amount of $4,443 million, 68% above what was
billions of $ awarded the previous month and more than 6 times
6 higher than the level recorded in the same period of
Others the previous year. Of the amount issued in April, 82%
5 Agricultural Sector was denominated in pesos (16 issuances), while the
Retail Commerce remaining 18% (2 issuances) were issued in dollars
Real Estate Activities and Construction but with payments in pesos, indexed to the exchange
4 Financial Sector rate.
Energy
3 The amount placed in April was influenced again
by YPF issuances. The oil company, which continues
2 expanding its financing in the local market, made
1 three placements for a total of $3,026 million,
0 representing 68% of the total. The security at 7
Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 years, denominated in pesos, for $2,250 million will
Source: BCRA based on IAMC, CNV and BCBA pay an interest rate corresponding to the BADLAR
private banks plus a margin that was situated at 2.3
**Chart 8.6 p.p.. Likewise, it made two placements in dollars
Cut-off Rate of Negotiable Bonds in Pesos (payable in pesos) for US$150 million at 2 and 4
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) years. For its part, when observing other relevant
30 issuances of the month, the financial sector stands
Cut-off rate of variable rate securities* out, which issued $1,368 million,
25 Cut-off rate of fixed rate securities**
BADLAR of private banks

# Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 15
20 31% of total placements, explained in almost equal parts
 by private banks and non-banking financial entities
 15
 (see Chart 8.5).

 10
 With respect to financing costs, a slight reduction was
 5
 observed in the variable rate peso segment, where the cut-
 off rate (of securities with a rating superior to Arg BBB+
 0
 and maturity less than 5 years) decreased 0.6 p.p. and
 Ene-09 Jul-09 Ene-10 Jul-10 Ene-11 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 Ene-13
 stood at 17.9%, a variation explained to a greater extent
 (*) With a rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With a rating superior to Arg BBB+.
 Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC by the placement of YPF. In the fixed rate peso segment
 (rating superior to Arg BBB+), the interest rate remained
 unchanged at 19% (see Chart 8.6).

 Chart 8.7 Mutual Investment Funds

 Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of thousands of
 billions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
 7.0 60 In April, agents continued to allocate part of their liquid
 6.0 Fixed Income
 Money Market 50 surpluses to the subscription of shares in Mutual Invest-
 5.0
 Mixed Income ment Funds (FCI). The equity of FCI (in national and
 4.0 Variable Income 40
 Stock Evolution (right foreign currency) registered a monthly growth of 3.2%
 3.0 axis) ($1,840 million) and stood at $56,310 million.
 30
 2.0

 1.0 20 As in March, the month's growth was driven by the FCI
 0.0 segment in pesos, where the performance recorded by
 10
 -1.0 fixed income funds stood out, which, after growing $1,220
 -2.0 0 million (4.9%), contributed 66% of monthly expansion
 Abr-11 Ago-11 Dic-11 Abr-12 Ago-12 Dic-12 Abr-13
 Source: CAFCI and BCRA (see Chart 8.7). In the same direction, funds that invest in
 mixed income assets contributed 31% of the segment's
 expansion after recording monthly increases of $730 mil-
 lion (9.3%). Finally, variable income funds were driven
 once again by the good performance of the stock market
 and grew $120 million (8.3%). Meanwhile, driven by the
 Chart 8.8 redemption of shares in the last week of the month, Money
 Evolution of Equity of SME Funds in Pesos
 in millions $ Market funds fell $300 million (1.5%).
 1,900 Distribution of SME Fund Investments
 (in percentage) In recent months, within fixed income and mixed income
 11
 1,700 CPD funds in pesos, the increase registered in funds that invest
 ON
 13 Shares a significant percentage of their portfolio in SME instru-
 1,500 FCI
 FF 6 Others ments stood out, mainly post-dated checks (CPD), financial
 2 59
 1,300 trusts (FF) and negotiable obligations (ON), which currently
 1,100 exceed variable income funds after registering in April an
 equity of $1,700 million (see Chart 8.8).
 900

 700

 500

 300

 100
 Abr-11 Jun-11 Ago-11 Oct-11 Dic-11 Feb-12 Abr-12 Jun-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI and CNV

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 16 Regarding profitability, variable income funds once
 Chart 8.9 again had the best relative performance and earned 11.5%,
 Financial Trust Emissions while mixed income and fixed income funds recorded
 millions $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
 2,100 monthly returns of 3.9% and 2.5%, respectively.
 1,800 2012 Average
 $1,200M
 2011 Average For its part, FCI in foreign currency continued to record
 2008 Average $1,050M
 $820M 2010 Average equity around US$500 million.
 1,200 2007 Average 2009 Average $700M
 $730M $550M
 900

 600 Financial Trusts16
300
 The issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled
 0 approximately $1,600 million in April, showing an
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13
 Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others increase of 60% compared to March. Said amount was
 achieved through a total of 16 operations, 4 more than
 the previous month. Thus, the amount issued in the month was the
 highest of the year (see Chart 8.9). On the other hand, when
 considering the 12-month moving average of the amount
 issued of FF that are not linked to the financing
 of infrastructure works, a growing trend has been verified since 2010
 Chart 8.10 after the decline observed at
 millions of $ Financial Trusts Issuances the end of 2008, reflecting the strengthening of the use
 (12-month moving average; excludes infrastructure FF) Apr-13
 1,400 1,315 of FF as a source of funding (see Chart
 1,200 8.10).

 1,000 Nov-08
 839 Regarding the settlors, retail trade
 800 showed a recovery in the volume of securitized assets,
 600 after issuing in March a relatively
 Jan-10 low amount. In effect, in April they placed approximately
 400 534 $615 million, almost three times the amount issued the previous
 200 month, thus concentrating approximately 40% of the total. In
 0 order of importance, they were followed by financial
 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 entities with an amount close to $500 million, 30% more
 Source: own elaboration based on data from CNV and others than the previous month. Mutual associations, cooperatives, non-
 banking issuers of credit cards and other providers
 of financial services also registered an increase
 in their securitizations, although of lesser magnitude,
 Chart 8.11 by placing $440 million in the month, 14% more than in
 Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos March. The remainder corresponded to a company from the agricultural
 TNA; % (duration less than 14 months average weighted by amount) sector and a group of companies providing non-financial
 40 BADLAR Spread Variable rate services, which securitized credits
 35 BADLAR commercial private bank credits. Except for these 2 issuances, the remaining
 30 Variable rate FF were backed by assets linked to
 Fixed rate consumption.
 25
 20 The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in
 15 pesos with duration of less than 14 months remained relatively
 10 stable. In effect, the weighted average rate
 5 by amount of titles with variable yield,
 0 the modality through which the vast majority of operations
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 are carried out, remained at 15.7%. Meanwhile, the
 Source: Own elaboration based on data from CNV and others corresponding rate for titles set at a fixed rate registered an
 increase of 0.3 p.p. and reached 16.4% (see Chart
 8.11).

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 17

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 18

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Apr-13 Monthly Last 12 Mar-13 Dec-12 Apr-12
 months

Monetary Base 297,658 297,163 292,138 220,604 0.2% 34.9%
 Monetary Circulation 228,055 228,885 224,211 170,731 -0.4% 33.6%
 Bills and Coins in possession of the public 205,374 205,325 199,335 150,415 0.0% 36.5%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 22,679 23,557 24,872 20,313 -3.7% 11.6%
 Cancellation Checks 2 3 4 0 -35.9% —
 Current Account at the BCRA 69,603 68,277 67,927 49,873 1.9% 39.6%

Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 13,626 12,294 17,432 24,335 10.8% -44.0%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value) 102,078 108,316 88,681 82,022 -5.8% 24.5%
 In banks 92,996 94,374 77,641 72,614 -1.5% 28.1%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 91,837 96,640 74,569 51,131 -5.0% 79.6%
NOBAC 10.241 11.676 14.112 30.891 N12,3% N66,8%

International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 40.075 41.153 44.134 47.462 -2,6% -15,6%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 561.267 552.736 525.028 422.961 1,5% 32,7%
 Current account (2) 151.353 146.546 150.959 114.461 3,3% 32,2%

 Savings account 110.180 110.286 104.730 79.027 N0,1% 39,4%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 277.761 275.234 248.802 212.391 0,9% 30,8%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 7 7 7 9 N2,3% N22,2%
 Other deposits (3) 21.966 20.663 20.530 17.072 6,3% 28,7%

 Deposits of the private sector 401.574 394.689 372.490 294.579 1,7% 36,3%

 Deposits of the public sector 159.692 158.047 152.538 128.382 1,0% 24,4%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.382 8.553 9.393 13.115 -2,0% -36,1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 403.525 395.222 373.913 287.536 2,1% 40,3%

 Loans to the private sector 366.754 360.137 339.103 258.179 1,8% 42,1%
 Advances 52.007 50.987 47.326 35.271 2,0% 47,4%
 Documents 81.901 80.551 76.170 50.311 1,7% 62,8%
 Mortgages 36.958 36.557 34.475 28.934 1,1% 27,7%
 Pledged loans 24.402 23.801 22.135 17.571 2,5% 38,9%
 Personal loans 81.584 79.825 75.069 62.541 2,2% 30,4%
 Credit cards 61.449 61.078 56.352 43.881 0,6% 40,0%
 Other 28.453 27.338 27.576 19.670 4,1% 44,7%

 Loans to the public sector 36.771 35.085 34.810 29.358 4,8% 25,3%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.192 5.194 5.549 9.489 0,0% -45,3%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 356.729 351.873 350.298 264.879 1,4% 34,7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 466.908 462.160 455.028 343.906 1,0% 35,8%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 766.642 758.064 724.367 573.378 1,1% 33,7%
total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 809.835 801.570 770.217 631.049 1,0% 28,3%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public+ cancellation checks in pesos+ private current 309.835 305.993 299.301 232.360 1,3% 33,3%
account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 408.069 404.893 395.489 305.666 0,8% 33,5%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ 606.950 600.017 571.829 444.996 1,2% 36,4%
total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 644.451 637.658 609.684 497.362 1,1% 29,6%

 Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 19 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 495 0,2% -624 -0,2% 5.520 1,9% 77.053 34,9%
 Financial sector N1.267 N0,4% 7.725 2,6% 4.510 1,5% 13.433 6,1%
 Public sector N1.637 N0,6% 1.255 0,4% 10.571 3,6% 51.435 23,3%
 Private external sector 1.063 0,4% 121 0,0% 2.565 0,9% 22.157 10,0%
 BCRA securities 2.683 0,9% N8.872 N3,0% N10.992 N3,8% N7.763 N3,5%
 Other N346 N0,1% N854 N0,3% N1.134 N0,4% N2.207 N1,0%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.078 -2,6% -2.879 -6,7% -4.059 -9,2% -7.387 -15,6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 205 0,5% 20 0,0% 520 1,2% 4.837 10,2%
 Payment to international organizations N80 N0,2% N244 N0,6% N78 N0,2% N79 N0,2%
 Other operations of the public sector N954 N2,3% N1.197 N2,8% N2.877 N6,5% N2.304 N4,9%
 Minimum cash N22 N0,1% N954 N2,2% N1.039 N2,4% N1.072 N2,3%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) N228 N0,6% N505 N1,2% N584 N1,3% N8.768 N18,5%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
 Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.1 12.0 12.1
 Integration 12.3 12.2 12.2
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 60.7 59.6 65.4
 30 to 59 days 24.4 23.0 23.7
 60 to 89 days 9.2 10.2 5.7
 90 to 179 days 4.5 6.0 3.6
 more than 180 days 1.1 1.2 1.6

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.8 19.5 19.5
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 90.3 88.8 87.0
 Position (2) 70.5 69.3 67.6
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)

 Up to 29 days 51.0 51.7 50.1
 30 to 59 days 22.2 23.8 24.5
 60 to 89 days 10.6 9.9 11.9
 90 to 179 days 13.0 11.3 11.1
 180 to 365 days 3.1 3.2 2.2
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement – Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 20 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 11.59 12.02 11.02 10.77 9.43
 Amount traded 1,390 1,511 1,471 1,313 1,181

Fixed-term Deposits
 In pesos
 30 to 44 days 13.97 13.52 13.09 13.69 11.71
 60 days or more 13.14 13.58 13.45 15.43 10.67
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30 to 35 days) 14.50 13.19 12.50 13.43 11.45
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30 to 35 days) 15.08 14.83 14.76 15.37 12.18

 In dollars
 30 to 44 days 0.51 0.55 0.58 0.60 0.39
 60 days or more 0.86 1.03 1.12 1.11 0.84
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30 to 35 days) 0.63 0.68 0.69 0.65 0.53
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30 to 35 days) 0.75 0.93 0.79 0.61 0.74

 Active Interest Rates Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 15.32 14.75 13.86 15.57 11.24
 Amount traded (total maturities) 249 221 237 235 223

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21.70 21.36 21.50 21.79 21.51
 Single signature documents 18.64 18.82 19.37 18.58 18.37
 Mortgage 14.62 16.74 16.20 17.23 13.65
 Pledge 19.24 19.76 20.85 19.60 22.71
 Personal 33.27 33.93 34.48 34.31 35.02
 Credit cards n/d 33.41 33.75 34.90 34.93

 Current account advances – 1 to 7 days – with agreement to companies – more than $10 million 14.93 14.55 14.21 14.44 12.89

 International Interest Rates Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.21 0.24
 6 months 0.44 0.45 0.46 0.51 0.73

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.23 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.28
 10 years 1.72 1.95 1.96 1.70 2.02

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.38 7.25 7.25 7.25 9.40

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 21 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 8.53 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50
Total REPO Round Interest Rates
 1 day 9.72 10.04 9.30 9.36 9.02
 7 days 9.68 9.60 9.56 9.53 9.50

Amount Traded in REPO Round (daily average) 10,364 7,054 12,051 10,111 13,589
LEBAC Interest Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 11.60 n/a
 2 months 13.13 12.96 12.66 11.98 n/a
 3 months 13.33 13.35 12.95 12.93 n/a
 9 months 15.21 15.05 n/a 14.52 12.39
 12 months 15.60 15.47 15.09 14.99 12.83
NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks 2.68 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount Traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 1,356 1,134 1,256 786 806

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 5.16 5.08 5.01 4.88 4.40
 Retail 5.16 5.09 5.01 4.88 4.41

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.28 5.28 5.14 4.98 4.46
 ROFEX 1 month 5.24 5.16 5.08 4.95 4.43
 Amount Traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 1,056 1,054 921 818 1,266

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.58 2.57 2.54 2.35 2.37

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 6.73 6.60 6.69 6.41 5.79

 Capital Market Apr-13 Mar-13 Feb-13 Dec-12 Apr-12

MERVAL
 Index 3,506 3,368 3,256 2,672 2,416
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 95 75 61 54 57

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 149.81 140.21 133.06 120.57 111.36
 DISCOUNT (US$ NY Law) 103.73 99.52 99.69 97.99 89.52
 BODEN 2014 ($) 94.85 96.29 95.53 92.24 93.49
 DISCOUNT ($) 52.28 50.62 50.25 46.02 50.14

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,273 1,350 1,325 1,204 992
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 314 313 296 298 346

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 22

## 10. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in public hands, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STV:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

# Monetary Report | April 2013 | BCRA | 23
