# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Bank Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Main Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Capital Market | Page 13

 Stocks | Page 13

 Public Securities | Page 14

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 15

 Financial Trusts | Page 16

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

10. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was July 12, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 21. Summary¹
• In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) recorded an increase of 2.2% and 31.8% year-over-year, reaching an average monthly balance of $800,400 million. Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to explain most of the growth of the aggregate, although public sector operations and Central Bank foreign currency purchases also contributed to its expansion.

• Meanwhile, the broadest private monetary aggregate (Private M3) showed monthly growth of 3.1%, accumulating an increase of 34.1% over the last twelve months. Among its components, means of payment increased 3.9% with a year-over-year variation of 30.4%, while fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector showed monthly growth of 1.2%, maintaining a high year-over-year variation level (44.5%).

• The broad liquidity ratio of financial entities (measured as the sum of cash, current account at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC with respect to deposits in pesos) decreased 0.7 p.p. to 32.6%.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed an increase of 2.6% in June ($9,790 million) and, in this way, reached a year-over-year variation of 40.9%. When determining the contribution of each of the lines to the month's growth, it is verified that the main contribution came from loans granted through documents (0.8 p.p.), even surpassing the contribution from the same month in previous years. The year-over-year growth rate of documents continued to increase (0.6 p.p. with respect to May) and stood at 67.8%, driven mainly by single-signature documents, many of which were granted under the framework of the second stage of the "Productive Investment Credit Line".

• The Central Bank launched the third stage of the "Productive Investment Credit Line". Loans must be agreed upon during the second half of 2013, and 5% of the balance of deposits from the private sector as of May 2013 will be considered, such that the amount of loans that must be disbursed by participating banks would amount to $20,086 million. As in the two previous stages, at least half of that amount must be granted to Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MiPyMEs). In this stage, the possibility is incorporated that they may (only in the case of MiPyMEs) allocate up to 20% of the total project amount to finance working capital associated with productive investment. Regarding loan conditions, the interest rate will be 15.2% and the minimum term at which they must be granted will remain at 3 years.

• Among passive interest rates, the BADLAR for private banks averaged 16.6%, while in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days reached an average monthly value of 14%.

• With respect to interest rates on loans in pesos to the private sector, the rate corresponding to overdrafts in current account to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity decreased 0.8 p.p. in the month and stood at 16.8%. Meanwhile, the interest rate on financing instruments through single-signature documents averaged 19.1%, with a monthly decrease of 0.2 p.p. On the other hand, the interest rate on loans granted with chattel mortgage guarantee averaged 19%, its lowest level in the last two years, while that of personal loans averaged 33.8%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. in the month.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
# MONETARY AGGREGATES - M3
(variation of monthly averages)

In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos, (M3²) registered an increase of 2.2% and 31.8% year-over-year (see Graph 2.1), reaching an average monthly balance of $800,400 million. Loans in pesos to the private sector continued explaining the largest part of the aggregate's growth, although operations of the public sector and foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank also contributed to its expansion (see Graph 2.2).

For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate (M3 private³) presented a monthly growth of 3.1%, accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 34.1%. Among the components of private M3, the means of payment increased 3.9%, with a year-over-year variation of 30.4%, while fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector presented a monthly growth of 1.2%, maintaining their elevated year-over-year variation (44.5%; see Graph 2.3). Distinguishing by amount bracket, it is verified that the monthly increase was driven, principally, by placements belonging to the segment of less than $1 million (1.8%). Although wholesale deposits also increased during the month of June (0.6%), it was observed –as in other years for the same month– a moderation in the rates of increase. This behavior is explained by the seasonality inherent to the month of June, which represents a period of strong demand for liquidity from companies associated with the payment of the semi-annual complementary salary.

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits remained relatively stable. Reductions were verified in placements belonging to the private sector that were compensated by the increase in public sector placements.

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate (M3*), which comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency (expressed in pesos), presented a growth of 2.2%, accumulating a year-over-year variation of 29%.

## 3. Bank Liquidity¹

The broad liquidity ratio of financial entities (measured as the sum of cash, the current account at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the

---

**Note:** M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA

Graph 2.2: Thousands of millions of $ - Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates (June 2013, on average) - Components: Foreign Currency Purchases, Public Sector*, Loans to Private Sector, Other M2, Other Public Deposits, Other Deposits and Time Deposits - *Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base and public sector loans. M3

**Graph 2.3:** Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector
% (variations of monthly averages)
June - Average Monthly Var. % - More than $1 million / Less than $1 million
Years: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
Monthly variation / Year-over-year variation (right axis)

²Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
³Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 4

**Graph 3.1:** % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos* (monthly average) - Total Entities, Private Banks, Public Banks - deposits
40 LEBAC and NOBAC holdings with respect to deposits
 37.3
 35
 Total Liquidity Entities 32.6 in pesos) decreased in June (0.7 p.p.) to 32.6% (see Graph
 30 (June 2013) 28.6
 3.1). The decline was explained mainly by repos with the
 25 14.9
 Central Bank and, to a lesser extent, by LEBAC and
 20 1.3
 NOBAC holdings. Meanwhile, cash in banks as a per-
 15
 4.0 centage of deposits increased, while the balance of the
 10
 12.4 current account of financial entities at the Central Bank
 5 Cash CCBCRA Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs
 0 allowed compliance with the reserve requirement for the

 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 month with an excess equivalent to approximately 0.3%
 of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2).

 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and LEBAC and NOBAC holdings at current value.
 Source: BCRA

 In the foreign currency segment, liquidity remained at
 Graph 3.2 elevated levels. In June it stood at 103.9% of deposits

 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos in dollars.
 deposits Quarterly Position Excess

 2.6 Accumulated Position

 Daily Position
 2.0 4. Loans 1 4 5

 1.4

 0.8

 0.2 0.3 Loans in pesos to the private sector showed an increase
 of 2.6% in June ($9,790 million, see Graph 4.1), with
 -0.4
 a year-over-year variation of 40.9%. When determining
 -1.0
 the contribution of each of the lines to the month's
 -1.6 Implementation of the
 new reserve scheme growth, it is verified that the main contribution was

 -2.2 made by loans granted through documents (0.8 p.p.),
 even surpassing the contribution from the same month
 -2.8 in previous years. On the contrary, the contribution of
 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 current account advances was negative, explaining largely
 the lower growth of this type of loans compared to other
 Graph 4.1 years (see Graph 4.2).

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % % Within the lines intended to finance commercial activ-
 6.0 60
 Monthly variation ities, financings arranged through documents continued

 5.0 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50 to accelerate their monthly expansion rate, registering an
 increase of 3.8% in June ($3,170 million), the largest
 4.0
 40 in recent years for this period. Thus, the year-over-year
 growth rate continued to increase (0.6 p.p. compared to
 3.0
 30 May) and stood at 67.8% (see Graph 4.3). The growth
 2.0 of these financings was driven, mainly, by single-
 20 signature documents, many of which were granted
 1.0
 within the framework of the second stage of the "Pro-
 0.0 10 ductive Investment Credit Line (LCIP)". In effect, when
 analyzing new operations within this
 -1.0 0
 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13

 Source: BCRA

4 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio of entities
to financial trusts.

5 In this report "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. Instead, the
variation in balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.
Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 line, a considerable increase of those
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector agreed at a fixed interest rate of 15.25%, level that
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of June)
5 Real Guarantee coincides with that established within the requirements
of the LCIP in communication "A" 5380 (see Chart
4 0.6 0.3 Credit 4.4).
Cards
3 0.6 0.7
0.6 0.2 Personal
0.6 1.0 0.70.5 It is worth noting that, continuing with its policy of pro-
0.6
2 0.4 0.5 0.4 moting productive credit, in the second half
0.6 0.3 Other financ. of 2013 the Central Bank renewed the LCIP, giving
1.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.6 commercial start to the third stage of the program. On this opportu-
nity, 5% of the balance of deposits from the private
1 0.2 0.3
0.1 0.8 0.2 0.4 1.1 sector in May 2013 will be considered as the basis, so
0.5 0.6 0.7 1.00.8 Documents
0 0.3 0.0 -0.1 that the amount of loans that must be disbursed
-0.3 -0.1
-0.5 by participating banks would amount to $20,086
-1 Advances million6. As in the two previous stages, at
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 least half of that amount must be granted to Micro,
Source: BCRA small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), although
this time the possibility is incorporated that they can (only
in the case of MSMEs) allocate up to 20% of the total
amount of the project to finance working capital asso-
ciated with productive investment. As for the conditions
Chart 4.3 of the loans, the interest rate will be 15.2% and
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
12 (average monthly var.) 70 the minimum term for which they must be granted will
remain at 3 years (See Communication "A" 5449).
10 Average monthly var. 60 During the month of June, advances recorded a
Var. y.o.y. (right axis) 50 decrease in the average monthly balance of 0.8% ($430
8
million). Part of this decrease is explained by the
40
6 significant negative "statistical carryover" left by May.
30 Indeed, when considering the variation between the
4 3.4 3.8
end of June and the end of May, an increase of 3.2%
2.8 20
2.1 is observed ($1,580 million). In any case, the daily
2 1.2
0.6 10 evolution of the balance shows that the trajectory of
0 0 advances has been at relatively low levels since the end
-2 -10 of May, after showing one of the highest in the first
-2.4 months of the year (see Chart 4.5). As a conse-
-4 -20
Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 quence, the year-over-year rate of change for this type of
Source: BCRA financing was 30.2%. In the case of the remaining
commercial financings, grouped under the heading
Chart 4.4 "Other loans", in the month they recorded an increase
Documents at Sight in Pesos to the Private Sector of 4.3% ($1,290 million).
thousands of (amounts granted by range of TNA $ fixed or renegotiable interest rate)
millions of $
The lines aimed at financing mainly family consump-
9 tion moderated their monthly growth rate. Personal
8 loans recorded an increase of 2.5% ($2,135 million) in
7 June. Nevertheless, they maintained their year-over-
15.51 and higher
6 15.25 to 15.5 year rate of change at around 31%. A similar growth
5 15.25 was presented by credit card financing, growing 2.6%
15.01 to 15.25 ($1,630
4 15.01
14.5 and 15.01
3 14 to 14.5
2 Less than 14
1
0
Jun-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13
Source: SISCEN

6 Loans must be agreed in their entirety until December 31, 2013 and may be disbursed
in a single installment until that date or in installments, if the characteristics of the project justify
it, until June 30, 2014.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 6 million) in June, while its year-over-year rate of change
Chart 4.5 was 40.4%.
thousands of Advances
millions of $(daily balance $ base index avg. 7 days as of Dec 31, 12)
67 Loans with real guarantee showed greater dyna-
 2013
64 2012 mism than in previous months. Mortgages grew
 2011 2.4% ($890 million), the largest increase over
61 2010
58 2009 the past five months, increasing the year-on-year
 2008
55 growth rate to 28.8%, 1.3 percentage points higher than

52 that observed in May. For its part, loans with pledge

49 guarantee grew during the month of June 4.4%

46 ($1,100 million), an increase similar to that recorded in

43 December of last year and markedly above that

40 observed in the first five months of this year (see

 31 Dec 31 Jan 28 Feb 31 Mar 30 Apr 31 May 30 Jun Chart 4.6). Additionally, they continued increasing their
 year-on-year rate of change, reaching 45.5% in June,
 3.1 percentage points above that recorded in May.

 The renewed dynamism shown in June by mortgage
 and pledge loans was motivated, in large measure, by
 higher placements within the framework of the LCIP.
 The positive impact of this line on the performance of
 pledge loans is evident when comparing new loans by
 Chart 4.6 type of recipient. Indeed, in addition to the boost
 % Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % from automobile sales to individuals, there is an
 7 (avg. monthly and year-on-year variation) 80 increasing dynamism of loans granted to legal entities,
 6 Monthly variation 70
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) in line with the evolution of sales of larger vehicles
 5 Annual average monthly var. 4.8 60
 (freight transport, passenger transport, vans and
 4 50 utility vehicles).
 40
 3 2.4 2.4 2.5 In June, amounts granted to individuals totaled
 30
 2 $1,090 million, slightly less than the previous month,
 20 while those corresponding to legal entities showed
 1 10
 an increase of $112 million with respect to May,
 0 0 reaching $665 million (see Chart 4.7). On the other
 -0.3
-1 -10 hand, when distinguishing the amounts granted for
-2 -20 pledge loans by amount bracket, throughout the first
 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13
 semester of the year there is a declining proportion
 Source: BCRA
 of amounts comprised in brackets up to $100,000,
 with higher brackets gaining participation, especially
 those of $500,000 and above, which can be assimilated
 to loans to companies intended to finance the purchase
 of machinery and other vehicles for commercial use
 Chart 4.7 (see Chart 4.8).

 Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

 Legal Entities Individuals In the case of mortgage loans, the impact of the
 thousands of thousands thousands of thousands
 millions $ units millions $ Amount units credit promotion policy for the productive sector is
0.7 301.4 Automobile sales (right axis) 70 also evident when discriminating new loans by type of
 Amount
0.6 Utility vehicles, vans, freight, 251.2 60 recipient. In this sense, loans to legal entities
 and passenger sales (right axis)
0.5 1.0 50 significantly increased their participation within loans
 20
 0.8 40 to the private sector, representing in June nearly 78%
0.4 15
 15 of the total, which implies an increase of more than
 0.3 0.6 30
 10 percentage points with respect to May and doubles
0.2 0.4 20
 10 the participation of June 2012 (see Chart 4.9).
0.1 5 0.2
0.0 0 0.0 0 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private
 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 sector, primarily to the exporting sector, decreased
Note: amounts and sales total country. Source: BCRA and AD EFA 3.3% (US$170 million), placing the

 Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 7
 Chart 4.8

 Pledge Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % (participation by amount bracket)
100 Mayor $1M average balance of the month at around US$5,000 mi-
 9.6 9.2 13.3 13.5 16.4 17.2
 90 4.4 7.0 5.6 7.3 7.3 12.6llions.

 80 From $500,000 to
 22.4 20.9 $1M
 70 23.5 23.9 24.9
 60 5. Interest Rates 7
 25.9 From $100,000 to
 50 $500,000
 32.1 30.1 28.2 28.1
 40 28.3 Securities Issued by the Central Bank8
 24.6 From $50,000 to
 30 $100,000

 20 The interest rates of securities issued by the Central
 31.6 32.8 29.3 27.2 23.1 19.7Up to $50,000
 10 Bank remained relatively stable in June.

 0 In the last auction of the month, the interest rates of the
 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13
 Source: BCRA LEBAC placements at predetermined rate, with terms
 of 80 days and 100 days were located at 15.1% and 15.5%
 respectively. The longest-term rate, of the security
 Graph 4.9 with maturity of 450 days, was located at 18.15%.
 Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % (amounts granted by recipient)
 100 In the primary market, only securities at fixed interest
 90 rate were awarded. The LEBACs that generated the most
 80 Legal Persons interest were the issues between 90 and 180 days in duration.

 70 In this way, the average maturity of the placed amount
 60 was situated at 160 days, lower than the average term of
 50 the May portfolio, so in June the average life of the Cen-
 40 tral Bank's Securities in circulation was reduced
 30 Natural Persons to approximately 200 days.

 20

 10 At the end of the month, the total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC
 0 in circulation remained almost unchanged and was located at
 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13
 Source: BCRA VN $107,256 million. The total amount awarded of
 LEBAC (including financial entities and other holders)
 turned out similar to maturities, so circulation re-
 mained stable. Likewise, no maturities or placements of
 NOBAC were registered. In this way, the total stock
 Graph 5.1 continued around 17% of total deposits (see Graph 5.1).
 Balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in Pesos
 thousands of millions (end of month) % of total deposits
 120 35
 NOBAC

 LEBAC 30 In the secondary market, and as a consequence of the
 100
 Stock of LEBAC and NOBAC / Total Deposits (right axis) performance recorded in interbank market rates, the
 25
 80 short-term LEBAC interest rates registered some vola-
 20 tility, although less than that observed in May. However,
 60 at the end of June, interest rates remained at levels
 15
 40 similar to those at the end of the previous month, in line
 10 with the performance recorded in the primary market. The
 20 5 average daily amount traded in June increased $128 mil-
 lion, being located at $1,243 million.
 0 -
 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13
 Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 8 Central Bank Repo Operations1
 Graph 5.2

 thousands of Interbank Market
 millions of $ TNA % The interest rates of Central Bank repos remained
 6 15 unchanged during the month of June. In fact, the passive
 Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA
 Amount traded in Call 14 repo rates for 1 and 7-day terms were located at 9%
 5
 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis)13 and 9.5%, while the active repo interest rates for the
 Interest rate Call at 1 business day (right axis)
 4 12 same terms were located at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

 11
 3 The average balance of passive repos for the Central
 10 Bank, including all types of operations in which this
 2 9 institution participates, decreased 23.7% during the
 month, standing at $11,600 million, a behavior
 8
 1 7
which occurred in a context where no active agreements were arranged for the entity.

**Interbank Markets¹**

In June, the average interest rates in the interfinancial markets showed declines. The average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the unsecured market (call) decreased 0.5 p.p. placing itself at 13.1%. In turn, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) decreased 1.8 p.p. placing itself at 12.4% (see Graph 5.2).

The average daily amount operated increased slightly. As in May, the increase was driven by the call market, where the amount traded grew $288 million placing itself at $1.960 million. Operations between non-banking financial entities as lenders and foreign entities as fund recipients explained most of the increase (see Graph 5.3). Meanwhile, in the REPO round the volume decreased $200 million and placed itself at $2.540 million.

Finally, it was observed that in the call market private national entities and non-banking financial entities increased their position as net lenders, while public entities reduced it. For their part, foreign entities were again the only net recipients of funds (see Graph 5.4).

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

In June, the interest rates paid by private financial entities registered increases, especially those paid for deposits in the wholesale segment. In effect, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate on deposits of $1 million and more, between 30 and 35 days maturity – averaged 16.6%.

For its part, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 14% in June.

**Active Interest Rates¹**

The interest rates applied on loans in pesos to the private sector presented different behaviors in June.

The interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity decreased 0.8 p.p. in the month and placed itself at 16.8%. For its part, the interest rate on total overdrafts in current accounts averaged 22.8%.

Meanwhile, the interest rate on financings implemented through documents signed alone averaged 19.1%, with a monthly decrease of 0.2 p.p. It should be noted that in June there was an increase in the participation of loans corresponding to the LCIP and those granted within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program. These loans,
-2.0 Monthly Var. Dec Var.$12
35 that are granted at lower rates and longer terms,
Mortgage Chattel Personal
30 contributed to the average interest rate of the
documents with sole signature decreasing in the month, and to
25 loans in the longer-term stratum having
20 a greater participation in the total (Graph 5.5).

15

10 Regarding loans with real guarantees, the interest rate
Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11 Nov-11 Jul-12 Mar-13 of those granted with chattel mortgage guarantee contin-
Source: BCRA ued with the downward trend of recent months,
averaging 19%. In this way, with a monthly decrease of 0.2 p.p., the interest rate is at its low-
est level in the last two years. Meanwhile, the average
Graph 5.7 interest rate of mortgage loans to
Passive and active interest rates individuals was located at 15.3%, 0.9 p.p. below

%, p.p. (annual average) the December level. For its part, the interest rate on
45 personal loans averaged 33.8%, decreas-
40 Active rate BADLAR $ private banks Spread (Active rate $ BADLAR) ing 0.5 p.p. both in the month and in what has elapsed in the year
35 (Graph 5.6).

30

25 In the first half of the year the spread between

20 active and passive interest rates was reduced, since while

15 the average active interest rate for the total financing

10 lines in pesos remained with respect to
5 2012, passive interest rates increased (see Graph
0 5.7).
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013

Source: BCRA. 2013 contains data through June.

9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation
and issuance fees or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 10 6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market10

At the end of June the balance of international reserves
Graph 6.1 was located at US$37,005 million (see Graph 6.1). This

International Reserves of the BCRA implied a reduction of US$1,546 million with respect to
billions of May, driven mainly by public sector operations aimed at foreign currency debt payments; for its part, Central Bank opera-
US$ (excluding SDR allocations from 2009)
60 tions in the Unified and Free Exchange Market
(MULC) generated an increase in foreign currency that totaled
Jun$13 US$541 million in the month.

50

40 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the

United States dollar and the euro, while it appreciated
30 with respect to the real. The average June quotations were
5.33 $/US$ (which meant an increase of 1.7%
20 with respect to May), and 7.04 $/euro (3.5%) and 2.46
10 $/real (-4.1%, see Graph 6.2). For its part, the average
daily amount traded in the futures market (RO-
0 FEX) was $700 million, with a decrease of 20%
Nov-08 Apr-09 Sep-09 Feb-10 Jul-10 Dec-10 May-11 Oct-11 Mar-12 Aug-12 Jan-13 Jun-13 in relation to May, linked to the decline in volume of
Source: BCRA contracts executed. In turn, the depreciation expectation for the coming months did not register modifications
during June.

Graph 6.2

Foreign Exchange Market 7. Main Policy Measures of
(average quotations) Other Central Banks

$/Euro $/Real $/US$
7.1 $/Euro 3.7 5.4 Among the measures implemented by other central banks
$/US$ (Reference) in the month, the announcement by the president of the
6.9 $/Real, right axis 3.5 5.2 Federal Reserve (FED) stood out, regarding the possible
6.7 3.3 5.0 decrease in the pace of asset purchases toward the end of
6.5 3.1 4.8 the year, provided that its projections are met regarding
6.3 2.9 4.6 a gradual recovery in the level of activity. From

6.1 2.7 4.4

5.9 2.5 4.2
5.7 2.3 4.0 to occur, the FED would completely stop asset purchases by mid-
5.5 2.1 3.8
Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 2014 and would begin to raise the federal funds target interest rate
Source: BCRA in 2015 (see Table 7.1).

A member of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) stated that the FED should pay more attention to low inflation levels11 (see Chart 7.1). Therefore, he considered it inappropriate to make mention of the exit strategy from unconventional monetary policies. Similarly, the FOMC's decision also received criticism related to the fact that the improvement in the unemployment rate could be due

10 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
11 These are comments made by James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. See for example the interview conducted by the Washington Post on June 21. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/06/21/james-bullard-this-is-why-i-dissented-at-the-fed-meeting-this-week/

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 11 almost exclusively to a lower participation rate12, with an employment rate that is at the lowest values
Table 7.1 since mid-1983 (see Chart 7.2).

FED Projections in %
2013 2014 2015
Real Growth 2.45 (2.55; 2.65) 3.25 (3.15; 3.25) 3.25 (3.30; 3.35)
Unemployment 7.25 (7.40; 7.55) 6.65 (6.85; 7.05) 6 (6.25; 6.3) The FED's announcement had an immediate impact on the

Inflation (PCE) 1 (1.5; 1.65) 1.7 (1.75; 1.75) 1.8 (1.85; 1.85) markets13 where an appreciation of the dollar was registered
In black June 2013 projections, in blue March 2013 projections and in red December 2012 projections. with respect to most assets denominated in other currencies.
Source: BCRA based on the Federal Reserve of the United States In this context, most of the currencies of emerging countries

depreciated and several central banks were active with the
objective of reducing the volatility of their currencies. Among
Chart 7.1 them, the central banks of Turkey, New Zealand, Indonesia,
Israel and Brazil. The latter intervened in the futures market
% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States through swaps and by granting active dollar repos for US$1,700
7 million. Additionally, the Brazilian government made modifi-
6 Personal Consumption Expenditures cations to the foreign exchange transaction tax (known as
Inflation Target *
5 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures IOF)14.
Dallas FED Trimmed Mean
4 CPI On the other hand, during June certain signals of liquidity
CPI Core shortage were recorded in the Chinese interbank market that
3 led the interest rate in that market to reach 9.8% on June 8, the
2 1.72% highest value since
1 1.29%
1.06%
1.02%
0

-1

-2
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 end of 2003, after an average of 2.9% in May (see
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of Graph 7.3). The increase would have been due to both fac-
employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. On this last point, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012
an objective of an annual variation of 2% was set for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.tors seasonal (mainly the expiration of the
corporate income tax at the end of
May) and cyclical factors, among them, a smaller
injection of liquidity from the People's Bank of China
(PBoC, by its English acronym) and lower capital inflows. Fearing that the increase in interbank funding costs would have a contractionary impact on
Graph 7.2 the level of activity, the PBoC provided liquidity through various
mechanisms which led to the interest rate in

Labor Market Indicators that market to be located below 5% at the end of

% Seasonally adjusted % the month.

12 69
Unemployment Rate
11 Finally, on June 6, the Uruguayan Macroeconomic
67
10 Activity Rate or Coordination Committee, made up of the Central
9 Participation Rate (right axis) 65 Bank of Uruguay (BCU) and the Ministry of Economics,

8 Employment Rate (right axis) decided to modify the current monetary policy regime and
63
7 increase restrictions on the entry of speculative capi-

6 61 tal15. These decisions were adopted due to the
5 59 significant flow of capital that Uruguay was receiving,
4 especially after obtaining the investment grade
57
3 in April 2012, which was generating inflationary pressures

2 55 that could not be moderated by increases in the

Feb-48 Dec-53 Oct-59 Aug-65 Jun-71 Apr-77 Feb-83 Dec-88 Oct-94 Aug-00 Jun-06 Apr-12 monetary policy rate since they would strengthen capital
Source: BCRA based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics inflows (see Graph 7.4).

12 A lower participation rate implies lower labor supply from the population. This lower participation rate is linked, at least in part, to the "discouragement effect" (unemployed persons who stop looking for work). A fall in the unemployment rate caused by a lower participation rate should not be interpreted as an improvement in the labor market.

13 However, in the recent publication of the FED's minutes, the emphasis with which the FOMC members consider it necessary to guarantee the necessary conditions before beginning to reduce asset purchase programs is highlighted.

14 The tax on derivatives transactions in foreign currency in the futures market was reduced from 1% to 0%.

15 The Ministry of Economics extended the Immobilized Funds regime to the holding of its locally issued securities by non-resident agents. This measure was already operational for BCU securities.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 12 Graph 7.3 ries that could not be mitigated by increases in

Interbank Market Interest Rate - China the monetary policy rate since they promoted capital

% inflows (see Graph 7.4).

9.5

8.5 In this context, the Committee, while deciding to maintain its
7.5 objective for the inflation rate at 5% annually, increased from
6.5 1% to 2% the tolerance margin and from 18 to 24 months the
5.5 horizon for evaluating its compliance. In this way, as of July 2014, the target range will become 3%-7%. Furthermore, as of July 1, 2013,
4.5
this Committee decided to replace the monetary policy interest rate (it was at 9.25%) as the reference instrument of monetary policy, with an indicative trajectory of the means of payment. The BCU decided to set...
3.5

2.5

1.5

0.5

Jan-08 Aug-08 Mar-09 Oct-09 May-10 Dec-10 Jul-11 Feb-12 Sep-12 Apr-13
Source: Bloomberg
 implement a contractionary policy by establishing a growth
 of M1 Broadened (quarterly average) of 12.5%-13%
 y-o-y for September 2013, seeking that this value
 Chart 7.4 converge gradually to a year-on-year variation of 8%
 for the second quarter of 2015, which is when the

 % Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target for Uruguay new 24-month horizon will be met (with respect to
 11
 June 2013).

 9
 8. Capital Markets

 7
 Equities16

 5
 In June variable income assets moved downward,
 affected by investors' expectations regarding a possible
 3 moderation process in asset purchases by the FED.
 Reference Interest Rate Inflation Rate Within the main stock market venues of advanced
 Inflation Target Limits Inflation Expectations * economies, the S&P 500, the main index of the United
 States market fell 1.5% and the European market,
 1
 Ene-06 Ene-07 Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 measured through the MSCI index, registered declines of
 * Inflation Expectations come from the monthly survey conducted by the BCU and correspond to the median of the inflation projection at 18 months. 5.3% (see Chart 8.1). The behavior in stock quotations
 Source: BCRA based on data from the Central Bank of Uruguay. occurred alongside a substantial increase in volatility
 levels. The expected volatility of the S&P 500, measured
 through the VIX index, rose 3.8 p.p. to 17.1%, while
 the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50
 (Reference index of the eurozone stock exchange)
 grew 4 p.p., positioning itself at 21.7% (see Chart 8.2).

 Chart 8.1
 World Stock Indices
 150 (in dollars; Base index 31/05/12=100)
 Affected by the unwinding of speculative positions, the
 140 MSCI$ World quotation of variable income assets of emerging
 MSCI$ Europe
 130 economies moved downward, accentuating the behavior
 MSCI$ Latam
 120 S&P 500 registered in advanced economy stock markets. Net
 MSCI$ Emerging outflows of capital were observed in international funds
 110
 specializing in equities and fixed income. In this context,
 100
 the MSCI Emerging index widened the losses from the
 90
 previous month and fell 6.8%. Even more pronounced
 80
 was the decline in the MSCI Latin America index, which
 70
 reached 9.1% as a consequence of the performance
 60
 registered in the majority of the main market venues.
 50
 Jun-11 Ago-11 Oct-11 Dic-11 Feb-12 Abr-12 Jun-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13 Jun-13

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Following the region's behavior, the local reference
 index (Merval) measured in dollars closed with a
 monthly loss of 16.3%. Declines were observed in all
 16 Unless otherwise specified, the variation of indices is expressed in United States dollars. sectors. The average daily trading volume in equities
 during June was $44 million, which marked a
 Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 13 monthly decline of 20.7%.

 Chart 8.2
 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and
 60 Eurozone
 (VIX Index and VStoxx)
 55 Public Securities
 50 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 45 The yields of public securities of emerging economies
 40 widened in a context of increased yields in U.S. public
 35 debt of 36 b.p.. The yield differentials of emerging
 30 sovereign titles over treasuries widened, according to
 25 the EMBI+, 47 b.p. positioning itself at the end of June
 20 at 342 b.p.. At the regional level, the EMBI
 15

 10
 Jun-11 Ago-11 Oct-11 Dic-11 Feb-12 Abr-12 Jun-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13 Jun-13

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 Chart 8.3
# TASK COMPLETED

## Translation to English

**Sovereign Risk Indicators** Latin America rose 45 b.p., reaching 426 b.p..
 Spread in b.p Spread in b.p
550 1400
 1300 In Argentina, the yield differential of public
500 1200 securities followed the regional trend and widened by
450 1100 32 b.p., positioning itself at the end of the month at
 1000 1.199 b.p. (see Chart 8.3).
400
 900
350 800 Private Securities

300 700

 EMBI+ 600 In June, issues were recorded in the corporate
250 EMBI+ Latin America 500 debt market for a nominal amount of $2.306
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis)
200 400 billion, 23% higher than verified in the previous month
 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13
 and 3 times greater than that achieved in June 2012.
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg The amount placed was distributed in 10 issuances,
 compared to the 20 recorded in May, of which 6 were
 denominated in pesos and 4 were constituted in dollars
 with payments in pesos adjustable by exchange rate.

 The amount placed was influenced by a YPF issuance,
 which once again made a placement aimed at the
 Chart 8.4 wholesale capital market segment. The oil company
 Corporate Bond Issuance continued expanding its financing in the local market,
 billions of $ in this case for $1.265 billion.

 6 Others
 Agricultural Sector The security was denominated in pesos and has a
 5
 Retail Commerce maturity of 7 years, will pay an interest rate
 Real Estate Activities and Construction corresponding to BADLAR private banks plus a
 4 Financial Sector margin that was situated at 2.25 b.p..

 Energy
 3 Also other companies linked to the energy sector

 2 resorted to the market, for a total of $722 million. The
 remainder of the amount placed was distributed among
 1
 Agricultural Sector companies (9% of the total) and
 0 Other Financial, Stock Market and Insurance Activities
 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13
 (5% of the total). It is worth noting that, unlike the
Source: BCRA based on IAMC, CNV and BCBA behavior observed in previous months, in June no
 Chart 8.5 placements by Financial Entities were recorded (see
 Cut Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos Chart 8.4).
 TNA % (weighted average rate by amount)
 30

 25 Cut rate of variable rate securities * With respect to financing costs, in line with the
 Cut rate of fixed rate securities ** performance recorded in the rest of the money
 BADLAR of private banks 20 market rates, in variable rate issuances, the cut rate
 (of securities with rating superior to Arg BBB+ and
 15
 maturity less than 5 years) increased 1.4 b.p. and was
 10 positioned at 20.8%. Likewise, the interest rate of fixed
 rate placements in pesos (rating superior to Arg BBB+)
 5
 was positioned at 20.5% (see Chart 8.5).

 0
 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13Finally, with data from May 2013, according to
 (*) With rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating superior to Arg BBB+.
 Source: BCRA based on CNV, IAMC and BCBA. information from the National Securities Commission
 (CNV), the stock of Negotiable Obligations was
 positioned at $68.925 billion, registering an increase of
 64% compared to the same period of the previous year.
 With most liabilities from the energy and financial
 sectors.

 Chart 8.6
 Total Equity of Investment Funds thousands of

 % millions of $Investment Funds

 15 70
 Monthly Variation
 Balance (right axis) 60 In June, the equity of Investment Funds (FCI) in
 10
 50 national and foreign currency verified a monthly
 decline of $1.180 billion (4.3%) and at the end of the
 5 40 month it was positioned at $57.300 billion. This
 0 30 behavior would have a certain seasonal character as a
 consequence of the use of resources by the
$5 companies to face the payment of the half annual complementary salary.

10

$100

May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13

The decline in equity was driven by FCIs in pesos and, mainly, by funds aimed at managing short-term liquidity. Indeed, driven by the redemption of quotas, Money Market funds decreased in the month by $730 million (3.7%, see Chart 8.7). In the same direction, as a consequence of the evolution recorded in the number of quotas in the second half of the month, fixed income funds fell $470 million (1.8%). For its part, like in May, funds that invest in equity assets were affected by the performance recorded in the stock market and lost $200 million (14.8%). While, driven by the increase in the number of quotas and to a lesser extent by profitability, mixed income funds grew $800 million (9.3%).

Chart 8.7
Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
billions of $ (monthly change)
7.0
6.0 Fixed Income
Money Market
5.0 Mixed Income
4.0 Variable Income
Total
3.0

2.0

1.0

0.0

-1.0

-2.0
May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

Regarding the profitability of FCIs in pesos, Money Market funds were those with the best relative performance and gained on average 0.8%. For their part, fixed income funds remained unchanged, mixed income funds lost 1.2% and variable income funds fell 13.4% in the month, pulled by the performance recorded in the local stock market.

Chart 8.8
Financial Trust Fund Issuances
millions of $ (excluding those aimed at financing infrastructure works) units
2,100 45
1,800 Amount Issued 40
Quantity of Operations (right axis)
1,500 35
30
1,200 25
900 20
15
600
10
300 5
0 0
Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

Finally, FCIs in foreign currency were reduced by US$120 million, the largest monthly decline since October 2008, until recording an equity of around US$354 million. Mixed income funds and to a lesser extent fixed income funds contributed almost the entire decline as a consequence of the redemption of quotas and the decrease in prices.

Financial Trust Funds17

In June, the issuances of financial trust funds (FF) totaled around $1,230 million, showing a 30% decline compared to May. Sixteen placements were made, in line with what happened in the first months of the year (see Chart 8.8). In this way, the amount issued in the first semester of 2013 amounted to $8,145 million, with no FF destined for the financing of infrastructure works having been recorded. This amount represents an increase of close to 40% compared to the first semester of 2012, if FF of infrastructure that were placed in that period are excluded (see Chart 8.9).

Chart 8.9
Financial Trust Fund Issuances
millions of $ (accumulated amounts)
9,000 Infrastructure
8,000 Other
7,000
1,249
6,000
5,000
4,000 +40% 8,145
3,000 5,881
2,000
1,000

Regarding the trust grantors, financial entities placed slightly more than $660 million, the largest amount so far this year (30% more than in May). In order of importance, they were followed by mutual societies,
0 cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers, which issued $400 million, almost double the previous month and an amount similar to that of April. The securitized assets between both types of trustees were comprised of consumer credit, in the great majority, and secured credit. For their part, retail merchants, who the previous month had placed a record amount close to $1,000 million, issued only $140 million.

The rest of the placements were carried out by companies linked to the agricultural sector that securitized commercial credit.

The cut-off interest rates (weighted average by amount) of the senior titles in pesos showed heterogeneous behaviors. The one corresponding to titles agreed at variable rate decreased 0.9 percentage points and was located at 16.6%. In this way, it converged to the level of the BADLAR private banks. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment only two placements were recorded, whose cut-off rate averaged 18.4% (see Chart 8.10).

Jan-Jun 2012 Jan-Jun 2013
Source: BCRA based on CNV and others.

**Chart 8.10**

**Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos**
TNA; % (duration less than 14 months$ weighted monthly average by amount)

[Graph showing three lines: BADLAR$ variable rate, BADLAR private banks, and Fixed rate, from Jun-07 to Jun-13]

Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others

17 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 169. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| | Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations |
|---|---|---|
| **Main monetary and financial system variables** | **Jun-13** | **May-13** | **Dec-12** | **Jun-12** | **Monthly** | **Last 12 months** |
| Monetary base | 311,003 | 300,486 | 292,138 | 236,884 | 3.5% | 31.3% |
| Monetary circulation | 238,161 | 229,551 | 224,211 | 182,785 | 3.8% | 30.3% |
| Bills and coins in public hands | 214,528 | 208,389 | 199,335 | 163,263 | 2.9% | 31.4% |
| Bills and coins in financial entities | 23,631 | 21,160 | 24,872 | 19,520 | 11.7% | 21.1% |
| Settlement checks | 2 | 2 | 4 | 0 | 23.5% | $ |
| Current account at the BCRA | 72,842 | 70,935 | 67,927 | 54,098 | 2.7% | 34.6% |

**Stock of Repo Operations**
| Liabilities | 11,604 | 15,206 | 17,432 | 20,320 | -23.7% | -42.9% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | |

| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 107,720 | 107,589 | 88,681 | 87,466 | 0.1% | 23.2% |
| In banks | 94,392 | 95,021 | 77,641 | 77,640 | -0.7% | 21.6% |

| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos) | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 101,240 | 99,592 | 74,569 | 60,578 | 1.7% | 67.1% |

| NOBAC | 6,480 | 7,996 | 14,112 | 26,887 | -19.0% | -75.9% |

| International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 38,234 | 39,015 | 44,134 | 46,604 | -2.0% | -18.0% |

| Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 585,867 | 574,548 | 525,028 | 444,059 | 2.0% | 31.9% |
| Current account (2) | 159,738 | 153,870 | 150,959 | 124,681 | 3.8% | 28.1% |
| Savings account | 117,128 | 109,136 | 104,730 | 85,011 | 7.3% | 37.8% |
| Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER | 286,415 | 289,947 | 248,802 | 216,326 | -1.2% | 32.4% |
| Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER | 7 | 7 | 7 | 9 | -5.7% | -25.6% |
| Other deposits (3) | 22,580 | 21,587 | 20,530 | 18,032 | 4.6% | 25.2% |

| Deposits of the private sector | 420,518 | 407,825 | 372,490 | 310,117 | 3.1% | 35.6% |

| Deposits of the public sector | 165,349 | 166,722 | 152,538 | 133,942 | -0.8% | 23.4% |

| Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) | 8,301 | 8,306 | 9,393 | 10,533 | -0.1% | -21.2% |

| Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 423,747 | 414,068 | 373,913 | 304,129 | 2.3% | 39.3% |

| Loans to the private sector | 386,411 | 376,842 | 339,103 | 274,257 | 2.5% | 40.9% |
| Advances | 51,978 | 52,406 | 47,326 | 39,930 | -0.8% | 30.2% |
| Documents | 87,491 | 84,320 | 76,170 | 52,138 | 3.8% | 67.8% |
| Mortgage loans | 38,473 | 37,579 | 34,475 | 29,861 | 2.4% | 28.8% |
| Secured loans | 26,414 | 25,310 | 22,135 | 18,157 | 4.4% | 45.5% |
| Personal loans | 85,745 | 83,832 | 75,069 | 65,348 | 2.3% | 31.2% |
| Credit cards | 65,028 | 63,400 | 56,352 | 46,310 | 2.6% | 40.4% |
| Others | 31,281 | 29,994 | 27,576 | 22,513 | 4.3% | 38.9% |

| Loans to the public sector | 37,336 | 37,226 | 34,810 | 29,872 | 0.3% | 25.0% |
Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 4.985 5.157 5.549 8.512 -3,3% -41,4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account) 374.267 362.261 350.298 287.947 3,3% 30,0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 491.396 471.397 455.028 372.957 4,2% 31,8%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 800.397 782.938 724.367 607.324 2,2% 31,8%
total deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 844.643 826.423 770.217 654.685 2,2% 29,0%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 323.097 314.062 299.301 250.546 2,9% 29,0%
account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 428.606 412.546 395.489 328.760 3,9% 30,4%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 635.048 616.216 571.829 473.383 3,1% 34,2%
total private deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 672.434 653.807 609.684 516.430 2,8% 30,2%

 Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 10.517 3,5% 13.840 4,7% 18.865 6,5% 74.119 31,3%
 Financial sector 3.788 1,3% 1.107 0,4% 6.884 2,4% 10.914 4,6%
 Public sector 2.974 1,0% 3.219 1,1% 15.428 5,3% 53.328 22,5%
 Private external sector 2.874 1,0% 6.256 2,1% 7.759 2,7% 16.459 6,9%
 BCRA Securities 998 0,3% 4.069 1,4% $9.606 $3,3% $3.769 $1,6%
 Others $117 0,0% $812 $0,3% $1.599 $0,5% $2.813 $1,2%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -781 -2,0% -2.919 -7,1% -5.900 -13,4% -8.370 -18,0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 544 1,4% 1.196 2,9% 1.510 3,4% 3.373 7,2%
 Payment to international organizations 300 0,8% 165 0,4% 167 0,4% 259 0,6%
 Other public sector operations $1.347 $3,5% $3.596 $8,7% $5.519 $12,5% $5.517 $11,8%
 Minimum cash $136 $0,3% $61 $0,1% $1.078 $2,4% 584 1,3%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) $142 $0,4% $624 $1,5% $980 $2,2% $7.069 $15,2%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, unadjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-13 May-13 Apr-13
 (1)

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12,1 12,1 12,1
 Integration 12,4 12,3 12,3
 Position (2) 0,3 0,2 0,2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 61,3 60,9 60,7
 30 to 59 days 25,2 25,3 24,3
 60 to 89 days 8,4 8,3 9,3
 90 to 179 days 4,0 4,4 4,5
 more than 180 days 1,1 1,1 1,1

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19,3 19,3 19,4
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 95,1 94,4 91,5
 Position (2) 75,8 75,2 72,1

 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49,9 48,4 51,0
 30 to 59 days 23,4 22,5 22,2
 60 to 89 days 10,2 11,5 10,6
 90 to 179 days 14,0 14,8 13,0
 180 to 365 days 2,4 2,6 3,1
 more than 365 days 0,1 0,1 0,1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement $ Integration

(3) Excludes judicially fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 18

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** | | | | | |
| Rate | 13.23 | 13.72 | 11.59 | 10.77 | 9.54 |
| Amount operated | 1,960 | 1,671 | 1,390 | 1,313 | 1,482 |
| **Fixed Term Deposits** | | | | | |
| **In pesos** | | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 15.08 | 14.61 | 13.97 | 13.69 | 11.46 |
| 60 days or more | 13.47 | 13.12 | 13.13 | 15.43 | 11.84 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 15.22 | 14.88 | 14.50 | 13.43 | 11.27 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 16.58 | 15.73 | 15.08 | 15.37 | 12.15 |
| **In dollars** | | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 0.50 | 0.51 | 0.51 | 0.60 | 0.45 |
| 60 days or more | 0.98 | 1.00 | 0.87 | 1.11 | 0.99 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.62 | 0.60 | 0.63 | 0.65 | 0.62 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.70 | 0.80 | 0.75 | 0.61 | 0.78 |

## Active Interest Rates
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** | | | | | |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 18.28 | 17.19 | 15.32 | 15.57 | 11.68 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 247 | 272 | 249 | 235 | 212 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** | | | | | |
| Overdrafts on current account | 22.82 | 22.56 | 21.69 | 21.79 | 20.34 |
| Unsecured notes | 19.08 | 19.26 | 18.64 | 18.58 | 17.25 |
| Mortgage | 14.63 | 16.12 | 14.62 | 17.23 | 15.41 |
| Pledge | 18.99 | 19.15 | 19.24 | 19.60 | 22.01 |
| Personal | 33.79 | 34.26 | 33.28 | 34.31 | 33.54 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 32.47 | 33.10 | 34.69 | 33.23 |
| Overdrafts on current account 1 to 7 days with agreement to companies more than $10 million | 16.82 | 17.57 | 14.94 | 14.44 | 12.39 |

## International Interest Rates
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** | | | | | |
| 1 month | 0.19 | 0.20 | 0.20 | 0.21 | 0.24 |
| 6 months | 0.41 | 0.42 | 0.44 | 0.51 | 0.74 |
| **US Treasury Bond** | | | | | |
| 2 years | 0.32 | 0.24 | 0.23 | 0.25 | 0.28 |
| 10 years | 2.27 | 1.93 | 1.72 | 1.70 | 1.61 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 8.00 | 7.57 | 7.38 | 7.25 | 8.50 |

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

---

# Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 19

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA repurchase rates** | | | | | |
| Passive 1 day | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 |
| Passive 7 days | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 |
| Active 7 days | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 |
| **Total REPO round repurchase rates** | | | | | |
| 1 day | 10.17 | 10.64 | 9.72 | 9.36 | 9.10 |
| 7 days | 9.57 | 9.63 | 9.68 | 9.53 | 9.50 |
| Amount operated in REPO round (daily average) | 8,139 | 10,820 | 10,364 | 10,111 | 11,106 |
| **LEBAC rates in pesos (1)** | | | | | |
| 1 month | s/o | s/o | s/o | 11.60 | s/o |
| 2 months | 14.73 | 14.73 | 13.13 | 11.98 | 11.10 |
| 3 months | 15.31 | 14.75 | 13.33 | 12.93 | 11.32 |
| 9 months | s/o | 15.97 | 15.21 | 14.52 | 12.60 |
| 12 months | 17.95 | 17.16 | 15.60 | 14.99 | s/o |
| **NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)** | | | | | |
| 9 months BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| 1 year BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | 2.68 | s/o | s/o |
| 2 years BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| 3 years BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) | 1,243 | 1,115 | 1,356 | 786 | 639 |

## Foreign Exchange Market
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Dollar Spot** | | | | | |
| Wholesale | 5.33 | 5.24 | 5.16 | 4.88 | 4.50 |
| Retail | 5.33 | 5.24 | 5.16 | 4.88 | 4.51 |
| **Future Dollar** | | | | | |
| NDF 1 month | 5.46 | 5.38 | 5.28 | 4.98 | 4.70 |
| ROFEX 1 month | 5.41 | 5.32 | 5.24 | 4.95 | 4.55 |
| Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 700 | 915 | 963 | 818 | 938 |
| **Real (Pesos per Real)** | 2.46 | 2.57 | 2.58 | 2.35 | 2.19 |
| **Euro (Pesos per Euro)** | 7.04 | 6.80 | 6.73 | 6.41 | 5.64 |

## Capital Market
| | Jun-13 | May-13 | Apr-13 | Dec-12 | Jun-12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **MERVAL** | | | | | |
| Index | 3,213 | 3,679 | 3,506 | 2,672 | 2,249 |
| Amount operated (millions of pesos) | 46 | 64 | 95 | 54 | 45 |
| **Government Bonds (at par)** | | | | | |
| BODEN 2015 (US$) | 130.67 | 146.58 | 149.81 | 120.57 | 107.05 |
| DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 90.78 | 103.90 | 103.73 | 97.99 | 93.68 |
| BODEN 2014 ($) | 93.27 | 93.45 | 94.85 | 92.24 | 92.51 |
| DISCOUNT ($) | 47.68 | 50.52 | 52.28 | 46.02 | 45.47 |
| **Country Risk (basis points)** | | | | | |
| BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 1,402 | 1,337 | 1,273 | 1,204 | 1,740 |
| EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) | 384 | 318 | 314 | 298 | 413 |

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 20 10. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

IFM: Investment Common Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

STV: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | June 2013 | BCRA | 21
