# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 12

 Stocks | Page 13

 Public Securities | Page 14

 Private Securities | Page 14

 Investment Funds | Page 15

 Financial Trusts | Page 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

9. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was April 10, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos, M3, increased 0.9% in March and its year-on-year growth continued to moderate, reaching 34.4%, 0.6 percentage points below that of February. For its part, private M3 showed a monthly increase of 1%, with increases verified in means of payment and, mainly, in fixed-term placements. On the side of growth factors for private M3, the most important continued to be the increase in peso loans to the private sector.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector registered a monthly growth of 2.9%, one of the largest in recent years for March. By amount bracket, increases were verified both in the segment of $1 million and above (3.2%) and in the bracket of less than $1 million (2.5%). With a year-on-year variation of 45.6%, fixed-term placements continued growing at historically high rates.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector grew 1.7% ($6,120 million). Although increases were observed in all lines, the largest increase was recorded in personal loans. For its part, the year-on-year rate of change of peso loans to the private sector remained around 42%, with the growth of securities standing out with a rate close to 60%.

• In March, broad liquidity (measured from the ratio between the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC, and deposits in pesos) stood at 33.9%, a level similar to that observed in February. A change in its composition was verified, with an increase in current accounts at the Central Bank and the balance of LEBAC and NOBAC, to the detriment of net repos for this Institution. In the month, the schedule for adapting the Minimum Cash regime to the current Organic Charter was completed, estimating a surplus in the integration equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos.

• Passive interest rates remained relatively stable. The BADLAR rate of private banks averaged 14.8% in February and, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 13.1%.

• Interest rates for most lines of loans to the private sector fell again. The reduction in the interest rate of personal loans stood out, which averaged 33.9%, 0.6 percentage points below February. Among commercial lines, the reductions were of lesser magnitude. In particular, in the case of financing implemented through securities, the decrease was favored by the increase in the participation of credit lines for productive investment and those associated with the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates - M3
% (variation of monthly averages) % With a monthly average balance of $758,100 million,
5 50
Monthly variation of M3 the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos - M3 2 - in-
4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40
creased 1% in March (see Graph 2.1). So far this
34.4
3 30 year, its year-on-year growth showed gradual moder-

2.0 ation, reaching in the month a variation of 34.4%
2 1.5 20 which was 0.6 p.p. lower than that observed in February.

0.9 1.0
1 0.6 10
The broadest private monetary aggregate (M3 private3)
0 0
showed a monthly increase of 0.9% and 38% year-on-
-1 -10 year, 1.5 p.p. less than in February. In March, increases

-1.2
-2 -20 were observed in means of payment and, mainly, in

 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 fixed-term placements of the private sector (see Graph
2.2). The factor that drove the growth of M3 private was
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA the increase in the balance of loans in pesos to the pri-
vate sector. Meanwhile, operations of the public sector
and the intervention of the Central Bank in the foreign
Gráfico 2.2 exchange market tended to contract this monetary ag-

thousands of Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates gregate.
millions of $ (March 2013, on average) M3 Private
7

6 Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector

5
registered a monthly growth of 3%, one of the largest
4
for March in recent years (see Graph 2.3). With a year-
3
on-year variation of 45.8%, fixed-term placements
2
continued growing at historically elevated rates. By
1
amount bracket, monthly increases were observed in de-
0
posits both in the segment of $1 million and more (3.4%)
-1
and in the bracket of less than $1 million (2.6%).
-2
Purchases of Public Sector* Loans to S.Other M2 Private Dep. to Term
Foreign Exchange Private and Other Priv. Regarding the foreign currency segment, deposits
*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector. presented a reduction of 0.6%, with slight decreases
Source: BCRA both in placements belonging to the public sector and in
those corresponding to the private sector.

Graph 2.3

Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
% (variations of monthly averages) March - Var. Monthly Average
7 % 56 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*,
% More than $1 million
6 48 6 which comprises currency in circulation held by the
45.85
5 4.3 40 public, cancellatory checks and the total of deposits in
4 3.4
4 32 3 pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), pre-
2.6 2.8 3.0
3 24 2 sented a growth of 0.7% monthly and 29% year-on-
2.0 1
2 16 2007 year.
0 2008
1 0.3 8 % Less than $1 million 2009
0 0 5 2010 3. Bank Liquidity1

4 2011
-1 -8 3 2012

-2 Monthly variation -16 2 2013 In March, broad liquidity (measured from the ratio
-3 Year-on-year variation (right axis) -24 1 between the sum of cash in banks, the current account

Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-130 of entities at the Central Bank, the repurchase agree-
Source: BCRA ments

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in
pesos.
# Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 4

net positions with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and NO-
BAC, on one hand, and peso deposits on the other)

**Graph 3.1** was located at 33.8%, a level similar to that observed in February

**Bank Liquidity in Pesos**
% of deposits (monthly average)

45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity tion, with an increase in current accounts at the

40 37.5 37.3 38.2 38.5 37.2 36.4 35.8 35.5 34.8 Central Bank and the balance of LEBAC and NOBAC, to the

35 34.5 34.1 33.8 34.0 33.8 detriment of net repos for this Institution. Part

30 of this behavior is explained by the start of the new

16.9 17.0 16.7 16.9 16.8 16.2 15.9 15.9 15.6 14.8 13.9 13.9 15.5 computation period of the Minimum Cash regime

25 15.8

after the end of the quarterly period December - February.

20 During the last month of said period, financial entities

6.1 4.3 5.0 5.7 3.9 3.5 3.3 2.9 2.7 2.8 2.7 3.2 2.7 1.5 reduced the balance of their current accounts

15 4.7 4.8 4.1 4.4 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.0 4.2 4.7 4.3 4.3 4.2 as a percentage of deposits because in December

4.9 and January they had accumulated a surplus in the

10 integration of reserve requirements. Then, starting

5 12.3 in March they recomposed their liquidity in current

9.6 11.4 11.7 11.8 12.1 12.4 12.4 12.5 12.4 12.7 12.9 12.4 11.5 accounts at the Central Bank in order to face the

0 new computation period for reserves.

Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13

In this way, during March the integration of the Minimum

**Graph 3.2** Cash regime exceeded the requirement by the

**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos** equivalent of 0.2% of peso deposits (see Graph

% of 3.2), a level similar to that recorded in previous periods,

deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position registering surpluses in both the group of public

2.6 banks and private banks. It is worth noting that in the

2.2 month under analysis the last stage of the adjustment

1.8 schedule of the Minimum Cash regime was implemented,

1.4 which was put into effect as of last October. Thus,

1.0 during March an additional reduction of reserve

0.6 coefficients was applied and the deduction of "computable

0.2 cash"⁴ was eliminated.

0.2
-0.2 For its part, the liquidity ratio of the foreign currency

-0.6 segment increased again, this time by 1.3 percentage

-1.0 points, and averaged March at the equivalent of 94.9% of

-1.4 deposits.

Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13

Source: BCRA

**Graph 4.1**

**% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**
(average monthly variation) %

6 60 **4. Loans**

Var. % monthly 5 Variation i.a. (right axis) 50

5 41.5 Loans in pesos to the private sector grew in

4 40 March by 1.7% ($6,120 million), slightly above

2.8 the growth recorded in February but below that

3 2.2 2.2 2.2 30 observed for March in the 2 previous years. In this way,

2 1.7 20 the year-on-year variation rate in the first quarter

1.3
1.0 of the year was around 42% (see Graph 4.1). Although

1 10 increases were observed in all lines, the increase in

0 0 personal loans and documents stood out, which contributed

-1 -10 to the month's growth by 0.6 p.p. and 0.5 p.p.,

Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 respectively.

Source: BCRA

---

**Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 5**

⁴ "Computable cash" refers to the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements in March 2012 and that from April 2012 through February 2013 was admitted as a deduction from the peso requirement.

⁵ Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio from entities to financial trusts.

**Graph 4.2**
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 12 (monthly average var.) 70
 Regarding loans destined fundamentally to commercial
 10 Monthly avg. var. 60
 Y-o-y var. (right axis) purposes, financings implemented through documents
 8 50 resumed their growth path once the summer recess
 40 ended. In March they showed an increase of 2.1%
 6
 ($1,670 million), higher than that observed in the same
 30 month of 2010 and 2011 and in contrast with the fall
 4 3.6
 2.5 2,120 they had registered in 2012. This led to the year-on-year
 1.4 1.9 1.9
 2 variation rate, which since the end of 2012 has been
 10 recording a strong acceleration, reaching in March a
 0 0 value close to 60% (see Chart 4.2). For their part, advances
 -0.8 moderated their growth rate, registering in the period an
 -2 -10 increase of 0.9% ($450 million) and a year-on-year
 -4 -20 variation rate on the order of 45% (see Chart 4.3).
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13
 Source: BCRA Continuing with the policies aimed at promoting the
 development of the national economy, in March a new
 Chart 4.3 bidding process was carried out under the Productive
 % Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % Financing Program of the Bicentenary (PFPB). On this
 14 (monthly average var.) 70 occasion, $205.4 million was awarded: $200 million to
 12 60 Banco de la Nación Argentina and $5.4 million to BBVA
 Monthly avg. var.
 10 Y-o-y var. (right axis) 50 Banco Francés. Thus, the total awarded through the PFPB
 8 40 since its inception reaches $6,390 million. Likewise, the
 6.6
 6 30 total of resources actually disbursed amounts to $4,460
 4 20 million, which represents approximately 70% of what was
 2 1.9 10 awarded (see Chart 4.4).
 0.9 0.2 0.6 0.9
 0.1
 0 0 The lines aimed at financing family consumption showed
 -2 -10 differentiated behavior. While personal loans registered
 -4 -20 the largest increase of the last four months, credit card
 -6 -30 financings showed modest growth. In effect, personal
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 loans grew in the period 2.9% ($2,290 million) and
 Source: BCRA accelerated their year-on-year growth rate, which reached
 30.4% (see Chart 4.5); while the growth of credit card
 financings was 0.5% ($250 million). Nevertheless, the
 year-on-year growth rate of these latter was placed
 Chart 4.4 above 40%.
 millions of $ Bicentenary Advances %
7,000 80 For their part, loans with real guarantees grew at a
 (accumulated monthly amounts)
 Awarded Amounts 70 similar rate to that of the previous month, remaining
6,000 70 Disbursed Amounts
 Disbursed/Awarded Ratio 6,390 60 markedly below the growth levels of the end of 2012.
 Mortgages registered an increase of 1.5% ($530 million)
5,000
 4,460 50 in the month and 28.4% in year-on-year terms. When
4,000 considering new loans granted by type of recipient, in
 40 recent months a greater participation of legal entities is
3,000 verified to the detriment of individuals. In effect, the
 30 proportion of legal entities as recipients of the funds
2,000 increased almost twofold in the last twelve months,
 20 reaching close to 65% in March (see Chart 4.6). This is
1,000 10 explained by the boost coming from the "Credit line for
 0 0 productive investment," demonstrating the success of
 Source: BCRA Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 this measure inscribed in a policy aimed at strengthening
 the productive capacity of our economy.
 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 6
 Chart 4.5
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 8 90 Variation monthly
 7 80 Y-o-y var. (right axis)
 Annual average monthly var. 70
 6
5.2
 60 Meanwhile, pledge loans exhibited a monthly increase
 5
 3.8 50 of 2.4% ($550 million). Their year-over-year rate of
 4
 3.0 2.9 40 variation stood at 37.4%, increasing 1.8 p.p. compared
 3 2.7 2.7
 30 1.8 to February.

 2 20

 1.1
 1 10 Starting in August 2012, a sustained increase began to
 0 0 be observed in financing granted by financial entities
 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 in the form of leasing contracts6, which is explained, in
 Source: BCRA part, by the boost coming from the "Credit line for
 productive investment" (Announcement A 5319) since
 Chart 4.6 some of these loans are being channeled through lea-
 Mortgages in Pesos to the Private Sector Legal Entities sing operations. According to the latest available infor-
 (amounts granted by beneficiary) Natural Persons mation, corresponding to the month of February7, these
 % financings registered an increase of 0.8% ($58 million),
 100
 90 in a context of scarce commercial activity due to the
 80 summer recession. For its part, the year-over-year rate
 70 of variation reached 19.3%, increasing 1.1 p.p. com-
 60 pared to January (see Chart 4.7).
 50
 40 Finally, foreign currency loans to the private sector
 30 showed a decrease of 4.6% in March (US$250 million).
 20 Nevertheless, part of these loans continue to be chan-
 10 neled in the peso segment.
 0
 Source: BCRA Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 In this way, the total of loans to the private sector, in
 pesos and in foreign currency, showed an increase of
 1.3% in March. On the other hand, the ratio of the total
 Chart 4.7 balance of loans to the private sector with respect to
 Goods in Financial Leasing in Pesos GDP reached 15.9% in March. Despite the important
 % advances achieved in recent years, current levels of
 %
 10 Monthly Var. 100 loans with respect to GDP continue to be lower both to
 8 Y-o-y Var. (right axis) 80 those observed in the past and in relation to those re-
 6 60 corded in other countries in the region.
 4 40

 2 20
 5. Interest Rates 8
 0 0

 -2 -20

 -4 -40 Securities Issued by the Central Bank9

 -6 -60

 -8 -80 In March the interest rates of the Central Bank securi-

 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 ties auctions remained stable. In the latest auctions of
 Source: BCRA the month, the interest rate of placements at 80 days,
 with predetermined cutoff rate, stood at 13.1% and
6 Comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, especially acquired by the entity
at the request of these parties, for which the lessee pays periodically and for the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral
right to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.
7 Leasing information is available with a one-month lag.
8 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
9 In this section, the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 7 those at 470 days in 15.8% (see Chart 5.1).

 Chart 5.1 Like in February, LEBACs again covered the totality of
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market monthly placements in the primary market. The spe-
 A.N.R. % (latest auctions of the month) cies awarded were concentrated in periods under 180
 18 days, which represented 60% of the total placed. The
 17 total amount awarded was
 16
 15.2 15.4 15.8
 15 14.6
 14.2
 14 13.4
 13.1 March 2013
 13 February 2013
# January 2013 LEBAC (including financial entities and other hol-
 12
 December 2012
 11 ders) resulted in $2,130 million (2.3%) higher than
 maturities, so the balance of these securities was placed
 10 Days
 at VN $96,400 million. Meanwhile, the balance of
 9
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800NOBAC continued almost unchanged, standing at
 Source: BCRA
 VN $11,300 million (see Chart 5.2). As a conse-
 quence of this dynamic, at the end of the month the stock of
 LEBAC and NOBAC in circulation increased 2%, reaching
 $107,700 million. The holdings of banks were what
 explained almost the entirety of the monthly increase in the
 Chart 5.2 balance.

 Amount Awarded of Securities in the Primary Market

 thousands of LEBAC NOBACthousands of thousands of In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC
 millions $ millions $ millions $
 40 110 8 90 recorded an increase of between 0.4 p.p and 1 p.p in the
 More than 360 days More than 24 months
 24 months
 35 From 271 to 360 days 100 7 Between 18 and 24 months 80 terms shorter than 180 days, where the concentration of
 From 181 to 270 days 18 months

 From 91 to 180 days Between 12 and 18 months
 30 Up to 90 days 90 6 12 months 70 the highest volume of operations is located. This perfor-
 End of month balance (right axis) Between 6 and 12 months
 6 months mance occurred in a context where the average daily
 25 Maturities 80 5 Less than 6 60
 amount traded verified a drop of $150 million, standing
 End of month balance (right axis)20 70 4 Maturities 50
 at $1,080 million. For its part, it is observed that the ope-
 15 60 3 40 rated volume of NOBAC continued being low in rela-
 10 50 2 30 tion to operations with LEBAC and reached approxi-

 5 40 1 20 mately $60 million.

 0 30 0 10
 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13
 Source: BCRA Central Bank Repurchase Operations1

 The interest rates on passive repurchase operations of the Central Bank
 remained at 9% and 9.5% for 1 and 7 days, respectively,
 while the interest rates on active repurchase operations
 Chart 5.3 for the same terms stood at 11% and

 in thousands of Interbank Market and Repurchase Operations with the BCRA 11.5%, respectively.
 millions of $ %
 18 13.0
 Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA
 16 Amount traded Call The average stock of passive repurchase operations for the Central
 Amount traded with the BCRA REPO round 12.0
 14 Bank, including all modalities of operations in
 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA at 1 business day (right axis)
 Interest rate Call at 1 business day (right axis) which this institution participates, was reduced 32.4%, standing
 12 11.0
 at $12,300 million. This decrease occurred within the
 10
 10.0 framework of the beginning of the new calculation period
 8
 of the reserve requirement regime, which translated into an
 6 9.0 increase in the balances in current accounts of financial
 4 entities to the detriment of liquidity maintained
 8.0
 2 in repurchase operations (see Banking Liquidity). On the other hand, there
 0 7.0 were no arranged active repurchase operations for the Central
 Mar-10 Jul-10 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13
Source: BCRA Bank.

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 8 Interbank Markets1

 Chart 5.4 The interest rates of the interfinancial market showed
 Interest Rates of the Interfinancial Market an increase in March. As in February, transitory
 TNA % (operations at 1 business day)
 14 increases were recorded throughout the month,

 Average Call rate of operations between private banks MAE agents which were partially reversed after a few days.
 13
 Average Call rate In this way, the average interest rate of operations
 12 Average REPO rate at 1 business day in the unsecured market

 11 (call) increased 1.1 p.p., standing at 12%. In the same
 line, the average interest rate of operations
 10
 at 1 business day between financial entities in the secured
 9 market (REPO round) also increased 1.1
 8 p.p., standing at 11.2% (see Chart 5.3).
7 Given this behavior, the gap existing between the
 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13
Source: BCRA interest rates of both markets was maintained. This
 gap is explained mainly by the greater participation,
 as net borrowers, in the call market of second-tier
 entities, which in their majority have restrictions to
 access the guaranteed market and
Graph 5.5

 Interest Rate and Standard Deviation of 1-Day Call Operations operate with higher interest rates. In this sense, when
 %
 21 Intraday Volatility observing the evolution of the call interest rate of
 19 % (last three months)
 19 operations between private banks agents of the MAE,
 17
 15 Monthly Average it is found that it is in line with the one operated in
 17 13 Average ± 1 Std Deviation
 11 the REPO market (see Graph 5.4).
 15 9

 7
 02-Jan 22-Jan 14-Feb 07-Mar 27-Mar In addition to the increase registered in the levels of
 13

 11 interest rates, during the month it was also observed
 9 that the dispersion between the rates agreed each day
 7 regarding the daily average continued to be elevated
 5 (see Graph 5.5). A good part of this volatility is
 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13
Source: BCRA explained as a consequence of the operations of
 second-tier entities.

 The performance verified in the interest rates and in
 the levels of volatility of the interbank market oc-
 curred in a context where the amount operated re-
 mained relatively stable, reaching in call $1,440 mil-
Graph 5.6 lion and in REPO $2,600 million.

 Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 Days
 % TNA (daily data - private banks) Passive Interest Rates1

 28
 BADLAR Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100 thousand

 Variations
 p.p. After two months of declines, the short-term passive
 24 1.0 Monthly Var. Var. Dec-12
 interest rates paid by private financial entities in
 0.5
 0.1 0.0 March presented a level similar to that of February.
 20 0.0
 -0.1
 -0.5 Avg. Mar-13

 -0.5 14.8
 16 -1.0

 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR rate of private
 banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and
 12
 Avg. Mar-13 more, between 30 and 35 days of term – averaged
 13.1
 14.8%, increasing 0.1 p.p. during the month. However,
 8
 Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13as a consequence of the decreases of the first two
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.7 months of the year, BADLAR accumulated a decline
 Interest Rates for Loans to Commercial Activities of 0.5 p.p. in the year (Graph 5.6).
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % Total Overdrafts in CC
 32 Variations
 p.p
 Discounted Documents 1.0 Regarding the BADLAR futures market, almost all
 28 Overdrafts in current account for more than $10 M - of what was operated in March were contracts with
 up to 7 days
 0.5 maturity on March 29, with an average interest rate
 24 0.3
 of 14.8%. However, contracts were negotiated with
 0.1
 20 maturities throughout the year, where expectations of
 0.0
 0.0 an increase in BADLAR for the remainder of 2013 are
 -0.2 -0.1
 16 reflected. Contracts negotiated with maturity...
-0.5 -0.4
to October 31st imply a BADLAR of private
12
banks that would be around 18%.
Monthly Var. Dec-12 Var.
-1.0
8 DD Current Account Advances (more
Jun-08 May-09 Apr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Jan-13 Advances than
$10 M- 7 days) In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by
Source: BCRA
private banks on their fixed-term deposits (up to
$100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 13.1%, registering
limited volatility throughout the month and remaining
unchanged compared to the February average. Meanwhile,
Graph 5.8
the interest rate is 0.1 p.p. below the December level.
Interest Rates on Unsecured Documents
(monthly average)
Participation by maturity bracket
TNA, % (monthly average)
32 Less than 90 days 90 to 364 days More than 1 year Active Interest Rates 1 10

100%

80%
28 60%
40% In general, the interest rates applied on loans in
pesos to the private sector continued with the downward
20% trend registered in February.
24 0%

Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13

20
Within the main commercial lines, decreases were
verified in most of the interest rates. In particular,
16 the monthly average of the interest rate on current
account advances was located at 21.3%, decreasing
12 0.1 p.p. during the month, while the one corresponding
Jul-08 Jun-09 May-10 Apr-11 Mar-12 Feb-13 to advances to companies for more than $10 million
Source: BCRA and up to 7 days of maturity registered a monthly
increase of 0.3 p.p., placing itself at 14.5%. For its part,
the interest rate on financing implemented through
Graph 5.9 discounted documents averaged 19%, with a monthly
decrease of 0.2 p.p. (Graph 5.7). Meanwhile, within
Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those for Consumption unsecured documents, there was recorded an increase
(monthly average) in the participation of loans corresponding to the
TNA, Pledge 1.5 p.p. Variations
50% 0.5 0.1 "Productive Investment Credit Line" and those
Mortgage to -0.5 0.0 granted within the framework of PFPB, following
45 families -0.3 -0.6 -0.4 the decrease in participation in the two previous
40 Personal -1.5 -1.1 months, in line with the summer recession. These loans,

Monthly Var. Dec-12 Var. which are granted at lower rates and longer terms,
-2.5
35 Mortgage Pledge Personal contributed to the average interest rate in March of
unsecured documents being placed at 18.8%, decreasing
30 0.5 p.p. during the month. Likewise, an increase was
observed in the participation of operations for more
25 than 1 year, in part, as a consequence of the larger
20 amounts granted in productive loans (Graph 5.8).
15 As a consequence of the behavior in recent months,
the rates applied on loans implemented through advances
10 and documents are below the levels of December 2012.
Jul-08 Jun-09 May-10 Apr-11 Mar-12 Feb-13
Source: BCRA

Within the longer-term lines, interest rates showed
10 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and decreases in some cases and stability in others.
origination fees or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans. In effect, the interest rate on mortgage loans to
families remained, for the third consecutive month, at 15.9%, while the one
Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 10
applied on pledge loans maintained its downward trend, averaging 19.7%,
Graph 6.1 decreasing 1.1

BCRA International Reserves
millions of US$ excluding SDR allocations 2009

55 Mar-13
2012
50

45

40

35

30

25

20

15
10 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 33.9%, declining 0.6 p.p. during the month (Graph 5.9).

International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

The balance of international reserves ended March at US$40,446 million (see Graph 6.1). This meant a decrease of US$1,163 million with respect to February (2.8%), explained fundamentally by the payment of public debt in dollars by the public sector, within the framework of the external debt reduction policy carried out by the National Government, and the reduction of the current accounts of financial entities in the Central Bank.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso continued depreciating against the Real and the US Dollar, presenting an appreciation in relation to the Euro. Thus, the average quotations for March were 5.1 $/US$, 2.6 $/Real and 6.6 $/Euro (see Graph 6.2). This meant an increase of 1.5%, 1.1%, and a decrease of 1.3%, respectively. In this way, the peso maintains a depreciation pace with respect to the dollar in line with what was observed in recent months, while in the case of the Real a deceleration was observed compared to the last two months. For its part, the appreciation with respect to the Euro occurred after seven months of monthly depreciations. In the forward market (ROFEX), the average daily amount was greater than $1,000 million, which represented an increase of more than 14% with respect to February. Meanwhile, the contracts executed showed a slight increase in the expectation of depreciation for the coming months (Graph 6.3).

11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 11

7. Capital Market

During March the main developments regarding international monetary policy occurred in the Eurozone and in Latin American countries.

In the case of the Eurozone, although at the meeting on March 7 the Governing Council of the European Central Bank (ECB) did not modify monetary policy, the most important news came on March 16 when the Eurogroup,12 with the support of the ECB, the European Commission and the IMF, granted financial assistance to Cyprus of €10,000 million to cover fiscal needs and restructure the banking system. The agreement established the need to recapitalize the financial system by a sum close to €6,000 million, which was to be funded through a "levy"13 one-time only on deposits, which had been set at 6.75% on deposits of up to €100,000 and 9.9% on deposits of greater amounts.

The measure had a strong negative impact on financial markets, basically because it would have violated the spirit of the Eurozone deposit insurance system, which guarantees deposits
100 retailers. It was feared that this measure could originate
banking runs in other larger economies,

90 such as the Portuguese, Spanish or Italian. Therefore,
a new agreement was reached whereby only

80
wholesale depositors (more than

70 €100,000) of the two banks subject to greater stress would be
affected, the

Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Sep-12 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 Bank of Cyprus and Laiki Bank.14 These measures
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
include a control on capital outflows (against a
Graphic 7.3 possible loss of deposits in favor of other Eurozone countries),
restrictions on deposit withdrawals (a maximum daily cash
% Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and Eurozone extraction of €300 per bank account) and on the use of credit cards
(VIX and VStoxx Indices) abroad.

60
In the case of Latin America, the monetary authorities

50
of Mexico, Colombia, and Peru remained active
seeking to avoid an excessive appreciation (regarding what

40 their macroeconomic fundamentals indicate) of their
currency. In the case of Mexico, they reduced for the first

30 time in almost four years their reference interest rate.

20

10 VIX Index (S&P 500)
VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone) For its part, the authorities of the Federal Reserve

0 (FED) stated that although better
Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data indicators were being recorded in the American economy,

12 Advisory entity made up of the finance ministers of the Eurozone.
13 In strict terms it was not a tax since the euros that would be retained were going to be exchanged for shares of the bank
where they were deposited.
14 Laiki Bank's wholesale deposits together with poor quality assets become part of a "bad bank" in the restructuring process, while Laiki's retail deposits, together with better quality assets, were transferred
to the Bank of Cyprus.

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 12 they were not going to modify the asset purchase program of US$85,000 million monthly
Graphic 7.4
Evolution of the Local Stock Market until there is certainty among the members of the
% Index
(in pesos) Open Market Committee that the improvement in the
60 4,000 labor market is permanent.

Historical volatility 22 sessions
50
MERVAL (right axis) 3,500

40 Equities15
3,000

30
International financial markets ended
2,500
20 March on a positive note, passing through the month again
with some caution, mainly due to the evolution of the
10 2,000
crisis in Cyprus and its consequences on the rest of the
Eurozone. The global MSCI registered a gain of
0 1,500
Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 2.1% in the month. Among the main stock exchanges,
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
the S&P 500, the principal index of the United States
market, registered a gain of 3.6% (see Graphic 7.2). Meanwhile, the European exchange lost 1.7%,
also measured through the MSCI index. Volatility levels
remain at historically low levels. Indeed, the expected volatility of the S&P 500,
Graphic 7.5
Sovereign Risk Indicators measured through the VIX index, fell back 0.7 p.p.,
Spread in b.p Spread in b.p
500 1,400 while the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx
1,300 50 (Reference index of the Eurozone stock exchange)
450 1,200
1,100 remained stable, placing itself at a monthly average
400
1,000 of 19.4% (see Graphic 7.3).

350 900
800
The assets of emerging economies accompanied the
300 700 European trend and, measured through the MSCI index,
EMBI+ fell back 1.9%. In this context, the MSCI index
EMBI+ Latin America 600
250
EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500 Latin America remained unchanged. The IPC (Mexico)
200 400 was the best performer in the region by registering a
Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 gain of 3.5%, driven entirely by the

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg appreciation of the Mexican peso against the
North American currency. Meanwhile, the Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark index
for the region, fell 4% driven in equal parts
Graph 7.6 by the decline of the index measured in local currency and
Corporate Bond Issuance the depreciation of the real. Somewhat lower was the
billions of $ variation of the IGPA (Chile) which fell 2.1%.

6
Others
5 Agricultural Sector
Retail Commerce In contrast to the trend registered on average in the
Real Estate Activities and Construction region, the Merval measured in dollars closed with an
4 Financial Sector
Energy increase of 9.3%. This was accompanied by a
3 trading volume that averaged $75 million, $10 million
higher than that registered in the previous month.
2
Implicit volatility was also reduced again. The main
1 increases were observed in bank securities, followed by
0 metallurgy companies (see Graph 7.4).
Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13

Source: Source: IAMC, CNV, BCBA and Bloomberg

15 Unless otherwise specified, the variation of the indices is expressed in United States dollars.

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 13 Public Securities

Graph 7.7 In March, in a scenario of greater caution at the global
Cut-Off Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos level, the yield of United States Treasury bonds at
TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) millions of $ 10 years remained relatively stable, closing the month at
30 4,500 1.8%. In this context, the yield differentials in emerging
Amount placed at fixed rate
4,000 countries over United States Treasury bonds increased,
25 Amount placed at variable rate 3,500
Cut-off rate of variable rate securities * like the previous month, 20 b.p. according to EMBI+,
BADLAR of private banks 3,000
Cut-off rate of fixed rate securities ** settling at 297 b.p..
20 2,500

15 2,000 In Argentina, the litigation with part of the holders who
did not enter the debt swaps in 2005 and 2010 affected
1,500
10 the performance of public securities. In this way, with
1,000 some monthly volatility, the risk differential over
5 500 Treasury bonds of sovereign securities increased 20 b.p.
0 0 settling at 1,307 b.p. at the end of March (see Graph 7.5).
Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13

(*) With rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years. (**) With rating higher than Arg BBB+.
Source: BCRA based on CNV, MAE, BCBA and IAMC

Private Securities

Graph 7.8

thousands of Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos thousands of
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
7.0 60 In March, the local corporate debt market continued to be
active. Issuances totaled $2,750 million, 17.6% above
6.0  Fixed Income
the amount registered in the previous month and more
Money Market 50
than quadrupling what was registered in the same
5.0  Mixed Income
period of the previous year. The behavior of the month
4.0  Variable Income 40 was influenced by YPF issuances which returned to the
Evolution of stock (axis 3.0 market after two months of absence. The oil company
30 continues to be an important participant in the segment,
2.0 placing $1,960 million in three issuances. One of them
1.0 20 consisted of a dollar-linked security for the equivalent
of $1,160 million with
0.0
10
-1.0
-2.0 0 maturity in December 2014 and which will accrue a
 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13
Source: CAFCI and BCRA fixed interest rate of 2.5%. It also carried out the
 expansion of a security issued previously for
 $500 million and issued a retail bond for $300
 million at one year at a fixed rate of 19%. Four other
 placements also stood out belonging to two
 companies in the energy sector for $310 million and
 Chart 7.9 the participation of the financial sector, which contributed
 Financial Trust Fund Issuances $315 million to the total amount placed (see Chart 7.6).
 (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)

 millions $ Like in February, most of the issuances
2,100
 were made in local currency. However, there were also

1,800 Avg. 2012 four placements denominated in dollars but
 $1,200M
1,500 Avg. 2011 payable in pesos, mostly from the energy sector,
 $1,050M
 which paid an average interest rate of
1,200 Avg. 2008
 Avg. 2007 $820M Avg. 2009 Avg. 2010 2.4%. With respect to the peso segment, a slight
 900 $730M $550M $700M reduction was observed in the cost of
 financing. In variable rate issuances, the cutoff rate
 600
 (of securities with a rating higher than Arg BBB+
 and maturity less than 5 years) decreased 0.5
 300
 p.p. and was located at 18.6%, while in fixed rate
 0
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 issuances (rating higher than Arg BBB+), the interest
 Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others rate remained stable around 19% (see Chart 7.7).

 Mutual Investment Funds

 The evolution of Mutual Investment Funds (FCI)
 continued to be dynamic. The net asset value of FCIs in
 national and foreign currency was located at $54,800
 Chart 7.10 million at the end of March, after accumulating a

 Financial Trust Fund Issuances monthly growth of 7.2% ($3,830 million).

 millions of $ (excludes infrastructure FF)

 4,000 The increase recorded was driven by FCIs
 denominated in pesos, and among them the

 3,000 performance recorded in fixed income funds stood out,
 which grew by $1,440 million (6.1%), contributing
 40% of the monthly expansion of this segment. In
 2,000
 3,525 second place, recording excellent performance,

 2,720 funds that invest in mixed-income assets
 registered a monthly increase of $1,110 million
 1,000
 (16.3%) and contributed 31% of the expansion.

 0 Also, with more moderate dynamics, Money Market
 Jan-Mar 2012 Jan-Mar 2013
 Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. funds increased by $810 million (4.2%). Finally, equity
 funds, again thanks to the good performance of the
 stock market, grew by $80 million (5.8%).

 Regarding profitability, equity funds gained 10.5%,
 Chart 7.11 while mixed-income and fixed income funds recorded

 Cut-off Rates of Senior Securities in Pesos monthly returns of 3.4% and 2.1%, respectively.

 TNA; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)
 40 BADLAR Spread - Variable Rate

 35 BADLAR private banks For its part, FCIs in foreign currency grew
 30 Variable rate
 Fixed rate 4.2% (US$20 million) and ended the month with a

 25 net asset value of US$504 million, driven

 20 primarily by the advance of fixed income funds.

 15

 10

 5 Financial Trust Funds16

 0
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 The issuances of financial trust funds (FF) totalized
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others in March slightly more than $980 million, showing a decrease of around 30% compared to the previous month, in line with the lower number of operations registered. In effect, in March a total of 12 placements were registered, 4 fewer than in February. However, an increase of 16% was observed in the amount issued in the comparison with the same month of the previous year (see Graph 7.19). In this way, and excluding the FFs that have as their purpose the financing of infrastructure works, in the first quarter of the year more than $3,500 million were placed, which means an increase of 30% compared to the same period last year (see Graph 7.10).

Regarding the amounts issued by type of trustor, the main decrease was observed in those corresponding to retail commerce, which in March placed close to $220 million, 64% less than in February. For their part, financial entities placed $380 million, reducing their securitizations by 25% compared to the previous month. A similar magnitude amount was issued by mutual associations, cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers, although in this case said amount represented an increase of 43% compared to the previous month. It should be noted that all of the securitized assets in the month corresponded to consumption-linked loans, mainly personal loans.

The interest rates at the cut-off of senior titles in pesos with duration of less than 14 months registered dissimilar behaviors, depending on whether they are titles with fixed or variable yield. In effect, in the case of titles arranged at variable rate, the amount-weighted average registered a slight increase (0.3 p.p.) and was placed at 15.7%, in line with the behavior of the BADLAR private banks. For its part, the average interest rate of titles at fixed rate registered a decline of 1 p.p. to be placed at 16%. Despite this, it should be remembered that under this modality very few operations are usually registered. In effect, in March only two operations were carried out and the previous month had registered a single placement at fixed rate (see Graph 7.11).

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 16

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Mar-13 | Monthly | Last 12 | Feb-13 | Jan-13 | Mar-12 | % variations |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 297,163 | 292,390 | 298,282 | 216,343 | 1.6% | 37.4% | |
| Monetary circulation | 228,885 | 229,440 | 231,169 | 168,755 | -0.2% | 35.6% | |
| Bills and Coins in possession of the public | 205,395 | 206,095 | 207,714 | 149,161 | -0.3% | 37.7% | |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 23,488 | 23,342 | 23,454 | 19,592 | 0.6% | 19.9% | |
| Cancellation Checks | 3 | 3 | 2 | 0 | 10.8% | - | |
| Current account at BCRA | 68,277 | 62,951 | 67,112 | 47,589 | 8.5% | 43.5% | |
| **Stock of Passes** | | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 12,294 | 18,191 | 20,871 | 20,860 | -32.4% | -41.1% | |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | |
| Stock of BCRA Titles (at nominal value) | 108,316 | 95,353 | 92,714 | 80,583 | 13.6% | 34.4% | |
| In banks | 94,374 | 91,273 | 80,691 | 71,739 | 3.4% | 31.6% | |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for passes)** | | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 96,640 | 83,677 | 79,268 | 46,642 | 15.5% | 107.2% | |
| NOBAC | 11,676 | 11,676 | 13,446 | 33,941 | 0.0% | -65.6% | |
| BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 | 41,153 | 42,181 | 42,954 | 47,168 | -2.4% | -12.8% | |
| Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) | 552,722 | 544,460 | 540,027 | 414,744 | 1.5% | 33.3% | |
| Current account (2) | 146,663 | 143,513 | 160,029 | 113,972 | 2.2% | 28.7% | |
| Savings account | 110,250 | 109,176 | 107,340 | 77,368 | 1.0% | 42.5% | |
| Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 275,259 | 270,804 | 252,499 | 207,278 | 1.6% | 32.8% | |
| Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 7 | 8 | 7 | 9 | -6.3% | -20.4% | |
| Other deposits (3) | 20,543 | 20,958 | 20,152 | 16,117 | -2.0% | 27.5% | |
| Private sector deposits | 394,564 | 388,518 | 383,347 | 285,661 | 1.6% | 38.1% | |

16 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 16
Public sector deposits 158.158 155.942 156.680 129.083 1.4% 22.5%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.552 9.009 9.600 13.201 -5.1% -35.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 395.036 390.285 384.613 283.252 1.2% 39.5%

Loans to the private sector 359.982 354.248 348.730 254.322 1.6% 41.5%
Advances 51.032 50.579 48.513 35.335 0.9% 44.4%
Documents 80.521 78.853 79.390 50.344 2.1% 59.9%
Mortgage loans 36.562 36.033 35.584 28.470 1.5% 28.4%
Pledged asset loans 23.798 23.251 22.674 17.323 2.4% 37.4%
Personal loans 79.834 77.923 75.873 61.228 2.5% 30.4%
Credit cards 60.913 60.562 59.117 43.203 0.6% 41.0%
Others 27.323 27.049 27.580 18.420 1.0% 48.3%

Loans to the public sector 35.054 36.037 35.883 28.930 -2.7% 21.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.196 5.448 5.442 9.524 -4.6% -45.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account) 352.060 349.611 367.745 263.135 0.7% 33.8%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 462.310 458.787 475.084 340.503 0.8% 35.8%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 758.119 750.557 747.742 563.907 1.0% 34.4%
total deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 801.622 795.676 795.235 621.413 0.7% 29.0%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 306.054 306.580 308.378 228.418 -0.2% 34.0%
account in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 404.917 404.398 406.073 299.591 0.1% 35.2%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 599.961 594.615 591.062 434.824 0.9% 38.0%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 637.596 632.425 629.487 487.036 0.8% 30.9%

Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 4.772 1.6% 5.025 1.7% 5.025 1.7% 80.819 37.4%
Financial sector 6.025 2.1% 5.777 2.0% 5.777 1.9% 11.446 5.3%
Public sector 2.418 0.8% 12.208 4.2% 12.208 4.1% 53.380 24.7%
Private external sector -946 -0.3% 1.502 0.5% 1.502 0.5% 28.549 13.2%
BCRA Securities -2.546 -0.9% -13.675 -4.7% -13.675 -4.6% -10.681 -4.9%
Others -179 -0.1% -787 -0.3% -787 -0.3% -1.875 -0.9%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.028 -2.4% -2.981 -6.8% -2.981 -6.9% -6.015 -12.8%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -187 -0.4% 314 0.7% 314 0.7% 6.334 13.4%
Payment to international organizations -53 -0.1% 1 0.0% 1 0.0% -40 -0.1%
Other public sector operations -227 -0.5% -1.923 -4.4% -1.923 -4.5% -1.648 -3.5%
Minimum cash requirement -367 -0.9% -1.017 -2.3% -1.017 -2.4% -1.412 -3.0%
Other items (incl. exchange rate valuation) -193 -0.5% -356 -0.8% -356 -0.8% -9.249 -19.6%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and Informative System SISCEN.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13
 (1) (2) (2)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12,0 12,1 12,0
 Integration 12,2 12,2 12,6
 Position (3) 0,2 0,2 0,6
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 59,6 65,4 65,4
 30 to 59 days 23,0 23,7 23,7
 60 to 89 days 10,2 5,7 5,7
 90 to 179 days 6,0 3,6 3,6
 more than 180 days 1,2 1,6 1,6
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19,4 19,4 19,5
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 88,5 86,6 86,4
 Position (3) 69,1 67,1 66,8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
 Up to 29 days 51,6 50,1 50,4
 30 to 59 days 24,0 24,5 23,3
 60 to 89 days 9,9 11,9 12,5
 90 to 179 days 11,3 11,1 11,8
 180 to 365 days 3,2 2,2 2,0
 more than 365 days 0,1 0,1 0,1
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position in national currency.

 (3) Position= Requirement - Integration

 (4) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 12,02 11,02 10,85 10,77 9,68
 Amount operated 1.510 1.471 1.361 1.313 1.243

Fixed-term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 13,52 13,09 12,90 13,69 11,68
 60 days or more 13,58 13,45 11,39 15,43 11,51
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 13,19 12,50 13,04 13,43 11,12
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14,83 14,76 15,14 15,37 12,87

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0,55 0,58 0,59 0,60 0,33
 60 days or more 1,03 1,12 1,06 1,11 0,78
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,68 0,69 0,68 0,65 0,48
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,93 0,79 0,70 0,61 0,83

 Active Interest Rates Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 14,75 13,86 13,93 15,57 11,56
 Amount operated (total maturities) 221 237 198 235 197

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21,48 21,51 21,55 21,79 21,94
 Documents on sole signature 18,80 19,37 19,40 19,04 19,48
 Mortgages 17,92 16,20 16,62 17,23 14,28
 Pledged loans 19,74 20,85 21,27 19,60 24,01
 Personal loans 33,90 34,48 34,97 34,31 35,56
 Credit cards n/d 33,75 33,80 34,68 35,14

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14,54 14,33 14,49 14,44 14,10

 International Interest Rates Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0,20 0,20 0,21 0,21 0,24
 6 months 0,45 0,46 0,49 0,51 0,74

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0,25 0,26 0,26 0,25 0,34
 10 years 1,95 1,96 1,88 1,70 2,16

FED Funds Rate 0,25 0,25 0,25 0,25 0,25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7,25 7,25 7,25 7,25 9,89

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 19 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9,00 9,00 9,00 9,00 9,00
 Passive 7 days 9,50 9,50 9,50 9,50 9,50
 Active 7 days 11,50 11,50 11,50 11,50 11,50

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 10,04 9,30 9,28 9,36 9,05
 7 days 9,60 9,56 9,52 9,53 9,50

Amount operated in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 7.054 12.051 11.578 10.111 11.230

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 11,60 n/o
 2 months 12,96 12,66 12,28 11,98 n/o
 3 months 13,35 12,95 12,87 12,93 n/o
 9 months 15,05 n/o n/o 14,52 n/o
 12 months 15,47 15,09 14,96 14,99 12,89

Margin of NOBAC in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1.134 1256 1017 786 733

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 5.08 5.01 4.95 4.88 4.36
 Retail 5.09 5.01 4.95 4.88 4.37

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.28 5.14 5.05 4.98 4.41
 ROFEX 1 month 5.16 5.08 5.02 4.95 4.39
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1.054 921 685 818 819

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.57 2.54 2.44 2.35 2.42

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 6.60 6.69 6.58 6.41 5.76

 Capital Market Mar-13 Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Mar-12

MERVAL
 Index 3.368 3.256 3.176 2.672 2.701
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 75 61 65 54 49

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 140.21 133.06 127.44 120.57 109.30
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.52 99.69 99.65 97.99 91.43
 BODEN 2014 ($) 96.29 95.53 94.77 92.24 96.55
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.62 50.25 49.46 46.02 53.56

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.350 1.325 1.262 1.204 715
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 313 296 288 298 334

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 20 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for a term of 30 to 35 days (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad two-currency monetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poors.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
VRD: Representative Value of Debt.

 Monetary Report | March 2013 | BCRA | 21
