# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2013

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Capital Market | Page 11

 Stocks | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 12

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13

 Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

9. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on March 13, 2013. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Synthesis1

• The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 0.4% in February and its year-over-year variation was 35.1%, 1.1 p.p. below January. Among the components of private M3, a new increase in fixed-term placements was recorded, partially offset by the decrease in means of payment. Growth in peso loans to the private sector once again constituted the main expansion factor of monetary aggregates.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector presented monthly growth of 2.6%, with increases in both the segment of placements of $1 million and more and in the bracket of deposits of less than $1 million. The year-over-year growth rate of fixed-term deposits from the private sector continued at elevated levels, placing itself at 47.6%.

• Peso loans to the private sector increased 1.6% ($5,570 million) in February, a rate somewhat higher than that recorded in 2012. Thus, the year-over-year variation rate of peso financing to the private sector reached 42.1%, 0.4 p.p. above that observed the previous month. Monthly credit growth was explained fundamentally by lines of advances and personal loans.

• In February, the liquidity ratio (calculated as the sum of cash in banks, current accounts of financial entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC with respect to deposits) was 34%, 0.2 p.p. above January; recording a reduction in the participation of shorter-term assets (current accounts of entities in the Central Bank and net repos) and an increase in holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC by entities.

• Banking liquidity conditions favored the reduction of interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits; in particular, wholesale rates. The BADLAR rate for private banks declined 0.4 p.p. during the month, averaging 14.8% in February. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days) averaged 13%, 0.1 p.p. less than the previous month.

• The interest rates of most loan lines to the private sector also declined. Reductions were more pronounced in the case of longer-term credits. The interest rate applied to personal loans averaged 34.5%, with a monthly decline of 0.5 p.p.. Among loans with real guarantees, the interest rate for pledged loans resumed the downward trend observed throughout 2012. In February, its monthly average was 34.8%, falling back 0.4 p.p..

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

2. Monetary Aggregates1
MONETARY AGGREGATES - M3

% (variation of monthly averages) % The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3 2) pre-
5 50
Monthly variation of M3 sented a growth of 0.4% in February (see Chart
4 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 40
35.1 2.1), reaching a monthly average balance of
3 30
$750,600 million. The year-on-year variation of M3
21.4 1.4 1,220
was placed at 35.1%, 1.1 p.p. below January.
1 0.6 0.4 10
0 0 The broadest private monetary aggregate (M3 priva-
-1 -0.6 -10 do3) registered a monthly increase of 0.6%. Among its
-2 -20 components, growth in fixed-term placements is ob-
Feb-08 Ago-08 Feb-09 Ago-09 Feb-10 Ago-10 Feb-11 Ago-11 Feb-12 Ago-12 Feb-13 served, partially offset by the seasonal decrease in
means of payment. On the side of variation factors of
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA M3 private, the increase in loans to the private sector
stands out, which continues to be the most important
factor in monetary expansion. In second place were
Chart 2.2
the operations of the public sector, while operations
Thousands of Explanation Factors of Monetary Aggregates of the external sector were neutral (see Chart 2.2).
millions of $
(February 2013, on average) M3 Private
6
5 Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector
4 presented in February a growth of 2.6% (see Chart
3 2.3). Its year-on-year variation (47.6%) continued at
2 historically elevated levels, both in fixed-term deposits
1 of the segment of $1 million and more as well as in
0 those of the segment of less than $1 million.
-1
-2
-3 For its part, the means of payment of the private sector
presented a decrease of 0.4%, explained fundamen-
Currency Foreign Public Loans to Private M2 Fixed-term tally by the seasonal drop in currency in circulation
Purchases Sector* S. Private and Other Deposits Private held by the public.
*Includes operations of the public sector with effect on monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
Source: BCRA With regard to the foreign currency segment, depo-
sits presented an average monthly reduction of 6.1%,
Chart 2.3 with decreases both in placements belonging to the
Fixed-term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector public sector as well as those corresponding to the
% (variations of monthly averages) February - Avg. Monthly Var. private sector.

7 56
% More than $1 million Finally, the monthly average balance of the broadest
6 48 8
monetary aggregate, M3*, which also includes depo-
4.8 47.6
5 4.4 40 6 sits in foreign currency (expressed in pesos), remained
4 3.5 32 4 practically unchanged with respect to the previous
2.9
32.7 2.6 24 month.
2 1.5 16 2
2007
2 2008
1 8 % Less than $1 million 2009
0 0 8 2010
3. Bank Liquidity1
2011
-1 Variación mensual -8 6 2012
-2 Variación i.a. (eje derecho) -16 4 2013 In February, the liquidity of the entities increased,
-3 -24 2 also verifying a change in its composition towards
Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 assets of longer maturity. The liquidity ratio
0
Source: BCRA
(calculated as the sum of cash in banks, current

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 4 accounts of financial entities in the

---

**Chart 3.1** (incomplete - continues beyond provided text)
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos* Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and
deposits (monthly average)
45 holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs, with respect to
40 deposits) halted the decline that began in mid-2012, and
34.0
35 % of Components was located at 34%, 0.2 p.p. above January
deposits Cash CC in BCRA (see Graph 3.1). Regarding the components of
30 40 Net Repurchase Agreements LEBACs and NOBACs liquidity, a reduction was recorded in the participation of
25 35
shorter-term assets (0.9 p.p. for the current account of
20 30
entities in the Central Bank and 0.5 p.p. for net
25
15 repurchase agreements) and an increase (of 1.6 p.p.) in
20
that of longer-term assets (holdings of LEBACs and
10 15
NOBACs).
5 10
0 5
Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13
0
Feb-07 Oct-07 Jun-08 Feb-09 Oct-09 Jun-10 Feb-11 Oct-11 Jun-12 Feb-13 This behavior of liquidity is explained by the evolution
of the minimum cash position, which being quarterly
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts in the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs (December 2012 through February 2013), determined that the
and NOBACs at effective value. surplus positions of December and January were offset in
February, which generated in this last month a reduction of
the current accounts of entities in the Central Bank. In this
Graph 3.2 way, it is estimated that the average position of the quarter
Minimum Cash Position in Pesos ended with a surplus equivalent to 0.2% of peso deposits
% of (see Graph 3.2). Likewise, it should be noted that as of
deposits Surplus Daily Position Accumulated Position Quarterly Position October, an amendment to the reserve requirement
2.5 regulations came into effect that includes a gradual
2.0 reduction schedule of the coefficients on the different
1.5 types of deposits according to the zone in which they are
1.0 located and a deduction of the requirement – which
0.5 began to apply in December – based on the participation
0.2 of loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
0.0 in the total of loans to the private sector. In March, the
-0.5 final stage of the schedule will be implemented through
-1.0 an additional reduction of the reserve requirement
-1.5 coefficients and the elimination of the deduction
Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 equivalent to 25% of "computable cash4".

Source: BCRA
The liquidity ratio of the foreign currency segment
Graph 4.1 increased 0.4 p.p. in February and averaged during the
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector month a level equivalent to 94.1% of total deposits in
% (average monthly variation) 60 dollars.
6
Monthly % Variation
5 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 50 4. Loans1 5
42.1
4 40
3 30 The increase in peso loans to the private sector in the
1.9 month of February was 1.6% ($5,570 million), similar
2 1.6 1.4 1.6 20
1.3 to that of the same month in previous years (excluding
1 10 February 2009 and 2010). Meanwhile, the year-over-year
0.2
0 0 variation rate of credit reached 42.1%, 0.4 p.p. above
-0.1
-1 -10 that observed the previous month (see Graph 4.1). As of
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13
Source: BCRA

4 "Computable cash" refers to the cash that financial entities used to comply with reserve requirements in March of last year
and that as of April was admitted as a deduction from the requirement in pesos.
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio of
entities to financial trusts.
# Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 5 to finish the contribution to growth in the month of the

## Chart 4.2
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (contribution by line to growth in the months of February)
different credit lines, it is verified that advances and
3 Real Guarantee personal loans made the main contri-
butions (0.6 p.p. in both cases), in line with what occurred
2 Credit 0.5 in February 2011 and 2012 (see Chart 4.2).
Cards 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.3

Within the loans intended for commercial activities,
0.4 Personal 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.6 the financing instruments executed through documents
1 0.1 0.6 registered a decrease, similar to what occurred in Febru-
0.1 Other commercial 0.6 ary of previous years. On this occasion, a reduction was
1.1 1.1 0.2 0.8 0.8
financings 0.5 0.5 0.6 observed in the average monthly balance of 0.7% ($540
0 -0.2 -0.2 -0.3 0.0 -0.2 Documents million), lower than that recorded in the same month of
-0.1 -0.2 -0.4 -0.1 -0.5 the previous year. In this way, the year-over-year varia-
-0.3 0.0 Advances tion rate of loans granted through documents continued
-1 to increase and stood at 55.3%, 2.5 p.p. more than in
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 January (see Chart 4.3). Meanwhile, advances accelera-
Source: BCRA ted their monthly growth rate, registering an increase of
4.3% ($2,090 million), while their year-over-year varia-
tion rate stood at 52.7%, decreasing 3.4 p.p. compared
to the previous month (see Chart 4.4).

## Chart 4.3
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % The BCRA continued to make disbursements of the
12 (monthly average variation) 70 funds allocated through the Bicentennial Productive
Financing Program (PFPB), aimed at promoting the
10 Monthly avg. var. 60
growth of credit intended for productive activity. In
Monthly i.a. var. (right axis) 8 50 February it completed the delivery of $167 million,
40 with which from the beginning of the PFPB the total
6 30 disbursed to that month amounted to $4,359 million,
4 20 around 70% of the total allocated. Distinguishing by
2 10 economic sector, manufacturing industry concentrated
0.1 0.6 the largest part of the disbursed resources (about 70%
0 0 of the total). In order of importance, it is followed by
-2 -0.6 -1.2 -0.7 the primary sector and transport and communications
-2.1 -10 sector, with 9% and 8% of the total, respectively (see
-2.3 Chart 4.5).
-4 -20
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13
Source: BCRA Regarding loans intended to finance family consump-
tion, personal loans, which had been showing a modera-
tion in their monthly expansion rate, grew in February
by 2.8% ($2,130 million), somewhat more than the pre-
## Chart 4.4 vious month. For their part, credit card financing grew
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % at a slower rate than in the previous quarter, registering
14 (monthly average variation) 70 a monthly increase of 2.4% ($1,420 million). Both types
of financing increased their growth rates in year-over-
12 60
Var. monthly avg. year terms. The one corresponding to personal loans stood at
10 Var. i.a. (right axis) 50 29.7%, 1.2 p.p. more than in January, and that of credit
8 6.6 40 cards at 44.6%, 3.4 p.p. above that of the previous
6.0 month.
6 30
4.3
4 3.2 20 When considering the purpose of personal loans gran-
2.0 ted in February, a wide variety of uses can be identified.
2 10 The most notable were the acquisition of household appli-
0 0 ances and home articles and the...
-2 -1.1 -1.5 -10
-2.1
-4 -20
-6 -30
Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13
Source: BCRA
# MONETARY REPORT | FEBRUARY 2013 | BCRA | 6

fraction or construction of real estate, which represented 14.5% and 12.7% of the total, respectively (see Graph 4.6). In order of importance, they were followed by the refinancing or cancellation of liabilities with around 10% of the total and the acquisition of motor vehicles for private use with 7% of the total. Some destinations were also identified that are linked to productive activity and not to consumption, such as those referring to "acquisition of motor vehicles for other uses" and "acquisition of machinery, equipment and tools", which together represented 4.3% of the total. Finally, it should be noted that the category "Other destinations" concentrated the largest portion of resources (46% of the total), grouping under it a diversity of uses of the funds that, as a consequence of their low relative weight, were not categorized individually.

## Graph 4.5
Bicentennial Advances
(amounts disbursed by economic sector)

Agriculture, livestock and forestry 9.0%
Commerce 8.0%
Transportation and communications 5.9%
Hotels and restaurants 2.7%
Remainder 5.5%
Manufacturing industry 68.9%

Source: Informational Regime of Bicentennial Advances.

## Graph 4.6
Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector by Destination
% (participation in monthly accumulated amount)

[Graph showing timeline from Feb-12 to Feb-13 with various categories:]
- Acquisition of machinery, equipment and tools
- Tourism
- Acquisition of real estate
- Acquisition of motor vehicles for other uses
- Refinancing or cancellation of liabilities
- Acquisition of motor vehicles for personal and/or family use
- Refurbishment or construction of real estate
- Acquisition of appliances and household items
- Other destinations

Source: BCRA

Loans with real guarantee presented moderate increases in February. Mortgages grew in the period by 1.3% ($450 million), showing year-over-year growth of around 29%. For their part, loans with pledge guarantee evidenced a monthly increase of 2.5% ($570 million), maintaining their year-over-year variation rate around 35.5%.

Financings granted in the form of leasing contracts⁶ presented in January (last available information) an increase of 1.9% ($137 million), moderating its growth rate in a period of lower commercial activity. For its part, its year-over-year variation rate continued to increase and stood at 18.2%, 1 p.p. more than in December (see Graph 4.7). Beginning in August 2012, a sustained increase began to be observed in the balance of these financings, which is explained, in part, by the boost from the "Credit line for productive investment"⁷ since some of these loans are being channeled through leasing operations.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector, fundamentally to the export sector, remained practically stable, after several months of presenting declines. Favored by the significant "statistical carryover" left by January, said loans registered an increase of 0.1% (US$6 million).

## Graph 4.7
Goods in Financial Leasing in Pesos
%

[Graph showing two lines from Ene-07 to Ene-13:]
- Monthly variation (left axis): ranging from -8 to 10%
- Year-over-year variation (right axis): ranging from -80 to 100%

Source: BCRA

⁶ Comprises the value of capital goods (personal and real property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at their request, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

⁷ See Communication A 5319.

---

# MONETARY REPORT | FEBRUARY 2013 | BCRA | 7

## Graph 5.1
Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market
T.N.A % (last month auctions)

[Graph showing rates for:]
- February
- January
- December 2012: 15.5%
- 15.9%

## 5. Interest Rates⁸

Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁹
14.7 In February, the interest rates of the Central Bank's secur-
 15 ity auctions grew slightly, after four months of relative
 14.2 stability. In LEBAC there were recorded variations of
 14 13.8 around 0.5 p.p. in the securities with maturities less
 13.3 than 200 days (see Chart 5.1).
 12.9 Variation Monthly
 13 p.p (January/February)
 0.6 0.5 The total awarded amount of LEBAC (including finan-
 12 0.5 0.5 cial entities and other holders) turned out once again
 0.4 0.3 to be higher than maturities, so the balance grew 5.7%
 11 0.3 reaching VN $94,300 million. In contrast, in the case of
 0.2 NOBAC, the balance remained stable at VN $11,700
 10 million. In this way, at the end of the month the stock
 0.1
 9 0.0 Days of LEBAC and NOBAC in circulation increased 5%, placing
 100 160 350 Days
 8 itself at $106,000 million (see Chart 5.2), driven once
 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 again by higher bank holdings. In terms of M3*, the
 Source: BCRA average monthly balance of LEBAC and NOBAC reached
 13.1%, 1.4 p.p. above the level it represented in January.

**Chart 5.2**
 Awarded Amount of Securities in the Primary Market In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC
 thousands of LEBAC NOBAC thousands of thousands registered a slight increase, concentrating in maturities
 million $ million $ million $ between 60 and 100 days, where the average interest
 40 110 8 90
 More than 360 days More than 24 months
 24 months rate increased 0.3 p.p. The performance recorded in
 35 From 271 to 360 days 100 7 Between 18 and 24 months 80
 From 181 to 270 days 18 months the rates occurred in a context where the average daily
 From 91 to 180 days Between 12 and 18 months 30 90 6 12 months 70 amount traded grew again; this time $300 million,
 Up to 90 days Between 6 and 12 months placing itself at $1,200 million. Meanwhile, the oper-
 End of month balance (right axis) 6 months ated volume of NOBAC was reduced by $70 million,
 25 Maturities 80 5 Less than 6 60
 End of month balance (right axis) settling at a daily average of $30 million.
 Maturities
 20 70 4 50

 15 60 3 40
 **Central Bank Repo Operations¹**
 10 50 2 30
 5 40 1 20 In February, the interest rates of Central Bank repos
 remained unchanged. Passive repo rates were located at
 0 30 0 10
 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 9% and 9.5%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively, while the
 Source: BCRA interest rates of active repos of 1 and 7 days, at 11%
 and 11.5%, respectively.

 **Chart 5.3**
 Interest Rates of Call and Repo Operations at 1 Business Day The average stock of passive repos for the Central
 % (average rate weighted by amount) % Bank, including all modalities of operations in which
 17 17 this Institution participates, was reduced by 12.8% down
 % p.p to $18,200 million; while within the framework of
 13 2.0 BCRA Repo Corridor at 1 business day adequate liquidity levels, no active repos were arranged
 16 Differential rate between Repo and Call (right axis) 1.8 16
 12 1.6 Call Market Call Rate for the Central Bank.
 Rueda REPO (excluding BCRA)
 1.4 Repo Corridor Rate (excluding BCRA)
 15 11 15
 1.2 **Interbank Markets¹**
 10 1.0
 14 0.8 14
 9 0.6 **Chart 5.4**
 13 0.4 13 Call Market
 8 million $ (net position monthly average by group of entities)
 0.2
 7 0.0 In February, the interest rates of the interfinancial
 12 Jan-21 Jan-30 Feb-13 Feb-25 12 markets showed slight increases. In the case of the
 11 11 interest rate of the secured market (REPO corridor), tran-
 10 10 sitory increases were observed in the middle of
 9 9
 8 8
 Feb-10 Oct-10 Jul-11 Apr-12 Jan-13
 Source: BCRA

⁸ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁹ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 8 **Interbank Markets¹**

**Chart 5.4**
 Call Market
 million $ (average net position per month by group of entities)

 500

 400

 300
200
 month, which reversed after a few days. In the unguaran-
 100
 teed market (call), although the interest rate reached a
 0
 peak mid-month, it later decreased. The average interest
-100
-200 rate of 1 business day operations

 EFNB in the call market increased 0.3 p.p., standing at
-300 Public
-400 Priv. Nat. 10.9%, while the average interest rate of 1 business day
 Foreign
 operations between financial entities in
-500 
 Feb-10 Jun-10 Oct-10 Feb-11 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 the REPO round increased 0.2 p.p., settling at

Source: BCRA
 10.1%. In this way, the existing gap widened
 between the interest rates of both markets (see Graph
 5.3).

 The monthly increase in interest rates in the call market
 Graph 5.5 was widespread. Regarding participation by group of

 Interest Rate and Deviation of 1 Business Day Call Operations entities, the behavior of foreign entities stood out as

 % net fund recipients (see Graph 5.4).
 21 Intraday Volatility

 15 % (last three months)
 19
 13 Monthly average

 17 11 Average ± 1 Std Deviation Similar to January, the variability of operations agreed

 9 at 1 business day in the call market remained high,
 15
 7
 01-Nov 22-Nov 13-Dec 07-Jan 25-Jan 19-Feb standing at an average of 20.5% with respect to the daily
 13
 average monthly rate (see Graph 5.5).
 11

 9 The performance verified in the interest rates of the

 7 interbank market occurred in a context where the amount

 5 traded in call increased $100 million to $1,470 million.

 Meanwhile, in the Repo round the amount traded
 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 decreased $200 million, standing at $2,600 million.
 Source: BCRA

 Passive Interest Rates¹

 The short-term passive interest rates paid by private
 Graph 5.6 financial entities decreased in the month of February, in
 a context of greater bank liquidity. As is customary, the
 Interest Rates and Amounts Traded in Fixed-Term Deposits up to 35 days decrease was led by the wholesale segment, while the retail
 % TNA (monthly average - private banks) millions $ segment presents more limited volatility.
 26 Average daily amount traded in segment 2,700

 p.p. Variations retail
 24
 1 Monthly Var. Dec-12 Var. Average daily amount traded in BADLAR
 22 2,200
 0 Fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand
 20 -0.1 -0.1
 In fact, the BADLAR rate of private banks – interest
 -0.4 -0.6 BADLAR
 18 -1 1,700
 rate for deposits of $1 million and more, between 30 and
 16 -2 35 days maturity – decreased 0.4 p.p. in the month, accu-

 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
 14 1,200 mulating a decrease of 0.6 p.p. since December 2012.

 12 Thus, in February BADLAR averaged 14.8%, registering
 an increase in daily trading volume (see Graph 5.6). Fun-
 10 700
 damentally, the decrease was observed in the interest rate
 8 paid to companies, which decreased 0.6 p.p.
 6 200
 Jul-08 Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 Mar-10 Aug-10 Jan-11 Jun-11 Nov-11 Apr-12 Sep-12 Feb-13
 Source: BCRA Regarding the BADLAR futures market, in February
 only contracts with maturity at the end of this month
 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 9 were traded, with an average interest rate of 14.8%.

 Graph 5.7 In the retail segment, the interest rate paid by private
 banks for their fixed-term deposits (up to $100 thousand
 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities and up to 35 days) averaged 13%, decreasing 0.1 p.p.
 TNA, % (monthly average) in the month.
 Total Advances in CC $100 thousand
 Discounted Documents
 Active Interest Rates¹
 Documents at Face Value Only

 Advances in current account for more than $10 M - up to 7 days
 32
 28 Similar to the case of passive interest rates, the interest
 rates applied to loans to the sector
 24

 20
16 private sector showed a monthly decline in the majority of
12 the lines.

8 Among the commercial lines, a break was verified in the
Source: BCRAJun-08 May-09 Abr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Ene-13 upward trend that the principal interest rates had shown
in recent months. The interest rate on overdrafts in cur-
rent accounts averaged 21.5%, decreasing 0.1 p.p. in the
month, while the corresponding rate for advances to
companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days
Figure 5.8 maturity registered a decline of 0.2 p.p., averaging
14.3%. For its part, the interest rate on financing instru-
Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those mented through discounted documents averaged 19.2%,
Destined for Consumption with a monthly decrease of 0.1 p.p., while that of docu-
(monthly average) ments on sole signature was placed at 19.3%, remaining
TNA, Mortgage Pledge Personal unchanged compared to the average of January
%
(Figure 5.7).
50 Personal Pledge Mortgages

45 1.0 Similarly, the majority of interest rates on longer-term
0.5 0.1
40 0.0 lines registered monthly decreases. In particular, the in-
-0.5 -0.4 -0.5 terest rate applied on personal loans averaged 34.5%,
35 -1.0 with a monthly decline of 0.5 p.p.. Among loans with
Mortgage Pledge Personal real guarantee, the interest rate on pledge loans resumed
30 the downward trend observed throughout 2012, after the
25 increase registered in January (this increase was related
to the lower participation of productive loans within this
20 line). In February, the monthly average was placed at
15 20.8%, declining 0.4 p.p.. For its part, the interest rate
on mortgage loans to families remained at 15.9%
10 (Figure 5.8).
Jun-08 May-09 Abr-10 Mar-11 Feb-12 Ene-13
Source: BCRA

10 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other
expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 10 Figure 6.1 International Reserves and For-

Foreign Exchange Market eign Exchange Market11

(average quotations)
$/Euro $/Real $/US$
6.8 $/Euro 3.6 5.4
$/US$ (Reference) The balance of international reserves ended January at
6.6 $/Real, right axis 3.4 5.2
US$41,609 million. This meant a decrease of

6.4 3.2 5.0 US$961 million compared to December (-2.2%). The
factors that explained such decrease were fundamentally
6.2 3.0 4.8 the payment of public debt in dollars by the public sec-
tor and the reduction of foreign currency current
6.0 2.8 4.6 accounts of financial entities in the Central Bank.

5.8 2.6 4.4 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
against the currencies of its main trading partners. How-
5.6 2.4 4.2 ever, for the case of the US dollar and the euro, an
5.4 2.2 4.0 increase in the quotation was evidenced that was lower
than that registered in January. Thus, the average quo-
5.2 2.0 3.8 tations for February were 5.0 $/US$, 6.7 $/euro and 2.5
Source: BCRA Feb-11 Ago-11 Feb-12 Ago-12 Feb-13Feb-11 Ago-11 Feb-12 Ago-12 Feb-13 $/real (Figure 6.1). These values meant increases of
1.3%, 1.6% and 4.2%, respectively. In the forward mar-
ket (ROFEX), the average daily amount was higher than
Figure 7.1 $910 million, which represented an increase of 33% com-
World Stock Indices pared to January. The contracts executed showed a slight
(in dollars; Index base 01/02/12=100) decline in the expectation of depreciation for the coming
months.

130

120 7. Capital Market10

110 The international financial markets registered in February
a more negative behavior, transiting the
100

90 MSCI- World
MSCI- Europe
MSCI- Latam
80 S&P 500
MSCI- Emerging
70 month with certain caution; especially in the eurozone. In
 Feb-12 Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data this region, the political situation in Italy imprinted vola-
 tility to the markets, while the European Central
 Bank (ECB) made explicit the greater risk associated
 with weak economic activity. On the other hand, in the
 United States, the minutes of the FOMC meeting
 evidenced that in the Federal Reserve there are divided
 
 Graph 7.2 opinions regarding the continuity of the purchase of long-
 term assets. Nevertheless, it follows from subsequent
 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and
 60 Eurozone statements by Federal Reserve authorities that the insti-
 (VIX and VStoxx Index) tution would maintain its intention not to modify its
 50 purchase programs until a substantial improvement is
 registered in the labor market. This event occurred in a
 40 context where the positive tone derived from results
 better than expected in corporate balance sheets was
 30 maintained. Finally, mid-month investors paid particular
 20 attention to the so-called "currency war," following a
 10 G-7 communiqué with explicit mention of the absence
 VIX Index (S&P 500) of exchange rate targets and cooperation regarding
 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
 0 foreign exchange markets.
 Feb-09 Aug-09 Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 11 Stock Market
 
 Graph 7.3
 Evolution of the Local Stock Market
 % Index The MSCI global closed without changes in the month. Within
 (in pesos)
 60 4.000 the main stock exchanges, the European one lost 4.5%,
 Historical volatility 22 trading days measured also through the MSCI index. Meanwhile,
 50 MERVAL (right axis) 3.500 the S&P 500, the main index of the United States
 market, registered a gain of 1.1% (see Graph 7.1). In
 40 3.000 this context the expected volatility of the S&P 500,
 measured through the VIX index, remained stable
 30 2.500 while the index measuring the volatility of the Stoxx
 20 2.000 50 (benchmark index of the eurozone stock exchange)
 increased 3.3 p.p., positioning itself at a monthly
 10 1.500 average of 19.5% (see Graph 7.2).
 
 0 1.500
 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 The assets of emerging economies accompanied the
 general trend of the markets and registered, measured
 through the MSCI index, a decline of 1.3%. Accentuating
 this behavior, the MSCI Latin America index lost 2.9%.
 The Bovespa (Brazil), benchmark index for the region,
 fell 3.3% in dollars
 
 Graph 7.4 driven by the decline in the index measured in local
 Sovereign Risk Indicators currency. Similar was the variation of the IPC (Mexico),
 Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p. which verified a decrease of 3.1%. Meanwhile, the IGPA
 500 1400 (Chile) measured in dollars remained relatively stable.
 1300
 450 1200 In this context, the local stock market corrected part
 of the gains registered in the two previous months.
 400 1100
 The MERVAL index retreated 13.1% in dollars as a
 1000
 350 consequence of the evolution of quotations in local
 900
 currency (see Graph 7.3). Although the declines were
 300 800
 generalized, the behavior of energy sector and banking
 700
 EMBI+ papers stood out.
 EMBI+ Latin America 600
 250
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500
 200 400 The average daily volume traded in stocks in February
 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 decreased, positioning itself around $60 million daily.

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 Public Securities
In February, slight declines were registered in the yields of instruments with lower relative risk. In particular, the yield on United States Treasury bonds at 10 years was reduced by 10 b.p., positioning itself at 1.9% at the end of the month. In this context, the yield differentials in emerging countries over American Treasury bonds increased almost 20 b.p., according to the EMBI+, positioning itself at 276 b.p..

In Argentina, the hearing in the courts of New York for the litigation with some of the holders who did not enter into the debt exchanges in 2005 and 2010 printed volatility to public securities, mainly towards the end of the month. In this way, the risk differential over the treasuries of sovereign securities increased 185 b.p., positioning itself at 1,287 b.p. at the end of February (see Graph 7.4).

## Private Securities

Corporate financing through the issuance of Negotiable Obligations (ON) registered a very good performance in February, with a high quantity of placements and participating companies. The emissions totaled $2,340 million, more than double the amount registered the previous month. As in January, the financial sector was the main issuer, by placing $1,100 million; followed by the agricultural sector with emissions of $520 million; the real estate activities and construction sector, which accumulated placements of $330 million and the energy sector, which reached a placed amount of $180 million (see Graph 7.5).

The majority of emissions were carried out in local currency. There were also four placements denominated in dollars but payable in pesos, which paid an average interest rate of 2.8% in emissions with maturity at 2 years and around 6% in a placement at 6 years. With respect to the segment in pesos, a slight reduction was observed in the financing cost of emissions at variable rate (of securities with rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 5 years); partly explained by the fall registered in the reference rate of the money market. In effect, the cut rate of those emissions decreased 0.6 p.p. and was positioned at 19%, converging to the average cut rate of emissions at fixed rate (rating superior to Arg BBB+), which remained around 19% (see Graph 7.6).

## Mutual Funds

Although the Mutual Funds (FCI) registered a less favorable dynamic than in January, an increase in their shares was observed again. In February the patrimony of the FCI was positioned at $53,550 million, after registering a monthly growth of 4.6% ($2,370 million).
Source: CAFCI and BCRA

The increase recorded in February was driven by money market funds in pesos, which maintained a dynamic superior to that recorded in previous years and explained almost half of the monthly expansion by growing $1,160 million (6.3%), driven by the increase in the number of share units. In second place were funds that invest in fixed income assets, which increased their assets by $970 million (4.3%), principally as a consequence of the behavior verified in the first half of the month. Finally, mixed income funds also recorded a monthly increase, which reached $350 million (5.4%). Meanwhile, after recording the best January in recent years, variable income funds fell $160 million (10.8%), driven by profit-taking recorded in the local stock market.

Regarding profitability, mixed income and fixed income funds recorded monthly returns of 1.4% and 1.3%, respectively. Meanwhile, variable income funds verified a loss of 7.4%, in line with the performance recorded in the Merval.

For its part, FCIs in foreign currency grew 1.2% (US$ 10 million) and ended the month with assets of US$484 million, driven by the advance of fixed income and mixed income funds.

Financial Trust Emissions (FF) totaled approximately $1,440 million in February, registering an increase of 30% compared to January and 42% in relation to the same month of the previous year (see Graph 7.8).

Likewise, the total issued in the month was placed above the monthly average of 2012, which reached $1,200 million (excluding infrastructure FF). For its part, the number of placements decreased in February, with a total of 16 operations having been recorded, 3 fewer than in January. Meanwhile, the average emission amount, which in January had decreased significantly to $58 million, increased again in February and was placed at $90 million (see Graph 7.9).

Retail trades again were the principal fiduciaries, as in January. This month they placed somewhat more than $600 million, 24% more than the previous month and three times the amount issued in the same month of 2012. For its part, financial entities placed around $510 million, registering a significant increase compared to the previous month, although without reaching the values of December. Likewise, said amount was similar to that observed in February of the previous year. Meanwhile, the total placed by mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers amounted to $270 million, presenting a decrease of 20% compared to January and 15% in year-over-year terms. Among the assets securitized by the different types of fiduciaries mentioned previously, those linked to consumption continued to predominate, although contracts were also securitized.
12 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 14 lease agreements. Finally, 2 issues from companies linked to agricultural activity with commercial credit as underlying assets were recorded.

The cut-off interest rates of senior titles in pesos with duration of less than 14 months registered a decline. The amount-weighted average of those corresponding to titles with variable yield was placed in February at 15.5%, 1.5 p.p. below that registered in January. In the fixed-rate segment, a single operation was observed, whose cut-off rate was 17%. It should be recalled that in the previous month no operations under this modality had been recorded (see Chart 7.10).

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 15

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system Feb-13 Monthly Last 12 Ene-13 Dec-12 Feb-12
 months

 Monetary base 292,390 298,282 292,138 207,845 -2.0% 40.7%
 Monetary circulation 229,440 231,169 224,211 168,651 -0.7% 36.0%
 Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public 206,115 207,711 199,333 148,604 -0.8% 38.7%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 23,322 23,456 24,874 20,046 -0.6% 16.3%
 Cancellation Checks 3 2 4 0 60.2% -
 Current account at the BCRA 62,951 67,112 67,927 39,194 -6.2% 60.6%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 18,191 20,871 17,432 27,506 -12.8% -33.9%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 95,353 92,714 88,681 77,850 2.8% 22.5%
 In banks 91,273 80,691 77,641 69,600 13.1% 31.1%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 83,677 79,268 74,569 39,439 5.6% 112.2%

 NOBAC 11,676 13,446 14,112 38,411 -13.2% -69.6%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 42,181 42,954 44,134 46,811 -1.8% -9.9%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 544,508 540,024 525,028 407,013 0.8% 33.8%
 Current account (2) 143,500 160,029 150,959 113,218 -10.3% 26.7%
 Savings account 109,167 107,339 104,730 76,541 1.7% 42.6%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 270,806 252,498 248,802 200,983 7.3% 34.7%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 8 7 7 9 7.2% -15.1%
 Other deposits (3) 21,027 20,151 20,530 16,262 4.3% 29.3%

 Deposits of the private sector 388,574 383,341 372,489 277,610 1.4% 40.0%

 Deposits of the public sector 155,934 156,683 152,539 129,403 -0.5% 20.5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,009 9,599 9,393 13,278 -6.1% -32.2%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 390,266 384,600 373,910 277,086 1.5% 40.8%

 Loans to the private sector 354,176 348,717 339,100 249,054 1.6% 42.2%
 Advances 50,600 48,511 47,335 33,147 4.3% 52.7%
 Documents 78,848 79,390 76,169 50,776 -0.7% 55.3%
 Mortgages 36,031 35,584 34,473 27,974 1.3% 28.8%
 Pledges 23,251 22,680 22,137 17,147 2.5% 35.6%
 Personal loans 77,931 75,878 75,068 59,918 2.7% 30.1%
 Credit cards 60,488 59,094 56,341 41,859 2.4% 44.5%
 Others 27,028 27,581 27,577 18,233 -2.0% 48.2%

 Loans to the public sector 36,090 35,883 34,811 28,032 0.6% 28.7%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,450 5,442 5,549 9,713 0.1% -43.9%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account) 349,618 367,742 350,296 261,824 -4.9% 33.5%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 458,785 475,081 455,026 338,365 -3.4% 35.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 750,626 747,737 724,365 555,618 0.4% 35.1%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency) 795,744 795,224 770,215 613,351 0.1% 29.7%
## Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current 306.599 308.376 299.300 225.593 -0.6% 35.9%
account priv. in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 404.409 406.068 395.485 296.026 -0.4% 36.6%
M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + 594.692 591.054 571.826 426.215 0.6% 39.5%
total private deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency) 632.502 629.473 609.681 478.486 0.5% 32.2%

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -5.891 -2.0% 20.429 7.5% 253 0.1% 84.545 40.7%
Financial sector 2.967 1.0% 242 0.1% -248 -0.1% 12.300 5.9%
Public sector 475 0.2% 23.502 8.6% 9.791 3.4% 49.441 23.8%
Private external sector 5 0.0% 5.445 2.0% 2.448 0.8% 34.080 16.4%
BCRA Securities -9.009 -3.0% -7.848 -2.9% -11.129 -3.8% -9.287 -4.5%
Others -329 -0.1% -912 -0.3% -608 -0.2% -1.989 -1.0%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -773 -1.8% -3.135 -6.9% -1.953 -4.4% -4.631 -9.9%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 2 0.0% 1.117 2.5% 501 1.1% 7.575 16.2%
Payment to international organizations -110 -0.3% 132 0.3% 55 0.1% -43 -0.1%
Other operations of the public sector -16 0.0% -3.569 -7.9% -1.697 -3.8% -1.794 -3.8%
Minimum cash -564 -1.3% -542 -1.2% -649 -1.5% -642 -1.4%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -84 -0.2% -273 -0.6% -163 -0.4% -9.725 -20.8%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12
(1) (2) (2)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 12.1 12.0 12.1
Integration 12.2 12.6 12.8
Position (3) 0.2 0.6 0.7
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 65.4 65.4 65.4
30 to 59 days 23.7 23.7 23.7
60 to 89 days 5.7 5.7 5.7
90 to 179 days 3.6 3.6 3.6
more than 180 days 1.6 1.6 1.6

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 19.4 19.5 20.0
Integration (includes default in application of resources) 86.6 86.4 85.6
Position (3) 67.1 66.8 65.6
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (4)
Up to 29 days 50.1 50.4 53.1
30 to 59 days 24.5 23.3 22.1
60 to 89 days 11.9 12.5 10.5
90 to 179 days 11.1 11.8 12.4
180 to 365 days 2.2 2.0 1.8
more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position in national currency.

(3) Position = Requirement - Integration

(4) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

Call in pesos (15 days)
Rate 11.02 10.85 10.77 10.77 9.43
Amount traded 1.471 1.361 1.313 1.313 1.368

Fixed-term Deposit
In pesos
30-44 days 13.10 12.90 13.69 13.69 12.20
60 days or more 13.45 11.39 15.43 15.43 11.64
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 12.50 13.04 13.43 13.43 11.95
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 14.76 15.14 15.37 15.37 14.13
# In dollars
 30-44 days 0.58 0.59 0.60 0.60 0.32
 60 days or more 1.12 1.06 1.11 1.11 0.78
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.69 0.68 0.65 0.65 0.43
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.79 0.70 0.61 0.61 0.64

 Active Interest Rates Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

Repo in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 13.86 13.93 15.57 15.57 12.43
 Amount traded (total terms) 237 198 235 235 218

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 21.48 21.55 21.79 21.79 23.35
 Documents on signature alone 19.35 19.40 19.04 19.04 20.21
 Mortgage loans 16.20 16.62 17.25 17.25 15.75
 Pledge loans 20.85 21.27 19.59 19.59 25.21
 Personal loans 34.47 34.97 34.22 34.22 36.58
 Credit cards n/a 34.16 34.69 34.69 33.23

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- by agreement to companies - more than $10 million 14.33 14.49 14.44 14.44 15.75

 International Interest Rates Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.20 0.21 0.21 0.21 0.25
 6 months 0.46 0.49 0.51 0.51 0.76

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.26 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.27
 10 years 1.96 1.88 1.70 1.70 1.95

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.25 7.25 7.25 7.25 10.50

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

BCRA Repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO session Repo rates
 1 day 9.30 9.28 9.36 9.36 9.07
 7 days 9.56 9.52 9.53 9.53 9.50

Amount traded in REPO session repo (daily average) 12,051 11,578 10,111 10,111 13,426

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o 11.60 11.60 n/o
 2 months 12.66 12.28 11.98 11.98 n/o
 3 months 12.95 12.87 12.93 12.93 n/o
 9 months n/o n/o 14.52 14.52 n/o
 12 months 15.09 14.96 14.99 14.99 13.52

Margin of NOBAC in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,256 1,017 786 786 520

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 5.01 4.95 4.88 4.88 4.35
 Retail 5.01 4.95 4.88 4.88 4.35

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 5.14 5.05 4.98 4.98 4.39
 ROFEX 1 month 5.08 5.02 4.95 4.95 4.38
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 911 684 818 818 930

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.54 2.44 2.35 2.35 2.53

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 6.69 6.58 6.41 6.41 5.75

 Capital Market Feb-13 Jan-13 Dec-12 Dec-12 Feb-12

MERVAL
 Index 3,256 3,176 2,672 2,672 2,764
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 61 65 54 54 51

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 133.06 127.44 120.57 120.57 104.41
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.69 99.65 97.99 97.99 87.98
 BODEN 2014 ($) 95.53 94.77 92.24 92.24 92.56
 DISCOUNT ($) 50.25 49.46 46.02 46.02 54.98

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,325 1,262 1,204 1,204 748
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 296 288 298 298 348

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the tenders for each month.
# Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 19

## 9. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity (Buenos Aires Deposits of Large Amount Rate).

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Stock Price Index.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STV:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2013 | BCRA | 20
