# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2013

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 10

8. Capital Markets | Page 12

 Equities | Page 12

 Public Securities | Page 13

 Private Securities | Page 13

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 14

 Financial Trusts | Page 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

10. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was December 11, 2013. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) grew 1.6%, accumulating an increase of 28.3% over the last twelve months. For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate (private M3) exhibited a monthly growth of 1.3% and an year-over-year variation of 30.1%. Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector continued to stand out among the components of private M3. In the month they grew 2.7%, with increases confirmed both in deposits of less than $1 million (1.9%) and in placements belonging to the wholesale segment (3.3%). In year-over-year terms, the increase in fixed-term deposits stood at 39.2%, remaining at a historically high level. This allowed them to continue gaining share within private M3, reaching a weight of 31.5%, 4.2 percentage points above the proportion they represented 2 years ago.

• Favored by public policies aimed at promoting productive credit, in the first eleven months of 2013, loans in pesos to the private sector stand out as the main growth factor of private M3. In November, loans in pesos to the private sector presented growth of 2.6% ($11,330 million), similar to that of the previous month. Thus, the year-over-year rate of change continued at elevated levels, hovering around 36%.

• Regarding the "Productive Investment Credit Line" (LCIP), preliminary data indicate that since its launch (mid-2012) and through the month of October, credits of more than $45,000 million were agreed upon, of which approximately 58% was allocated to MSMEs. With the closing of the third stage, the productive loans agreed upon will have reached $55,000 million, of which $30,000 million will have been directed to smaller relative-sized companies.

• The satisfactory results of this credit policy directed at the productive sector, and which pays special attention to the provision of funds to MSMEs, were reflected in an increasing participation of the latter in the financing of legal entities. During the course of the last semester of 2013, MSMEs obtained approximately 40% of new loans granted to companies, when this ratio reached 27% in mid-2012, prior to the implementation of the LCIP.

• The broad liquidity ratio of financial entities (defined as the sum of current accounts of financial entities, cash in pesos, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC; as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained compared to the previous month, standing at 31.9%.
• Among short-term passive interest rates, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more with a 30-35 day term – averaged 19.1%; while, in the retail segment, the weighted average of the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits in pesos by the private sector up to $100 thousand was located at 15.5%. Meanwhile, among active interest rates, the corresponding rate for advances granted to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days term, averaged 20.2%.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1
Graph 2.1

% Monetary Aggregates - M3 % In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pe-
(variation of monthly averages)
5 50 sos presented a monthly growth of 1.6% (see Graph

 4 40 2.1), accumulating in the last twelve months an in-

 28.3 crease of 28.3% (1.2 p.p. lower than observed in Oc-
 3 2.6 30
 2.1 tober). For its part, the broadest private monetary

 2 1.5 1.4 1.6 20 aggregate (M3 private²) exhibited monthly growth

 1 10 of 1.3% and year-on-year variation of 30.1%. The in-
 crease of the month was based on loans to the private
 0 0
 sector and public sector operations. When considering
 -1 Monthly variation of M3 -10 the first eleven months of 2013, credit in pesos to the
 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis)
 -1.3 private sector stands out as the main growth factor
 -2 -20
 Nov-08 May-09 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 of M3 private, favored by public policies aimed at

 Note: M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA promoting productive credit (see Graph 2.2).

 Graph 2.2 Among the components of M3 private in pesos, the

 thousands of means of payment (M2 private) presented an increase
 millions of $ Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates
 (January-November 2013, on average) of 0.6% in November, mainly due to the increase
 110
 100 in checking account deposits. Meanwhile, fixed-term
 90 M3 Private placements grew 2.7%, verifying increases in both
 80
 70 deposits of less than $1 million (1.9%) and place-
 60
 50 ments belonging to the wholesale segment (3.3%). In
 40
 30 year-on-year terms, the increase in fixed-term de-
 20 posits was located at 39.2%, a value that continues
 10
 0 to be historically elevated. This allowed such de-
 -10 posits to continue gaining participation within M3
 -20
 -30 private, reaching a weight of 31.5% that is 4.2 p.p.

 Currency Purchases Public Sector* Loans to Private Sector M2 Private Deposits at Term greater than the proportion they represented two years
 and Other Private
 *Includes public sector operations with effects on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector. ago (see Graph 2.3).

 Graph 2.3 On the other hand, deposits in pesos from the public
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector sector increased 2.9% in November, observing an in-

 % (variations of monthly averages) November - Monthly Average Variation crease in term placements, partially offset by a de-
 % More than $1 million
 7 55 crease in sight deposits.
 Monthly variation 8
 Year-on-year variation (right axis)
 6 Participation of Fixed-Term in M3 Priv. (right axis) 50 6

 4 3.3
 5 45 Foreign currency deposits presented a slight decrease
 4.1 2
 2007
 2 4 40 0 2008 in the monthly average balance, verifying declines in
 3.2 39.2 -2 placements by the private sector that were partially
 2.8 2009
 3 2.7 35 Less than $1 million 2010 offset by the increase in deposits from the public
 31.5%
 8 2011 sector.
 2 30 2012
 6 2013

 1 254
 2 1.9

 0 200

 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 -2
 Source: BCRA
2 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 4 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 3 presented a growth of 1.6%, accumulating an year-on-year variation of 27.3%.

Graph 3.1 With respect to the primary creation of money, in November, the average balance of the monetary base increased 1%. In this way, its year-on-year rate of change was 2 p.p lower than that of the previous month, standing at 24.4%.

3. Bank Liquidity1
November 2013 Nov-13;
3.9 Cash 31.9

14.6
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos* CCBCRA The broad liquidity ratio of financial entities
(deposits average monthly) (defined as the sum of current accounts of financial entities, cash in pesos, net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and

45

40 NOBAC; as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained at
Pases
25 Net levels of the previous month, standing at

11.9 LEBACs and
1.5 NOBACs 31.9% (see Graph 3.1). Nevertheless, its composition was
20 modified upon registering a decrease in the proportion
Dec-08 May-09 Oct-09 Mar-10 Aug-10 Jan-11 Jun-11 Nov-11 Apr-12 Sep-12 Feb-13 Jul-13 represented by LEBAC and NOBAC in terms of deposits, which was partially compensated by an increase in the proportion held in repos with the Central Bank. For its part, bank reserves allowed financial entities to complete the month with a surplus in the Minimum Cash position equivalent to around 0.2% of deposits.

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.1 In the foreign currency segment, bank liquidity continued to be at high levels. In November, dollar assets represented 121.8% of deposits in the same denomination, 3.2 p.p. above the level reached in October.

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% %
6 60
Monthly variation
4. Loans
5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50

4 40

3 2,630

2 20
1 4 5
1 10

0 0 In November, loans in pesos to the private sector
-1 -10 presented a growth of 2.6% ($11,330 million),
Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 similar to that of the previous month. Thus, the year-on-year rate of change continued at high values, hovering around 36% (see Graph 4.1). Among the different credit lines, the dynamism of credit card financing stood out, which made a contribution of 1.2 p.p. to the monthly increase.

Source: BCRA

3 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks, CEDINs and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency (expressed in pesos)
4 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts.
5 In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) agreed upon in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance consists of loans agreed upon, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.2 Regarding loans with essentially commercial purposes, the financings instrumented through documents continued growing, registering an increase of 2.5% ($2,580 million) and around 50% year-on-year (see Graph 4.2). For its part, the balance of advances reflected a monthly decrease of 3% ($1,805 million), which was explained mostly by

Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
% (average monthly variation) %
12 70
Average monthly var.
10 60
Year-on-year var. (right axis)
8 50

5.8 40
6
4.1 30
4 by advances in current account to companies for more
 2,0 2,5 20
 1,9 than $10 million granted in the short term (8 to 89 days).
 2
 0,5 10
 Meanwhile, in the last twelve months the total of advances
 0 0
 -0,2 accumulated an increase of 24.8%. It is worth mentioning that the

 -2 -10 remaining commercial financing, grouped under the

 -4 -20 heading "Other loans", registered in the period an
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13
 Source: BCRA increase of 2.1% ($705 million).

 Within the framework of credit stimulus policies for pro-
 ductive activities developed by the BCRA, continued dis-
 Chart 4.3
 bursement of part of the funds allocated through the
 Bicentennial Advances
 (amounts disbursed by economic sector) auctions of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Pro-
 gram (BPFP). Thus, the total funds disbursed since the
 Agriculture, livestock and beginning of the BPFP amounts to $5,783 million, around
 forestry Transport and
 8% communications 75% of what was allocated. Most of these resources were
 9%
 channeled toward manufacturing industry (see Chart 4.3).
 Commerce
 8% On the other hand, regarding the "Credit Line for Pro-

 Hospitality and restaurants ductive Investment" (CLPI), preliminary data indicates that

 2% since it was launched and until the month of October,
 credits totaling more than $45,000 million were agreed
 Manufacturing industry Other upon, of which around 58% was allocated to micro, small
 65% 8%
 and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). With the closure
 of the third stage, in December, the productive loans

 Note: figures as of October. Source: BCRA agreed will have reached $55,000 million, of which
 $30,000 million will have been directed to smaller rela-
 tive-sized companies.

 The satisfactory results of this credit policy directed at
 the productive sector, which pays special attention to
 Chart 4.4 the provision of funds to MSMEs, were reflected in an
 Loans to Legal Entities in Pesos increasing participation of the latter in financing to
 (amounts accumulated monthly)
 legal entities. In fact, during the last semester of 2013,
 % MSMEs Other Legal Entities MSMEs obtained approximately 40% of the new loans
 100
 granted to companies6, when this ratio reached 27% in
 90
 mid-2012, prior to the implementation of the CLPI (see
 80
 70 Chart 4.4).

 60

 50 Within the credit lines aimed mainly at financing family

 40 consumption, credit card financing exhibited great dy-
 30 namism. The increase registered in the period reached
 20
 7.2% ($5,170 million), the largest of the last twelve
 10
 0 months and similar to that of November last year. As a
 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 Oct-13
 consequence, its year-over-year rate of change contin-

 Note: excludes advances and credit cards. Source: BCRA ued to be above 40% (see Chart 4.5). For their part, per-
 sonal loans grew 3.1% ($2,920 million) in November; in

 6 Not including advances and credit card financing. the meantime, their year-over-year growth rate remained

 Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.5 practically stable at around 32%.

 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 9 90 Regarding loans with real collateral, pledged loans
 8 Average monthly variation 80 exhibited a growth of 3.5% ($1,030 million), similar to
 Y-o-y variation (right axis) 7,1 7,2
 7 70 that of the previous month. In this way, its year-over-
 6,0
 6 60 year rate of change stood at 45%. For their part, mort-
 5 4,1 50 gage loans grew in the month 1.8% ($730 million), an
 4 40
 3 2,6 30 increase that was higher than those of the three previous
 2,2 2,3
 2 20 months; and in the last twelve months accumulated

 1 10

 0 0

 -1 -10

 -2 -20
-3 -30
Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 showed an increase of 26%. It is worth mentioning that a part

Source: BCRA of the growth in mortgage credit for housing is not reflected
 in the lending statistics reported by financial entities, since
 Graph 5.1 it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Pro-
 gram of the Bicentenary for Single Family Housing
 Allocated Amount of LEBAC in the Primary Market (PRO.CRE.AR), created following the enactment of Decree
 (as a percentage of the total) 902 of June 2012.7

 % Up to 90 days 91 to 180 days 181 to 270 days 271 to 360 days More than 360 days
 100
 90 According to the latest available information, correspond-

 80 ing to the month of October, financing granted by finan-
 70 cial entities in the form of leasing contracts8 showed an
 60 increase of 3.2% ($284 million), higher than in Septem-
 50 ber. Likewise, its year-on-year rate of change continued
 40 to accelerate, reaching 40.5%.
 30
 20 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, loans to the
 10 private sector decreased 4.6% (US$190 million), record-
 0 ing a monthly average balance of approximately US$4,000
 Nov-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 million.
 Source: BCRA

 Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary and Secondary Market
 T.N.A % (weighted average rate by amount; data at month-end)
 20
 5. Interest Rates 9
 18
 Securities Issued by the Central Bank10
 16
 14 The interest rates for placements in the primary market
 Primary market Nov-13

 Primary market Oct-13 remained unchanged in November. Only fixed-rate secu-

 12 Secondary market Nov-13 rities were placed, and, unlike previous months, market
 Secondary market Oct-13
 offers were positioned in securities with maturities exceed-
 10
 ing 180 days. In the last auction of the month, the interest
 8 Days rate for LEBAC placements with the shortest maturities,
 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260 280 300 320 340 360 380 400 420 440 460 480 500
 Note: in the primary market data from the last auction of the month auctioned at 80 days and 100 days, with predetermined
 Source: BCRA cutoff rates, were positioned at 15.1% and 15.4%, respectively.

7 PRO.CREAR loans are implemented through a public trust fund, which was established with contributions from the
National Treasury ($7,500 million to date, against the issuance of Participation Certificates) and from ANSES (which to date
contributed $8,500 million).
8 Comprises the value of capital goods (personal and real property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity upon
their request, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated term a price and holds the unilateral right to
exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.
9 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
10 In this section the figures correspond to data at month-end, unless otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.3 Likewise, the interest rate for the security allocated
 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market with the highest maturity – with a maturity of 420 days –
 millions of $ stood at 18.1% (see Graph 5.2).
 1,600
 More than 360 days
 1,400 Between 270 and 360 days In the secondary market, the interest rates for LEBAC
 Between 180 and 270 days securities traded remained stable for the shortest maturities,
 1,200 Between 90 and 180 days while they registered slight increases for maturities between
 Between 60 and 90 days
 Between 30 and 60 days 25 and 45 days. The behavior evidenced in interest rates
 1,000 Between 15 and 30 days occurred in a context where the total average amount
 Up to 15 days traded
 800

 600

 400

 200
decreased compared to the previous month, standing at $800
 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 million daily. (see Graph 5.3).
 Source: BCRA

 Throughout November, the outstanding balance of LE-
 BAC and NOBAC was reduced by $2,107 million and stood at
 $114,891 million. In terms of deposits, the stock
 decreased slightly and stands around 16.5%. The
 monthly stock decrease was explained princi-
 Graph 5.4 pally as a consequence of the decline in holdings by private
 banks and, to a lesser extent, by Investment Common
 Central Bank Securities Holdings Funds (FCI); behaviors that were
 thousands of
 millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) partly offset by public banks. (see
 14 Graph 5.4).
 12 Others
 FCIs
 10
 Private Banks
 8
 6 Public Banks
 Central Bank Repo Operations1
 4
 2
 -
 -2 The Central Bank's passive repo rates remained
 -4 at 9% and 9.5% for the 1 and 7 day terms, respec-
 -6 tively. Meanwhile, the active repo interest rates for the
 -8
 -10 same terms were situated at 11% and
 -12 11.5%, respectively.
 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 Nov-13

 Source: BCRA
 The average balance of passive repos for the Central
 Bank, including all modalities of operations in
 which this institution participates, increased by 10.2%
 standing at $13,855 million. During the month, no
 active repos for the Central Bank were arranged.

 Graph 5.5 Interbank Markets1
 Interbank Markets
 thousands of millions $ (average daily amount traded)
 17 As a consequence of the behavior recorded in the
 15 Passive Repos for the BCRA first half of the month, in November the rates of the inter-
 Active repos for the BCRA bank market increased. In this context, in the
 14 Call
 unsecured market (call) the average interest rate
 12 Repos between financial entities (REPO round)
 for operations at 1 business day increased by 3.1
 11
 p.p. standing at 15.1%. Likewise, the average interest rate
 9
 8 for operations at 1 business day between financial
 6 entities in the secured market (REPO round)
 5 increased by 3.3 p.p. and stood at 14.6%.
 3

 2
 0 Together with the performance recorded in interest
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 rates, the average daily volume traded increased by
 Source: BCRA $590 million, standing at $5,470 million. The increase
 Graph 5.6 was driven by operations in the
 BADLAR of private banks call market, which recorded an increase of $330 million in
 % TNA (daily data) the average volume traded and stood at $2,180 mil-
 32 lion. Likewise in the REPO round, excluding
 28 operations in which the BCRA participates, the amount traded
 24 Avg. Nov-13 increased by $260 million, standing at $3,290
 19.1
 20 million. With respect to the net position recorded in the
 call market, foreign entities were once again the only
 16
 recipients – in net terms – of funds.
 12

 8
 4
 0 Passive Interest Rates1
 Jun-08 Mar-09 Dec-09 Sep-10 Jun-11 Mar-12 Dec-12 Sep-13
 Source: BCRA
 In November, the interest rates paid by financial
 entities for fixed-term operations in pesos from the
 private sector recorded slight increases. In
 Graph 5.7 particular, the average of the interest rates paid
 by the private sector for operations up to $100 thousand stood
 Interest Rates for Loans to Commercial Activities at 15.5%, with an increase of almost 0.3 p.p. with
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % respect to the previous month.
 36 Total Current Account Advances
 Discounted Documents
 32 Documents on Sole Signature For its part, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of
 Current account advances over $10 M - up to 7 days private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million
24 million and more than 30-35 days maturity – averaged 19.1%, with a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to October 20 (see Chart 5.6).

16

12 Active Interest Rates¹ 11

8

4 During the month under analysis, the interest rates appli-

Source: BCRA Jun-08 Feb-09 Oct-09 Jun-10 Feb-11 Oct-11 Jun-12 Feb-13 Oct-13 ed to loans in pesos to the private sector presented heterogeneous behavior.

On one hand, the interest rates applied to commercial lines increased during the month. In particular, the interest rate on current account advances averaged 26.1%, registering an increase of 1.1 p.p. with respect to the October average. Within this line, the interest rate corresponding to those granted to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity, was located at 20.2%, 1.7 p.p. above the level of the previous month.

Chart 5.8

Interest Rates on Loans with Real Guarantee and those intended for Consumption (monthly average) Chattel Mortgages
TNA, % 1.0
50 0.5 0.3
Mortgages to Natural Persons
45 0.0

-0.5 -0.1 -0.1 Personal
40

-1.0 For its part, among financings implemented through documents, the monthly average of the interest rate on single signature documents was located at 21.4%, with a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. Likewise, the monthly average of the interest rate corresponding to document discount registered an increase of 0.7 p.p. during the month, placing itself at 23.5%
35 Mortgages Chattel Mortgages Personal
30

25

20

15

10

Jul-08 Mar-09 Nov-09 Jul-10 Mar-11 Nov-11 Jul-12 Mar-13 Nov-13 (see Chart 5.7).
Source: BCRA

¹¹ The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 9 Among longer-term loans, the rates of those granted with real guarantee presented declines during the month. In the case of mortgage loans to natural persons, the interest rate averaged 16.1%, declining 0.1 p.p., the same as the interest rate of those granted with chattel mortgage guarantee which averaged 22.3%. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate on personal loans was located at 38.6%, increasing 0.3 p.p. (see Chart 5.8).

Chart 7.1
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
% Eurozone
7

6 Monetary Policy Rate
5 Inflation Rate
Meta de Inflación
4 Interest Rate Corridor 6. International Reserves and Foreign
3 Exchange Market
2

1 By the end of November, the balance of international

0 reserves reached US$30,799 million, a level 7.2% lower

-1 than that registered one month ago. Said variation was
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 mainly associated with net sales of foreign currency by
Source: own elaboration based on ECB. the Central Bank in the Single and Free Foreign Ex-
The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% a.a. change Market.

When considering monthly average quotations, the peso depreciated with respect to the United States dollar (2.9%) and the euro (1.7%). Meanwhile, with respect to the real it appreciated (2.2%), after two months of having registered depreciations greater than 5%.

Chart 7.2

% Inflation Rates and Target of the United States % 7. Main Measures of Policy from

7 Personal Consumption Expenditures 15
6 Inflation Target * Other Central Banks
5 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures 10
Dallas FED Trimmed Mean
5 CPI
4 CPI Core Regarding the two previous months, in November

3 PPI (right axis) there were more developments regarding measures adopted

2 by central banks, both from advanced countries

0 and emerging ones, in general, with a tendency to
0 -5 expansionary type measures.

 -1

 -2 -10 Among advanced countries, the European Central
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED). Bank (ECB) stood out, whose Governing Council

 * The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of
 employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, it decided on November 7, to reduce by 0.25 p.p. its policy
 an objective was set of a 2% annual variation for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.
 interest rate, which it applies to Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), to a historic
 minimum of 0.25%. In turn, it decreased the width of the rate
 corridor by lowering the interest rate on the credit
 facility to 0.75% and maintaining at 0% the interest rate on the
 deposit facility (see Graph 7.1).
 Along with this, the ECB decided to extend the validity of full allotment
 conditions12 and fixed interest rate for
 its regular liquidity provision operations, for as long as necessary and, at least, until
 mid-2015.

12 All requested liquidity is provided.

 Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 10 Graph 7.3 For its part, on November 20, the minutes of the Federal Reserve (FED) meeting of
 Monthly Job Creation - USA
 In thousands Non-Agricultural late October were released, from which new signals emerge that
 jobs
 500 a reduction in the pace of asset purchases
 (tapering) is being evaluated. Again, emphasis is placed on the fact that the
 300
 reduction will depend on the improvement in
 100 employment indicators being consolidated, and on inflation
 the rate not continuing to decline. In this sense, new price
 -100
 and employment indicators were released that do not paint a
 -300 clear picture. On the one hand, October's CPI registered a
 year-on-year increase of 0.9%, 0.2 p.p.
 -500
 Recessions less than in September, and the lowest value in the last
 Job Creation 6-month moving average forty-eight months (see Graph 7.2). On the other
 -700 hand, in the U.S. labor market, 204 thousand jobs were
 -900 created in October13, a value that was considerably
 Jan-70 Jan-74 Jan-78 Jan-82 Jan-86 Jan-90 Jan-94 Jan-98 Jan-02 Jan-06 Jan-10 above what the market expected (125 thousand jobs). However, the
 6-month moving average of job creation is still below
 Source: Own elaboration based on BLS.gov 200 thousand jobs, a value that was pointed out by the FED as a
 concrete indicator of labor market normalization (see
 Graph 7.4 Graph 7.3). This is why market consensus is divided
 Evolution of the Broad Monetary Aggregate and Loans to into two positions regarding when tapering will occur.
 % Sector Private - United Kingdom Launch of According to a survey conducted by Bloomberg, slightly less
 year-on-year variation Funding for than half of analysts expect it to begin in December, while
 Lending Scheme the rest lean toward the first quarter of 2014.
 14
 7
 Additionally, the Bank of England (BoE) did not modify its
 2.4 policy interest rate, Bank Rate, which stands at 0.5%, nor its
 0 -0.4 quantitative easing program –Asset Purchase Facility–. Instead,
 M4 Loans it decided to modify its credit stimulus program (Funding
 -7 for Lending Scheme, FLS)14 which from 2014 onwards will
 Dec-98 Jun-00 Dec-01 Jun-03 Dec-04 Jun-06 Dec-07 Jun-09 Dec-10 Jun-12 only provide subsidized funding for loans that the financial
 system grants to companies, focusing on SMEs, ceasing to
 Source: BCRA based on bankofengland.co.uk/ finance households in a subsidized manner. Through this
 measure the BoE would seek to
 Graph 7.5
# Interest Rate, Inflation Rate and Target, and Indicators to Avoid the Emergence of a Bubble in the Real Estate Market

% Activity - Brazil % real estate. Until now the FLS had
22 Industrial Production (Year-on-year Change) 18
Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-on-year Change) contributed to reversing the decline in the stock of loans
18 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
Inflation Rate (right axis) (see Chart 7.4).
14 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14

10 12

6 Within emerging countries, the increase stood out, by
10 part of the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of
2
8 the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB), of the target for the
-2
-6 6 Selic rate, which went from 9.5% to 10% (see Chart 7.5). This

-10 4 increase was in line with what private analysts expected.

-14 2 However, from the press release issued by COPOM it

-18 0 emerges that the current pace of increase will probably
Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13 moderate

Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

13 Non-agricultural private sector.
14 The FLS is a BoE program through which it provides financing to the financial system at a subsidized interest rate with
the purpose that banks increase their loans to the non-financial private sector. More information at bankofengland.co.uk

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 11 in the Selic target (0.5 p.p. each meeting) in a
context of lower growth prospects.

Furthermore, the Central Bank of Chile (BCCh) decided
to reduce the target of its reference interest rate by
0.25 p.p., to 4.5%, for the second consecutive time, after
almost two years of keeping it unchanged. This decision
is
Chart 7.6

Interest Rate, Inflation Rate and Inflation Target % Peru
7 Reference Interest Rate
6 Inflation Rate

5 Inflation Target Limits

4
framed in a context where the economy shows signs of
3 deceleration, while inflation remains below the target
2 range. In effect, in September the BCCh had reduced its
1 growth projections for 2013 from 4-5% to 4-4.5%.
0

-1 On the other hand, on November 7, the Central Bank of
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Reserve of Peru (BCRP) decided to reduce from 4.25% to

Source: BCRA based on bcrp.gob.pe 4% the target for the interbank market interest rate,
level at which it had been since May 2011 (see Chart
7.6). Likewise, it agreed to reduce by 0.25 p.p. the
interest rates of active and passive operations in
national currency of the BCRP with the financial system
carried out outside of auction.15 This decision was
adopted with the objective of boosting economic
activity, in a context where inflation is expected to
continue moderating until it reaches the center of the
target (1-3%) during 2014. Furthermore, the monetary
authority indicated that the economy is growing at rates
below its potential, in a scenario where recent indicators
Chart 8.1 show lower growth of the global economy.

World Stock Indices However, they indicated that the decision of November
160 (in dollars; Base Index 30/11/11=100)
MSCI- World 7 does not imply future new reductions of the reference
150 S&P 500
MSCI-Europe interest rate.
140
MSCI- Emerging
130 MSCI- Latam 8. Capital Markets
120

110 Equities16

100

90 In November, variable income assets in the main
80 stock markets ended with price increases and lower
70 expected volatility. In the United States, positive data
60 was observed in the real estate market along with other
Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 favorable macroeconomic indicators. Likewise, in
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data Europe, the measures of the ECB to maintain liquidity
in the system had a positive impact on investor
expectations.
When observing the main reference indices, the MSCI Global ended the month with a gain of 1.6%. Likewise, within advanced economies, the S&P 500, the main index of the United States market, advanced 2.8%, while the European market, measured through the MSCI index, gained 1.3% (see Graph 8.1). The performance of quotations occurred together with lower expected volatility. In the United States, the volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, fell 2.3 p.p., and in Europe the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 decreased 2 p.p (see Graph 8.2).

In contrast to the performance observed in advanced economy markets, equity assets of emerging economies measured through the MSCI Emerging index retreated 1.6%. In this context, the MSCI Latin America lost 4.7%, and the Bovespa (Brazil), the reference index for the region, retreated 7.3%. Likewise, the IGPA (Chile) fell 7.9%. In both cases the decline was driven by both the performance recorded in the index in local currency and the depreciation of their currencies with respect to the dollar. Different from the region's behavior, the IPC (Mexico) gained 2.7% (see Graph 8.3).

In the local stock exchange, the reference index (Merval) measured in dollars ended November with a gain of 6.6% and accumulated a 60% increase so far this year. The gains were generalized, highlighting the behavior of banks and energy companies. The average daily volume traded in shares decreased 22% with respect to October and stood at $109 million.

---

## Public Securities

In November, the yields of North American public debt widened, mainly in bonds in the longest part of the curve. In effect, the corresponding bonds with a maturity of 10 years grew 19 b.p.. In this context the differential of emerging securities over North American Treasury bonds increased 31 b.p., according to the EMBI+, standing at the end of November at 359 b.p..

In Argentina, the differential of return on public securities continued to decline, consolidating the trend recorded in recent months. In this way, at the end of the month the EMBI+ stood at 776 b.p., 145 b.p. less than at the end of October (see Graph 8.4).

---

## Private Securities

The placement of corporate debt under public offering through the issuance of Negotiable Bonds (ON) and Short-Term Securities (VCP) totaled $3,020 million in November, reaching the second monthly amount in magnitude of 2013. While the amount of

---

## FOOTNOTES

15 The overnight deposit interest rate moved to 3.2% while the interest rate for direct temporary purchase of securities and monetary regulation credits was reduced to 4.8%.

16 Unless otherwise specified, the variation of the indices are expressed in United States dollars.

---

**Source:** BCRA Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | Page 12-13
billions Corporate Bond Issuance
 issuances remained relatively stable, the increase in
 of $ average amount issued stood out with respect to
 6.0 the previous month (see Graph 8.5).
 5.0 Other
 Agricultural Sector
 4.0 Retail Trade
 Real Estate Activities and Construction Most of the placements were denominated in
 3.0 Financial Sector pesos and concentrated in terms of between 1 and 2 years.
 Energy Among the main issuers of the month, financial
 2.0 entities stood out, which accessed the capital market
 seeking to diversify their funding sources, raising
 1.0 $1,592 million. In second place was the energy sector,
 which issued $800 million.
 0.0
 Nov-10 Feb-11 May-11 Aug-11 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13
 In this way, so far this year the energy and banking
Source: IAMC, CNV and BCBA sectors are positioned as the main debt securities
 issuers, representing 42% and 33%, respectively.

 In November, the financing cost remained
 Graph 8.6 relatively stable in those bearing variable interest
 Interest Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos rates, while it increased slightly in fixed rate
 TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) placements. In this regard, the interest rate on
 30 securities with a rating higher than Arg BBB+ and
 maturity less than two years remained at 22.8%. Although
 25 Interest rate on variable rate securities *
 the BADLAR for private banks increased slightly during
 Interest rate on fixed rate securities **
 20 the month, this was partly offset by a decrease in the
 BADLAR private banks average spread. Meanwhile, the interest rate on fixed
 15 rate placements in pesos with a rating higher than
 Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 1 year was placed at
 10 23.9%, 0.6 p.p. higher than the average rate recorded in
 5 October (see Graph 8.6).
 0
 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13
 (*) rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 2 years. (**) rating higher than Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 1 year.
 Source: BCRA based on CNV, IAMC and BCBA. Investment Funds

 The equity of Investment Funds (FCI) in national
 and foreign currency grew $1,780 million (2.5%) and
 was positioned at the end of November at $71,280
 million. The performance is explained almost entirely
 by FCI in pesos, which represent 97% of the sector.

 Graph 8.7 Fixed income funds in pesos grew $1,000
 thousands of Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos millions of $
 (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
 7.0 80 million (3.2%) and again explained most of
 Money Market
 6.0 70 the expansion (see Graph 8.7). In second place were
  Fixed Income
  Mixed Return 60 the funds that invest in mixed return assets,
  Variable Return
 4.0 50 verifying growth of $840 million (7%). In both cases,
 Evolution of stock (right axis)
 3.0 40 both the increase in the number of share units and the
 2.0 30 increase in the quotation of portfolio assets contributed
 positively to the performance of the segments. For their
 1.0 20 part, variable return funds registered growth of
 0.0 10 $310 million (15.4%), mainly due to the increase in
 -1.0 the quotation of the main local stock market assets.
 -2.0 0 Meanwhile, Money Market funds experienced a decline
 Nov-10 Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 Nov-13
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI of $400 million (-1.8%), explained by the redemption of
 Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 14 share units mainly towards the end of the month.

 With respect to returns, variable return funds again
 registered the best monthly performance, verifying an
 estimated return of 13%. In second place, mixed return
 and fixed income funds registered monthly gains of 2% and 1.7%

 Graph 8.8
Estimated Performance of FCIs in Pesos respectively, slightly lower than those observed
%
120 (profitability in pesos) the previous month. Meanwhile, money market funds

107
verified an average monthly profitability of 1%.
100 Accumulated 2013

November 2013
80 Finally, the assets of funds in foreign currency decreased by US$10 million and stood at

60 US$354 million. The decline was due to the redemption of
fund shares in fixed income funds.
40
27
21
20 13.0 10 Financial Trusts17

2.0 1.7 1.0
0
Variable Income FCI Mixed Income FCI $ Fixed Income FCI $ Money Market $
In November, issues of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $2,000 million, with
$
Source: BCRA no placements of infrastructure trusts having been registered. Thus, the amount issued in November
turned out to be one of the highest since records have been kept, being surpassed only by that of July
of this year. Likewise, it was one of the months with the highest number of issues of the year, with 21 placements registered, one more than in October (see Chart 8.9).

Chart 8.9 Among the settlors, financial entities stood out,

Financial Trusts Issues which placed around $970 million
millions of $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) units
2,100 45 (48% of the total), securitizing mainly personal loans
Amount issued
Number of operations (right axis) 40 and, to a lesser extent, chattel mortgage loans. For
1,800
their part, retail stores securitized personal loans
35
1,500 for around $605 million (30% of the total), an
30
amount similar to what they have been placing since
1,200 25 July. Meanwhile, mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and other financial
900 20
services providers issued somewhat more than $390
15
600 million (20% of the total), registering a decrease of
10
300 40% compared to the high amount of the previous month. In this
5 case, the securitizations were associated
0 0
Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 mainly with personal loans. The remainder corresponded to a company dedicated to the production of
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others agricultural machinery and a group of companies providing non-financial services, which securitized
chattel mortgage and commercial credits, respectively.

Regarding the cut-off interest rates, the
corresponding one to senior titles in pesos with duration less than 14 months and agreed at variable rate registered an increase of 1.6 p.p. and stood at 20.6%. Meanwhile, in

17 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 15 the fixed rate segment a single operation was agreed
that pays a rate of 26.4%; after two months without placements in this segment (see Chart 8.10).

It is worth mentioning that in November a provision came into effect regarding the holding of FF debt instruments within the framework of the "Credit Risk Fragmentation" rule. Initially, with the aim of covering a regulatory gap for a set of assets, Communication "A" 5480 of September 6 established that banks had to limit, as
Chart 8.10 of November 1st, the total of shares and

Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos receivables with respect to asset portfolios18 to 15% of

(duration less than 14 months - weighted monthly average by amount) their computable equity responsibility, (and this was the
TIR; % case for those FF that did not have information
40 about the holders of transferred credits). The
35 application of this rule could have led some financial
30 entities to be forced to stop investing in FF, and could
Tasa fija
possibly particularly affect the demand for FF debt titles of
Tasa variable
25 consumption, which constitute an important part of the

20

15
# MONETARY AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

## FF in the hands of a group of specialized banks

5 in said segment. In order to avoid possible undesired effects, it was provided through Communication "A" 5496, that financial entities must have information about the composition of asset portfolios with respect to those that register receivables, provided by the respective administrators, in order to allocate financing individually in the proportion that their holdings represent. Likewise, because consumption FF are backed by a series of credits with similar characteristics that bring together hundreds of account holders, it was incorporated as an optional form that said information about portfolio composition be carried out only at the time of constitution of the trust, as it may appear from the detail of financing, and that the amount, with periodic updating, from which individual imputation is required for the limits referred to credit fractionation be for individual credits exceeding $25,000.

18 Said receivables include fund shares of FCI, debt securities and FF participation certificates, rights corresponding to ordinary FF, etc.

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 169. Monetary and Financial Indicators

---

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Nov-13 | Oct-13 | Dec-12 | Nov-12 | Monthly % Change | Last 12 months % Change |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Monetary Base** | 338,343 | 335,078 | 292,138 | 271,961 | 1.0% | 24.4% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 260,352 | 258,276 | 224,211 | 207,564 | 0.8% | 25.4% |
| Bills and Coins in public hands | 234,834 | 234,462 | 199,335 | 186,407 | 0.2% | 26.0% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 25,516 | 23,810 | 24,872 | 21,155 | 7.2% | 20.6% |
| Cancellation Checks | 2,340 | — | — | — | -22.9% | — |
| **Current Account at BCRA** | 77,991 | 76,803 | 67,927 | 64,397 | 1.5% | 21.1% |

| **Stock of Repos** |
|---|
| Liabilities | 13,855 | 12,577 | 17,432 | 17,749 | 10.2% | -21.9% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | — | — |

| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | 111,927 | 116,946 | 88,681 | 90,852 | -4.3% | 23.2% |
| In banks | 102,681 | 103,245 | 77,641 | 79,612 | -0.5% | 29.0% |

| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** |
|---|
| In pesos | 107,744 | 112,745 | 74,569 | 75,374 | -4.4% | 42.9% |

| **NOBAC** | 4,183 | 4,201 | 14,112 | 15,478 | -0.4% | -73.0% |

| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009** | 32,244 | 34,258 | 44,134 | 45,316 | -5.9% | -28.8% |

| **Private and public sector deposits in pesos (1)** | 654,156 | 640,461 | 525,028 | 506,310 | 2.1% | 29.2% |
| Current account (2) | 172,798 | 171,788 | 150,959 | 138,915 | 0.6% | 24.4% |
| Savings account | 125,071 | 127,320 | 104,730 | 93,889 | -1.8% | 33.2% |
| Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 331,312 | 316,686 | 248,802 | 253,829 | 4.6% | 30.5% |
| Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 6 | 6 | 7 | 7 | 0.6% | -17.0% |
| Other deposits (3) | 24,969 | 24,662 | 20,530 | 19,670 | 1.2% | 26.9% |

| **Private sector deposits** | 467,948 | 459,465 | 372,490 | 353,853 | 1.8% | 32.2% |

| **Public sector deposits** | 186,208 | 180,995 | 152,538 | 152,458 | 2.9% | 22.1% |

| **Private and public sector deposits in dollars (1)** | 8,090 | 8,168 | 9,393 | 9,321 | -1.0% | -13.2% |

| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 480,788 | 469,393 | 373,913 | 358,243 | 2.4% | 34.2% |

| **Loans to private sector** | 442,265 | 431,445 | 339,103 | 325,220 | 2.5% | 36.0% |
| Advances | 57,744 | 59,549 | 47,326 | 46,258 | -3.0% | 24.8% |
| Documents | 104,848 | 102,272 | 76,170 | 70,474 | 2.5% | 48.8% |
| Mortgage loans | 41,982 | 41,248 | 34,475 | 33,303 | 1.8% | 26.1% |
| Chattel mortgage loans | 30,713 | 29,685 | 22,135 | 21,190 | 3.5% | 44.9% |
| Personal loans | 96,577 | 94,165 | 75,069 | 73,299 | 2.6% | 31.8% |
| Credit cards | 76,639 | 71,466 | 56,352 | 54,151 | 7.2% | 41.5% |
| Others | 33,761 | 33,059 | 27,576 | 26,546 | 2.1% | 27.2% |

| **Loans to public sector** | 38,523 | 37,948 | 34,810 | 33,023 | 1.5% | 16.7% |

| **Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 3,961 | 4,148 | 5,549 | 5,640 | -4.5% | -29.8% |

| **Total Monetary Aggregates (1)** |
|---|
| **M1** (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 407,634 | 406,253 | 350,298 | 325,325 | 0.3% | 25.3% |
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 532.706 533.573 455.028 419.213 -0.2% 27.1%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits 888.993 874.926 724.367 692.720 1.6% 28.3%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 939.017 924.219 770.218 737.422 1.6% 27.3%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current 350.205 347.923 299.301 281.764 0.7% 24.3%
accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 464.885 462.217 395.489 368.171 0.6% 26.3%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private 702.785 693.931 571.829 540.262 1.3% 30.1%
deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 744.415 735.224 609.685 577.628 1.3% 28.9%

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.265 1.0% 11.915 3.6% 46.206 15.8% 66.382 24.4%
Financial sector -1.175 -0.4% 1.733 0.5% 5.338 1.8% 5.828 2.1%
Public sector 14.285 4.3% 40.031 12.3% 72.313 24.8% 86.025 31.6%
Private external sector -11.616 -3.5% -25.280 -7.7% -17.586 -6.0% -14.589 -5.4%
BCRA Securities 1.956 0.6% -3.476 -1.1% -11.145 -3.8% -7.864 -2.9%
Other -185 -0.1% -1.094 -0.3% -2.714 -0.9% -3.018 -1.1%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -2.014 -5.9% -4.757 -12.9% -11.889 -26.9% -13.072 -28.8%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.960 -5.7% -4.329 -11.7% -2.821 -6.4% -2.205 -4.9%
Payment to international organizations 49 0.1% 269 0.7% 427 1.0% 504 1.1%
Other operations of the public sector -109 -0.3% 5.659 15.3% 21 0.0% -1.851 -4.1%
Minimum cash 70 0.2% 358 1.0% -730 -1.7% -623 -1.4%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -64 -0.2% -6.714 -18.1% -8.787 -19.9% -8.897 -19.6%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of pooled funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13
(1)

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 11.6 11.6 11.7
Integration 11.8 11.8 11.9
Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
used for calculating the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 63.9 64.0 63.0
30 to 59 days 25.3 23.7 24.6
60 to 89 days 6.3 7.0 7.0
90 to 179 days 3.0 3.6 3.8
More than 180 days 1.5 1.7 1.5

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 19.3 19.4 19.2
Integration (includes default in resource application) 110.6 107.2 104.9
Position (2) 91.4 87.8 85.7
Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
used for calculating the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 49.1 49.7 49.8
30 to 59 days 22.5 23.0 23.1
60 to 89 days 10.5 11.5 11.4
90 to 179 days 13.7 12.1 12.2
180 to 365 days 4.1 3.7 3.4
More than 365 days 0.0 0.0 0.0

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.
(2) Position = Requirement - Integration
(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 18 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
Rate 15.31 12.24 12.19 10.71 10.21
Amount operated 2.218 1.856 1.874 1.313 1.422
Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 15.84 16.27 15.58 13.69 12.14
 60 days or more 17.79 18.02 15.80 15.43 14.74
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 16.79 16.91 15.18 13.43 12.93
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.05 18.74 18.00 15.37 15.30

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.36 0.40 0.47 0.60 0.62
 60 days or more 0.71 0.84 0.95 1.11 1.11
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.39 0.47 0.53 0.65 0.77
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.38 0.50 0.61 0.61 0.95

 Active Interest Rates Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 20.22 18.42 18.23 15.57 15.13
 Operated amount (total terms) 311 290 259 235 262

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 26.12 25.00 23.56 21.79 21.56
 Documents on signature only 21.40 21.08 20.67 18.58 18.16
 Mortgage loans 16.50 17.16 16.20 17.23 16.95
 Pledge loans 22.25 22.42 21.71 19.60 19.63
 Personal loans 38.58 38.19 36.27 34.34 33.84
 Credit cards n/a 34.87 35.46 35.07 34.46

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 20.20 18.72 17.39 14.44 14.28

 International Interest Rates Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.17 0.17 0.18 0.21 0.21
 6 months 0.35 0.36 0.38 0.51 0.53

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.29 0.32 0.39 0.25 0.26
 10 years 2.71 2.60 2.80 1.70 1.64

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 9.58 9.36 9.00 7.25 7.25

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as from July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

BCRA Repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

REPO total round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 11.20 10.25 10.04 9.36 9.35
 7 days 10.03 9.68 10.03 9.53 9.51

REPO round repurchase agreement operated amount (daily average) 11,087 8,484 8,488 10,111 12,516

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 11.60 11.30
 2 months n/o 14.93 n/o 11.98 12.34
 3 months 15.28 15.23 15.34 12.93 12.88
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 14.52 14.56
 12 months 17.77 17.81 17.89 14.99 n/o

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 1 year Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 years Private Banks BADLAR n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

LEBAC and NOBAC operated amount in the secondary market (daily average) 804 1,181 1,068 786 809

 Foreign Exchange Market Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 6.02 5.85 5.74 4.88 4.80
 Retail 6.02 5.85 5.75 4.88 4.80

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 6.38 6.14 5.97 4.98 4.91
 ROFEX 1 month 6.17 6.00 5.87 4.95 4.87
 Operated amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,642 1,332 1,869 818 893

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.61 2.67 2.53 2.35 2.32

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 8.12 7.98 7.67 6.41 6.16

 Capital Market Nov-13 Oct-13 Sep-13 Dec-12 Nov-12

MERVAL
 Index 5,429 5,227 4,531 2,672 2,348
 Operated amount (millions of pesos) 122 139 120 54 32

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 143.34 148.89 145.78 120.57 116.08
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 119.79 114.69 100.15 97.99 97.15
 BODEN 2014 ($) 94.15 95.09 94.64 92.24 92.25
 DISCOUNT ($) 59.79 58.35 48.50 46.02 44.98

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 897 960 1,114 1,204 1,502
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 415 384 381 298 325

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 2010. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Price Index of Shares.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LCIP:** Credit Line for Productive Investment.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Term Negotiated Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**VCP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Representative Debt Value.

---

Monetary Report | November 2013 | BCRA | 21
