1. Summary

• In December, the private M3 monetary aggregate increased 4.1%, and in this way concluded the year with growth of 27.9% year-over-year: credit in pesos to the private sector was the main driver of its increase, promoted by public policies for productive credit promotion. Also contributing, although to a lesser extent, were operations of the non-financial public sector. Meanwhile, sales of foreign currency by the Central Bank had a contractionary monetary effect.

• Among the components of private M3, December's growth concentrated in the means of payment (private M2), which showed an increase of 6.2% (and 24.8% year-over-year). This behavior was motivated by seasonal factors, such as the payment of the semi-annual complementary salary, greater spending by families during the holiday period and the beginning of the summer recess, which led to an increase in demand for transactional money and a moderation in fixed-term placements. With respect to these latter deposits, although they presented a reduction of 0.6% in the month, they concluded the year with year-over-year growth of 35.3%.

• In December, banking liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC; in terms of total deposits in pesos) decreased as is expected in this month, and was located at 31%, 0.9 percentage points below what was observed the previous month. Regarding composition, there was a reduction in excess liquidity (net repos with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) partially offset by the typical December increase in cash in banks and in the current account of entities in the Central Bank.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector recorded in December the largest increase of the year. In effect, they exhibited a monthly increase of 3.3% ($14,760 million) and their year-over-year growth rate was on the order of 35%. As mentioned, public policies aimed at promoting productive credit favored the dynamism of loans in pesos to the private sector.

• In December, the third stage of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP) concluded: financial entities would have met the goal established for the second semester of 2013, of $20,000 million. On the other hand, a new auction was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), awarding $150 million. Thus, the resources awarded since the beginning of the program total $7,780 million, of which $5,860 million have been disbursed to date.
• For the first half of 2014, the Central Bank established a new quota for the LCIP, intended to finance SMEs. In this fourth stage of implementation, the financial entities covered by the regulation must agree to loans of at least 5% of their peso deposits from the private sector by the end of November 2013. Unlike previous stages, on this occasion, the entire quota must be agreed to SMEs, with a minimum term of 36 months, establishing a maximum fixed interest rate of 17.50% for said period. However, up to a maximum equivalent to 50% of the quota may be counted toward mortgage loans granted for the purchase, construction or expansion of homes with a minimum term of 10 years and/or financing granted to clients not classified under the SME definition aimed at investment projects with specific purposes.

• In December, the Central Bank began to offer LEBACs in pesos redeemable at the reference exchange rate between the peso and the US dollar. These notes can only be subscribed by exporters from the cereal and oil sector that are registered in the Single Registry of Operators of the Agroalimentary Chain and in the Registry of Exporters and Importers, and that have liquidated through the Single and Free Exchange Market (MULC) on the day of subscription of the title in foreign currency for up to the dollar equivalent of the amount to be subscribed. The titles will be subscribed in pesos, with a maturity of 180 days and a predetermined cut rate of 3.65%. During the month, LEBACs of this type were placed for VN $1,624 million.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates - M3
% (variation of monthly averages) %
5 4.6 50 The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3 2) pre-

4.0 4.1 sented in December a monthly increase of 2.9% and
4 40
completed an increase of 26.3% in 2013 (see Chart
3 2.8 2.9 30 2.1).

26.3

2 20
For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate
1 10 (Private M3 3) exhibited during 2013 an increase of

0.1
0 0 27.9%: credit in pesos to the private sector was the main

Monthly variation of M3 driver of its increase, promoted by public policies for
-1 -10
Year-over-year variation of M3 (right axis) the promotion of productive credit (see Chart 2.2). Also

-2 -20 contributed, although to a lesser extent, the operations
Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 of the non-financial public sector. Meanwhile, the
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA Central Bank's foreign currency sales had a contractionary
monetary effect. Specifically, private M3 showed
Chart 2.2 growth of 4.1% in December, which was explained by
thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates loans to the private sector and public sector opera-
millions of $ tions.
(January-December 2013, average)
140
Private M3
120 Among the components of private M3, December's
growth concentrated in the means of payment (private
100
M2) which showed an increase of 6.2% (and 24.8%
80
year-over-year). This behavior was motivated by
60
seasonal factors, such as the payment of the additional
40
annual half-salary, greater family spending during the
20
holiday period and the beginning of the summer recess,
0
which led to an increase in the demand for transaction
-20
money and a moderation in fixed-term deposits. Re-
-40
garding the latter deposits...
Foreign Currency Purchases Non-Financial Public* Loans to Private Sector Private M2 Time Deposits
Sector and Other
*Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
Source: BCRA tions, although they presented a reduction of 0.6% in the month, ended the year with an year-on-year growth of 35.3% (see Chart 2.3).

Chart 2.3 Foreign currency deposits presented a slight
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector increase in the average balance in December, verifying
% % advances both in the placements of the private sector
7 (variations of monthly averages) 56 and in the deposits of the public sector.
6 Monthly variation 48
Year-on-year variation (right axis)
5 40
4 35.332
3 2.2 24 In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*,
presented a growth of 3.2% in December, accumulat-
2 1.6 16 ing a year-on-year variation of 25.8%.
1 0.3 8

0 0
Regarding the primary creation of money, in December,
-1 -0.7 -0.6 -8 the average balance of the monetary base increased
-1.1
-2 -16 6.9% and totaled a year-on-year variation of 23.8%
-3 -24 (0.6 p.p. less than that observed in November). Among
Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 its

Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
3 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 4 components, as is customary at this time of year, the greatest growth was recorded in currency in the hands of the public which rose 24% year-on-year, while bank reserves (composed of cash in financial entities and the balances of current accounts of financial entities in the Central Bank) increased 23% year-on-year.

In compliance with the provisions of Article 42 of the Organic Charter, at the end of 2013 the BCRA presented its objectives and plans regarding the development of monetary, financial, credit and exchange rate policies for the year 2014⁴.

Regarding exchange rate policy, intervention in the foreign exchange market will continue under an administered floating regime in order to limit excessive exchange rate volatility that could be harmful in monetary, financial or economic activity terms. Thus, the necessary flexibility is preserved to cushion shocks of various natures that affect the economy.

The Central Bank, through its credit policy, will contribute to vigorous the investment process, strengthen the domestic market and stimulate foreign trade. The objective of increasing the credit/GDP ratio is maintained, seeking, simultaneously, to increase the participation of long-term productive financing, particularly that destined for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and regional economies.

Regarding financial stability, prudential regulations will continue to be adapted, incorporating the international standards agreed upon in the G20, and monitoring their compliance through the supervision of financial entities. It will seek to consolidate a safe and efficient national payment service; and also so that the financial system can both efficiently channel the savings of depositors and finance productive projects.

Incentives will be generated to mitigate one of the main historical limitations of the local financial system such as low levels of banking penetration both geographically and socio-economically. To this end, greater universalization of access to financial services will be promoted, increasing competition in the sector and greater protection of the rights of users of financial services.

⁴ http://www.bcra.gov.ar/pdfs/polmon/ObjetivosBCRA_2014.pdf

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 5 Finally, regarding monetary policy, the Central Bank will administer liquidity according to the needs of the normal functioning of the economy.

Chart 3.1
% of Bank Liquidity in Pesos
deposits economy. For this, the available monetary regulation instruments will be used, among which are found operations with Letters and Notes, the arrangement of repurchase agreements and/or the modification of reserve requirements.

45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repurchase Agreements LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity
40 38.2 38.5
37.2 36.4 35.8 35.5 34.8 34.5 34.1
35 33.9 34.0 33.9 33.5 33.3 32.6 31.5 31.8 32.0 31.8 31.9 31.0
30

25 14.6 13.6
3. Bank Liquidity¹
20
1.5 0.3
15 3.9 4.5 In December, bank liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC; in terms of total deposits in pesos) decreased as is expected in this month of the year, and was located at 31%. This level was 0.9 percentage points lower than observed the previous month and 3 percentage points lower than the one in effect a year ago, remaining at elevated levels (see Chart 3.1). Regarding composition, in December a reduction in excess liquidity was verified (net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs) partially compensated by the typical December increase in cash in banks and the current account of entities at the Central Bank.

10 5 11.9 12.6

0 Source: BCRA Apr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13

It should be noted that between December and February financial entities can meet reserve requirements considering quarterly averages, in order to facilitate the management of their liquid assets in a period of high transactional money demand. Thus, the increase in the balance in the current account at the Central Bank in terms of deposits meant that at the end of 2013 financial entities accumulated a surplus in the Minimum Cash position (equivalent to approximately 0.7% of deposits in pesos), which may be reduced during the first two months of 2014 (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 3.2

Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
% of
deposits Quarterly Position 2.6 Surplus
Accumulated Position 2.0 Daily Position
1.4
0.8
0.7
0.2
-0.4
-1.0 Quarterly
Position
-1.6 Implementation of the increase in current account balance at the Central Bank Deduction ATMs
-2.2
-2.8 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13

Meanwhile, liquidity in the foreign currency segment was located at 129% of deposits in dollars, 7.1 percentage points above what was recorded in November.

Chart 4.1

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
6 (average monthly variation) % 70
Monthly Var. Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 60
4 50
3.3

3 40
4. Loans¹⁵⁶
2 30

1 20 In December, loans in pesos to the private sector registered the largest increase of the year, exhibiting a monthly growth of 3.3% ($14,760 million). Its year-on-year variation rate continued showing a slight moderation, although it remained at elevated levels, around 35% (see Chart 4.1).

0 10

-1 0
Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13
Source: BCRA

5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts.
6 In this report "amounts granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 6

Chart 4.2

millions of $ Bicentenary Advances %
9,000 (cumulative monthly amounts) 80 Public policies aimed at promoting productive credit
8,000 Adjudicated Amounts favored the dynamism of loans in pesos to the private
70
Disbursed Amounts sector. In particular, in December a new auction was
7,000 Ratio Disbursed/Adjudicated 60 held within the framework of the Program
6,000 of the Bicentennial Productive Financing (PFPB),
50

5,000 adjudicating $150 million. Thus, the resources adjudi-
40
4,000 cated since the beginning of the program total $7,780

30 million, of which $5,860 million have been disbursed so far
3,000

20 (see Chart 4.2). Additionally, in December the third stage
2,000
of the Credit Line for Productive Investment (LCIP) concluded,
1,000 10
in which financial entities would have met the goal established

0 0 for the second half of 2013, of $20,000 million.
Source: BCRAOct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13

Due to its positive impact on credit to the productive sector,
the Central Bank established a new quota for the LCIP, intended
to finance SMEs. In this fourth implementation stage, which will
Chart 4.3 be developed during the first half of 2014, financial entities

% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % covered by the regulation must agree to loans of at least 5% of

12 70 their peso deposits from the private sector as of November 29, 2013.
Average monthly var. 60 Unlike the previous stages, on this occasion, the entire quota must

10 Year-over-year var. (right axis) 8.1 50 be agreed to SMEs, at a minimum term of 36 months, establishing a
8
6.2 6,340 maximum fixed interest rate of 17.50% for said period. However, in
6 30
4.6 the case of granting mortgage loans for the purchase, construction
4 3.8 20 or expansion of homes with a minimum term of 10 years, and/or

financing, to clients not defined as SMEs, investment projects with
2 1.2 10
specific purposes7, they may charge said amounts to the quota, for up
0 0 to a maximum equivalent to 50% thereof. For the last category of

-2 -10 clients – non-SME companies – the interest rate will be agreed freely
-2.4 (see Communication "A" 5516).
-4 -20
Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13

Source: BCRA
Chart 4.4
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
7 (contribution to monthly growth) In December, among the different credit lines, the growth of

6 Discounted and financing instruments executed through documents stood
purchased documents out, which increased 6.2% ($6,540 million) and accumulated a growth
5 Single-signature documents of 46.3% in the year (see Chart 4.3). The sharp acceleration in the

4 monthly expansion rate of documents occurred in a context of

3 greater demand for liquidity by companies to face the payment of
the mid-year supplementary salary and other bonuses. As a
2 consequence, financing instruments executed via discounted and
1 purchased documents, which are arranged in the short term, showed
0 great dynamism (see Chart 4.4). On the other hand, the greater
-1 placements by virtue of the closure of the third stage of the LCIP
-2 prompted an increase in financing through single-signature docu-
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec ments. As occurred toward the end of the two previous stages, the

December 2013 new loans granted through this type of document, of longer term,
Source: BCRA showed an increase, totaling more than $9,500 million in December,

7 The purposes are: the expansion of productive capacity, the increase of direct and formal employment, investment in capital goods, 60% more than in November and the highest
import substitution, the expansion of export capacity, the financing of infrastructure works or export of capital goods.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 7 Chart 4.5

Single-Signature Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
thousands of (amounts granted)
millions $
12.0
LCIP - Stage 1 LCIP - Stage 2 LCIP - Stage 3
10.0

8.0
6.0 amount of recent years (see Chart 4.5). Finally,
 advances registered a decrease in the month of
4.0
 1.8% ($1,040 million), presenting in year-on-year

2.0 terms a variation close to 20%, while the
 remaining commercial financing, grouped under the
0.0
 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 heading "Other loans", grew in the period 4.9%

 Source: BCRA ($1,660 million).

 The lines aimed at financing mainly the consumption of families moderated their monthly growth rate. Credit card financing presented an increase of 4.8% ($3,690 million), which was higher than that observed in December 2012. In this way, its year-on-year variation rate continued to be positioned above 40%. Strong increases were verified in daily balances towards the last part of the month, associated with greater family spending, typical year-end behavior. For its part, personal loans presented a monthly growth of 2.3% ($2,230 million), the smallest of the last five months. It should be noted that the perception of the annual mid-year bonus salary usually motivates a decrease in demand for personal loans, as well as the partial cancellation of balances. In fact, the year-on-year variation rate continued to be positioned above 30%.

Chart 4.6
 Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Legal Entities
 % (participation by recipient in amounts granted) Individual Persons

 For its part, loans with real guarantee presented heterogeneous behaviors. On the one hand, mortgage loans accelerated their monthly expansion rate, favored by the LCIP. In the month they registered an increase of 2.6% ($1,090 million) and the year-on-year variation was around 25%. The positive impact of the line aimed at promoting credit to the productive sector becomes evident when breaking down the new mortgage loans by type of recipient. Indeed, those granted to legal entities show an increasing participation in the total, reaching more than 70% in the last month (see Chart 4.6). However, it should be mentioned that part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing is not reflected in the statistics of loans granted by entities, since it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Program of the Bicentenary for Single Family Housing (PRO.CRE.AR), created following the enactment of Decree 902 of June 2012. On the other hand, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee showed in December a lower growth than in previous months. The increase recorded in the month was 1.9% ($590 million), while in the last 12 months they accumulated growth of 41.4%.

Chart 4.7
 Loans to the Private Sector as % of GDP by type of recipient
 %
 25
 Loans in Foreign Currency / GDP
 Loans in Pesos / GDP
 20 According to the latest available information, corresponding to the month of November, financing granted by financial entities in the form of leasing contracts⁸ registered an increase of 3.5% ($320 million), similar to that of the previous month. Likewise, its year-on-year variation rate continued to be positioned around 40%.

 Loans in Pesos and in Foreign Currency / GDP Dec-13
 16.6
 15
 
 10

 5

 0
 Dec-97 Dec-99 Dec-01 Dec-03 Dec-05 Dec-07 Dec-09 Dec-11 Dec-13

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 8

 Chart 5.1
 Amount Awarded of LEBAC in the Primary Market
 (as percentage of total)
 % Up to 90 days From 91 to 180 days From 181 to 270 days From 271 to 360 days More than 360 days

 100
 90
 80
 70
 60
 50
 40
 30
 20
 10

 Regarding the foreign currency segment, loans to the private sector decreased 6.6% (US$260 million), with the average balance for the month positioned around US$3,700 million.
0 In this manner, throughout 2013 the credit deepening process continued. The participation of total loans (in pesos and foreign currency) with respect to the product increased 1.3 percentage points in the last twelve months, ending the year at 16.6%9 (see Chart 4.7).

5. Interest Rates10

Chart 5.2 Securities Issued by the Central Bank11

LEBAC Interest Rate in Pesos in the Primary Market In December the Central Bank began to offer LE-
T.N.A % (weighted average rate by amount; last tender of the month)
20 BAC in pesos payable at the reference exchange
 rate between the peso and the US dollar. These letters
 17.9 18.2 can only be subscribed by exporters of the cereal
18
 16.3 16.7 17.1 17.0 and oil sectors that are registered in the Single Reg-
16 16.0 istry of Operators of the Agri-Food Chain and in
 15.6 the Registry of Exporters and Importers, and that
 15.0 have liquidated through the Single and Free Foreign
14 14.4
 13.7 Exchange Market (MULC), on the day of the sub-
 Dec-13 scription of the security, foreign currency for up to
 Nov-13 the equivalent in dollars of the amount to subscribe.
12 12.1
 Dec-12 The securities are subscribed in pesos, with a matu-
 rity of 180 days and a predetermined interest rate
 10 of 3.65%. Upon maturity of the security, settlement
 Days shall be made at the subscribed nominal value, apply-
8 ing the variation of the reference exchange rate be-
0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360 390 420 450 480 510 540 570 600 630 660 690 720 750
 Source: BCRA tween the tender date and maturity. Within the issu-
 ance conditions, the letters may be transferred only
 once and their counterpart must be an agent from
 the same sector. Likewise, the BCRA shall provide
 liquidity to the issuances by incorporating the option
 of early repurchase at its technical value (issuance
 value plus accrued interest as of the repurchase
 date), after 91 days from the subscription date. In
 the month there were placements of these letters for
 VN $1,624 million.

8 Comprises the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at their request, for which the lessee periodically pays during the stipulated period a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

9 The "loans / GDP" ratio is lower than the so-called "credit / GDP" since the numerator does not include bank financing through leasing contracts and accrued interest.

10 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 9 for an anticipated purchase, at its technical value (emission value plus accrued interest as of the repurchase date), after 91 days from the subscription date. In the month there were placements of these letters for VN $1,624 million.

Regarding the interest rates of placements in pesos in the primary market, in December an increase of 0.5 percentage points was observed on average. As in previous months, only 14 securities were placed at fixed rate. In the last tender of the month the interest rate of the 80-day LEBAC –with predetermined value– was located at 16%. For its part, the interest rate of the security awarded with greater maturity –with a term of 405 days– was placed at 18.2% (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.3

Holding of Central Bank Securities
thousands of
millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation)

14
12 Others
10 FCIs
 Private Banks
8
 Public Banks
6
4

2
-
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
-12

Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13

In the secondary market most of the securities traded recorded a maturity lower than those regularly tendered by the BCRA (see Chart 5.3). In December, in line with the performance of the international market,
Source: BCRA
financial, LEBAC interest rates grew in the shorter terms. This behavior occurred in a context where the total average amount traded was situated at $670 million daily.

Finally, the outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC was reduced by $5.066 million in the month and was situated at Graph 5.4 $109.826 million (around 15% in terms of deposits). The monthly decrease was driven by lower demand from banks and to a lesser extent FCIs, behavior that was partly counterbalanced by grain and oilseed exporting companies that subscribed to the letters in pesos adjustable to the reference exchange rate (see Graph 5.3).

**Interfinancial Markets**
millions $ (average daily amount traded)

Call
Repos between financial entities (REPO round)

Central Bank Repo Operations¹

The Central Bank's passive repo rates remained at 9% and 9.5% for the 1 and 7-day terms, while the interest rates on active repos for the same terms were situated at 11% and 11.5%, respectively.

In a context of greater liquidity needs of financial entities, the average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this institution participates, decreased 54%, positioning itself at $6.400 million. During the month, active repos continued not to be arranged for the entity.

**Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 10 Interfinancial Markets¹**

In December, the interest rates of the interfinancial market temporarily increased due to greater liquidity needs of financial entities. This behavior occurred as a consequence of greater demand for transactional money by families and companies, a characteristic of year-end and was concentrated during the last days of the month. However, during the first days of 2014, interest rates returned to levels similar to those observed during the first days of December. In the unsecured market (call), the average interest rate on 1-business-day operations increased 4.5 p.p., positioning itself at 19.6%. A similar magnitude increase was registered in the average interest rate on 1-business-day operations between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round), which was situated at 19.2%.

The average daily amount traded was reduced by $1.100 million, totaling around $4.500 million (see Graph 5.4). The decrease was explained mainly by operations in the REPO round (excluding operations in which the BCRA participates).

**Graph 5.6 Passive Interest Rates¹**
**Active Interest Rates**

TNA, % (monthly average)

The interest rates paid by financial entities for fixed-term operations in pesos from the private sector registered slight increases, between 0.5 and 1 p.p., in December. The increase was led by the wholesale segment, while in the retail segment more limited increases were observed.

Indeed, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks –interest rate on deposits of $1 million and more with 30-35 days term– averaged 20.2%, with a monthly increase of 1.1 p.p. with respect to November (see Graph 5.5), while in the retail segment, the interest rate paid by financial entities for private sector fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand averaged 16.1%, exhibiting an increase of 0.5 p.p.
# Active Interest Rates¹ 12

The interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector showed mixed behavior in December, with increases in those applied to short-term lines and declines in longer-term lines.

In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate for overdrafts in current accounts was positioned at 27.4%, exhibiting an increase of 1.3 p.p. in the month. Within this line, the interest rate corresponding to those advances granted to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 million US$ with a 60-day term, averaged 22.7%, exceeding the November level by 2.5 p.p.

Likewise, among financing instruments through documents, the interest rate for documents at sole signature averaged 22.3%, registering an increase of 0.9 p.p. in the month. For its part, the interest rate for discounted documents averaged 24.4%, exhibiting a monthly increase of 0.9 p.p.

Meanwhile, among longer-term loans, the interest rate for pawn loans averaged 21.2%, declining 1.1 p.p. in the month. On the other hand, the interest rate applied to mortgage loans to natural persons averaged 17.2%, exhibiting a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. Likewise, the monthly average of the interest rate for personal loans was positioned at 39.1%, increasing 0.5 p.p. in the month (see Graph 5.6).

---

12 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and disbursement expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

---

**Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 11**

# Graph 6.1

**International Reserves of the BCRA (excluding 2009 SDR allocations)**

**In thousands of US$**

(Graph shows declining trend from Dic-07 through Dic-13, with specific value for Dic-13)

Source: BCRA

---

# 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

International reserves ended the year at US$30,599 million (see Graph 6.1), 0.6% below the level they presented at the end of November. The main factors explaining the monthly variation were net foreign currency sales by the Central Bank in the Free and Unified Exchange Market (MULC) and government debt payments, being partially offset by an increase in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank.

In the exchange market, the peso depreciated against the US dollar, the euro, and the real. The average quotations for December were 6.85 $/US$, 8.67 $/euro, and 2.69 $/real, which represented variations with respect to November of 5.1%, 6.8%, and 3.2%, respectively (see Graph 6.2). Over the year, the increases registered were 29.5%, 35.3%, and 14.6% for each case.

---

# Graph 6.2

**Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate**

(Graph shows depreciation and appreciation trends from Dic-12 through Dic-13 for $/US$, $/Euro, and $/Real)

Source: BCRA

---

**Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 12**

# Graph 7.1

**Non-Agricultural Employment Creation - USA**

**In thousands of jobs**

(Graph shows employment figures with various monthly data points and averages)

Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics

---

# 7. Principal Policy Measures of Other Central Banks

During December, there were various monetary policy measures from other central banks. The principal one was the decision of the Federal Reserve (FED) of the USA to begin reducing the pace of asset purchases.

On December 18, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to reduce the pace of asset purchases (what is known as tapering), from US$85,000 million per month to US$75,000 million per month.¹³ In the days prior to the meeting, due to the
Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 improvements in the labor market (see Chart 7.1) and in

Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov other activity level indicators had
increased the chances that the FED would initiate the
reduction in the level of asset purchases at this
meeting. Specifically, with regard to activity level, in the second revision of the third quarter GDP
Chart 7.2 estimate, it was again revised upward to
Real GDP - U.S.A. 4.1% with respect to the previous quarter (adjusted

% seasonally adjusted - quarter against previous quarter and annualized
7 for seasonality and annualized), the largest variation in
54.9 4.9 the last 2 years (see Chart 7.2). Furthermore, the FED
3.9 3.9 3.7 4.1
3.2 3.1 2.7 2.8 2.8 3.2 2.8 maintained the target of its benchmark interest rate,
3 2.0 2.5
1.3 1.5 1.3 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.1 the federal funds interest rate in the range 0-
1 0.3 0.3 0.1
0.25% (see Chart 7.3).

-1 -0.4
-1.3
-3 -2.7 -2.0 From the subsequent press conference of the FED
chairman, it emerges that the institution would maintain, if

-5 the improvement in the labor market were to consolidate, a
-5.4 pace of reduction in its asset purchase program
-7 of US$10,000 million for each FOMC meeting,

-9 -8.3
2006-I 2007-III 2009-I 2010-III 2012-I 2013-III until completing said program at its meeting in late
October 2014.

Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov

For its part, the European Central Bank decided
Chart 7.3 to maintain its monetary policy interest rate (see
Chart 7.4). However, in the press conference

% Interest Rates, Rate and Inflation Target and Unemployment following the Governing Council meeting, the
11 United States ECB president, Mario Draghi, stated that if a new line
Benchmark Interest Rate similar to the LTRO (Longer-

9 Personal Consumption Expenditures Term Refinancing Operations) were necessary, it would
Inflation Target be designed so that the funding obtained by banks would

7 be used solely to finance the productive sector,
Unemployment Rate s.a. and not to capitalize the financial system.

5

3 On the other hand, the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England (BoE) decided to maintain unchanged,

1 both its monetary policy interest rate –Bank Rate–
(0.5%), as well as its quantitative easing program –
-1 Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13 Jan-14 Asset Purchase Facility–, which stands at £375,000

The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime. It has a mandate whereby it must promote the objectives of "maximum" employment level, long-term moderate interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target was set for an annual change of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. Source: BCRA based on the Federal Reserve, BEA.gov and BLS.gov

13 US$35,000 million monthly in Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities and US$40,000 million monthly in long-term Treasury bonds.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 13 Chart 7.4 million since July 2012 (see Chart 7.5). Furthermore,
at the end of November the BoE announced that it would
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target modify its credit stimulus program (Funding for Lending

% euro zone Scheme) next year. From 2014, the BoE will provide
7 Monetary Policy Rate subsidized funding only for loans that the
6
financial system grants to businesses, focusing on
5 Inflation Rate
Inflation Target SMEs, so it will cease to provide subsidized funding
4 Interest Rate Corridor to households for fear of the emergence of
3 distortions in real estate sector prices.

2

1 Among emerging countries, the measures stand out
taken by Brazil's monetary authority. The Monetary
0 Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of
-1
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Brazil (BCB) decided to raise the target for the Selic rate

The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% y.o.y. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. by 0.5 p.p. to 10% (see Graph 7.6). However, it follows from the statement that the cycle of increases in the target Selic rate would be coming to an end in a framework of lower inflation and growth. Furthermore, on December 5 the president of the BCB, Alexandre

Graph 7.5 Tombini, announced that during 2014 the Bank will continue with the intervention scheme in the foreign exchange market

Interest Rate, Unemployment Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Monetary Policy £ Thousands of (although with modifications not yet specified). These
% Millions
9 Unconventional Monetary Policy 400
Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis) England interventions would be carried out, mainly, through auctions of currency swaps, which do not have an impact
8 Unemployment Rate 350
Inflation Target on the BCB's international reserves. On the other hand, by the end of December the Brazilian government raised the rate of
Inflation Rate
7 Monetary Policy Rate 300 the Tax on Financial Operations for expenses incurred in foreign currency with debit and "prepaid" cards
6 250 from 0.38% to 6.38%, while it maintained the rate for credit cards at 6.38%
5 200
and at 0.38% for foreign currency purchases.
4 150

3 2 100 In the case of Turkey, its monetary authority, anticipating a period of volatility in the exchange rate,
1 50 decided to modify the minimum amount of foreign currency sales auctions from US$20 million to US$50 million.

0 0
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 The Central Reserve Bank of Peru reduced, for the fourth time since August, the reserve requirement rate in local currency, from 16% to 15%, with the aim of sustaining the dynamism of credit in soles.

Source: BCRA based on data from bankofengland.co.uk and ONS.gov.uk

2013 was a year with diverse measures by the main central banks. The main novelty of the year was linked to the FED's tapering, which emerged as a possibility with high chances of occurrence after this bank's meeting in early
Graph 7.6 May. The mere fact that the FED announced this possibility had an immediate impact on the markets, which was reflected, among other variables, in a generalized depreciation of emerging currencies. This led many of these central banks to take measures tending to avoid excessive volatility of their currencies
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target (see Graph 7.7). Among these central banks, in 2013
% Brazil %
18 8 the BCB increased by 2.75 p.p. the target for the Selic rate,
7
and launched the program for auctioning active swaps and
6
14 5 forward operations in dollars.
4
3
10 Furthermore, in the year stood out as main measures of the central banks of advanced countries, the decision of the Bank of Japan (BoJ) to seek "as soon as possible" an inflation of 2%, to leave behind almost thirteen
Reference Interest Rate 2
Inflation Rate (right axis) 1 years of deflation. To achieve this objective the BoJ decided to double its monetary base between April 2013 and
Inflation Target Limits (right axis)
6 0 the same month of 2015. On the other hand, the ECB reduced to
Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13 historic lows its monetary policy interest rate

Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 14 Graph 7.7 Selic, and launched the auction program for active swaps and forward operations in dollars.

Exchange Rate
Local currency per dollar. Index 01/05/2013 = 100
130
Brazil South Africa Chile Uruguay
125 Russia Peru Colombia Indonesia
Turkey India
120

115

110

105

Moreover, in the year stood out as main measures of the central banks of advanced countries, the decision of the Bank of Japan (BoJ) to seek "as soon as possible" an inflation of 2%, to leave behind almost thirteen years of deflation. To achieve this objective the BoJ decided to double its monetary base between April 2013 and the same month of 2015. On the other hand, the ECB reduced to historic lows its monetary policy interest rate
100 ria, while the BoE, within a framework of better activity indicators, extended its Funding for Lending Scheme which will be in effect until January 2015.

01-May-13 01-Jun-13 01-Jul-13 01-Aug-13 01-Sep-13 01-Oct-13 01-Nov-13 01-Dec-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg. Finally, from mid-year onwards, the ECB and the BoE applied forward guidance type measures.14

Chart 8.1 8. Capital Markets
World Stock Indices
160 (in dollars; Base Index 31/12/11=100)
MSCI- World Equities15
150 S&P 500

140 MSCI-Europe
MSCI- Emerging
130 MSCI- Latam In December, equity assets in the stock markets of developed countries ended with price increases, but with greater expected volatility. In the United States, positive data was observed regarding the level of activity, which was reflected in the labor market. This led the Federal Reserve (FED), as already mentioned, to decrease the pace of asset purchases. However, the impact on the markets of this decision was limited since the measure was already incorporated in expectations.

120

110

100

90

80

70

60

50
Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

When observing the main reference indices, the MSCI Global ended the month with a gain of 2%.

Chart 8.2 Also, within advanced economies, the S&P 500, the main index of the United States market advanced 2.4%, while the European market, measured through the MSCI index, gained 2% (see Chart 8.1). However, the FED measure had an impact on the expected volatility of the two main stock markets. In the United States, the volatility of the S&P 500, measured through the VIX index, increased 1.2 percentage points, and in Europe the index that measures the volatility of the Stoxx 50 increased 1.1 p.p (see Chart 8.2). In 2013, the MSCI Global increased 24.1%, in a context where the European MSCI increased 26%, Japan's 25%, and the S&P 500 30%.

% Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and Eurozone
60 (VIX and VStoxx Index)
55
VIX Index (S&P 500)
50 VStoxx 50 Index (Eurozone)
45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10
Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

14 Measures that link the evolution of monetary policy with certain economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate and the inflation rate and its expectations (in the case of the BoE), seeking to provide greater certainty, and therefore effectiveness, to monetary policy. In other cases, without making this link, it is announced that the monetary policy interest rate will be at reduced levels for a prolonged time (in the case of the ECB).

15 Unless otherwise specified, variations in indices are expressed in U.S. dollars.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 15 In contrast to the performance observed in the markets of advanced economies, equity assets of emerging economies measured through the MSCI Emerging index fell back 1.5% in December and 5% in the year. In this context, the MSCI Latin America lost 2.8% in December (16% in 2013), and the Bovespa (Brazil), the benchmark index for the region, fell back 2.8% (26.7% in 2013). Also, the IGPA (Chile) fell 0.8% in the month (and 21% in the year).

Chart 8.3
Latin American Stock Indices
170 (in dollars; Base Index 31/10/11 = 100)

150

130

110

90
Merval (Argentina)
70
IPC (Mexico)
Bovespa (Brazil)
50
IGPA (Chile)
30

In the first case, the December decrease was driven both by the performance recorded in the IPC index in local currency and by the depreciation of the real. In contrast, in the Chilean stock market, the fall of the IGPA during the last month was partially
Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 compensated by an appreciation of the Chilean peso. A
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data
 Unlike the region's behavior, the CPI
 (Mexico) gained 1.1% in December, with a loss in
 2013 of almost 4% (see Chart 8.3).

 In the local stock exchange, the reference index (Merval)
 Chart 8.4 measured in dollars ended December with a loss of

 Sovereign Risk Indicators 11.2% and accumulated an increase of 42.3% in 2013. The
Spread in b.p. Spread in b.p.
 500 1400 average daily volume traded in stocks

 1300 decreased 14% compared to November and was placed at

 450 1200 $94.5 million.

 400 1100

 1000 Public Securities

 350 900

 800 In December, the yields of U.S. public debt
 300 700 widened, mainly in the bonds

 EMBI+
 EMBI+ Latin America 600 of the longer end of the curve. In effect, the
 250
 EMBI+ Argentina (right axis) 500
 corresponding bonds with a maturity of 10 years grew

 200 400 28 b.p., exceeding a yield of 3%, which had not
 Nov-11 Feb-12 May-12 Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13
 happened since mid-2011. In this context, the
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg
 differential of emerging market securities above U.S.
 Treasury bonds was reduced by 31 b.p., according to the
 EMBI+, standing at the end of December at 334 b.p..
 In 2013 the yield of the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond
 increased by almost 1.3 p.p., while the EMBI+ increased
 by 86 b.p..

 Chart 8.5 In Argentina, the yield differential of public
 billions of pesos Corporate Bond Issuance
 securities remained practically unchanged. In this
 6.0
 way at the end of the month the EMBI+ was placed at 808

 Others b.p., 32 b.p. more than at the end of November (see
 5.0 Agricultural Sector
 Retail Trade Chart 8.4). In this way the EMBI+ ended 2013 with a
 4.0 Real Estate Activities and Construction
 Energy decline of around 200 b.p. compared to the end of 2012.

 Financial Sector
 3.0
 Private Securities

 2.0
 The placement of corporate debt under public offering
 1.0 through the issuance of Negotiable Obligations (ON)

 0.0 and Short-Term Securities (VCP) was placed at $5,153
 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 million in December, reaching the second highest amount

Source: IAMC, CNV and BCBA

 Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 16 since records have been kept (see Chart
 Chart 8.6 8.5).

 Interest Rate of Negotiable Obligations in Pesos
 TNA % (weighted average rate by amount) Regarding the number of placements, the
 30
 majority were denominated in pesos, while

 25 Interest rate on variable rate securities * 3 placements were recorded in foreign currency (2

 Interest rate on fixed rate securities **
 dollar linked and the remaining in dollars). Among the
 20
 main placers of the month, the oil and gas sector stood

 15 out with an issuance of $3,409 million,
 driven by a placement by YPF of US$500

 10 million. In second place were financial entities
 5 that issued $635 million. In this way, throughout

 0 the year the energy sectors and financial entities
 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13
 (*) rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 2 years. (**) rating superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 1 year. were positioned as the main debt securities
 Source: BCRA based on CNV, IAMC and BCBA.
 placers, representing 48% and 29%, respectively.

 In December the financing cost rose slightly in
 variable rate placements, while it remained stable in
 Chart 8.7 those bearing fixed rates. In effect, the interest rate

 Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos of securities with a rating
thousands of thousands of superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 2 years was
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $

7.0 80 raised 1.5 p.p to 24.4%, in line with the increase in the rate

Money Market
6.0 70 BADLAR private banks. Meanwhile, the interest rate

Fixed Income
5.0 Mixed Income 60 of placements at fixed rate in pesos with rating

Variable Income
4.0 superior to Arg BBB+ and maturity less than 1 year, was
Stock Evolution (right axis) 50
3.0 located at 23.9%, without showing variations with respect to the previous month
40
2.0 (see Chart 8.6).

30
1.0

0.0 20 Common Investment Funds

-1.0 10

-2.0 0 The equity of Common Investment Funds (FCIs)

Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 in national and foreign currency grew $1,520 million
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
(2.1%) during December and ended the year at $72,750
million (see Chart 8.7). This increase is
explained entirely by FCIs in pesos that
represent 97% of the industry.

Chart 8.8

Return on Assets in Pesos During the last month, Money Market funds

Index (Base Index Jan-10=100) showed an increase of $1,530 million (7.0%),
280 driven both by the greater number of share units

260 FCI Variable Income as well as by the rise in the quotation of assets. In

FCI Mixed Income
240 FCI Fixed Income second place, fixed income funds in pesos

220 Money Market grew $430 million (1.3%), since the increase in the

Merval Index
200 Wholesale Fixed Term price of assets exceeded the redemption of share units.

180 For its part, funds that invest in mixed income

160 and variable income assets each fell $220

140 million (-1.7% and -9.6%, respectively). In both

120 cases the declines were explained by decreases in the

100 number of share units and in the quotations of the

80 assets, in line with the behavior of the
Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI main local stock market assets.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 17 In 2013, the equity of FCIs in pesos increased
$27,700 million (61.4% y.o.y.) driven, in the first
place, by fixed income funds ($13,590 million,
72% y.o.y.), followed by mixed income funds ($7,050
million, 123.7% y.o.y.), Money Market funds
($6,330 million, 37.2% y.o.y.) and, finally, those
that invest in variable income ($850 million, 69.3% y.o.y.).

Chart 8.9

Financial Trust Emissions Regarding returns, fixed income and
(excluding FF from public sector and infrastructure) mixed income funds registered monthly gains of 2.6% and
millions of $
2,200 2.3% respectively, slightly higher than those

2,000 October observed the previous month. Meanwhile, Money

1,800 November Market funds continued verifying an average
December monthly return of 1%. For their part, variable
1,600
1,400 income funds registered the worst performance of the month,

1,200 yielding an estimated return of -7.6%.

1,000

800

600 However, this behavior reverses when analyzing
400
200 its evolution during 2013. Thus, variable income

0 funds registered gains equivalent to 91.6%,

2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 followed by mixed income and fixed income funds with

Source: BCRA based on CNV and others. returns of 29.9% and 24.6% respectively. Finally,
Money Market funds were placed with gains of 10.9% (see Chart 8.8).

Finally, the equity of funds in foreign currency fell US$30
million (-7.6%) in December and was situated at US$327
million (-29% y.o.y.). The fall was due to the redemption
of share units in fixed income funds.

Chart 8.10

Financial Trust Emissions
(accumulated amounts)
millions of $
36,000 Financial Trusts16

Public sector and FF infrastructure

30,000 Excluding placements from the public sector and others
# Rest

24,000 allocated to finance infrastructure works, the emissions of financial trusts (FF) totaled 18,000 in December around $2,180 million, presenting 12,000 an increase compared to the previous months, as usually occurs in the last month of the year (see Chart 8.9). In the 6,000 same direction, an increase was observed in the number

0 of emissions, having carried out 25 operations in the month, the largest quantity since December 2010. On 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the other hand, an FF was placed that has as its object the financing of road infrastructure works. Specifically, the "Rehabilitation of Provincial Source: BCRA based on CNV and others Route No. 6", a work awarded through public bidding to a group of construction companies. They securitized public securities of the Province of Buenos Aires, which were granted as part payment.

Distinguishing the amount issued in the month by type of trustor, it is verified that retail stores

16 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 18 securitized assets linked to consumption for $640 million, an amount slightly higher than the previous month. For their part, financial entities placed just over $600 million, which implied a reduction of 37% compared to the high amount of November. Meanwhile, the total of assets securitized by mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank issuers of credit cards and other financial service providers (comprised of consumer credit, pledged loans and leasing contracts) exceeded $500 million, one of the highest amounts of the year. Likewise, 4 emissions were registered from companies in the agricultural sector for a total of $355 million.

In this way, the amount issued throughout 2013 amounted to around $35,200 million, corresponding to approximately $15,630 million to FF from the public sector and others from infrastructure17. Without considering this type of emissions, the accumulated amount in the year was approximately $19,600 million, showing an increase of 34% compared to 2012 (see Chart 8.10).

Finally, regarding the cut interest rates, the corresponding one for senior securities in pesos with duration less than 14 months and agreed at variable rate registered an increase of 0.9 p.p. and ended the year at 21.5%. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment no operations were agreed in December.

17 Said amount is explained fundamentally by the placement of the Pro.Cre.Ar trust for $15,550 million, although to date $8,500 million has been contributed.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 19. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system Dec-13 Monthly Last 12 Nov-13 Dec-12 Dec-12
months

Monetary Base 361,580 338,343 292,138 292,138 6.9% 23.8%
Monetary Circulation 277,095 260,352 224,211 224,211 6.4% 23.6%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 247,157 234,773 199,335 199,335 5.3% 24.0%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 29,936 25,577 24,872 24,872 17.0% 20.4%
Cancellation Checks 2 2 4 0 -15.2% -
Current Account at BCRA 84,484 77,991 67,927 67,927 8.3% 24.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 6,351 13,855 17,432 17,432 -54.2% -63.6%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 111,491 111,927 88,681 88,681 -0.4% 25.7%
In banks 98,364 102,681 77,641 77,641 -4.2% 26.7%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 107,309 107,744 74,569 74,569 -0.4% 43.9%

NOBAC 4,183 4,183 14,112 14,112 0.0% -70.4%

BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 30,612 32,244 44,134 44,134 -5.1% -30.6%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 667.669 654.155 525.028 525.028 2.1% 27.2%
 Current account (2) 190.977 172.817 150.959 150.959 10.5% 26.5%
 Savings account 140.224 125.074 104.730 104.730 12.1% 33.9%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 309.687 331.309 248.802 248.802 -6.5% 24.5%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 6 6 7 7 0.0% -13.8%
 Other deposits (3) 26.774 24.950 20.530 20.530 7.3% 30.4%

 Deposits of the private sector 484.435 467.956 372.490 372.490 3.5% 30.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 183.234 186.199 152.538 152.538 -1.6% 20.1%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.263 8.093 9.393 9.393 2.1% -12.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 497.903 480.860 373.913 373.913 3.5% 33.2%

 Loans to the private sector 456.779 442.345 339.103 339.103 3.3% 34.7%
 Overdrafts 56.683 57.726 47.326 47.326 -1.8% 19.8%
 Documents 111.404 104.863 76.170 76.170 6.2% 46.3%
 Mortgages 43.074 41.982 34.475 34.475 2.6% 24.9%
 Pledged loans 31.297 30.710 22.135 22.135 1.9% 41.4%
 Personal loans 98.484 96.576 75.069 75.069 2.0% 31.2%
 Credit cards 80.411 76.724 56.352 56.352 4.8% 42.7%
 Others 35.427 33.763 27.576 27.576 4.9% 28.5%

 Loans to the public sector 41.123 38.515 34.810 34.810 6.8% 18.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.694 3.957 5.549 5.549 -6.7% -33.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 438.136 407.592 350.298 350.298 7.5% 25.1%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 578.360 532.666 455.028 455.028 8.6% 27.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 914.828 888.930 724.367 724.367 2.9% 26.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 968.759 938.970 770.218 770.218 3.2% 25.8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 367.390 350.153 299.301 299.301 4.9% 22.7%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 493.774 464.835 395.489 395.489 6.2% 24.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 731.594 702.732 571.829 571.829 4.1% 27.9%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 775.723 744.366 609.685 609.685 4.2% 27.2%

 Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 20 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2013 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 23.236 6.9% 31.811 9.6% 69.442 23.8% 69.442 23.8%
 Financial sector 7.502 2.2% 8.777 2.7% 12.840 4.4% 12.840 4.4%
 Public sector 17.665 5.2% 46.549 14.1% 89.979 30.8% 89.979 30.8%
 Private external sector -10.323 -3.1% -31.416 -9.5% -27.908 -9.6% -27.908 -9.6%
 BCRA Securities 5.990 1.8% 6.267 1.9% -5.156 -1.8% -5.156 -1.8%
 Others 2.402 0.7% 1.634 0.5% -312 -0.1% -312 -0.1%

 International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -1.633 -5.1% -5.000 -14.0% -13.522 -30.6% -13.522 -30.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.691 -5.2% -5.285 -14.8% -4.512 -10.2% -4.512 -10.2%
 Payment to international organizations 286 0.9% 463 1.3% 712 1.6% 712 1.6%
 Other public sector operations -218 -0.7% -1.563 -4.4% -197 -0.4% -197 -0.4%
 Minimum cash 403 1.3% 545 1.5% -327 -0.7% -327 -0.7%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -413 -1.3% 840 2.4% -9.199 -20.8% -9.199 -20.8%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13
 (1)

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.9 11.6 11.6
 Integration 12.6 11.8 11.8
 Position (2) 0.7 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 63.9 63.9 64.0
 30 to 59 days 22.8 25.3 23.7
 60 to 89 days 5.0 6.3 7.0
 90 to 179 days 3.2 3.0 3.6
 more than 180 days 1.4 1.5 1.7
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 19.0 19.1 19.4
 Integration (includes resource application default) 117.0 111.0 107.2
 Position (2) 98.0 91.9 87.8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)

 Up to 29 days 47.5 49.1 49.7
 30 to 59 days 23.1 22.5 23.0
 60 to 89 days 11.1 10.5 11.5
 90 to 179 days 14.5 13.7 12.1
 180 to 365 days 3.8 4.1 3.7
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.0 0.0
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term deposits subject to judicial proceedings.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 21 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 19.67 15.31 12.24 10.71 10.71
 Amount traded 2,144 2,218 1,856 1,313 1,313

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 17.65 15.84 16.27 13.69 13.69
 60 days or more 18.99 17.79 18.01 15.43 15.43
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.55 16.79 16.91 13.43 13.43
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.18 19.05 18.74 15.37 15.37

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.34 0.37 0.41 0.60 0.60
 60 days or more 0.64 0.71 0.84 1.11 1.11
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.33 0.39 0.47 0.65 0.65
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.33 0.38 0.50 0.61 0.61

 Active Interest Rates Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.64 20.22 18.42 15.57 15.57
 Amount traded (total terms) 316 311 290 235 235

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 27.38 26.19 25.03 21.79 21.79
 Unsecured promissory notes 22.34 21.43 21.10 18.58 18.58
 Mortgage 16.55 16.49 17.16 17.23 17.23
 Secured by pledge 21.16 22.27 22.43 19.60 19.60
 Personal loans 39.13 38.61 38.21 34.34 34.34
 Credit cards n/a 35.64 34.87 35.07 35.07

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 22.65 20.20 18.51 14.44 14.44

 International Interest Rates Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

LIBOR
 1 month 0.17 0.17 0.17 0.21 0.21
 6 months 0.35 0.35 0.36 0.51 0.51

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.33 0.29 0.32 0.25 0.25
 10 years 2.88 2.71 2.60 1.70 1.70

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.00 9.58 9.36 7.25 7.25

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, whereas from July 2010 onward they correspond to the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

 Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 22 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50
Total REPO round rates
 1 day 15.81 11.20 10.25 9.36 9.36
 7 days 13.12 10.03 9.68 9.53 9.53

Amount operated in REPO round (daily average) 3,981 11,087 8,484 10,111 10,111

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 11.60 11.60
 2 months n/a n/a 14.93 11.98 11.98
 3 months 15.52 15.28 15.23 12.93 12.93
 9 months n/a n/a n/a 14.52 14.52
 12 months 17.80 17.77 17.81 14.99 14.99

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 9 months BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 1 year BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 years BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 673 804 1181 786 786

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 6.32 6.02 5.85 4.88 4.88
 Retail 6.33 6.02 5.85 4.88 4.88

Dollar Forward
 NDF 1 month 6.74 6.38 6.14 4.98 4.98
 ROFEX 1 month 6.56 6.17 6.00 4.95 4.95
 Amount operated (total of terms, millions of pesos) 1,596 1,642 1,332 818 818

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.69 2.61 2.67 2.35 2.35

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 8.67 8.12 7.98 6.41 6.41

 Capital Market Dec-13 Nov-13 Oct-13 Dec-12 Dec-12

MERVAL
 Index 5,330 5,429 5,227 2,672 2,672
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 109 122 139 54 54

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 132.63 143.34 148.89 120.57 120.57
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 106.64 119.79 114.69 97.99 97.99
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.47 94.15 95.09 92.24 92.24
 DISCOUNT ($) 63.95 59.79 58.35 46.02 46.02

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 826 897 960 1,204 1,204
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 412 415 384 298 298

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 2310. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | December 2013 | BCRA | 24
