# June 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
June 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations | Page 9

 Interbank Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures from Other Central Banks | Page 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on July 10, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a growth of 2.5% and maintained its year-over-year variation stable around 22%. Among its components, an increase was observed in cash in the hands of the public (4%) and in deposits from the private sector (2.7%), while placements from the public sector maintained their stable balance.

• The liquidity of the local currency segment of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased during June. In terms of total deposits in pesos, the broad liquidity ratio averaged 37.2%, 0.7 p.p. above May. The increase in the ratio was driven by the items that make up excess liquidity, fundamentally by the increase in the proportion of LEBAC and NOBAC holdings.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector presented growth similar to the previous month, of 1.1% ($5,430 million), accumulating in the last 12 months an increase of 25.1%. Among the different credit lines, financing granted through advances and personal loans led the month's growth. In particular, personal loans increased 1.4% ($1,420 million), showing in the last 12 months an increase of 21.1%. In the coming months, the line would receive a boost due to the launch of Pro.Cre.Auto, a program aimed at bolstering the sale of nationally produced cars through a credit line from the Banco de la Nación Argentina that finances the acquisition of new domestically manufactured automobiles at regulated interest rates and with a financing term of up to 60 months.

• Continuing with its policy of stimulating credit aimed at productive activity, for the second half of 2014 the Central Bank established a new financing quota within the framework of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP). On this occasion, the financial entities covered by the regulation must agree to loans of at least 5.5% of their deposits in pesos from the private sector as of May 31, 2014. Although the entire quota should be agreed to SMEs, at a minimum term of 36 months and a maximum fixed interest rate of 19.50%, in cases of application default there are other permitted destinations; either to SMEs, as in the case of discounting deferred payment checks; or to customers that are not SMEs. In the latter case, it could be mortgage loans for the purchase, construction or expansion of homes with a minimum term of 10 years and a maximum fixed interest rate of 17.50%, or investment projects with specific destinations; or financing in pesos to individuals² (personal and secured loans for basic automobiles mainly) granted as of June 11 that the financial entity incorporates by assignment or through trusts, insofar as the originator of the credits is a financial entity of Group II³

• The interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits decreased throughout June. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 23%, with a monthly decline of 1.6 p.p. For its part, in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand up to 35 days was placed at 20.1%, 1.1 p.p. below the May level.

• The majority of interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector declined. The interest rates on financing through documents decreased, driven by the greater participation of loans granted within the framework of the LCIP, in a month where the fourth stage of said program concluded. The monthly average of the interest rate corresponding to document discounting was placed at 26.3%, declining 1.3 p.p. during the month; while the monthly average of the interest rate for documents on sole signature
decreased by 2.9 p.p., placing itself at 26.6%. Among the longer-term lines, the decline of 4 p.p. in the monthly average of the interest rate on personal loans stood out, which was placed at 40.5%. In this regard, it is worth recalling that in mid-June Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, through which maximum interest rates were introduced essentially for personal loans and chattel mortgages for motor vehicles for natural persons. In this sense, the interest rate on chattel mortgage loans was also reduced (2.4 p.p.), averaging 23%.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
2 Financings referred to in point "X.3.2" of the regulations on "Interest Rates in Credit Operations" (Communication "A" 5590).
3 It refers to the group of banks defined in Communication "A" 5590.

Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

**Chart 2.1**
**Monetary Aggregates - M3**
(variation of monthly averages)

In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3⁴) presented a growth of 2.5%, in line with the variation observed for this month in previous years (see Chart 2.1) and, in this way, maintained its year-on-year variation stable around 22%. Among its components, an increase was observed in cash in circulation (4%) and in private sector deposits (2.7%), while public sector placements maintained their balance stable.

Within private sector deposits, the increase was driven mainly by sight deposits. On the other hand, fixed-term deposits showed a growth of 0.2% (see Chart 2.2), explained essentially by the segment of less than $1 million (2.9%). Meanwhile, placements corresponding to the wholesale stratum presented a decrease (2.1%), in a period characterized by the high liquidity demand of companies due to tax payment deadlines during the first fortnight of the month and payment of the annual supplementary salary (SAC). In year-on-year terms, private sector fixed-term deposits exhibited a variation of 37%, which continues at elevated levels.

**Chart 2.2**
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
(variations of monthly averages)

Foreign currency deposits increased in June, with increases in placements belonging to the private sector and, mainly, in those corresponding to the public sector. In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*⁵, presented a growth of 2.6%, showing a year-on-year variation of 24.3%.

The monetary base presented an increase of 3.6%, maintaining its year-on-year rate of variation stable at 17.7% (see Chart 2.3). Among its components, the increase concentrated mainly in cash in circulation, although bank reserves also registered an increase (composed of cash in financial entities and the balances of the current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank). In June, the Central Bank again increased its international reserves through the purchase of foreign currency in the foreign exchange market. These operations, together with those associated with the public sector, generated an expansion of the monetary base. Part of the expansionary effect linked to said factors was sterilized, mainly through the placement of LEBACs and NOBACs.

**Chart 2.3**
**Monetary Base**
(variation of monthly averages)

Fuente: BCRA [Source: BCRA]
4 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits from non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
5 Includes M3 and deposits from non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

 % of Banking Liquidity in Pesos*
 deposits ties1
 45 (monthly average)

 The liquidity of financial entities in the local currency
 40 Jun-14; segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account
 37,2% of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such
 June 2014
 35 % of deposits3,9 entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased
 Cash during June. In terms of total deposits in pesos, the
 30 20,3 broad liquidity ratio averaged 37.2% (see Graph 3.1),
 Repos
 0.7 p.p. above May. The increase in the ratio was driven by
 25 12,1 LEBACs and the items that make up excess liquidity, with an
 NOBACs increase in the proportion of LEBAC and NOBAC hold-
 0,9
 20 ings, which was partially offset by the decrease in repos
 Jun-09 Nov-09 Abr-10 Sep-10 Feb-11 Jul-11 Dic-11 May-12 Oct-12 Mar-13 Ago-13 Ene-14 Jun-14with the Central Bank. For its part, the estimated average
 excess of the month of the Minimum Cash regime was
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.equivalent to 0.3% of the total deposits in pesos (see
 Graph 3.2).
 Graph 3.2
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
 In the foreign currency segment, liquidity decreased
 deposits Quarterly Position
 2,6 Surplus slightly, standing at 103.3% of total deposits in dollars
 Accumulated Position
 2,0 Daily Position (0.6 p.p. lower than the May ratio).

 1,4 This reduction was mainly explained by the decrease
 in the proportion of cash in banks and to a lesser extent
 0,8 by the decline in the LEBAC balance, partially offset
 0,3 by a slight increase in repos and the current account
 0,2 at the Central Bank.
 -0,4

 -1,0

 -1,6

 -2,2 4. Loans 1 6

 -2,8
 Jun-13 Jul-13 Ago-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dic-13 Ene-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Abr-14 May-14 Jun-14In June, loans in pesos to the private sector presented
 a growth rate similar to that of the previous month, of
 1.1% ($5,430 million), accumulating in the last 12
 months an increase of 25.1%. Among the different credit
 Graph 4.1 lines, financing granted through advances and personal
 millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector loans led the month's growth (see Graph 4.1).
 (monthly average variation) %
 6.000 60

 5.000 Jun-14. vs. May-14. 50 Favored by the liquidity needs of companies, both to
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 40,4
 4.000 40 cover the payment of SAC as well as their tax obliga-
 tions, advances grew 2.1% ($1,340 million). This increase
 3.000 25,1 26,023,9 30
 17,2 21,118,2 20,8 contrasts with the decrease observed in the same month
 2.000 20 of last year, which led to the year-on-year growth rate
 increasing 3.2 p.p., placing it at 26% (see Graph 4.2).
 1.000 10

 0 0 Additionally, within loans essentially for commercial
 purposes, financing instruments through documents
 -1.000 -10 resumed the path of growth

 -2.000 -20

 Source: BCRA

6 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) negotiated in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans negotiated, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 5 foundation (see Graph 4.3). The increase recorded in the
 Graph 4.2 Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector month was 0.9% ($970 million) and was explained
 % %
 14 (monthly average variation) 70 fundamentally by single-signature documents, which

 12 Monthly avg. var. 60 received the boost from higher placements within
 Year-on-year var. (right axis)
 10 50 the framework of the closing of the fourth stage of the

 8 40 Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP). In year-on-

 6 30 year terms, they accumulated growth close to 24%.

 4 20 The remaining commercial financings, grouped under

 2 10 the heading "Other loans" presented an increase

 0 0 of 1.6% ($560 million).

 -2 -10

 -4 -20 In June, the fourth stage of implementation of

 -6 -30 the LCIP concluded. According to preliminary information, as of
 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 April, loans had been agreed upon for 45% of the quota
 Source: BCRA established for the second half of 2014 ($22,770
 million), with more than 60% of what was agreed
 corresponding to financing granted to SMEs (see Graph
 Graph 4.3 4.4). For the second half of 2014, the Central Bank
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector established a new quota (Communication "A"
 5 (contribution to monthly growth) 5600), continuing with its policy to stimulate credit
 4 Discounted and to the productive sector. On this occasion, the financial
 purchased documents entities covered by the norm7 should agree to loans for
 3 Single-signature documents at least 5.5% of their deposits in pesos from the private
 2 sector as of May 2014.
 1
 Although the entirety of the quota should be agreed to SMEs,
 0 at a minimum term of 36 months and a maximum fixed
 -1 interest rate of 19.50% for said period. In cases of default
 -2 in application, there are other permitted destinations,
 -3 either to SMEs, as in the case of the discount of post-dated
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun checks, provided that the interest rate does not exceed
 June 19.50% and the level of application reached in August
 Source: BCRA and November is maintained until September and December,
 or to clients that are not SMEs. In this latter case, it could
 Graph 4.4 be mortgage loans for the purchase, construction or

 Productive Investment Credit Line expansion of housing with a minimum term of 10 years
 (loans agreed within the framework of the fourth stage of the LCIP) and a maximum fixed interest rate of 17.50%, or investment
 projects with specific destinations (in which case the
 interest rate will be freely agreed) or; finally, financings
 SMEs in pesos to natural persons8 (personal and pledge financing for
 62% vehicles basically) granted as of June 11 that the financial
 entity incorporates through transmission, through assignment
 or as receivables with respect to trusts, insofar as the
 Rest originator and transmitter of the credits ceded or placed in
 38% trust, as applicable, is a Group II financial entity9

 Note: preliminary information as of April 2014
 Source: BCRA

7 Financial entities that operate as financial agents of the National, provincial, or City of Buenos Aires and/or municipal governments and/or whose amount of deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos (considering the average of the last three months prior to 6/1/14) is equal to or greater than 1% of the total deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos of the financial system.

8 Financings referred to in point "X".3.2. of the norms on "Interest Rates in Credit Operations" (Communication "A" 5590).

Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 6 dits ceded or placed in trust, as applicable, be
 a Group II financial entity9
Additionally, within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), the Central Bank continued disbursing long-term funds for investment at a fixed total financial cost in pesos. In June, the delivery of $200 million was effectuated, reaching the total of disbursed resources since the beginning of the program to $6,527 million (around 80% of what was awarded; see Chart 4.5).

Regarding loans oriented mostly toward household consumption, credit card financing registered an increase of 0.8% ($700 million), and its year-on-year variation continues at high levels, around 40%. For their part, personal loans reflected an increase of 1.4% ($1,420 million), in line with May's growth, presenting in the last 12 months an increase of 21.1%. It should be mentioned that in June the Pro.Cre.Auto was launched, a program aimed at bolstering the sale of nationally produced automobiles through a credit line from the Bank of the Argentine Nation that finances the acquisition of new nationally manufactured automobiles. These are personal loans (the loans do not have chattel mortgage guarantees) granted at a subsidized interest rate, fixed for the first 36 months, of 19% for the general public and 17% for clients of payroll deduction arrangements and retirees and pensioners who receive payments at the Bank of the Argentine Nation, with a financing term of up to 60 months. In this way, personal loans would receive the boost from Pro.Cre.Auto.

Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans grew 1% ($460 million), the largest increase in the last 5 months, reaching their year-on-year variation at 18.2%. It should be mentioned that part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected in the statistics of bank loans, since it has been channeled through the Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for Single-Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For their part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantees maintained their monthly average balance practically stable, growing 20.8% in year-on-year terms.

Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency continued with the upward trend of recent months. In June, they registered an increase of 2.3% (US$90 million; see Chart 4.6), driven by financing associated with foreign trade. Thus, the average balance for June was positioned at around US$4,200 million.

## 5. Interest Rates

Central Bank-Issued Securities

After the reduction observed in April and May, the interest rates that the Central Bank pays for the placement...
Days - Issue of Bills and Notes remained stable in June.
19
0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400 440 In this way, the interest rate of LEBAC auctioned

 Source: BCRA at predetermined cut-off rates –at terms of 95
 days and 105 days– were located at 26.8% and 26.9%, respec-
 tively. Likewise, the interest rate of the species ad-
 judicated with greater maturity, at 360 days term, was si-
 tuated at 28.3% (see Chart 5.1). On the other hand, , only two
 Chart 5.2 placements of NOBAC were registered, at terms of

 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market 112 days and 154 days, with a spread over BADLAR of

 millions of $
 2,500 private banks that remained relatively stable

 More than 360 days around 0.9 p.p..
 Between 270 and 360 days
 2,000 Between 180 and 270 days
 Between 90 and 180 days
 Between 60 and 90 days In the secondary market, the interest rates of LE-

 Between 30 and 60 days
 1,500 Between 15 and 30 days BAC at terms exceeding 70 days remained without

 Up to 15 days major changes, in line with the behavior regis-

 1,000 tered in the primary market. Meanwhile, the interest rates
 of the shorter terms, mainly the species

 500 of less than 30 days, exhibited increases following the
 behavior observed in the interfi-

 0 nancial markets. The total average amount traded of LEBAC and
 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14
 NOBAC in the secondary market was reduced by $377 mi-
 llion and was located at $1,862 million daily. However,
 it remained at historically elevated levels. The
 decline was driven by operations with LEBAC
 of between 60 and 90 days term (see Chart 5.2).

 The placements of LEBAC and NOBAC that the Central
 Chart 5.3 Bank carries out each week were the main instru-
 LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits ment of sterilization of monetary expansion in the
 % (average monthly balances) month. The nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC and NO-
 50 BAC in pesos grew $5,632 million (3%) and at the end of
 45 LyN / Total Deposits June was located at $190,031 million. The increase was
 40 LyN / Private Sector Deposits driven by the increase in LEBAC, partially
 35 31.4 compensated by the decline registered in the balance of NO-
 30 BAC. In this manner, the stock in circulation is located
 25 23.7
 at approximately 24% of total deposits (see
 20
 Chart 5.3).
 15

 10 Regarding the holders of the securities issued by the

 5 BCRA, public financial entities led the

 0 Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 increase in stock, followed to a lesser extent by
 Source: BCRA Insurance Companies and ARTs, while private banks

11 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA). and Common Investment Funds (FCI)
12 In this section the figures correspond to data at end of month, except where another specification is indicated. registered declines (see Chart 5.4).

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 8

 Chart 5.4 Holding of Central Bank Securities Finally, with respect to the foreign currency segment
 thousands of thousands of the balance in circulation decreased by US$48 mi-
 millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) millions $ llion and was located at US$907 million. The decline was im-
36 200
32 Other pelled by lower holdings in private banks. The
28 FCIs 180 interest rates that the Central Bank pays for its place-
 Private banks ments in this segment also remained without
24 160
20 Public banks changes.
16 Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis) 140
12 8 120 Central Bank Repo Operations1
 4 100
- 10 -4 80 Operaciones de Pase del Banco Central1
 -8
-12 60
-16 40
-20
-24 20
 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 Jun-14
Source: BCRA

The interest rates on passive repos remained unchanged and were located at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively; while the interest rates on active repos of 1 and 7 days, at 11% and 11.50%.

The average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank –in all the modalities in which the institution participates– recorded a decrease of $2,370 million and was located at $11,123 million. The decline was driven mostly by the fall in the stock of financial entities, particularly private ones. For its part, no active repos continued to be recorded for the entity.

**Interfinancial Markets¹**

In June the interfinancial market rates increased. The increase was again driven by specific liquidity needs, explained, among other factors, by tax payment deadlines at the beginning of the month and the payment of the SAC at the end of June.

The average interest rate of operations for 1 business day in the unsecured market (call) increased 5.5 p.p., placing itself at 22.5%. Likewise, the average interest rate of operations for 1 business day among financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) grew 4.3 p.p., standing at 20.3% (see Graph 5.6).

However, it should be noted that on the last day of the month the interest rates of the interfinancial market returned to levels similar to those recorded in the previous month.

The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial market (including the REPO round among entities and the call market) was reduced by $500 million compared to the previous month, although it remained at historically elevated levels, reaching $7,180 million. In the call market foreign entities and non-banking financial entities (EFNB) resulted as net fund recipients and had as counterparty private national entities and, to a lesser extent, public ones.

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

The interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits decreased throughout June.

In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, of 30-35 days maturity– averaged 23%, with a monthly decrease of 1.6 p.p., similar to that verified in May.

For its part, in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was located at 20%, 1.1 p.p. below the May level (see Graph 5.7).

**Active Interest Rates¹**
Advances in Current Account to companies for more than $10 M - up to 7 days
 32

 28 Advances in Current Account During June, the majority of interest rates applied

 24 to loans in pesos to the private sector con-
 tinued showing declines.
 20

 16
 Among commercial lines, interest rates showed
 12
 heterogeneous behaviors. On one hand, the monthly
 8 average of the interest rate on advances in

 4 current account remained unchanged at 32.2%, while

 0 the corresponding interest rate on advances to
 Jan-12 Mar-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Mar-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jun-14
 companies for more than $10 million and up to 7
 days maturity stood at 26.1%, registering a monthly
 increase of 1.9 p.p.. This increase did not occur homo-
 geneously during the month: in the first half, the
 interest rate maintained a downward trend,
 while from mid-month onwards the interest rate
 registered sharp increases, in line with the interbank
 
 Chart 5.9 market interest rate, responding to specific liquidity
 Interest Rates of Discounted Documents to the Private Sector needs.
 (daily data)
 % millions of $
 35 Amounts excluding LCIP (right axis) Amounts associated with LCIP (right axis) Rates excluding LCIP Total 1,600

 30 1,400 On the other hand, interest rates applied to financing

 25 through documents continued declining,
 1,200 driven by greater participation of loans granted

 20
 1,000 under the LCIP framework. In particular, the monthly

 15 800 average of the interest rate applied to document

 10 discount stood at 26.3%, declining 1.3 p.p. during
 800
 5 600 the month (Chart 5.9). Likewise, the monthly average

 0 400 of the interest rate on documents at sole signature de-

02-Jan-14 22-Jan-14 11-Feb-14 05-Mar-14 26-Mar-14 16-Apr-14 12-May-14 30-May-14 19-Jun-14

13 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses
or other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 10 26.6%. In this latter line of loans, in the amounts
 Chart 5.10 granted in June there was also an increase in the
 Interest Rates of Documents at Sole Signature participation of operations corresponding to longer

TNA, % (monthly average)
32 Participation by maturity bracket
 (monthly average) maturity brackets (Chart 5.10).

 Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years

 100%
28 80%

 60% For its part, interest rates applied to loan

 40% lines of greater maturity also decreased during

 20%
24 the month. In particular, the decline stands out,

 0%
 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14
 of 4 p.p., in the monthly average of the interest rate
20
 on personal loans, which stood at 40.5%. In
 this sense, the interest rate on chattel mortgage loans
16
 also decreased (2.3 p.p.), averaging 23.1%. Meanwhile,
 the monthly average of the interest rate on mortgage
 12
 loans to individuals averaged 17.8%, declining 0.1 p.p.
 Jul-08 Feb-09 Sep-09 Apr-10 Nov-10 Jun-11 Jan-12 Aug-12 Mar-13 Oct-13 May-14 during the month (Chart 5.11).

Source: BCRA

 Finally, it should be noted that in mid-June Communica-
 tion "A" 5590 came into effect, which set, based on
 LEBAC yields, maximum interest rates, essentially, for
 personal loans and chattel mortgage loans for motor ve-
 hicles to individuals. According to the regulation, two
 groups of institutions are defined, each of which will
 have different reference rates.
 
 Chart 5.11

 Active Interest Rates

 TNA, % (monthly average)
54 Monthly variations
p.p.
 0 ference, which will be published monthly by the Bank
48 -1 -0,1
 -2 Central
42 -3 -2,3
 -4
 -5 -4,0
36 Mortgage Pawn Personal

30 6. International Reserves and

24 Foreign Exchange Market1

18

12 In a context of greater seasonal liquidation of

 6 Pawn Mortgage to individuals Personal foreign currency by exporters, international
 0 reserves increased US$737 million in June,
May-08 Mar-09 Ene-10 Nov-10 Sep-11 Jul-12 May-13 Mar-14 ending the month at US$29.278 billion. In this
Source: BCRA way, the international reserves of the Central Bank,
 accumulated an increase of US$2.271 billion in the
 last three months (see Graph 6.1). The increase was
 explained mainly by the purchases of foreign currency
Chart 6.1 by the Institution in the foreign exchange market.

 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA Regarding the quotations of the U.S. dollar,
millions of U$S on average, it was 1% higher than in May (8.13
31 $/US$, see Graph 6.2), while those of the real and

Jun-14 the euro remained, on average, at 3.6 $/real and 11.1
30 $/euro, respectively. For its part, in the futures market
 (ROFEX), the expected quotations for the coming
29 months remained stable while the traded volume
 reduced by approximately 32%.
28

 U$S 2.271 billion

27

26
Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 11 Chart 6.2 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate

 15%
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real
 Common Investment Funds
 Depreciation
 10%
 Appreciation In June the equity of the Common Investment
 Funds (CIF) in pesos and in foreign currency decreased
 5% $2.540 billion, being placed at $90.050 billion.

 0% The seasonal decline occurred, fundamentally,
 towards the end of the month in the peso segment and
 was explained by the redemption of quotashares for

 -5% the payment of SAC, affecting mainly the Money Market
 Jun-13 Ago-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 funds, which verified declines of $3.230 billion (12.1%)
Source: BCRA and fixed income funds, which decreased $860 million
 (2%). Meanwhile, the funds that invest most of their
 portfolio in mixed income assets registered an increase
 of $1.390 billion (8.4%) and variable income funds
Chart 7.1 expanded by $70 million (2%). In mixed income funds
 Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos the increase was driven by the increase in the
 billions (monthly variation) quantity of quotashares, while in variable income
 of $ funds it was the higher profitability that motivated the
 15.0
  Fixed Income growth.
 Money Market
 10.0  Mixed Income Variable income funds continued to be the best
  Variable Income performing in terms of profitability and registered
 Total in June a monthly return of 2.5%, followed by
 5.0 Money Market funds which had a monthly return
 of 1.4%. For fixed income funds, the monthly return
 0.0 was placed at 1.1%, while in the case of mixed
 income funds it was placed at 0.4%.

 -5.0

 -10.0 Finally, the equity of CIF in foreign currency grew
 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 US$10 million, being placed at US$317 million. The
Source: CAFCI and BCRA behavior was driven by fixed income funds and, to a
 lesser extent, by mixed income funds.

 Chart 7.2
 % Estimated Yield of Assets Financial Trusts14
 3 (profitability in pesos)

 2.5 In June, the issuances of Financial Trusts
 3 June 2014 (FF) totaled around $1.900 billion, through
 2 1.9 17 transactions. This amount represented an increase
 2 1.4 of 23% compared to that of May, returning to a level
 1.1 similar to that of March and April (see Chart 7.3). In this
 1 way, excluding the placements of the public sector
0.7 and others intended for financing infrastructure works. In the first semester of the year, FF emissions accumulated more than $10,600 million,

 0 0.4 showing an increase of 30% compared to the same period of the previous year (see Chart 7.4)

 Fixed-Term Income FCIs Dollar Income FCIs Mixed Income FCIs
 Money Market Fixed Income $ Wholesale $ $ 
 Source: BCRA

14 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 12 It should be noted that within the framework of the reference interest rate regime for loans to individuals

 Chart 7.3 Financial Trust Emissions (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure units) that was adopted in early June15, the trusts

 millions of $ whose assets are constituted by these financings
 2,400 45 and that are incorporated by a financial entity
 Amount issued as receivables are subject to the regulation of
 2,100 40 Quantity of operations (right axis) maximum interest rates. Therefore, in order to comply
 1,800 35
 1,500 30 with the regulations, the FF that financial entities
 subscribe to must be composed of credits that
 1,200 25
 have been granted at interest rates less than or
 900 20
 equal to those established by the Central Bank16.
 600 15
 300 10 Furthermore, as mentioned before, financial
 5 entities may impute these receivables to the new
 0 0 LCIP quota, provided that the trust-committed
 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 credits have been originated as of June 11 by a
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others financial entity of Group II (see section "Loans").

 Chart 7.4 Regarding the settlors, financial entities
 Financial Trust Emissions placed $540 million, 50% more than in May.

 millions of $ (accumulated amounts)
 14,000 In addition to loans linked to consumption,
 they securitized leasing contracts. The "Mutuals,
 12,000 FF from the public sector and others linked to cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers
 infrastructure financing works 2,610
 and other providers of financial services"
 10,000 Rest also issued around $540 million, double
 the previous month. For their part, retail
 8,000 merchants securitized approximately $230 million, which
 6,000 implied a 60% decrease compared to May. The
 10,611 remainder corresponded to companies in the agricultural
 4,000 sector and a non-financial services provider, which
 8,145 securitized commercial credits.
 2,000

 0 Regarding interest rate cutoff rates (amounts weighted
 average), the one corresponding to senior titles
 Semester I-2013 Semester I-2014 in pesos with duration less than 14 months and
 Source: Own preparation based on CNV data and others contracted at variable rate was located at 24.7%, 1.6 p.p.
 below that observed the previous month, while
 Chart 8.1 at fixed rate only one operation was recorded, with a
 INTEREST RATE and INFLATION RATE and TARGET cutoff interest rate of 27.8%.
 % EUROZONE
 7 Monetary Policy Rate
 6 Inflation Rate

 5 Inflation Target 8. Main Monetary Policy Measures

 Rate Corridor
 4 Other Central Banks

 3
 Unlike the two previous months, June was a month
 2 with several developments in monetary policy in
 1 the main advanced and emerging countries. The
 0 main measure was taken by the European Central
 -1 Bank (ECB)17 by announcing a broad package of
 measures with the objective of conducting a more
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 expansionary policy and

 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% a.a.
15 Communication "A" 5590.
16 The restriction does not apply to FF whose underlying assets are credits that have been disbursed before June 11,
2014.
17 See Monthly Monetary Report of May 2014.

Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 13 promote credit towards the real economy (see Chart
Chart 8.2 8.1). For its part, the Federal Reserve (FED) met

p.p. Real GDP disaggregated by component for the fourth time in the year, reducing the level of monetary stimulus.
8 United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized
Among emerging countries, the

6 main measures were taken by the monetary

4 authorities of China, India, Peru, Mexico, Turkey,
Colombia and New Zealand.
2

0 In the case of the FED, the Federal Open Market
Committee (FOMC) decided to reduce again the pace of asset

-2 purchases (what is known as tapering) from

-4 US$45,000 million per month to US$35,000 million.
Net Exports of Goods and Services
-6 Gross Investment Private Consumption According to the minutes of said meeting, the asset
purchase program would end in October of this year.
Inventory Accumulation Real GDP (year-on-year change)
-8
Mar-10 Dec-10 Sep-11 Jun-12 Mar-13 Dec-13 Along with this, the FOMC, as happens every other meeting,
Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov published an update of its projections.
From these a reduction in GDP growth for 2014 emerges,
which went from 2.9% in March to 2.2%, in
a context where the third revision of GDP brought the
Chart 8.3 production decline in the first quarter to 2.9% (see
Chart 8.2) compared to the previous quarter (adjusted for
% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States % seasonality). Regarding prices, the FED left
7 Personal Consumption Expenditures 15 its projections for 2014 practically unchanged,
Inflation Target *
6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures despite the recent increase in CPI and the deflator of household
Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 10
5 CPI spending (see Chart 8.3); since it considers that
CPI Core
4 PPI (right axis) they are due to transitory factors. On the other hand, the

3 5 FOMC expects a faster increase in the objective for the
2 federal funds rate (FFR), which would end
1 0 2015 at 1.25% and at 2.5% at the end of 2016 (previously
0 -5 1% and 2.25%, respectively). In turn, three-quarters
-1 of the FOMC members expect the
-2 -10 first increase in the FFR to occur in 2015 (almost unchanged
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED). from the March projections), which
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime, it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of will probably occur in the middle of that year. Finally,
employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, in the FOMC meeting of January 25, 2012 regarding labor market data, the FED projects
an objective of an annual change of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term was set. lower unemployment rates for the 2014-2016 three-year period,
expecting unemployment to end this year at 6.05%.

For its part, at the end of the month, the Bank of England imposed
Chart 8.4 limits on household borrowing in an effort to
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target avoid the emergence of excessive prices in the real estate market.
% Mexico It did so, mainly through the debt-to-income ratio,
10 which can exceed the 4.5 ratio in only 15% of new
9 Reference Interest Rate mortgage loans.
8 Inflation Rate In the case of emerging economies, the monetary
7 Limits Inflation Target authorities of China, India and Peru reduced their
6
5
4
3 reserve requirement coefficients, while the central banks

2 of Mexico and Turkey decreased their reference

1 interest rates. First, the People's Bank of

0
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 China again reduced its reserve requirement coefficient by 0.5

Source: BCRA based on data from banxico.org.mx p.p. for banks that allocate funds to small
 businesses and agricultural economies; the Reserve Bank

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 14 of India reduced the Statutory Liquidity Ratio from 23% to
 22.5% with the objective of promoting credit expansion to the private sector; and the Reserve Bank of Peru
 decreased its reserve requirement coefficient for deposits in
 local currency by 0.5 p.p., to 12%, to further encourage
 credit in this currency. For its part, given the
 absence of inflationary pressures and in a context of
 weakness in economic activity, the Bank of
 Mexico reduced its target for the one-day
 Chart 8.5 interbank interest rate by 0.5 p.p., to 3% (see Chart

 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target 8.4). Furthermore, in a context of lower exchange rate
 % Turkey uncertainty and improvement in risk premium
24
 indicators, the Central Bank of Turkey adjusted its
21 Monetary Policy Rate
 Inflation Rate monetary policy rate from 10% to 9.5%, beginning to

18 gradually reverse the strong contractionary measures
 Inflation Target Limits
15 Interest Rate Corridor implemented in January (see Chart 8.5).

12
 Similarly, in response to their
 9
 macroeconomic situation, the central banks of New
 6 Zealand and Colombia again increased their

 3 respective monetary policy rates. In the first

 0 case, the New Zealand monetary authority decided

 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 to continue with its process of normalization of interest
Note: in May 2010, the Monetary Policy Rate set by the TCMB changed from being the Borrowing Interest Rate to the 1-week Repo Rate.
Source: BCRA based on .tcmb.gov.tr
 rates, which after the earthquakes suffered in recent
 years, is already impacting the economy
 (particularly the construction sector) and prices. In the second, the Central Bank of Colombia
 extended its policy of "gradual and timely adjustment" to
 reduce the need for sharp adjustments in the future,
 when the economy is reaching its potential (see
 Chart 8.6).

 Chart 8.6

 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
 %
11 Colombia

10

 9 Monetary Policy Rate

 8 Inflation Rate

 7 Inflation Target Limits

 6

 5

 4

 3

 2

 1
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14

Source: BCRA based on data from banrep.gov.co

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system Jun-13 Jun-14 May-14 Monthly Last 12 Dec-13
 months

 Monetary Base 366,004 353,311 361,580 311,003 3.6% 17.7%
 Monetary Circulation 277,800 267,035 277,095 238,161 4.0% 16.6%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 249,617 239,956 247,158 214,502 4.0% 16.4%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 28,182 27,077 29,935 23,657 4.1% 19.1%
 Cancelatory Checks 1,220 -- -- -- -- --
 Current Account at the BCRA 88,205 86,276 84,484 72,842 2.2% 21.1%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 11,123 13,493 6,351 11,604 -17.6% -4.1%
 Assets 0 0 0 0 -- --

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 197,196 185,585 111,491 107,720 6.3% 83.1%
 In banks 170,647 158,586 98,364 94,392 7.6% 80.8%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 175,616 162,191 107,309 101,240 8.3% 73.5%
 In dollars 940 926 0 0 1.5% --

 NOBAC 14,000 15,951 4,183 6,480 -12.2% 116.1%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 28,863 28,386 30,612 38,234 1.7% -24.5%
Deposits from the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 727.740 713.941 667.632 585.674 1.9% 24.3%
 Current account (2) 215.126 201.090 190.954 159.613 7.0% 34.8%
 Savings account 147.262 133.574 140.307 117.161 10.2% 25.7%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 336.445 350.895 309.655 286.254 -4.1% 17.5%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 7 7 6 7 0.0% 7.1%
 Other deposits (3) 28.900 28.375 26.710 22.639 1.8% 27.7%

 Deposits from the private sector 546.309 532.075 484.439 420.555 2.7% 29.9%

 Deposits from the public sector 181.431 181.867 183.193 165.119 -0.2% 9.9%

 Deposits from the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 8.613 8.336 8.263 8.300 3.3% 3.8%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 524.734 520.925 498.212 423.682 0.7% 23.9%

 Loans to the private sector 483.145 478.054 457.095 386.360 1.1% 25.1%
 Advances 65.425 64.082 56.649 51.909 2.1% 26.0%
 Documents 108.505 107.536 111.440 87.550 0.9% 23.9%
 Mortgage loans 45.481 45.016 43.075 38.475 1.0% 18.2%
 Pledged loans 31.909 31.948 31.304 26.413 -0.1% 20.8%
 Personal loans 103.863 102.779 98.468 85.735 1.1% 21.1%
 Credit cards 91.355 90.648 80.716 65.045 0.8% 40.4%
 Others 36.607 36.044 35.442 31.231 1.6% 17.2%

 Loans to the public sector 41.589 42.871 41.117 37.323 -3.0% 11.4%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 4.166 4.075 3.694 4.982 2.2% -16.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 464.744 441.047 438.115 374.117 5.4% 24.2%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 612.006 574.621 578.422 491.278 6.5% 24.6%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits 977.358 953.899 914.793 800.178 2.5% 22.1%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.049.619 1.023.033 968.730 844.418 2.6% 24.3%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current account in 383.136 368.873 367.407 323.079 3.9% 18.6%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 514.426 491.463 493.877 428.600 4.7% 20.0%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 795.927 772.032 731.599 635.058 3.1% 25.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 855.849 830.850 775.729 672.288 3.0% 27.3%

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 16 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 12.693 3.6% 14.655 4.2% 4.424 1.2% 55.001 18.3%
 Financial sector 2.472 0.7% 646 0.2% -4.513 -1.2% 1.444 0.5%
 Public sector 11.353 3.2% 12.991 3.7% 31.846 8.8% 106.397 35.4%
 Private external sector 6.163 1.7% 31.835 9.1% 31.495 8.7% -4.172 -1.4%
 BCRA Securities -6.831 -1.9% -28.586 -8.1% -58.478 -16.2% -54.028 -18.0%
 Others -463 -0.1% -2.231 -0.6% 4.074 1.1% 5.361 1.8%

 International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 477 1.7% 1.531 5.6% -1.749 -5.7% -9.371 -24.0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 763 2.7% 3.971 14.5% 3.738 12.2% -2.285 -5.9%
 Payments to international organizations 27 0.1% -255 -0.9% -353 -1.2% 192 0.5%
 Other public sector operations -355 -1.3% -870 -3.2% -1.699 -5.5% 3.624 9.3%
 Minimum cash 24 0.1% -1.129 -4.1% -3.066 -10.0% -2.315 -5.9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 19 0.1% -185 -0.7% -381 -1.2% -8.601 -22.0%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.7 11.8 11.7
 Integration 12.0 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.3
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.2 68.7 68.9
 30 to 59 days 20.5 19.5 20.7
 60 to 89 days 6.0 6.4 5.5
 90 to 179 days 4.8 4.0 3.5
 more than 180 days 1.4 1.4 1.4
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 49.2 44.8 49.4
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 82.9 83.0 94.2
 Position (2) 33.7 38.2 44.9
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 48.3 48.2 49.8
 30 to 59 days 22.4 23.2 21.7
 60 to 89 days 11.1 11.2 12.2
 90 to 179 days 12.7 12.8 12.2
 180 to 365 days 5.0 4.3 3.9
 more than 365 days 0.5 0.3 0.2
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 22.50 17.12 14.85 19.67 13.24
 Amount traded 2,845 2,810 1,990 2,144 1,963

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.92 21.29 21.66 17.67 15.08
 60 days or more 23.42 24.45 25.70 19.00 13.51
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.17 20.17 20.00 17.45 15.04
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 23.02 24.66 26.28 20.18 16.58

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.93 0.97 0.99 0.34 0.50
 60 days or more 1.67 1.64 1.62 0.65 0.99
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.79 0.79 0.98 0.39 0.56
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.02 0.99 1.30 0.33 0.70

 Active Interest Rates Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.33 23.74 25.01 21.64 18.28
 Amount traded (total terms) 299 274 288 316 247

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 32.20 32.21 32.85 27.59 22.80
 Documents on signature alone 26.62 29.43 30.52 22.38 19.07
 Mortgage 21.08 17.44 17.19 16.56 14.63
 Pledge 23.09 25.43 27.50 21.07 18.97
 Personal 40.51 44.54 46.10 39.33 34.19
 Credit cards n/a 40.05 39.07 37.16 32.31

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 26.05 24.17 24.62 22.62 16.70

 International Interest Rates Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.19
 6 months 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.35 0.41

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.44 0.37 0.40 0.33 0.32
 10 years 2.59 2.55 2.69 2.88 2.27

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.00 11.00 10.99 10.00 8.00

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

BCRA repo rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50
Repo Round Total Rates
 1 day 13.89 12.16 10.29 15.81 10.17
 7 days 13.73 12.47 13.63 13.12 9.57

Amount Operated in Repo Round (daily average) 10,271 12,691 17,279 3,981 8,139

LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a 14.73
 3 months 26.83 26.80 28.25 15.52 15.31
 9 months 27.90 n/a 29.85 n/a n/a
 12 months 28.26 28.26 29.66 17.80 17.95

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/a 0.9 1.0 n/a n/a

LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/a n/a
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/a n/a
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/a n/a
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a

Amount Operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (daily average) 1,862 2,239 2,116 673 1,243

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.12 8.04 8.00 6.32 5.33
 Retail 8.13 8.05 8.01 6.33 5.33

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.34 8.20 8.13 6.75 5.46
 ROFEX 1 month 8.31 8.20 8.12 6.56 5.41
 Amount Operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) 1,992 2,621 2,134 1,618 723

Real (Pesos x Real) 3.63 3.62 3.59 2.69 2.46

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 11.05 11.04 11.05 8.67 7.04

 Capital Market Jun-14 May-14 Apr-14 Dec-13 Jun-13

MERVAL
 Index 7,839 7,166 6,543 5,330 3,213
 Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 193 141 110 109 46

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 122.8 125.4 117.6 132.6 130.7
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 105.0 105.1 99.1 106.6 90.8
 BODEN 2014 ($) 98.4 98.3 98.9 93.5 93.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 76.6 78.5 81.6 63.9 47.7

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,080 921 921 826 1,402
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 344 361 366 412 384

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 19

## Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBACs:** Central Bank Notes.

**LCIP:** Credit Line for Productive Investment.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable Forward.

**NOBACs:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Bond.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | June 2014 | BCRA | 20
