# March 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
March 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was April 10, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to
revision

Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In March, monetary aggregates continued to moderate their rate of expansion. In particular, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a year-on-year variation of 22.3%, which was 1.8 percentage points lower than that observed in February. The average monthly balance of M3 decreased 0.4%, with a decline in deposits belonging to the public sector and an increase in the broader private monetary aggregate (private M3).

• Within the components of private M3, means of payment recorded a decrease that was more than offset by the increase in fixed-term deposits. Favored by higher returns, this type of deposits continued growing strongly in March (4.4%), showing one of the highest increases in the last twelve months. Distinguishing by amount bracket, advances were verified both in deposits belonging to the wholesale segment (4.7%) and in those of less than $1 million (4.1%). In this way, fixed-term deposits of the private sector again accelerated their year-on-year rate of change, which moved to 34.5%.

• In March, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash, current account at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) again showed an increase, which on average represented 1.1% of total deposits in pesos, and was mainly applied to the increase in the balances of securities issued by the Central Bank. Consequently, the average liquidity ratio for the month was 33.6%.

• The average monthly balance of loans in pesos to the private sector remained practically stable in March, accumulating in the last twelve months a growth of 32%. Among the different credit lines, financing granted through advances stood out, which continued growing at a good pace, registering a monthly increase of 2.8%. For its part, the Central Bank continued promoting credit to the productive sector. In March, a new auction was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), aimed at increasing the supply of long-term funds for productive investment with a fixed total financial cost in pesos. On this occasion, $100 million were awarded. Thus, the total resources awarded since the beginning of the PFPB amounts to $7,880 million, of which $6,205 million have been disbursed.
• Within the Credit Line for Productive Investment, the Central Bank regulation came into effect that allows financial entities in March and April to apply up to 10% of the first semester 2014 quota of the line to the discounting of post-dated checks from SMEs (Communication "A" 5554). This was reflected in a decrease in interest rates for some financing lines aimed at the productive sector. In effect, the interest rate applied to document discounting averaged 29.3%, decreasing 2.6 p.p. compared to February.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

 Monetary Aggregates
 (March 2014, in average) During March, monetary aggregates continued
 Total Dep. Public Sector moderating their expansion rate. In particular, the
 Dep. Term and Other Private broadest aggregate in pesos (M3 2) presented a year-
 on-year variation of 22.3%, which was 1.8 p.p. lower
 M3
 -0.4% Private Sector M3 than that observed in February. The monthly average
 M3 Private balance of M3 decreased 0.4% in March, with a fall in
 Sight Dep. Private Sector 0.9%
 deposits belonging to the public sector and an increase
 Bills and Coins of 0.9% in the broadest private monetary aggregate (M3
 private3; see Graph 2.1).
 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15
 thousands of millions of $ Within the components of private M3, the means of
 Note: the figures in percentage correspond to monthly variation. payment registered a decrease that was more than
 Source: BCRA compensated by the increase in time deposit placements.
 Favored by higher returns, private sector time deposits
 % Time Deposits in Pesos of Private Sector % continued growing strongly in March (4.4%), presenting
 (variations of monthly averages) Graph 2.2 one of the highest increases in recent years (see
 7 56 Graph 2.2). Distinguishing by amount bracket, increases
 Monthly variation were observed both in placements belonging to the
 6 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 48
 wholesale segment (4.7%) and in those of less than
 5 4.3 4.4 40
 $1 million (4.1%). In this way, private sector time
 34.5 deposits again accelerated their year-on-year variation
 4 32
 2.8 3.0 rate, which was placed at 34.5%. (1.8 p.p. above that
 3 24
 2.0 of the previous month).
 2 16
 1 0.3 8 Foreign currency deposits presented a monthly
 0 0 decrease, with declines both in placements belonging
 -1 -8 to the private sector and those corresponding to the
 -2 -16 public sector. In this way, the broadest monetary
 -3 -24 aggregate, M3* 4, presented a monthly reduction of
 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 0.7%, accumulating a year-on-year variation of 24.2%.
 Source: BCRA
 Graph 2.3
 % Monetary Base % With regard to primary money creation, the
 10 (variation of monthly averages) 50 monetary base reached an average balance of $351,350
 8 40 million, presenting a monthly increase of 1%
 6 30 (see Graph 2.3). Its year-on-year variation rate was
 4.1 placed at 18.2%, 0.7 p.p. below the February value.
 42.7 18.2 20
 1.6 1.0 Among its components, the reduction in currency in
 2 0.8 1.2 10
 circulation held by the public was more than compen-
 0 0 sated by the increase in bank reserves (composed of
 -2 -1.4 -10 cash in financial entities and the balances of current
 -4 -20 accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank).
 -6 Monthly variation -30
 Year-on-year var. (right axis)
 -8 -40
 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14
 Source: BCRA
2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private non-financial sector in pesos.

4 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 4 3. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹

In March, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash, current account at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs) showed an increase again, which on average represented 1.1% of total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1).

**Chart 3.1**
% Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities*
deposits (monthly average)

Consequently, the average liquidity ratio for the month was 33.6%. Part of the liquidity increase came from the sale of dollars by entities related to compliance with Communication "A" 5536 (see International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market section), and was applied mostly to the holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs. On the other hand, in March a new monthly period of the Minimum Cash regime began, which resulted in an increase in current accounts at the BCRA (integration of minimum cash) and a decrease in the stock of repos that had accumulated in February as a consequence of closing the quarterly position December-February. In this regard, the estimated surplus of the reserve requirement regime was equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity decreased, standing at 113.1% of total deposits in dollars (5.5 p.p. below the previous month). The decline was verified in the balances of foreign currency current accounts of entities at the Central Bank, as a consequence of the aforementioned adjustment to Communication "A" 5536. This was partially offset by the increase in the balance of LEBAC in dollars.

**Chart 3.2**
% Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos
deposits

4. Loans¹⁵

Loans in pesos to the private sector maintained their balance practically stable in March, accumulating 32% growth over the last twelve months. Among the different credit lines, financing granted through advances stood out (see Chart 4.1).

For its part, the Central Bank continued promoting credit to the productive sector. In March, Auction No. 27 was held within the framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB), intended for

---

5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.
# MONETARY REPORT | March 2014 | BCRA | 5

**Graph 4.1 - Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**

increase the supply of long-term funds for productive in-
vestment that has a total financial cost

millions of $ (average monthly variation) 60
 fixed percentage in pesos. On this occasion, $100 mi-
3,000
 llion were awarded. Thus, the total resources awarded
2,000 37.2 44.4 40 since the beginning of PFPB amounts to $7,880 million,
 32.0 36.3
 22.4 30.7 of which $6,205 million have been disbursed (see Gra-
1,000 21.9 27.0 20 ph 4.2).

0 0
 The lines intended to finance mostly commercial activi-
-1,000 -20 ties presented disparate behavior in the month. As men-
 Mar-14 vs. Feb-13 tioned above, advances continued to show good perfor-
-2,000 Y-o-y var. (right axis) -40 mance, registering in March a growth of 2.8% ($1,670
 million), similar to that of the previous two months and
-3,000 -60 higher than that shown in March of last year. This latter
 allowed its year-over-year variation to increase 2.4 p.p.,
**Source: BCRA** placing it at 22.4% (see Graph 4.3). Meanwhile, financing
 instruments executed through documents showed a
 decrease of 2% ($2,300 million), although in year-
 over-year terms they grow around 37%. The remaining
 commercial financing, grouped under the heading
**Graph 4.2 - Advances of the Bicentennial** "Other loans" grew 0.5% ($180 million).

millions of $ % Loans aimed mainly at consumption by families
9,000 (cumulative monthly amounts) 90 presented limited variations in the month. Within this
8,000 Amounts Awarded 80 framework, personal loans reflected a monthly increase
7,000 Amounts Disbursed 70 of 0.5%, approximately $480 million, while credit card
 Ratio Disbursed/Awarded (right axis) financing maintained its average monthly balance stable.
6,000 60 Nevertheless, both lines maintained high growth rates in
5,000 50 year-over-year terms, as they hovered around 27% and
4,000 40 44% in one and the other case respectively.

3,000 30
2,000 20 With regard to loans with real guarantees, mortgage
1,000 10 loans registered an increase of 0.6% ($260 million),
0 0 similar to that of the previous month, with a year-over-
 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 year variation close to 22%. The possibility of charging
**Source: BCRA** mortgage loans for the purchase, construction or expan-
 sion of homes with a minimum term of ten years to the
 new quota of the Productive Investment Credit Line
 (LCIP), can constitute a positive incentive for the line
**Graph 4.3 - Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector** to the extent that such loans are granted throughout the

% first semester of the year. It should be mentioned that a
14 (average monthly var.) 70 part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing
 Avg. monthly var. (persons) is not reflected in bank loan statis-
12 60
 Y-o-y var. (right axis) tics, as it has been channeled through the Argentine
10 50 Bicentennial Credit Program for Single Family Housing
8 40 (Pro.Cre.Ar). As for loans with chattel mortgage gua-
 6.6 rantee, their balance remained at a level similar to that
6 30
 of February, although their year-over-year variation con-
4 2.8 20
 1.9 tinues at high levels, standing at 36.3%.
 2 0.9 0.8 10
 0.1 0.2 0.6
0 0 According to the latest available information, correspon-
-2 -10 ding to the month of February, financing granted by
 financial entities in the form of leasing contracts⁶ conti-
-4 -20
 nued moderating its monthly expansion rate, registering
-6 -30 a slight increase (0.2%). Meanwhile, in the last 12 months
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 they accumulated an increase of 38.6% (see Graph 4.4).

**Source: BCRA**

# MONETARY REPORT | March 2014 | BCRA | 6

**Graph 4.4 - Goods in Financial Leasing in Pesos**

% %
10 Monthly var. 100
 Y-o-y var. (right axis)
8 80
6 60
Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency
4 40
registered a decrease of 2.1% (US$80 million), explained
2 20
fundamentally by the behavior of credit cards, after the
0 0
period of more intensive use abroad. Thus, the monthly
-2 -20
average balance was located at around US$3,600 million.
-4 -40
-6 -60

-8 -80

Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-145. Interest Rates 7

Source: BCRA
Titles Issued by the Central Bank8

Graph 5.1 In March, the Central Bank kept the interest rates of the
Interest Rate of LEBAC in Pesos in the Primary Market LEBAC and NOBAC awarded unchanged each week in
T.N.A %
35 (last auction of the month) the primary market. In this way, in the case of LEBAC,
which represents the largest portion of the amount
33 Feb-14
Ene-14 placed, the interest rates auctioned with predeter-
31 29,9 30,2 30,3 mined values – of 77 days and 91 days – were located
29,1 29,6
28,7 28,9 at 28.6% and 28.9%, respectively. Likewise, the
29
interest rate of the species awarded with greater ma-
27
turity – 364 days – was set at 30.3% (see Graph 5.1).
26,5 26,6 26,9 27,2 27,4
25 25,5 25,9 For its part, in the case of NOBAC, the spread over
the BADLAR of private banks registered a slight de-
23
crease, being located at 1 p.p., while the BADLAR
21 of private banks grew 0.6 p.p.
Days
19

0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400 440
Source: BCRA
In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC,
which are generally traded at a shorter term than
what the BCRA usually auctions, remained relatively
Graph 5.2 stable. The total average amount traded was located
thousands of Holdings of Central Bank Titles
millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly change) at $1,550 million daily, $352 million higher than the
volume registered in February. The increase was
32
28 Others driven by operations with LEBAC, mainly in terms
24 FCIs shorter than 60 days.
20 Private Banks
Public Banks
16
12 The outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos
8
4 decreased $7,294 million and was located at $144,874 mil-
- lion. With respect to the main holders, increases were
-4 observed in the holdings of private banks, FCIs and
-8
Insurance Companies, while decreases were registered
-12 in those of public banks (see Graph 5.2). As in February,
-16 in terms of deposits, the balance of titles continued grow-
-20 ing and was located at around 19.5% (see Graph 5.3).
-24

Mar-11 Jul-11 Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 Nov-13 Mar-14

Source: BCRA

6 It comprises the value of capital goods (personal property and real property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity
at the request of these, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to
exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.
7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 7

Graph 5.3
LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits
% (monthly average balances)
50
Finally, the interest rates paid by the Central Bank
45 LyN / Total Deposits
for LEBAC in foreign currency did not show
40 LyN / Private Sector Deposits
changes. The outstanding balance was located at
35
US$716 million, US$168 million higher than the
30
26.4 balance registered at the end of February. The in-
25
crease was driven by higher holdings of private
20 19.5
banks.
15

10 Central Bank Repo Operations1
5
 The interest rates of all repo modalities
 0
 Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14remained unchanged. The passive repo rates
 Source: BCRA were placed at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively;
 while the interest rates of active repos
 of 1 and 7 days, at 11% and 11.50%, respectively.

 Chart 5.4 The average stock of passive repos for the Central Bank
 Interfinancial Market –in all the modalities in which the institution
 TNA % (2014)
 35 participates– recorded a decline of $5,992 million and was
 1-day call interest rate (right axis)

 Repo wheel interest rate excluding BCRA operations (right axis) placed at $11,593 million, a decrease that was driven
 30
 mainly by the operations of banks.

 25

 20 Interfinancial Markets1

 15
 In March, and as usually occurs after the completion of

 10 the quarterly computation periods for Minimum Cash
 requirements, there was an increase in the liquidity needs
 5
 of entities, which led to a temporary increase in interest

 0 rates in the interfinancial markets. This increase was
 03-Feb 10-Feb 17-Feb 24-Feb 03-Mar 10-Mar 17-Mar 24-Mar 31-Mar
 concentrated in the first half of March and then reversed,
 so that at the end of the month interest rate levels close to
 those observed in February were recorded again (see Chart 5.4), although the average values of interest rates showed
 increases. In the unsecured market (call) the average inter-
 est rate of operations for 1 business day
 Chart 5.5 increased 4.6 p.p. placing itself at 19.2%. For its part, the
 thousands of Interbank Market average interest rate of operations for 1 business day
 millions of $ (1-day business operations) TNA %
 among financial entities in the secured market
 6 21
 Amount traded Call (repo wheel) increased 6.6 p.p. and was placed at
 Amount traded Repo wheel excluding BCRA 19
 5 Repo wheel interest rate excluding BCRA (right axis) 18.2% (see Chart 5.5).

 Call interest rate (right axis) 17

 4
 15 The average daily amount traded grew
 approximately $1,200 million in March, totaling
 3 13
 around $5,650 million. The increase was driven
 11
 2 by the volume traded in the Repo wheel which
 9
 concentrates 63% of the traded volume.
 1
 7
 0 5 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March of 2014 | BCRA | 8 Passive Interest Rates1
 Chart 5.6

 BADLAR of Private Banks In March, the averages of the different passive interest
 % TNA (daily data)
 29 rates recorded increases of lesser magnitude than
 those of the two previous months. This was due to the fact
 Avg. Mar-14 that from the end of February interest rates practically
 26.18
 25 did not register changes.

 21 Thus, the average interest rates paid by financial
 entities for fixed-term operations in pesos of the private
 sector exhibited monthly increases that did not exceed 1 p.p. In particular, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks –interest rate
 17 for deposits of $1 million and more, with a 30-35 day
 term– averaged 26.2%, registering a monthly increase of
 13
 0.6 p.p. (see Chart 5.6). For its part, in the retail segment,
 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 the interest rate paid by financial entities for deposits of
 Source: BCRA the private sector at fixed-term up to $100 thousand averaged 21%, showing an increase of 0.8 p.p.

 Chart 5.7

 Interest Rate on Current Account Overdrafts Active Interest Rates1 9
 %, (daily data)
 TN
 36
 34 Current Account Overdrafts
 32
 Current Account Overdrafts to companies of more than $10 M - Similar to what occurred with passive rates, most of
 30 up to 7 days the interest rates applied to loans
 28
 26 in pesos to the private sector registered increases
 24
22 average values, showing relative stability with respect

20 to the levels of late February.

18

16
14 Among the interest rates applied to commercial lines,

12 the one corresponding to current account advances
10 showed an increase of 1.7 percentage points on average and
Ene-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13 Jun-13 Ago-13 Oct-13 Dic-13 Feb-14
 was located at 33.1%. Within this line, the interest rate
 corresponding to those granted to companies, for more
 than $10 million and up to seven days of maturity, in-
 creased by 1.4 percentage points, standing at 27.3%
 (Chart 5.7).

Chart 5.8 For its part, the interest rates charged on financing

Interest Rates on Discounted Documents to the Private Sector through documents showed a mixed behavior, with
(daily data)

% an increase in single-signature documents and a decrease
34
 Total in discounted ones. The average monthly interest rate
32 Total excluding ranges of interest rates of single-signature documents was located at 29.4%, exhibiting
 associated with LCIP
 an increase of 0.4 percentage points during the month,
30 while the one applied to document discounts averaged
Amounts Traded in Discounted Documents to the Private Sector 29.3%, decreasing 2.6 percentage points with respect
millions of $ (amount accumulated in the month)
28 to February. Part of this decrease was associated with
20,500 Amounts associated with LCIP
19,500 Amounts excluding LCIP the entry into force of the Central Bank provision through
26 18,500 which, both in March and in April, up to 10% of the
17,500
16,500 quota of the first semester of 2014 of the LCIP can be
24 15,500
14,500 applied to the discount of postdated checks of SMEs, at
13,500
22 12,500 an interest rate not exceeding 17.5% (Communication "A"
Ene-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 5554). In any case, without considering these loans within
20
02-Ene-14 16-Ene-14 30-Ene-14 13-Feb-14 27-Feb-14 13-Mar-14 27-Mar-14 the line, it is observed that the interest rate of dis-

9 The interest rates referenced in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses counted documents also showed a monthly decline
nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans. (Chart 5.8).

Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 9 As regards the interest rates of longer-term lines, the
Chart 5.9 monthly average of the one applied to loans with chattel
Active Interest Rates mortgage guarantees was located at 28.5%, with an
TNA, % (monthly average) increase of 4.6 percentage points during the month,
52 following the decline recorded in February. It should be
48 Chattel Mortgages Mortgages to individuals Personal recalled that interest rates are weighted averages by
44 Discounted Documents Single-signature Documents amounts, which means that in some lines where not all
40 entities participate – such as chattel mortgage and
36 mortgage loans – the change in relative participation
32 can generate variations in average interest rates that do
28 not necessarily imply a generalized change in them.
24 For its part, the monthly average of interest rates
20 applied to mortgage loans to families was 1 percentage
16 point higher than that observed in February, standing
12 at 18.3%. Finally, the interest rate on personal loans
8 averaged 45.9%, increasing by 1 percentage point during
4 the month (see Chart 5.9).
0
May-08 Apr-09 Mar-10 Feb-11 Jan-12 Dec-12 Nov-13
Source: BCRA 6. International Reserves and
 Foreign Exchange Market¹

Chart 6.1 International reserves totaled US$27,007 million at the
 end of March. This represented a monthly reduction of
Factors in the Variation of International Reserves US$539 million, explained
thousands of
(March 2014)
millions of u$s
1.0

0.5

0.0

-0.5

-1.0
Reserves Foreign Exchange Sector Cash Others mostly due to debt repayment denominated in
Intern. Public Minimum
Source: BCRA dollars by the public sector (see Chart 6.1).
The balances of current accounts in foreign curren-
cy at the Central Bank were reduced, not fully translating
into a fall in international reserves. In this regard, it should
Chart 6.2 be noted that part of the reduction in current accounts
was offset by the increase in the balance of LEBACs in
Monthly Variation of Nominal Reference Exchange Rate dollars and the purchase of foreign exchange by the Cen-
15%
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real tral Bank from financial entities in order to comply with
what was indicated in Communication "A" 5536 regarding
Depreciation
the limits of the Net Global Position (PGN).
10%
Appreciation In the foreign exchange market, the average quotation
of the United States dollar remained relatively stable, lo-
5% cated at 7.93 $/U$S (+1% compared to February; see
Chart 6.2). Meanwhile, the average quotations of the real
0% and the euro rose to 3.4 $/real and 11 $/euro respective-
Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 ly. For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX) a reduction
of 24% in the traded volume was verified. The average
Source: BCRA daily amount traded was located at $2,300 million, with
a slight decline in expected quotations from the second
Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 10 semester of the year in relation to what was observed in
contracts traded in February.
Chart 7.1

Equity of Collective Investment Funds in Pesos
thousands of thousands of
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at month-end) millions of $

14.0 90 7. Collective Investment
12.0 Money Market 80 Instruments
Fixed Income
10.0 Mixed Portfolio 70
8.0 Variable Income 60
Evolution of stock (right axis) Collective Investment Funds
6.0 50
4.0 40
In March, the equity of Collective Investment Funds
2.0 30
(CIF) in pesos and in foreign currency declined by $1,990
0.0 20
million. Driven by the redemption of shares towards the
-2.0 10
end of the month, the Money Market funds in pesos (rep-
-4.0 0
resenting 29% of total equity) fell by $2,240 million (9%)
Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI and contributed the majority of the decline. They were fol-
lowed by fixed income funds in pesos (representing 45%
of total equity) which recorded a decrease of $720 million
(2%). Meanwhile, mixed portfolio funds grew by $790
million (2.4%), and funds that invest in variable income
assets recorded monthly increases of $220 million (10%),
Chart 7.2 in this last case thanks to the good performance recorded
Estimated Asset Returns in the quotations of the assets in their portfolios.
(% return in pesos)
12 Regarding profitability, variable income funds were the
10.6 best relative performers and recorded a monthly return
10 of 10.6%; followed by fixed income funds which, although
8 they could not exceed the profitability of a wholesale
time deposit, had a monthly return of 1.7%. Finally, mixed
6
portfolio funds and Money Market were located, which
2.2 1.7 1.7 1.3 1.3 recorded average returns of 1.3%.
4

2 On the other hand, the equity of CIF in foreign curren-
cy declined by US$3 million, located at US$304 million.
0
CIF Variable Wholesale CIF Fixed CIF Mixed The behavior was driven almost entirely by the decline in
Income Time Deposit Income Foreign Dollar Money fixed income funds.
Currency Market

Source: BCRA
## Chart 7.3 Financial Trusts10
Financial Trust Emissions
(excluding those from the public sector and others intended to finance infrastructure works)

millions $ In March, the emissions of Financial Trusts
2,400 (FF) totaled around $1,940 million, which
2,100 represented a slight decrease (15%) with respect to
1,800 1,630 the volume traded in February (excluding placements
1,500 1,200 intended for financing infrastructure works in that
1,200 month (see Chart 7.3)). Regarding the number of
 820M 1,050 emissions, 18 operations were carried out in March,
 700 550 compared to 21 operations in February. In this way, in
 900 the first quarter of the year, FF emissions, excluding
 600 FF linked to infrastructure financing (around $2,600
 300 million), totaled more than $5,000 million, showing a
 0 growth of 45% compared to the same period of the
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 previous year (see Chart 7.4).

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 11

## Chart 7.4
Financial Trust Emissions
(accumulated amounts)

millions $ Among the trust settlors, financial entities stood out
8,000 FF of the public sector and infrastructure for concentrating 40% of the total placed in the
 Rest month, securitizing assets for $800 million, 10% more
7,000 2,609 than in February. In order of importance, they were
6,000 followed by "Mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank
5,000 credit card issuers and other financial service
4,000 providers," which issued around $600 million (27% of
3,000 the total). Although this amount was lower than that
 5.116 of the previous month, it was among the highest in
2,000 3,525 recent years. For their part, retail stores issued $530
1,000 million, approximately 30% less than in February and
 0 an amount similar to that observed in the second half
 I-2013 I-2014 of 2013. Practically all underlying assets were linked
Source: Own elaboration based on CNV data and others to consumption, corresponding to personal loans and
 credit card coupons.

## Chart 8.1
Non-Agricultural Employment Creation
In thousands Regarding the cut-off interest rates (weighted average
 of jobs by amount), the one corresponding to senior
350 Employment titles in pesos with duration of less than 14 months
 6-month moving average and agreed at variable rate reached 27.8%,
300 increasing 2.1 percentage points with respect to the
250 230226217209 previous month. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment,
 177 no operations were recorded.
 183185 206 207207215207204196 205
200 185 192 185184183188
 174 180188 183186

150 130138 8. Main Policy Measures of Other
 154164168 159141 158 Central Banks
100

50

0 Regarding the policy of other central banks, the most

 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 noteworthy in March were signs that the Federal
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov Reserve (FED) could raise the objective of its
 reference interest rate sooner than expected, in the
 first half of 2015.

The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC)
decided to reduce again the pace of asset purchases
(what is known as tapering) from US$65,000 million
Chart 8.2 per month to US$55,000 million. Additionally, the FED
maintained the objective of its interest rate at

% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States %
7 Personal Consumption Expenditures 15 reference, the federal funds rate (FFR)
 Inflation Target *
 6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures in the range 0-0.25%. It did this within the framework of
 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 10
 5 CPI better indicators of activity level and the labor
 CPI Core
 4 PPI (right axis) market, while the different inflation
 3 5 indicators are below the target (2%). In
 2
 0 effect, the latest available activity data
 1
 show that the Conference Board leading index on
 0 -5
 prospects for the next three months increased
 -1
 0.5%, the largest increase since November, a
 -2 -10
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 variation that was positioned above what the

 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).market expected (0.2%). In the same sense, the Business Outlook
 * The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target of an annual variation of 2% was set for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.

Survey of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia increased

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | from a value of -6.3 in January to 9 in February, above
 Chart 8.3 what the market expected (3.2) 11. Also

 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target positive signals emerged regarding the level of
 %
 7 eurozone activity from the Consumer Confidence survey. On the other hand, in the labor market,
 6
 Monetary Policy Rate after a recovery in non-agricultural job creation
 Inflation Rate
 5
 Inflation Target in February and March (see Chart 8.1), the
 4 Rate Corridor number of Americans who applied for
 3 unemployment benefits reached the minimum value in
 2 four months during the third week of March. On the
 1 other hand, inflation indicators remained
 0 below the target. In effect, the household spending
 -1 deflator (PCE) increased 0.9% y.o.y. in February
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13
 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% y.o.y. according to the latest available data, 0.3 p.p. less than in
 Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. January and the second lowest value of the last 52 months,
 while core PCE increased 1.1%, with no changes
 Chart 8.4 compared to the previous month (see Chart 8.2).

 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target For its part, the European Central Bank (ECB) decided
 % New Zealand to maintain its reference interest rate at the beginning of April; however, its president admitted that the
 10
 Bank is studying the application of a Quantitative
 9 Monetary Policy Rate Easing program or to further lower its reference interest rate
 8 Inflation Rate in case inflation persists below
 7 Inflation Target Limits the target. With the publication of the preliminary March
 6 inflation data of 0.5% y.o.y., the lowest in 52 months
 5
 (see Chart 8.3), the possibilities increased that the
 4
 ECB will take new expansionary measures -such as
 3
 those already mentioned- in the coming months. In addition,
 2
 the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England maintained
 1
 their respective monetary policies unchanged. Finally,
 0 among developed countries, New Zealand
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14
9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system Mar-14 Monthly Last 12 Feb-14 Dec-13 Mar-13
months

Monetary Base 351,349 347,707 361,580 297,163 1.0% 18.2%
Monetary Circulation 268,830 272,780 277,095 228,885 -1.4% 17.5%
Bills and Coins held by the public 240,603 244,968 247,140 205,348 -1.8% 17.2%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 28,225 27,811 29,953 23,535 1.5% 19.9%
Cancelled Checks 1 1 2 0 0.0% -
Current Account at BCRA 82,520 74,927 84,484 68,277 10.1% 20.9%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 11,593 17,584 6,351 12,294 -34.1% -5.7%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 152,228 139,876 111,491 108,258 8.8% 40.6%
In banks 128,300 118,075 98,364 94,374 8.7% 35.9%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 127,073 121,866 107,309 96,640 4.3% 31.5%
In dollars 654 314 0 0 108.0%

NOBAC 19,970 15,541 4,183 11,618 28.5% 71.9%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 27,332 27,678 30,612 41,153 -1.3% -33.6%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 686.550 686.207 667.661 552.831 0.0% 24.2%
 Current account (2) 186.001 200.449 190.935 146.569 -7.2% 26.9%
 Savings account 132.649 131.340 140.311 110.476 1.0% 20.1%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 341.219 328.427 309.708 275.148 3.9% 24.0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 6 5 6 7 13.4% -20.3%
 Other deposits (3) 26.676 25.986 26.701 20.630 2.7% 29.3%

 Deposits from the private sector 503.263 492.463 484.495 394.902 2.2% 27.4%

 Deposits from the public sector 183.288 193.745 183.165 157.929 -5.4% 16.1%

 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.399 8.843 8.262 8.567 -5.0% -2.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 518.166 517.792 498.197 395.173 0.1% 31.1%

 Loans to the private sector 475.162 475.102 457.080 360.080 0.0% 32.0%
 Advances 62.363 60.694 56.652 50.966 2.8% 22.4%
 Documents 110.548 112.854 111.433 80.562 -2.0% 37.2%
 Mortgage loans 44.567 44.307 43.075 36.556 0.6% 21.9%
 Secured loans 32.431 32.421 31.304 23.795 0.0% 36.3%
 Personal loans 101.360 101.118 98.480 79.809 0.2% 27.0%
 Credit cards 88.241 88.236 80.693 61.106 0.0% 44.4%
 Others 35.652 35.472 35.443 27.287 0.5% 30.7%

 Loans to the public sector 43.005 42.690 41.117 35.093 0.7% 22.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.603 3.675 3.695 5.189 -2.0% -30.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 426.605 445.418 438.077 351.919 -4.2% 21.2%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 559.254 576.758 578.389 462.396 -3.0% 20.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 927.155 931.177 914.803 758.181 -0.4% 22.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 995.593 1.002.562 968.730 801.760 -0.7% 24.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 360.836 364.206 367.382 306.026 -0.9% 17.9%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 481.820 486.205 493.855 405.114 -0.9% 18.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 743.867 737.432 731.638 600.252 0.9% 23.9%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 799.279 795.380 775.763 637.868 0.5% 25.3%

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 3.643 1.0% -10.230 -2.8% -10.230 -2.8% 54.187 18.2%
 Financial sector 6.000 1.7% -5.158 -1.4% -5.158 -1.4% 1.905 0.6%
 Public sector -21 0.0% 18.855 5.1% 18.855 5.2% 96.626 32.5%
 Private external sector 5.636 1.6% -340 -0.1% -340 -0.1% -29.751 -10.0%
 BCRA securities -7.558 -2.2% -29.892 -8.1% -29.892 -8.3% -21.373 -7.2%
 Others -415 -0.1% 6.305 1.7% 6.305 1.7% 6.780 2.3%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -346 -1.3% -3.280 -11.1% -3.280 -10.7% -13.821 -33.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 720 2.6% -233 -0.8% -233 -0.8% -5.059 -12.3%
 Payment to international organizations -133 -0.5% -98 -0.3% -98 -0.3% 613 1.5%
 Other public sector operations -176 -0.6% -828 -2.8% -828 -2.7% 898 2.2%
 Minimum cash -1.266 -4.6% -1.937 -6.5% -1.937 -6.3% -1.247 -3.0%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 497 1.8% -196 -0.7% -196 -0.6% -9.039 -22.0%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14
 (1)

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.7 11.9 11.9
 Integration 11.9 12.1 12.6
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.8
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 69.3 67.5 67.5
 30 to 59 days 20.4 22.8 22.8
 60 to 89 days 5.5 5.0 5.0
 90 to 179 days 3.3 3.2 3.2
 more than 180 days 1.5 1.4 1.4
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 38.9 29.3 20.8
 Integration (includes resource application default) 95.3 104.8 123.8
 Position (2) 56.4 75.5 103.0
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.6 46.6 46.9
 30 to 59 days 23.9 25.3 23.3
 60 to 89 days 10.5 11.9 12.2
 90 to 179 days 12.9 13.7 14.9
 180 to 365 days 2.8 2.2 2.6
 more than 365 days 0.3 0.2 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 16 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 19.4 14.7 16.1 19.7 12.0
 Amount traded 2,073 1,977 2,131 2,144 1,511

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.4 21.0 18.9 17.7 13.5
 60 days or more 25.0 23.9 20.2 19.0 13.6
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.5 22.4 19.2 18.5 13.2
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 26.2 25.6 21.7 20.2 14.8

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.0 0.9 0.4 0.3 0.5
 60 days or more 1.6 1.7 0.9 0.6 1.0
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.1 1.0 0.4 0.3 0.7
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.0 1.1 0.4 0.3 0.9

 Active Interest Rates Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

Collateral in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 28.0 25.7 22.7 21.6 14.8
 Amount traded (total terms) 324 282 310 316 221

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 33.1 31.6 28.9 27.6 21.4
 Single signature documents 29.4 29.2 26.1 22.4 18.9
 Mortgage loans 17.8 17.5 18.3 16.5 16.7
 Pledge loans 28.5 23.9 25.3 21.1 19.7
 Personal loans 45.9 44.9 40.5 39.3 34.2
 Credit cards n/a 38.1 36.0 37.1 33.7

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 27.3 25.9 23.6 21.4 14.6

 International Interest Rates Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
 6 months 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.2
 10 years 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.9 1.9

FED Funds Rate 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3

SELIC (at 1 year) 10.8 10.5 10.3 10.0 7.3

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0
 Liabilities 7 days 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
 Assets 7 days 11.5 11.5 11.5 11.5 11.5

Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 14.9 9.7 11.5 15.8 10.0
 7 days 13.0 10.4 12.6 13.1 9.6

Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 10,127 14,259 7,959 3,981 7,054
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a 28.5 25.5 n/a 13.0
 3 months 28.8 28.7 20.0 15.5 13.3
 9 months 29.9 29.9 23.9 n/a 15.1
 12 months 30.3 30.2 21.5 17.8 15.5

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks 1.1 1.5 -0.4 n/a n/a

LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1)
 1 month 2.5 2.5 2.5 n/a n/a
 3 months 3.0 3.0 3.0 n/a n/a
 6 months 3.5 3.5 3.5 n/a n/a
 12 months 4.0 4.0 4.0 n/a n/a

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (Daily Average) 1,552 1,200 1,034 673 1,134

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 7.9 7.8 7.1 6.3 5.1
 Retail 7.9 7.9 7.1 6.3 5.1

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.1 8.0 7.7 6.7 5.3
 ROFEX 1 month 8.1 7.9 7.4 6.6 5.2
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,300 2,917 2,503 1,618 1,054

Real (Pesos per Real) 3.4 3.3 3.0 2.7 2.6

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 11.0 10.7 9.7 8.7 6.6

 Capital Market Mar-14 Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Mar-13

MERVAL
 Index 5,937 5,893 5,631 5,330 3,368
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 86 103 95 109 75

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 113.1 126.4 133.4 132.6 140.2
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 88.8 95.5 98.9 106.6 99.5
 BODEN 2014 ($) 93.1 97.7 94.0 93.5 96.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 81.6 71.9 62.4 63.9 50.6

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,112 1,328 1,085 826 1,350
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 400 454 430 412 313

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and total peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | March 2014 | BCRA | 19
