# August 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
August 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

   Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

   Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

   Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

   Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

   Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

   Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

   Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on September 11, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In August, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 1.8% and maintained its year-on-year rate of change relatively stable around 21%. All of its components registered increases in the month, with those corresponding to fixed-term placements standing out.

• The liquidity of financial entities in national currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repo transactions with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased 0.6 p.p. in August and represented 37.8% of total deposits in pesos. The increase in the ratio was explained mainly by the rise in the proportion of repo transactions with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC.

• Through communication "A" 5623, changes were established in the Minimum Cash regime, effective as of September. Two objectives were pursued: 1) to increase incentives for the installation of automatic teller machines in areas with less banking development, an increase was arranged in the deduction of reserve requirements for cash withdrawals from automatic teller machines that are not for exclusive use by the clients of each entity; and 2) to promote the payment service for social security benefits, which generally involves greater cash withdrawal through bank branch windows, it was decided to implement a reduction in reserve requirement obligations based on credits made by the National Social Security Administration for the payment of salaries and/or other social security benefits.

• In August, loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited growth of 2% ($9,700 million), driven by commercial financing and those aimed at consumption. In this way, they accelerated their monthly expansion rate and, in the last 12 months, accumulated an increase of 21.9%. In particular, personal loans showed greater dynamism than previous months, with growth of 2.2% ($2,270 million), which was the highest of this year. Part of the boost came from loans granted under the Pro.Cre.Auto framework, through which the Banco de la Nación Argentina granted personal loans for approximately $750 million through August, with a total of approximately 7,400 operations. In turn, credit card financing increased 3.5% compared to the previous month, reaching year-on-year growth of 34%.

• The interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits continued to decline in August, although in smaller magnitude than in previous months. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 21.2%, declining 0.8 p.p. in the month. In the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was placed at 18.9%, registering a monthly fall of 0.4 p.p.

• The interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector had heterogeneous behavior. On one hand, the interest rates on financing through documents decreased, while that applied to personal loans remained practically unchanged compared to July. On the other hand, those corresponding to shorter-term commercial lines registered an increase in their monthly average level, in line with what was observed in interfinancial markets.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1
2. Monetary Aggregates1
# MONETARY AGGREGATES - M3
(variation of monthly averages) In August, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
% Monthly Variation of M3 %
5 Year-over-year variation of M3 (right axis) 50 August - Monthly Variation (M3²) presented a growth of 1.8% (see Chart 2.1)
and maintained its year-over-year variation rate relatively
4 40 Dep. Sec.
Public stable around 21%. All its components regis-

3 30 tered increases in the month, highlighting the correspon-

2 20 Dep. Sec. ding to fixed-term placements.
Private

1 10 Sight Dep. The total deposits in pesos presented a monthly
0 0 Bills and Time Dep. and growth of 1.9%, with increases both in the placements
Coins others of the public sector and in those belonging to the pri-

-1 -10 vate sector.
Ago-11 Ago-12 Ago-13 Ago-140246810
thousands of
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAmillions of $
Within the deposits of the private sector, although those
denominated at sight showed a moderate growth
(0.4%), those agreed at fixed term stood out.
Chart 2.2 The latter showed an increase of 1.4% (see Chart
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
% % 2.2), driven both by deposits from the wholesale stratum
7 (variations of monthly averages) 56
Monthly variation and by those from the segment of less than $1 million.

6 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 48 In this way, after two months of stability, fixed-term

5 40 placements of the private sector returned to exhibit

4 32 growth, accumulating in the last year an advance close
to 30%.
3 24

2 16 Deposits in foreign currency decreased in August,
1 8 which was explained by the fall in placements belonging
to the public sector, given that those corresponding to
0 0 the private sector remained relatively stable. In this way,
-1 -8 the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*³, presented a
-2 -16 growth of 1.5%, showing a year-over-year variation of
Ago-09 Ago-10 Ago-11 Ago-12 Ago-13 Ago-1423.1%.

Source: BCRA
The monetary base grew 1.8% in August (see Chart
Chart 2.3 2.3). In this way, with an average balance of $391,000

% Monetary Base % million, it accumulates in the last year an increase of
10 (variation of monthly averages) 50 19.8%. As for its components, both currency in circu-
8 40 lation and bank reserves (composed of cash in finan-
6 30 cial entities and the balances of current accounts of

4 20 financial entities in the Central Bank) exhibited increases

2 10 in the month.

0 0

-2 -10

-4 Monthly variation -20

-6 Year-over-year var. (right axis) -30

-8 -40
Ago-08 Ago-09 Ago-10 Ago-11 Ago-12 Ago-13 Ago-14
Source: BCRA

² Includes currency in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
³ Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

% of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities*
deposits ties¹
45 (monthly average)

40 Aug-14; The liquidity of financial entities in the national currency
37.8% segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of
August 2014 entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity
35 (% of deposits) 3.9
and the holding of LEBACs and NO-
Cash

30 20.7 BACs) increased in August and represented 37.8% of total
Repos deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1). The increase of 0.6
25 12.0 LEBACs and p.p. in the ratio, was explained mainly by the increases
NOBACs in the proportion of repos with the Central Bank
1.1
20 Central and LEBAC and NOBAC holdings.
 Aug-09 Jan-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12 Jul-12 Dec-12 May-13 Oct-13 Mar-14 Aug-14
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repurchase agreements with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
 Source: BCRA For its part, the estimated surplus of the minimum cash requirement regime was equivalent to 0.2% of the total of deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2). In relation to this regime, the BCRA issued Communication "A" 5623 that incorporates modifications to it as of September.

 Graph 3.2
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
 deposits Quarterly Position
 2.6 Surplus
 Accumulated position
 2.0
 Daily position
 1.4
 0.8
 0.2 0.2
 -0.4

 -1.0

 -1.6

 -2.2

 -2.8
 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14

Two objectives were pursued: 1) to increase incentives for the installation of automatic teller machines in areas with lower banking development, the increase of the deduction for cash withdrawals from automatic teller machines that are not for exclusive use of each entity's clients was established. According to geographic location and type of teller machine (inside or outside the branch), the weighting factor used to calculate this deduction increased between 5.6% and 49.1%; and 2) to promote the social security benefits payment service, which generally involves greater cash withdrawal through bank branch windows, it was decided to implement a reduction of the reserve requirement based on accreditations made by the National Social Security Administration (ANSES) for the payment of wages and/or other social security benefits. This latter deduction will also depend on the geographic location of the operating house where the payment in question is made, being greater for those located in areas with a lower degree of development and banking coverage.

 Graph 4.1
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % %
 6 60 Monthly Variation
 5 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 50
 4 40
 3 30 Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity showed an increase of 1.9 percentage points, averaging 106.7% of total dollar deposits in August.

 2 20
 1 10 4. Loans 1 4

 0 0
 -1 -10
 Aug-07 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12 Aug-13 Aug-14 In August, loans in pesos to the private sector showed growth of 2% ($9,700 million), driven

 Source: BCRA by commercial financing and consumer-oriented loans. In this way, they accelerated their monthly expansion rate and, in the last 12 months, accumulated an increase of 21.9% (see Graph 4.1 and 4.2).

 Graph 4.2
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 millions of $ (average monthly variation) % monthly expansion rate
 12,000 60 With regard to loans intended to finance commercial activities, those implemented through
 10,000 Aug-14. vs. Jul-14. 50 documents continued with the upward trend initiated in June (see Graph 4.3). The increase
 8,000 34.2 40 recorded in the month was 2% ($2,270 million), with year-over-year growth of 20.4%. For their
 6,000 24.2 30 part, advances presented a monthly increase of 1.9% ($1,320 million), moderating their growth
 21.9 20.4 19.6 rate following the
 4,000 16.9 15.4 14.3 20
 10
 2,000
 0 0

---

4 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In the present report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to mean loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 5
Source: BCRA important increase registered in July. In year-on-year terms, the expansion rate stood at 24.2%. Likewise, the remaining commercial financing, grouped under the heading "Other loans" registered an increase of 1% ($370 million).

Chart 4.3 The lines aimed at financing, mainly, the consumption of families showed good performance, with seasonal factors from the previous month dissipated. Documents in Pesos of the Private Sector (daily balance evolution) in thousands of millions of $

118 Daily Balance Credit card financing experienced an increase of 3.5% ($3,080 million), after registering a decrease in July, while the year-on-year variation stood at around 34%. Meanwhile, personal loans showed greater dynamism than previous months, with growth of 2.2% ($2,270 million), which was the highest of this year. Although part of the momentum came from loans granted under the Pro.Cre.Auto program, the monthly evolution of new personal loans reflects that, even excluding these financings, the amount granted in August was higher than in previous months and similar to January (see Chart 4.4). However, the month's growth was below that observed in August of last year, so the year-on-year variation rate continued showing a deceleration, reaching 19.6%.

It is worth mentioning that through Pro.Cre.Auto, the Banco de la Nación Argentina granted personal loans for around $750 million by the end of August, with a total of approximately 7,400 operations.

Chart 4.4
Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector (amounts granted) in millions of $

8,000 Pro.Cre.Auto
7,000 Other destinations
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Aug-12 Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14

Source: BCRA

For its part, loans with real guarantee presented limited variations. Mortgage loans showed an increase of 0.5% ($210 million), growth lower than in previous months, with a year-on-year variation of 15.4%. It is worth mentioning that part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected in banking loan statistics, as it has been channeled through the Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with pledge guarantee registered an increase of 0.6% ($180 million), with a year-on-year variation of 14.3%.

Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency remained relatively stable, with its monthly average balance remaining at around US$4,200 million.

Chart 5.1
TNA % Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market (last auction of the month)

32
30
28 August
26 July
24
22
20
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500

Source: BCRA

## 5. Interest Rates

**Securities Issued by the Central Bank**

At the end of August, the interest rates paid by the Central Bank for the placement of Bills and Notes were located at levels slightly higher than those registered at the end of July, fundamentally in the middle section of the yield curve. The interest rates of LEBAC auctioned at a predetermined cut rate –at terms of 100 days and 115 days– were located at 26.9% and 27.4%, respectively.

Chart 5.2
Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market in millions of $

3,000

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 6
More than 360 days
 Between 270 and 360 days interest of the species awarded with greater maturity, at
 2,500 Between 180 and 270 days
 365 days term, stood at 28.5% (see Chart 5.1).
 Between 90 and 180 days
 2,000 Between 60 and 90 days
 Between 30 and 60 days
 Between 15 and 30 days In the secondary market for securities, interest rates
 1,500 Up to 15 days
 of LEBAC at shorter terms, mainly spe-
 cies of less than 60 days, exhibited transitory
 1,000
 increases, following the behavior observed in

 500 interbanking markets. The average amount traded
 of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market was re-
 0 duced by $450 million, after reaching maximum levels the

 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14
 previous month, and was located at $1,900 million daily. The
 decline occurred in operations with LEBAC of
 between 90 and 180 days term (see Chart 5.2).

 The Central Bank's securities continued to be the
 main instrument for absorbing the surplus of li-
 Chart 5.3 quidity in August. In this way, the nominal balance in
 LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits in Pesos circulation of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos grew
 % (average monthly balances)
 60 by $5,561 million (2.7%) and was located at $213,377 million

 L and N / Total Deposits
 50 L and N / Private Sector Deposits at the end of August. The increase occurred again
 in securities that accrue a fixed rate (LEBAC),

 40 37.1 while the balance of NOBAC, securities that accrue
 a variable rate, continued to decline. In this way,

 30 27.8 NOBAC represents only 1.1% of the stock. In terms
 of total deposits in pesos, the balance in circu-
 20
 lation represents approximately 27.8%.

 10
 Regarding the main holders, the increase

 0 in the balance in August was explained by the demand for
 Aug-02 Aug-03 Aug-04 Aug-05 Aug-06 Aug-07 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12 Aug-13 Aug-14
 Source: BCRA securities from Investment Common Funds

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 7 (ICF), mainly from fixed income and money market
 Chart 5.4 Holding of Central Bank Securities funds, in line with the increase in their equity. Insurance
 thousands of thousands of
 million $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) million $ companies were followed by work risk administrators.
 36 270 On the other hand, financial entities
 32 Others
 ICFs reduced their holdings (see Chart 5.4).
 28 220
 Financial Entities
 24 Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis)

 20 Finally, regarding the segment in foreign currency,
 16 170 the balance of LEBAC decreased by US$8 million,
 12
 8 being located at US$819 million. The decrease was
 120
 4 driven again by lower holdings in private banks,

 - partially offset by increases in public
 -4 70
 banks. The interest rates paid by the Central
 -8
-12 20 Bank for its placements in this segment remained unchanged.

 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 Apr-14 Aug-14

 Source: BCRA
 Central Bank Repo Operations1

 The interest rates of passive repos remained unchanged,
 Chart 5.5 at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively;
 thousands of Interbank Market while the interest rates of active repos
 million $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA %
 10 25 of 1 and 7 days were located at 11% and 11.50%.

 Amount traded REPO session excluding BCRA
 9 Amount traded Call

 8 Interest rate REPO session excluding BCRA (right axis) 20 The average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank
 Interest rate Call (right axis)
 7 –in all modalities in which the institution

 6 15 participates– registered an increase of $3,700 million and was

 5 located at $15,600 million. For its part, continued without
4 10 active repos registered for the entity.

 3

 2 5 Interfinancial Markets1

 1

 0 0
 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14In August, the average rates in the interfinancial market

Source: BCRA increased as a consequence of temporary increases observed during the first days of the month, when specific liquidity needs were recorded in financial entities. However, August ended at levels similar to those of the previous month. Thus, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations in the unsecured market (call) increased 3.5 p.p., placing itself at 19.1%. Likewise, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round)

 Chart 5.6 Interfinancial Markets grew 4.5 p.p., settling at 18.6% (see Chart 5.5).
 billions of pesos $ (average daily amount traded)
 21
 20 Passive repos for the BCRA REPO round The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial
 18 Active repos for the BCRA REPO round market (including the REPO round between entities
 17 Repos between financial entities REPO round and the call market) remained relatively stable
 15 Call around 6,000 million pesos (see Chart 5.6). With respect
 14 to the net amounts traded in the call market in August,
 12 foreign entities continued to be net recipients of funds,
 11 and had as counterparty mainly non-bank financial
 9 entities (EFNB).
 8
 6
 5
 3
 2
 0
 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12 Aug-13 Aug-14Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.7 Passive Interest Rates 1

 % TNA Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-35 days maturity
 (monthly average - Private Banks) The interest rates paid by financial entities for their
 30 fixed-term deposits continued declining in August,

 25 BADLAR Up to $100 thousand although in smaller magnitude than in previous months.

 20 21.2

 18.9 In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private
 15 banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1
 p.p. Monthly average variation million and above, 30-35 days maturity – averaged 21.2%,
 10 5 declining 0.8 p.p. during the month, accumulating a
 4
 3 decrease of 5.1 p.p. compared to April.
 2
 5 1
 0
 -1
 -2
 0 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14Likewise, in the retail segment, the monthly average of
 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term
 deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was
 placed at 18.9%, registering a monthly decline of 0.4 p.p.. In this way, it accumulates a decrease of 2.6 p.p.
 since April (see Chart 5.7).

 Chart 5.8

 Interest Rates on Current Account Advances

 TNA, % (monthly average)
 %, TNA Daily data The interest rates applied to loans to the private
 36 Total Current Account Advances sector showed a mixed evolution throughout August.
 40
 32

 28
 36 Current account advances for more thanThe interest rates applied on loans to the private
 24 $10 M - up to 7 days sector showed a mixed evolution throughout August.
 20
 32
 16

 12
 28 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14

 24 Among commercial lines, the monthly average of the

 20 interest rate on current account advances remained
 
 16 compared to the previous month, placing itself at 30.9%.

 12 Within this line, the interest rate on advances to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity
 averaged 23.4%, increasing 1.8 p.p. during the month.
 8
 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14Source: BCRA

 In line with the behavior of interfinancial markets, it showed an upward trend in the first three weeks of August, to decline in the last days and close the month at its lowest level of the year
Interest Rates for Financing through Documents (Graph 5.8).
(monthly average)

TNA, % Participation in amounts granted of DSF to SMEs
32 (monthly average) For its part, the interest rates on financing

Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years
100% implemented through documents decreased in

80%
60% Documents at Sole Signature
28 the month. The monthly average of the interest rate appli-
40% Discounted Documents

20% ed on the discount of documents recorded its fourth

0%
Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14
24 consecutive monthly decline, placing itself at 25.1%,
0.8 p.p. below July. In this regard, it should be noted

20 that in August the possibility of applying a 10% of the

16 LCIP quota to the discount of post-dated checks of
SMEs continued in effect (at an interest rate that does not
12 exceed 19.5%). The application level reached in August
Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 should be maintained as a minimum until September,

Source: BCRA while in October it will be possible to apply once again
7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.10 up to a 7.5% of the LCIP quota to the discount of
Active Interest Rates SMEs' checks.
TNA, % (monthly average)
54 Monthly Variations
p.p.
3
48 2 1.2 In turn, the monthly average of the interest rate on
1
42 0 documents at sole signature placed itself at 26.3%, decrea-

-1 -0.2 -0.1 sing 1.7 p.p. and thus reversing the increase registered in
36 Mortgage Chattel Personal July, in line with greater participation of credits

30 granted within the framework of the LCIP, reflected in the

24 greater contribution of loans granted at more than
18 3 years (Graph 5.9).

12

6 Chattel Mortgage to natural persons Personal
Among the interest rates applied on longer-term financing,

0 the one charged by chattel loans averaged 25.1%, 1.2 p.p.
Jul-09 May-10 Mar-11 Jan-12 Nov-12 Sep-13 Jul-14
Source: BCRA above July. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest
rate on loans with mortgage guarantee intended for
natural persons placed itself at 18.6%, a level similar to
July. Likewise, the interest rate on personal loans averaged
37.3%, practically unchanged during the month (Graph 5.10).
Graph 6.1 In this regard, the maximum interest rates in effect8 in
August for personal loans placed themselves at 38.9%
International Reserves of the BCRA and 48.3% for entities in Group I and Group II 9,
thousands of millions of U$S respectively.

45
Ago-14

40 6. International Reserves and

35 Foreign Exchange Market1

30 International reserves totaled at the end of August
US$28,620 million (see Graph 6.1), US$383 million

Paris Club Payment less than what was registered at the end of July. Among the

25 factors that explained such decline are the payments of
Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14
Source: BCRA foreign currency debt on behalf of the public sector and
the sales of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the
foreign exchange market.

Graph 6.2 On the other hand, with the objective of maintaining
Foreign Exchange Market stability in the foreign exchange market, through Communication "A"
(average quotations)
$/US$ 5627 it was provided that as of September the Net
$/Euro $/Real Global Position of foreign currency of financial
11.5 $/Euro 5.5 8.5 entities
11.0 $/Real, right axis 5.0 $/US$ (Reference)
10.5 may not exceed 20% (compared to the 30%
10.0 4.5 7.5 in effect until August) of the Computable Equity
9.5 4.0 7.0 Responsibility or liquid equity, whichever is lower.

9.0 3.5 6.5
8.5
3.0 6.0
8.0

7.5 2.5 5.5 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated both

7.0 2.0 5.0 against the US dollar and against the currencies of

6.5
1.5 4.5 its main trading partners (Brazil and Euro Zone).

6.0
5.5 1.0 4.0 The average quotations for the month were 8.3

Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 $/US$ (2% higher than in July), 3.7 $/real (0.2%) and

Source: BCRA 11.1 $/euro (0.3%) respectively (see Chart 6.2).

8 In June, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which established, based on LEBAC yields, maximum interest rates, Chart 7.1
mainly for personal loans and auto secured loans to individuals. Said interest rates are published monthly by the Central Bank.
9 Groups defined in Communication "A" 5590.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 10 On the other hand, in the futures market (ROFEX), the

thousands of Patrimony of Collective Investment Funds in Pesos thousands of expected quotations for the coming months remained sta-
(monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $ millions of $ ble compared to the previous month, while the daily
24.0 140
operating volume increased more than 60% on average.
Money Market
19.0 Fixed Income 120 Meanwhile, the average daily traded amount was located
Mixed Assets at $3,000 million.
Variable Income 100
14.0 Stock Evolution (right axis)
80
9.0
60 7. Collective Investment Instruments

4.0
40
Collective Investment Funds
-1.0 20

-6.0 0 In August, the patrimony of Collective Investment

Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Funds (FCI), including both those denominated in pesos
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
and those in foreign currency, registered the best perfor-
mance so far in 2014 and grew by $18,500 million
(18.7%). In this way, at the end of the month, the patri-
Chart 7.2 mony of the FCI was located at $117,400 million.

Estimated Yield of Assets
% (profitability in pesos) As in previous months, the monthly increase occurred
16 14.8 fundamentally in the peso segment and was explained by
14 the increase in the subscription of fund shares in money
August 2014 market funds, which verified patrimonial increases of
12 $8,810 million (33.6%; see Chart 7.1), and in fixed
10 income funds, whose patrimony increased by $6,510
8 million (13.5%). Likewise, funds that invest most of
6.1
6 their portfolio in mixed asset instruments registered
4.0 increases of $2,330 million (12.6%), while variable
4
income funds grew by $560 million (15.5%) thanks to
2 1.2
the increase in profitability, driven by the good perfor-
0 mance recorded in the local stock market.
Variable Income FCI $ Mixed Assets FCI $ Fixed Income FCI $ Money Market $
Source: BCRA In August, variable income funds were again the best
performing in terms of profitability and registered a
monthly return of almost 15%, followed by mixed asset
funds, which had a monthly return of 6.1% and fixed
Chart 7.3 income funds with a profitability of 4%. The return in
fixed income funds was driven by the greater gains
Financial Trusts Issuances recorded in medium and long-term funds, which verified
millions of $ (excluding FF from public sector and other infrastructure) units monthly profitabilities of 7% and 8.8% respectively. For
2,400 45 Issued Amount 40

2,100
Quantity of operations (right axis) 35 for its part, in money market funds, which are
1,800
 30 the most liquid given that the redemption of fund
1,500
 25 units is credited to the bank account immediately, the
1,200 monthly return was placed at 1.2% (see Chart 7.2).
 20
 900
 15
 600 Finally, regarding the foreign currency segment,
 10 the assets under management of the FCIs increased
 300 US$30 million, reaching US$307 million. The
 5
 0 0 increase was driven mainly by fixed income funds
 Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12 Aug-13 Aug-14 (US$20 million).

 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 11 Financial Trusts10

 In August, the issuances of Financial Trusts
 (FF) totaled around $2,020 million,
 presenting an increase close to 36% with respect to
 the volume traded in July. In this way, the amount
 issued in the month was among the highest of the
 year. In the same direction, a greater
 number of placements was observed, with 19
 Chart 7.4 operations having been carried out, 5 more than the
 previous month (see Chart 7.3).

 millions of $ Amounts Issued by type of Settlor
 1,200 (excludes FF from public sector and other infrastructure)
 Among the settlors, financial entities stood out,
 Retail Stores
 Mutual Associations, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers which issued $765 million, with an
 Financial Entities
 Others increase of 80% compared to July. In this way,
 900 they reached the highest amount of the last 4 months (see
 Chart 7.4). In order of importance, they were followed by

 600 "Mutual associations, cooperatives, non-bank credit card
 issuers and other financial service providers",
 which placed more than $600 million,
 an amount higher than in previous months. In relation to
 300 July, it represented an increase of 37%. Meanwhile,
 retail stores securitized an amount similar to
 0 that of the previous month (around $540 million). The
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 majority of the fiduciary assets were linked
 to consumption (personal loans and credit card installments), although leasing contracts,
 pledge loans and commercial credits were also securitized.

 Finally, the cutoff interest rate (amount-weighted
 Chart 8.1 average) of senior titles – in pesos and
 with duration less than 14 months – with variable
 Var. y.o.y. % Inflation yield was placed at 24%, decreasing 1.8 p.p.
 5
 compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, in the fixed
 Eurozone
 4 rate segment no operations were registered.

 Inflation of Spain, Greece, Ireland,
 Italy and Portugal
 3 Germany
 8. Main Policy Measures
 2
 Other Central Banks

 1 During the period under analysis, in general, it was
 emerging countries and smaller advanced
 0 countries that took policy measures, while the
 monetary authorities of the largest advanced
 -1 countries maintained their monetary policy unchanged,
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 or did not meet, as is the case of the
 Source: BCRA based on Eurostat U.S.A.

 Within the advanced countries, the most notable was
 that in its meeting of August 7, the European Central
 Bank (ECB) maintained its monetary policy unchanged.11 It made this decision despite the context of

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.
11 However, outside the period of analysis of this Report, in its meeting of September 4, the ECB unexpectedly decided to
reduce its monetary policy interest rate, which it applies to Main Refinancing Operations (MRO) to a historical minimum.
# Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 12

Macroeconomic Indicators Negative. On one hand, inflation in the Eurozone, measured through the variation of the CPI, was 0.4% y.o.y., the lowest in the last 56 months. For its part, inflation of the main member of the Eurozone, Germany, also registered in July its second lowest value in 53 months (see Graph 8.1). Additionally, activity indicators

In thousands also proved discouraging. Indeed, according to the preliminary estimate of GDP, released on August 14, the economic activity in real terms did not grow in the second quarter, the worst result of the last five quarters.

Employment Labor Market In %

Sub-Employment for Economic Reasons

For its part, in the case of the U.S., in mid-month the minutes from the last meeting (end of July) were released. From them it stands out that some members of the Federal Reserve's (FED) Open Market Committee (FOMC) analyzed the possibility of advancing the increase in the target of its reference interest rate, the Federal Funds Rate (FFR).

Alternative Measures of Idle Capacity in the Labor Market (right axis)*

*Sub-employment for economic reasons and "all marginally attached workers" as a percentage of the PEA
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov

These members pointed out the need to discuss this topic taking into account that the improvement of the labor market was faster than expected (see Graph 8.2). However, the FOMC preferred to wait for more indicators to confirm this improvement.

Graph 8.3

Monthly Indicator of Economic Activity

Var y.o.y. %

Chile

Within the emerging countries of the region, measures with expansionary bias stood out. The Central Bank of Chile (BCCh) decided to reduce by 0.25 p.p. its reference interest rate (Monetary Policy Rate –TPM) to 3.5%, as expected by the majority of analysts in the private sector, following two reductions (0.25 p.p. each) in February and March. The BCCh stated that leading indicators show a deceleration of activity greater than expected (see Graph 8.3).

Additionally, on August 7, the Central Bank of Reserve of Peru (BCRP) maintained the target for the interbank market interest rate at 3.75%, following the reduction of 0.25 p.p. in July. Likewise, it decided to reduce from 11.5% to 11% the reserve requirement coefficient in local currency, which in this way is located 9 p.p. below the level of June 2013, when the monetary authority began this policy of reductions. With this measure, the BCRP seeks to bolster credit in national currency, in a context in which

[Text continues from previous column:]

co of 0.05% (-0.1 p.p.). In turn, it reduced the corridor of rates by the same magnitude, bringing the interest rate of the credit facility to 0.3% and to -0.2% the interest rate of the deposit facility. Additionally, it announced two purchase programs of Asset Back Securities and Covered Bonds that will be operative starting in October, on which no further details were provided. Although the ECB did not launch a program to purchase public securities, its president affirmed that the Governing Council maintains a unanimous stance in favor of launching it, should it be necessary.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 13

GDP growth remains below potential.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System Aug-13 Aug-14 Jul-14 Monthly Last 12 Dec-13
months
Monetary base 390.997 383.944 361.580 326.429 1.8% 19.8%
 Monetary circulation 300.243 295.134 277.095 252.804 1.7% 18.8%
 Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 270.706 266.742 247.158 229.481 1.5% 18.0%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 29.537 28.392 29.935 23.321 4.0% 26.7%
 Settlement Checks 0.4 0.5 2.1 0.0 - -
 Current account at the BCRA 90.754 88.810 84.484 73.625 2.2% 23.3%

 Stock of Repo Operations
 Liabilities 15.614 11.918 6.351 15.235 31.0% 2.5%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 210.816 197.304 111.491 107.943 6.8% 95.3%
 In banks 171.259 165.040 98.364 93.425 3.8% 83.3%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repo operations)
 In pesos 203.987 186.305 107.309 102.344 9.5% 99.3%
 In dollars 828 891 0 0 -7.2%

 NOBAC 6.001 10.108 4.183 5.599 -40.6% 7.2%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 28.861 29.519 30.612 37.001 -2.2% -22.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 750.963 736.898 667.633 613.196 1.9% 22.5%
 Current account (2) 217.111 210.264 190.954 167.838 3.3% 29.4%
 Savings account 158.994 163.012 140.307 122.580 -2.5% 29.7%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 345.773 334.332 309.655 299.685 3.4% 15.4%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 8 7 6 7 9.7% 14.4%
 Other deposits (3) 29.079 29.282 26.711 23.086 -0.7% 26.0%

 Deposits of the private sector 566.549 561.665 484.439 439.180 0.9% 29.0%

 Deposits of the public sector 184.414 175.232 183.194 174.015 5.2% 6.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.205 8.579 8.263 8.033 -4.4% 2.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 540.294 530.830 498.212 445.605 1.8% 21.2%

 Loans to the private sector 497.379 487.983 457.095 408.100 1.9% 21.9%
 Advances 70.835 69.511 56.649 57.026 1.9% 24.2%
 Documents 113.491 111.222 111.440 94.226 2.0% 20.4%
 Mortgages 46.261 46.051 43.075 40.075 0.5% 15.4%
 Pledge loans 31.895 31.716 31.304 27.905 0.6% 14.3%
 Personal loans 106.079 104.119 98.468 88.695 1.9% 19.6%
 Credit cards 90.919 87.838 80.716 67.752 3.5% 34.2%
 Others 37.899 37.526 35.442 32.420 1.0% 16.9%

 Loans to the public sector 42.915 42.847 41.117 37.505 0.2% 14.4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.222 4.221 3.694 4.454 0.0% -5.2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 487.817 477.007 438.115 397.321 2.3% 22.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 646.810 640.019 578.422 519.901 1.1% 24.4%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + total deposits 1.021.669 1.003.640 914.793 842.679 1.8% 21.2%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.092.254 1.076.162 968.731 887.617 1.5% 23.1%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + private current account in 409.425 399.423 367.407 337.331 2.5% 21.4%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 552.291 547.285 493.877 448.570 0.9% 23.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + total private deposits 837.255 828.408 731.599 668.663 1.1% 25.2%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 897.721 888.254 775.729 706.631 1.1% 27.0%

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 7.053 1.8% 37.686 10.7% 29.417 8.1% 64.568 19.8%
 Financial sector -3.758 -1.0% -2.136 -0.6% -9.120 -2.5% 115 0.0%
 Public sector 17.701 4.6% 43.090 12.2% 63.584 17.6% 121.280 37.2%
 Private external sector 2.147 0.6% 16.193 4.6% 41.524 11.5% 5.922 1.8%
 BCRA Securities -8.470 -2.2% -17.537 -5.0% -69.184 -19.1% -66.671 -20.4%
 Others -568 -0.1% -1.923 -0.5% 2.615 0.7% 3.923 1.2%
International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -658 -2.2% 475 1.7% -1,750 -5.7% -8,140 -22.0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 264 0.9% 1,995 7.0% 4,970 16.2% -1,051 -2.8%
 Payments to international organizations -39 -0.1% 64 0.2% -317 -1.0% 238 0.6%
 Other operations of the public sector -383 -1.3% -947 -3.3% -2,291 -7.5% 3,150 8.5%
 Minimum cash -392 -1.3% -518 -1.8% -3,607 -11.8% -2,846 -7.7%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -107 -0.4% -118 -0.4% -519 -1.7% -7,645 -20.7%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14
 (1) (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.8 11.8 11.8
 Integration 12.0 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.4 67.4 67.2
 30 to 59 days 19.1 19.1 20.5
 60 to 89 days 6.5 6.5 6.0
 90 to 179 days 5.7 5.7 4.8
 more than 180 days 1.4 1.4 1.4
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 43.6 43.7 43.9
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 85.8 84.3 83.1
 Position (2) 42.2 40.6 39.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 48.2 48.2 48.3
 30 to 59 days 20.8 20.8 22.4
 60 to 89 days 11.9 11.9 11.1
 90 to 179 days 12.6 12.6 12.7
 180 to 365 days 5.5 5.5 5.0
 more than 365 days 1.0 1.0 0.5
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 18.78 15.61 22.50 19.67 11.98
 Traded amount 1,874 2,084 2,845 2,144 1,855

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.64 20.17 20.92 17.67 15.22
 60 days or more 21.54 22.00 23.42 19.00 14.34
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.99 19.57 20.25 17.45 14.55
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.18 21.98 23.02 20.18 17.70

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.85 0.91 0.93 0.34 0.49
 60 days or more 1.52 1.40 1.67 0.65 0.89
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.78 0.89 0.88 0.39 0.54
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.92 1.23 1.02 0.33 0.68

 Active Interest Rates Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 19.84 21.14 23.33 21.64 17.64
 Traded amount (total terms) 279 279 299 316 263

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 30.86 30.74 32.21 27.59 23.37
 Unsecured documents 26.27 28.00 26.63 22.38 20.87
 Mortgages 20.86 22.60 21.06 16.56 16.44
 Pledged loans 25.07 23.86 23.05 21.07 20.55
 Personal loans 37.25 37.40 40.51 39.34 36.01
 Credit cards n/a 40.12 41.76 37.16 34.30

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 23.37 21.57 26.05 22.62 16.92

 International Interest Rates Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.16 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.18
 6 months 0.33 0.33 0.32 0.35 0.40

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.46 0.49 0.44 0.33 0.34
 10 years 2.41 2.53 2.59 2.88 2.72

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.00 11.00 11.00 10.00 8.57
(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total repo session rates
 1 day 13.20 11.95 13.89 15.81 9.84
 7 days 12.33 12.79 13.73 13.12 10.19

Operated amount of repo session (daily average) 12,176 11,298 10,271 3,981 11,291

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a 14.94
 3 months 26.38 26.80 26.83 15.52 15.45
 9 months n/a n/a 27.90 n/a n/a
 12 months 28.02 28.25 28.26 17.80 17.88

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/a n/a
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/a n/a
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/a n/a
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a

Operated amount of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,955 2,388 1,862 673 1,161

 Foreign Exchange Market Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.32 8.16 8.12 6.32 5.58
 Retail 8.32 8.16 8.13 6.33 5.58

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.59 8.39 8.35 6.74 5.76
 ROFEX 1 month 8.50 8.34 8.31 6.56 5.69
 Operated amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,992 1,768 1,992 1,618 1,922

Real (Pesos x Real) 3.67 3.67 3.63 2.69 2.39

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 11.07 11.04 11.05 8.67 7.44

 Capital Market Aug-14 Jul-14 Jun-14 Dec-13 Aug-13

MERVAL
 Index 8,794 8,359 7,839 5,330 3,744
 Operated amount (millions of pesos) 196 172 193 109 86

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 128.7 117.7 122.8 132.6 142.0
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 107.2 108.0 105.0 106.6 97.8
 BODEN 2014 ($) 98.7 98.1 98.4 93.5 93.8
 DISCOUNT ($) 68.8 73.5 76.6 63.9 45.1

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,416 1,048 1,080 826 1,112
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 355 327 344 412 386

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

ICF: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBACs: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBACs: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | August 2014 | BCRA | 19
