# April 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
April 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was May 15, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• In April, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 1.6%, with a year-on-year variation of 22.9% which was 0.6 percentage points higher than in March. Within the components of M3, the impulse came from fixed-term placements which, favored by high returns, continued to grow strongly, presenting the largest monthly increase (5.1%) since early 2013. Distinguishing by amount bracket, advances were recorded both in placements belonging to the wholesale segment (5.3%) and in those of less than $1 million (4.8%). In this way, fixed-term deposits of the private sector accelerated their year-on-year rate of change by 4.8 percentage points to 39.2%.

• In April, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash, current account at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with this institution and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased again by 2.1 percentage points, reaching 35.7% of total deposits in pesos, and was mainly applied to the increase in balances of repurchase agreements and securities issued by the Central Bank.

• In a context of greater seasonal liquidation of foreign currency by exporters, and after three months of stabilization of the foreign exchange market, international reserves increased by US$1,213 million and totaled US$28,220 million at the end of April. The increase was explained by Central Bank purchases in the foreign exchange market, which were partially offset by the decrease in foreign currency accounts of financial entities at the BCRA and by the payment of public debt denominated in dollars made through Treasury accounts in the same entity.

• At the end of April, the Central Bank slightly reduced the interest rates it pays for the securities it places each week in the primary market, in a context where foreign exchange market variables are stabilized. The reduction in interest rates was 1 percentage point at all maturities of the yield curve. In this way, the interest rate on LEBAC auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate – at maturities of 95 days and 105 days – were set at 27.8% and 27.9% respectively.
• In April, loans in pesos to the private sector softened their growth rate, reaching a year-over-year variation of 29.1%, while active interest rates in general declined. The Central Bank continued stimulating productive credit through the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB) and the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP). Within the framework of the PFPB, the total resources disbursed since the beginning of the program amounts to approximately $6,300 million. Within the LCIP, the Central Bank allowed once again in May that financial entities could apply part of the first semester 2014 quota to the discounting of post-dated checks from SMEs (10% per month, beginning in March, with a total limit of 30%), but without the possibility of transferring what was not applied in any given month to the following month.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1
Graph 2.1
Monetary Aggregates - M3 In April, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
% % (variation of monthly averages) 50 (M32) presented growth of 1.6%, showing a
5
year-over-year variation of 22.9% that was 0.6 p.p. 40
4 higher than that of March (see Graph 2.1). The monthly
3 30 increase was explained by the advance of the broadest
1,8 2,122,9
2 1,7 1,620 private monetary aggregate (M3 private3; 2%), given that
1,1
1 10 public sector deposits maintained their balance practically
0 0 stable. Within the components of M3 private, the impetus
Monthly variation of M3
came from fixed-term placements.
-1 -10
-1,0 Y.o.y. variation of M3 (right axis)
-2 -20 Favored by their yields, fixed-term deposits continued
Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA growing strongly in April (5.1%), presenting the largest
monthly increase since early 2013 (see Graph 2.2). Dis-
tinguishing by amount strata, strong advances were ob-
Graph 2.2 served both in placements belonging to the segment of
less than $1 million (4.8%) and in the wholesale stratum
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector (5.3%). In this latter case, the increase occurred despite the
% Monthly variation (variations of monthly averages) April - Avg. Monthly Var.
% higher demand for liquidity by companies to meet tax
8 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) 55 % More than $ 1 million payment deadlines. In this way, fixed-term deposits of
Participation Fixed-Term in M3 Priv. (right axis) 52 8
7 6 5,3 the private sector significantly accelerated their year-
49
over-year variation rate (4.8 p.p.), which stood at 39.2%.
6 46 4
5 5,1 43 2 This allowed such deposits to continue gaining participa-
4,2 0 2008
4 39,2 40 -2 tion within the M3 private, reaching a weight of 33.8%
37 2009
3 2,7 -4 2010 which is 5 p.p. greater than the proportion they repre-
33,834% Less than $ 1 million 2011
2 31 8 2012 sented two years ago.
1 1,5
28 6 2013
1 4,8 2014
25 4
0 22 2
-1 19 0
Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Foreign currency deposits presented a decrease in average
Source: BCRA -2 monthly balance, explained by the decline in placements
Graph 2.3 belonging to the private sector, given that, also in this
case, those corresponding to the public sector remained
thousands of Explanation Factors of Monetary Base stable. In this way, the broadest monetary aggregate,
of millions of $ (April 2014, in average) M3*4, presented growth of 1.5%, accumulating a year-
15 over-year variation of 24.8%.

10 In order to maintain equilibrium in the monetary
market, the Central Bank sterilized the surpluses gen-
5 erated by its foreign exchange purchases in the market

0
-5 changes (see Chart 2.3). The monetary base reached an
 average balance of $354,170 million, presenting a

 -10 monthly increase of 0.8%, and an annual variation rate

 Public Sector Purchases Foreign Exchange LEBAC and Repos Other BM
 of 19%, close to the levels of the previous months
 NOBAC
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.
4 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency and CEDINs in circulation.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1 vious. Among its components, the reduction in currency
 held by the public was more than offset by the increase
 % of Peso Liquidity of Financial Entities*
 in bank reserves (composed of cash in financial entities
45
 Apr-14: and the balances of current accounts of financial entities
40 35.7%
 at the Central Bank).
35 % of
 deposits Peso Liquidity Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs
40 CCBCRA Cash
30 35

25 30

 25 3. Liquidity of Financial Entities1
20
 20

15 15
 10 10

 5
 5 The liquidity of financial entities (sum of cash in banks,
 0
 the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net
 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 Oct-13 Jan-14 Apr-14
 0 repos with such entity and the holding of LEBACs and
 Apr-09 Oct-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14NOBACs) increased again in April. On average, the
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at fair value.
Source: BCRA
 broad liquidity ratio (in terms of total deposits in
 Chart 3.2 pesos) was 35.7%, 2.1 percentage points higher than
 % of Position Position of Cash Minimum in Pesos
 Quarterly Quarterly in March (see Chart 3.1). In particular, this increase
deposits Position
 2.6 Surplus was observed in a greater proportion of liquidity held
 Accumulated Position in LEBACs and NOBACs and in net repos with the Cen-
 2.0
 Daily Position
 tral Bank compared to March. For its part, the proportion
 1.4
 of cash in banks and that of the current account at the
 0.8
 Central Bank remained stable, while the estimated aver-
 0.2 0.3
 age reserve surplus for the month was 0.3% of total

-0.4 deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2), registering greater

-1.0 variability throughout the month.

-1.6 Implementation of the New
-2.2 Reserve Requirements Scheme

-2.8 ATM Deduction For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity
 increased, reaching 114.5% of total deposits in dollars
 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14
 (1.5 p.p. higher than the ratio of the previous month).
 The increase was mainly explained by the increase in
 Chart 4.1
 the balance of LEBACs in dollars.
millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 %
 3,000 (average monthly variation) 60
 4. Loans 1 5

 2,000 43.0 40
 29.1 33.3 32.2 24.7
 19.1 25.1 In April, loans in pesos to the private sector showed
 1,000 21.0 20
 a slight reduction, 0.2% ($1,000 million), reaching an
 0 0 annual variation of 29.1%. Distinguishing by credit line,
 the ranges of variations were relatively limited; a de-
-1,000 -20 crease in advances and documents was verified, which
 was partially offset by the growth of personal loans
 Apr-14. vs. Mar-14.
-2,000 (see Chart 4.1). -40

-3,000 -60 The Central Bank continued to encourage productive
 credit through the Productive Financing Program
 Source: BCRA
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.

Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.2

millions of $ Bicentennial Advances % ductive of the Bicentennial (PFPB) and the Credit Line
9.000 (cumulative monthly amounts) 90 for Productive Investment (LCIP). Within the framework of
8.000 Amounts Disbursed 80 the PFPB, it continued disbursing long-term funds for
7.000 Disbursed/Adjudicated Ratio (right axis) 70 investment at a fixed total financial cost in pesos.

6.000 60 The total resources disbursed since the beginning
5.000 50 of the program amounts to approximately $6,300 million (see
4.000 40 Graph 4.2). For its part, regarding the LCIP, it
3.000 30 provided that again in May financial entities could
2.000 20 apply part of the first semester 2014 quota to the discount
1.000 10 of post-dated checks from MSMEs (10% per month, beginning
0 0 in March, with a total limit of 30%), but without having the
Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 possibility of transferring what was not applied in one month to
Source: BCRA. the following6.

The lines intended to finance mostly commercial activities showed a decrease in the month. In the case of advances, although their average monthly balance decreased 0.7% ($440 million), influenced by the negative statistical carryover from March, when comparing end of month figures a growth of $1,200 million is observed (see Graph 4.3). Meanwhile, financings arranged through documents showed a decline of 1.2% ($1,330 million). The remaining commercial financings, grouped under the item "Other loans" showed practically the same levels as the previous month.

Graph 4.3
thousands of Advances in Pesos from the Private Sector
millions $ (evolution of daily balance)

68 Daily balance
66 Average monthly balance
64
62.3 61.9
62
60 60.8
59.6 $1.2 MM
58

56

54

52
Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14
Source: SISCEN

Loans oriented mostly to family consumption presented dissimilar behaviors. In effect, while credit card financings maintained their average monthly balance relatively stable, personal loans exhibited an increase of 1.2%, approximately $1,200 million (see Graph 4.4). However, both lines maintained high growth rates in year-on-year terms, which were around 43% and 25% in one case and the other, respectively.

Graph 4.4
% Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
8 90 Regarding loans with real collateral, mortgage
7 Monthly avg. var. 80 loans registered an increase of 0.3% ($140 million),
6 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) 70 similar to the previous month, with a year-on-year variation
60 close to 21%. The possibility of allocating mortgage
5
4.2 4.3 50 loans for the purchase, construction or expansion of
4 3.8
40 homes with a minimum term of ten years to the new
3.1
3 2.6 2.7 LCIP quota constitutes a positive incentive for the line.
30
2 It is worth mentioning that part of the demand for
1.1 1.2 20 mortgage credit for housing (natural persons) is not
1 10 reflected in the statistics of bank loans, since it has been
0 0 channeled through the Argentine Credit Program of the
Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Bicentennial for Single-Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). As for
Source: BCRA loans with pledge collateral, their balance showed a reduction of

6 Communication A" 5578.
Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.5
Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector
% millions US$

12 1000 0.6% ($190 million), with its year-on-year
 variation standing at 32.2%.
9 750
 6.3
6 4.2 4.0 500 Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency
 showed growth of 6.3% in April
2.9 225
3 1.6 250 (see Chart 4.5). This increase of US$225 million
0 0.0 0 turned out to be the highest since mid-2011 and was
 -0.4 explained by financing associated with foreign trade,
-3 -2.2 -250 given that the balance with credit cards once again
 showed a decline. In this way, the average balance
-6 -500 of the month stood at around US$3,800 million
 Monthly variation (%)
 Monthly variation (US$, right axis) -750
-9
-12 -1000
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14
 Source: BCRA

5. Interest Rates 7

Chart 5.1 Securities Issued by the Central Bank8

LEBAC Interest Rate in Pesos in the Primary Market
T.N.A %
35 (last auction of the month) At the end of April, the Central Bank reduced interest
 Abr-14 rates by 1 p.p. that it pays for securities it places
33 Mar-14
 each week in the primary market across all terms of
 Ene-14 the yield curve, in a context where the variables of
31 the monetary and foreign exchange markets are
 29 28.6 28.8 29.0 29.4 29.8 30.1 30.3 stabilized. In this way, the interest rate on LEBAC
 29.0 29.3
 28.6 28.1 28.3 auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate – at terms
27 27.8 27.9 of 95 days and 105 days– stood at 27.8% and
25 27.9% respectively. Likewise, the interest rate on
23 the security awarded with greater maturity, at a term
 of 360 days, stood at 29.3% (see Chart 5.1).
21
 Days For its part, in the case of NOBAC, placements were
19 registered at terms between 100 days and 150 days
 0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400 440 with a spread over BADLAR of private banks that
 Source: BCRA remained relatively stable at 1 p.p.

 In the secondary market, the interest rates of LE-
Chart 5.2 BAC at terms longer than 30 days remained
 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market relatively stable until the end of the month, when
 millions of $ they registered declines, in line with the behavior
2,500 More than 360 days recorded in the primary market. While the interest
 Between 270 and 360 days rates of the shorter terms, which follow to a greater
 Between 180 and 270 days extent the trajectory observed in the interbank markets,
2,000 Between 90 and 180 days exhibited transitory increases at the beginning of the
 Between 60 and 90 days month that reversed later as liquidity levels increased
 Between 30 and 60 days (see Chart 5.5). The average amount traded grew
1,500 Between 15 and 30 days again and reached a new historical maximum standing
 Up to 15 days at $2,116 million daily. The increase was driven by
1,000 operations with LEBAC, mainly at terms of less than
 90 days, which concentrate the majority of the volume
500 traded (see Chart 5.2).

0
 Abr-10 Oct-10 Abr-11 Oct-11 Abr-12 Oct-12 Abr-13 Oct-13 Abr-14

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.3 The outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos
 thousands of Central Bank Securities Holdings thousands of grew $30,079 million during the month and stood at
 millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) millions $
36 200 $174,953 million (in nominal values). The increase
 was driven by the increase in the LEBAC balance,
32 Others
28 FCIs 180
24 Private banks 160 which was partially offset by declines in the balance
 20 Public banks of NOBAC. The increase in holdings was widespread,
 16 Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis) 140
 12 being observed both in those of private and public banks
 8 120
 4 as well as in those of FCIs (see Chart 5.3). In this way, the
 100
- balance of securities in terms of deposits grew again
 -4 80
 -8 and was located in April around 20.6% (see Chart
-12 60
 5.4).
-16 40
-20
-24 20 Finally, regarding the segment in foreign currency,
 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 Apr-14
 Source: BCRA the interest rate of the instrument at 30 days
 maturity remained at 2.5% and that of 365 days at 4%. In
 April the balance in circulation grew by US$191 million and
 was located at US$907 million. The increase was driven
 again by higher holdings in private banks
 contributing 60% of the expansion.

 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1

 LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits
 % (monthly average balances)
50 The interest rates of all repurchase agreement modalities in

45 LyN / Total Deposits which the Central Bank operates remained again

40 LyN / Private Sector Deposits unchanged. The passive repurchase agreement rates were

35 located at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively,

30 27.8 while the interest rates of active repurchase agreements of 1 and

25 7 days, at 11% and 11.50%, respectively.

 20.6
20

15 In a context of increased liquidity levels,

10 the average balance of passive repurchase agreements for the Central

 5 Bank –in all the modalities in which the institution

 0 participates- registered an increase of $6,833 million and was

Apr-02 Apr-03 Apr-04 Apr-05 Apr-06 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 located at $18,426 million.
Source: BCRA

 Interfinancial Markets1

 At the beginning of April, with the start of the new Minimum
 Cash position, the interest rates of the interfinancial market again
 presented transitory increases, although less pronounced than those
 observed in March (see Chart 5.5). This behavior occurred
 in a context where the liquidity levels of financial
 Chart 5.5 entities turned out to be higher than those of the previous
 Interfinancial Market Rates and LEBAC in pesos month, which pressured downward the cost of funding.
 TNA % In this way, the monthly average interest rate of
30 REPO between third parties at 1 business day operations at 1 business day in the unsecured market
 Call at 1 business day (call) decreased 3.9 p.p., being located at 14.8%, re-
25 LEBAC at less than 5 days turning to the levels observed in February. Likewise,
 the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day
20 between financial entities in the secured market
 (REPO round) decreased 5.3 p.p. and was located at
15
 12.9% (see Chart 5.6).

10

 5

 0
 Feb-14 Feb-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Mar-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 Apr-14 Apr-14

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.6 The average daily amount negotiated in the interfinancial market

 thousands of Interfinancial Markets
 millions of $ TNA % (including the REPO round between entities and the call market) remained relatively stable,
 25 Amount operated REPO round with BCRA 25 totaling around $5,500 million.
 Amount operated Call
 20 Amount operated REPO round excluding BCRA 20 Passive Interest Rates1
 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis)
 Interest rate Call (right axis) The interest rates paid by financial entities for their
 15 15 fixed-term deposits remained relatively stable in April.
 10 10 This is because during the second half of the month,
 some of the passive interest rates showed a slight
 5 5 downward trend, reflecting the impact of lower LEBAC
 and NOBAC rates.
 0 0
 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14

Source: BCRA
Such is the case of the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 million and more, with 30-35 day terms – which averaged 26.3%, registering a monthly increase of only 0.1 p.p. In this way, unlike what usually occurs, the interest rates applied to the retail segment (fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand), which take longer to assimilate changes in reference rates, registered a monthly increase greater than those of the wholesale segment ($1 million and more).

**Chart 5.7**
Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 days
% TNA (daily data - private banks)

In particular, the retail interest rate paid by private entities for deposits up to 35 days averaged 21.5%, 0.4 p.p. above the March average (see Chart 5.7).

**Active Interest Rates¹**

In general, the interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector decreased, a trend that was accentuated in the second half of the month, in line with the dynamics of LEBAC interest rates.

**Chart 5.8**
Interest Rate on Current Account Overdrafts
%, TNA (daily data)

In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate on current account overdrafts stood at 32.8%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. during the month. Part of this decrease is explained by overdrafts granted to companies for more than $10 million and up to seven days of term, which recorded a decline of 2.7 p.p., averaging 24.6%. In general, these latter register punctual increases in the first days of the month that usually reverse themselves. In April the increase in the first days was limited, while throughout the month a marked downward trend was observed, which was accentuated in the last week (Chart 5.8).

On the other hand, the interest rates charged on financing carried out through documents increased in April. The monthly average of the interest rate on discounted documents stood at 29.6%, 0.3 p.p. above the March average, following the sharp decrease observed that month. Meanwhile, the monthly average of documents on sole signature was 30.5%, with a monthly increase of 1 p.p. (Chart 5.9). It is worth noting that in both lines a lower participation of loans associated with the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP) was observed, which are granted at relatively lower rates, so its lower weighting in April explains part of the increase. In this sense, in May the possibility of applying up to 10% of the quota for the first semester of 2014 of the LCIP to the discount of post-dated checks from SMEs was extended, at an interest rate not exceeding 17.5%.

**Chart 5.9**
Interest Rates on Loans Financed via Documents
(monthly average)
TNA, % Monthly Variations
p.p. Discounted Documents
DD DSF | Documents on Sole Signature

Due to this, the average interest rate could again be attenuated.

Among the interest rates applied to credit lines...

---

¹ The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and origination fees nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 9
14 longer terms, the corresponding one for personal loans
 12 remained at 46.1%. Among loans with real collateral, the monthly average mortgage interest rate to individuals decreased 1.7 p.p., positioning itself at 16.6%, its lowest level in the year, while the interest rate on pledge loans averaged 27.5%, declining 1.1 p.p., after the strong increase observed in March (Chart 5.10).

 6. International Reserves and
 Chart 6.1 Foreign Exchange Market¹

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of U$S
31
 thousands of Variation Factors In a context of greater seasonal liquidation of foreign
 millions of U$S (April 2014)
 2.5 currency by exporters, and after three months of
 2.0
30 1.5 stabilization of the foreign exchange market, inter-
 Apr-14 1.0 national reserves increased US$1,213 million and to-
 0.5 taled US$28,220 million at the end of April (see Chart
29 0.0
 -0.5 6.1). The increase was explained by the Central Bank's
 -1.0 purchases in the foreign exchange market, which were
 Intern. Reserves Purchases Public Sector Minimum Cash Other partially offset by the decrease in foreign currency
28 Divisas accounts of financial entities at the BCRA and by the
 payment of public debt denominated in dollars effected
27 through Treasury accounts at this institution.

 In the foreign exchange market, the quotation of the
26 U.S. dollar continued stable throughout the month, and
 on average was 0.9% higher than in March (8 $/U$S,
Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 see Chart 6.2). Meanwhile, the average quotations of
 Source: BCRA the Real and Euro rose to 3.6 $/Real (5.1%) and 11.1
 $/Euro (0.7%) respectively. For its part, in the futures
 market (ROFEX) there was a slight reduction in the
 Chart 6.2 volume traded (6.4%). The average daily amount
 Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate negotiated was located at $2,100 million with a
15% decline in the quotations expected for the following
 $/US$ $/Euro $/Real months. For December of the current year, contracts
 Depreciation reflect expectations of an exchange rate of 9.7 $/U$S).
10%
 Appreciation
 5%
 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 0%

 -5% Mutual Investment Funds
 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14

 Source: BCRA In April, after two months of consecutive declines, the
 assets of Mutual Investment Funds (FCI) in pesos and
 foreign currency grew $10,170 million. The monthly
 increase was driven by funds denominated in pesos,
 mainly as a consequence of the increase in the
 subscription of fund shares. In this way, assets rose to
 $88,600 million.

 Chart 7.1
 Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of thousands of Considering funds in pesos, during the month fixed
 millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $ income funds registered increases of $5,640 million
 14.0 90 (16%), followed by Money Market funds that grew
 12.0 Money Market 80
  Fixed Income $4,690 million (20.6%). In both cases the increase
 10.0  Mixed Income 70 was driven mainly by the increase in the number of
 8.0  Variable Income fund shares. Similarly, funds that invest in variable
 Stock Evolution (right axis) 60 income assets registered monthly increases of $280
 6.0 50 million (11.3%), explained by the good performance
 4.0 40 recorded in the quotations of the assets in their
 2.0 30 portfolios. Meanwhile, mixed income funds registered
 0.0 20 decreases of $320 million (2.1%) as a result of
Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14sequence of the redemption of fund shares. Within the
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI mixed income funds, those of Infrastructure grew by
 $66 million and those of SMEs did so by $45 million,
 offsetting the performance recorded in the rest
 of the funds in the segment.

 With respect to profitability, and continuing with the
 funds in pesos, those of variable income registered a re-
 Chart 7.2 turn monthly of 6.8% and accumulated in what has occurred so far this year
 Equity of FCIs SMEs and Infrastructure in Pesos gains of approximately 25%. Below
 millions of $ those returns were located the Fixed Income funds
 8.000 that had a monthly return of 1.7%, those of Money
 7.000 Infrastructure Funds Market that recorded returns on average of 1.4% and
 SME Funds
 6.000 mixed income funds with monthly gains of
 5.000 1.3%.
 4.000

 3.000 Finally, with respect to the foreign currency segment,
 2.000 the equity of FCIs decreased US$14
 1.000 million, placing itself at US$290 million. The behavior
 0 was driven equally by the decline
 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14recorded in variable income funds that fell
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI due to redemptions of fund shares and fixed income
 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.3 funds that experienced declines as a consequence of
 Estimated Performance of FCIs in Pesos the decrease in prices.
 % (profitability in pesos)
 30 Financial Trusts10
 Apr-14
 25 Accumulated 2014
 20
 In April, the issuances of Financial Trusts (FF)
 15 totaled around $2,030 million, which repre-
 sented a slight increase with respect to the volume traded in
 10 March (excluding placements destined for the fi-
 nancing of infrastructure works that month; see
 5 Chart 8.9). As for the number of issuances, 18
 0 operations were carried out, the same amount as the previous month.
 FCI Variable Income $ FCI Mixed Income $ FCI Fixed Income $ Money Market $However, with respect to the same month of the previous year,
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI the quantity of placements showed an increase of ap-
 proximately 12% (see Chart 7.4).

 Among the settlors, financial entities stood out in the month
 by concentrating 40% of the total placed
 in April. In effect, they securitized assets of $855 million,
 Chart 7.4 7% more than in March. In order of importance,
 Issuances of Financial Trusts retail merchants followed, which issued
 (excluding those destined to finance infrastructure works) $540 million (25% of the total). For their part, the "Mutual
 millions $ associations, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers
 2.400 45
 40 and other providers of financial services", ti-
 2.100
 35 tularized around $394 million, which implied a
 1.800 drop of 35% with respect to the previous month. The rest of the placements
 1.500 30
 corresponded to issuances of the agricultural sector.
 25
 1.200 Practically all of the underlying assets were linked to
 20
 900 consumption, corresponding to personal loans and credit
 15
 600 card coupons.
 10
 300 With respect to the cut-off interest rates (amount-weighted
 5
 0 0 average), the one corresponding to senior titles in pesos
 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14of duration less than 14 months and agreed upon at
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others variable rate reached 27.1%, showing a
 decrease of 0.7 p.p. with respect to the previous month (see
 Chart 7.5). Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment no
 operation was registered.

 Chart 7.5
 Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos 8. Main Policy Measures of
 (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)
 YTM; %
 40 Other Central Banks
# MONETARY POLICY IN MAJOR COUNTRIES

## Fixed Rate
35
Variable Rate
30 During April, there were no major changes in the
27.1 direction of monetary policy in the main countries.
25 In this sense, the different monetary authorities
20 of both advanced and emerging countries gave conti-
15 nuity (and even deepened) to the previously
10 implemented policies, in part responding to the gradual
5 withdrawal of stimulus marked by the Federal Reserve (FED)
Abr-08 Abr-09 Abr-10 Abr-11 Abr-12 Abr-13 Abr-14 of the United States and, on the other hand, to the pros-
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others pects regarding its economy.

Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 12 Chart 8.1 In this framework, and in line with market expectations,
the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the FED
again reduced its asset purchase program by US$10,000
In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation million (what is known as tapering) bringing it to
of jobs US$45,000 million per month. Additionally, the FOMC
400 maintained the target for its reference interest rate,
Employment the Federal Funds Rate (FFR) in the range 0-0.25%.
6-month moving average This was announced despite the publication of mixed
350
300 results in the main indicators of the North American
economy: better values in the labor market, adverse
250 177 230233222211 results in activity and different inflation indicators
183185 215 213210206206204196183186205
187 186192 192 185184188194203 still below target (2%). On the one hand, economic
200 174
154164168 154141 165 activity registered almost no growth during the first
149
150 128 quarter of the year (it grew at an annualized quarterly
rate of 0.1%) as a consequence of adverse climatic
100
factors, where the consumption item offset the decline
50 in investment and in the trade balance. However, the
0 FOMC forecasts a recovery during the second quarter
Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 of the year. For its part, in the labor market, considerable
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov recovery was recorded in non-agricultural employment
Chart 8.2 creation during April, reaching the highest value in more
than two years (see Chart 8.1). Likewise, the unemployment
rate reached its lowest level since 2008 (6.3%), explained
Labor Market Indicators in part by job creation, but fundamentally by the decline
Without seasonality % % in the participation rate (see Chart 8.2). Meanwhile,
10 68 several inflation indicators improved during the last period,
67 although they still remain below target. Indeed, the per-
9 66 sonal consumption expenditure deflator (PCE) increased
65 1.1% y.o.y. in March, 0.2 p.p. above February, while
8 64 core PCE increased 1.2% y.o.y., 0.1 p.p. higher than the
62.8
7 63 previous month.
Unemployment Rate
62 For its part, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) and the European
6 62.3 Central Bank (ECB) maintained their respective mone-
61 tary policies unchanged. In the first case, the BoJ main-
Participation or Activity Rate (right axis) 6.3
5 60 tained its commitment to expand the monetary base
58.9 between ¥60-70 trillion per year with the objective of
Employment Rate (right axis) 59 doubling it between March 2013 and March 2015. In
4 58 effect, the monetary base accumulated an expansion of
Feb-07 Sep-07 Abr-08 Nov-08 Jun-09 Ene-10 Ago-10 Mar-11 Oct-11 May-12 Dic-12 Jul-13 Feb-14 ¥73.8 trillion (50.6%) between March 2013 and March
Source: BCRA based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014 (see Chart 8.3). For its part, the ECB decided to
maintain its reference interest rate (the one applied to Main Re-

## Chart 8.3

MONETARY BASE
Trillions In levels and as % of GDP %
240 50
220 Period in which the BoJ plans to double the Monetary Base 45
200 Monetary Base (in levels) 40
 Monetary Base/GDP (right axis)
180 35 financing Operations) at the historical minimum of 0.25%,
 and its interest rate corridor at 0-0.75%. Nevertheless,
160 30 faced with growing concerns that the Eurozone enters a
 deflationary cycle similar to the one Japan suffered for
140 25 15 years, the ECB president admitted that the Bank is
 studying the application of a Quantitative Easing-type
120 20 program or to further lower its reference interest rate
 (which would take it into negative territory) in case infla-
100 15 tion persists below target.
 Source: Bank of Japan (BoJ).
 80 10
 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14
 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 13 Chart 8.4 Among Latin American countries, for the seventh consecutive
 time and in a unanimous vote, the Central Bank of
 INTEREST RATE and INFLATION RATE and TARGET Brazil (BCB) decided to increase the SELIC target rate by
 % BRAZIL % 0.25 p.p. to 11%, the highest value since December 2011
18 12 (see Chart 8.4). However, in the press release there was a
 Reference Interest Rate change in wording that was interpreted by the market as
 Inflation Rate (right axis)
16 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 10 indicating that the cycle of interest rate increases initiated
 in April 2013 might have come to an end. For its part, the
14 8 Bank of the Republic of Colombia (BRC) increased its
 monetary policy interest rate by 0.25 p.p. to 3.5%, after
12 6 a year of keeping it unchanged. With this increase, the
 BRC aims for a gradual and timely adjustment of mone-
10 4 tary policy that reduces the need for sharp adjustments
 in the future, when the economy would be reaching its
8 2 potential.

6 0
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Finally, the cases of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand
 (RBNZ) and the Central Bank of Russia (BCR) stand out,
 which raised their respective monetary policy interest
 rates in response to the evolution of their respective
 economies. On the one hand, the RBNZ continued with
 its normalization policy after leaving behind the devasta-
 ting effects of the earthquakes suffered in recent years.
 Meanwhile, the BCR seeks to moderate the acceleration
 of inflation, driven by the effect of the depreciation of the
 ruble in recent months as a consequence of the financial
 instability unrelated to the conflict in Ukraine.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system Apr-13 Apr-14 Mar-14 Last 12 Dec-13
 months

 Monetary base 354,170 351,349 361,580 297,658 0.8% 19.0%
 Monetary circulation 269,313 268,830 277,095 228,055 0.2% 18.1%
 Bills and Coins in public hands 239,799 240,586 247,140 205,380 -0.3% 16.8%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 29,512 28,242 29,953 22,673 4.5% 30.2%
 Cancellatory Checks 2,120 -- --
 Current account at the BCRA 84,857 82,520 84,484 69,603 2.8% 21.9%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 18,426 11,593 6,351 13,626 58.9% 35.2%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 165,269 152,228 111,491 106,596 8.6% 55.0%
 In banks 138,911 128,300 98,364 92,996 8.3% 49.4%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 139,477 127,073 107,309 96,578 9.8% 44.4%
 In dollars 811 654 0 0 24.1%

 NOBAC 19,301 19,970 4,183 10,018 -3.4% 92.7%

 International Reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 27,009 27,680 27,332 30,612 40,075 1.3% -30.9%
Deposits from the private and public sector in pesos (1) 702.150 686.456 667.664 561.270 2,3% 25,1%
 Current account (2) 191.100 185.926 190.935 151.339 2,8% 26,3%
 Savings account 131.855 132.655 140.305 110.366 -0,6% 19,5%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 351.269 341.209 309.664 277.621 2,9% 26,5%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 7 6 6 7 15,0% -6,2%
 Other deposits (3) 27.920 26.660 26.753 21.937 4,7% 27,3%

 Deposits from the private sector 519.149 503.180 484.467 401.778 3,2% 29,2%

 Deposits from the public sector 183.001 183.276 183.197 159.492 -0,1% 14,7%

 Deposits from the private and public sector in dollars (1) 8.262 8.400 8.263 8.386 -1,6% -1,5%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 516.387 518.212 498.197 403.711 -0,4% 27,9%

 Loans to the private sector 473.614 475.206 457.080 366.980 -0,3% 29,1%
 Advances 61.897 62.342 56.652 51.967 -0,7% 19,1%
 Documents 109.221 110.550 111.433 81.921 -1,2% 33,3%
 Mortgages 44.703 44.565 43.075 36.957 0,3% 21,0%
 Pledge loans 32.249 32.438 31.304 24.399 -0,6% 32,2%
 Personal loans 101.945 101.350 98.480 81.756 0,6% 24,7%
 Credit cards 88.046 88.325 80.693 61.567 -0,3% 43,0%
 Others 35.553 35.637 35.443 28.414 -0,2% 25,1%

 Loans to the public sector 42.773 43.005 41.117 36.730 -0,5% 16,5%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 3.829 3.603 3.695 5.190 6,3% -26,2%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 430.901 1,0% 20,8% 426.513 438.078 356.721

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 562.756 559.168 578.383 467.087 0,6% 20,5%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 941.951 927.043 914.807 766.652 1,6% 22,9%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.010.320 995.492 968.739 809.868 1,5% 24,8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 363.744 360.768 367.377 309.848 0,8% 17,4%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 483.919 481.759 493.844 408.267 0,4% 18,5%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private 758.950 743.767 731.609 607.160 2,0% 25,0%
 deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 814.024 799.191 775.740 644.548 1,9% 26,3%

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 2.821 0,8% -14.066 -3,8% -7.410 -2,0% 56.512 19,0%
 Financial sector -6.770 -1,9% -8.381 -2,3% -11.928 -3,3% -3.598 -1,2%
 Public sector 5.690 1,6% 10.074 2,7% 24.545 6,8% 103.953 34,9%
 Private external sector 12.428 3,5% 19.764 5,4% 12.088 3,3% -18.385 -6,2%
 BCRA titles -7.537 -2,1% -36.598 -9,9% -37.429 -10,4% -31.593 -10,6%
 Others -990 -0,3% 1.075 0,3% 5.315 1,5% 6.136 2,1%

 International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 348 1,3% -1.940 -6,6% -2.932 -9,6% -12.395 -30,9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.553 5,7% 2.457 8,3% 1.320 4,3% -3.711 -9,3%
 Payment to international organizations -195 -0,7% -432 -1,5% -293 -1,0% 498 1,2%
 Other operations of the public sector -671 -2,5% -993 -3,4% -1.499 -4,9% 1.181 2,9%
 Minimum cash -62 -0,2% -2.857 -9,6% -1.999 -6,5% -1.287 -3,2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -278 -1,0% -128 -0,4% -474 -1,5% -9.089 -22,7%
1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
 3 Net of BODEN recorded.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Informational Regime.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14
 (1)

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.7 11.7 11.9
 Integration 12.0 11.9 12.1
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 68.9 69.3 67.5
 30 to 59 days 20.7 20.4 22.8
 60 to 89 days 5.5 5.5 5.0
 90 to 179 days 3.5 3.3 3.2
 more than 180 days 1.4 1.5 1.4

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 46.1 37.7 29.3
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 94.0 95.6 104.8
 Position (2) 47.9 57.9 75.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.8 49.6 46.6
 30 to 59 days 21.7 23.9 25.3
 60 to 89 days 12.2 10.5 11.9
 90 to 179 days 12.2 12.9 13.7
 180 to 365 days 3.9 2.8 2.2
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.3 0.2
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 14.9 19.4 14.7 19.7 11.4
 Amount traded 1,941 2,073 1,977 2,144 1,393

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.7 21.4 21.0 17.7 14.0
 60 days or more 25.7 25.0 23.9 19.0 13.1
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.0 19.9 19.7 17.4 14.2
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 26.3 26.2 25.6 20.2 15.1

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.3 0.5
 60 days or more 1.6 1.6 1.7 0.6 0.9
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.4 0.6
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.3 1.0 1.1 0.3 0.7

 Active Interest Rates Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.0 28.0 25.7 21.6 15.3
 Amount traded (total terms) 288 324 282 316 249

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 32.9 33.3 31.6 27.6 21.7
 Promissory notes 30.5 29.5 29.2 22.4 18.6
 Mortgages 17.2 17.8 17.5 16.5 14.6
 Pledged loans 27.5 28.6 24.2 21.1 19.2
 Personal loans 46.1 46.1 44.9 39.3 33.3
 Credit cards n/d 39.5 38.3 37.2 33.1

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.6 27.3 25.9 21.4 14.9

 International Interest Rates Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
 6 months 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2
 10 years 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.9 1.7

FED Funds Rate 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.0 10.8 10.5 10.0 7.4

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0
 Liabilities 7 days 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
 Assets 7 days 11.5 11.5 11.5 11.5 11.5

Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 10.3 14.9 9.7 15.8 9.7
 7 days 13.6 13.0 10.4 13.1 9.7

Amount traded of REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 17,279 10,127 14,259 3,981 10,364
LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a 28.5 n/a 13.1
 3 months 28.2 28.8 28.7 15.5 13.3
 9 months 29.8 29.9 29.9 n/a 15.2
 12 months 29.7 30.3 30.2 17.8 15.6

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks 1.0 1.1 1.5 n/a -2.65

LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1)
 1 month 2.5 2.5 2.5 n/a n/a
 3 months 3.0 3.0 3.0 n/a n/a
 6 months 3.5 3.5 3.5 n/a n/a
 12 months 4.0 4.0 4.0 n/a n/a

Amount Operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (daily average) 2,116 1,552 1,200 673 1,356

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.0 7.9 7.8 6.3 5.2
 Retail 8.0 7.9 7.9 6.3 5.2

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.1 8.1 8.0 6.7 5.3
 ROFEX 1 month 8.1 8.1 7.9 6.6 5.2
 Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,134 2,300 2,917 1,618 965

Real (Pesos per Real) 3.6 3.4 3.3 2.7 2.6

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 11.1 11.0 10.7 8.7 6.7

 Capital Market Apr-14 Mar-14 Feb-14 Dec-13 Apr-13

MERVAL
 Index 6,543 5,937 5,893 5,330 3,506
 Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 110 86 103 109 95

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 117.6 121.1 126.4 132.6 149.8
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 99.1 95.8 95.5 106.6 103.7
 BODEN 2014 ($) 98.9 99.1 97.7 93.5 94.8
 DISCOUNT ($) 81.6 86.1 71.9 63.9 52.3

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 921 1,112 1,328 826 1,273
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 366 400 454 412 314

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCE: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Securitization.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Representative Debt Value.

 Monetary Report | April 2014 | BCRA | 19
