July 2014 | Monthly Monetary Report
July 2014

Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 10

 Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
 The statistical closing of this report was August 11, 2014. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 2

1. Synthesis

• In July, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a growth of 2.7% and maintained its year-over-year variation stable around 22%. The monthly increase was explained, mainly, by currency in the hands of the public and savings account deposits of the private sector; these grew favored by seasonal factors associated with winter vacations and the collection of the complementary half-year salary.

• Liquidity in local currency of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase operations with that entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) remained stable at 37.2% in terms of deposits.

• In July, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 1.1% ($5,280 million), driven by lines essentially destined for commercial purposes. The growth rate for the month was similar to those of May and June, while the year-over-year variation was 22.7%. In the month, the performance of financing through advances stood out, which registered an increase of 6.3% ($4,130 million), the largest of the last twelve months and similar to that observed in July of other years.

• Regarding the measures adopted by the Central Bank in order to promote credit to the productive sector, in July the fifth stage of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP) began. As for the fourth stage of the LCIP, which was carried out in the first semester of 2014, by May loans would have been agreed upon for 90% of the target established for that period, according to preliminary information. On the other hand, the Central Bank continued disbursing funds under the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program, through which it has already directed $6,568 million to long-term investment projects.

• In July, the interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits continued to decline. In particular, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 22%, with a monthly decline of 1 p.p. Likewise, in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was located at 19.3%, 0.8 p.p. below the June level.

• Regarding the interest rates applied to loans in pesos to the private sector, those associated with commercial lines and personal loans declined. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate on current account advances was located at 30.7%, decreasing 1.5 p.p. in the month, while the interest rate on personal loans averaged 37.4%, declining 3.1 p.p. with respect to June. In contrast, the interest rate on pledge loans increased 0.8 p.p., placing itself at 23.9%.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Graph 2.1
 Monetary Aggregates - M3 In July, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
 % (variation of monthly averages) %
 5 50 (M32) presented growth of 2.7% (see Graph 2.1)

 4 40 and maintained its year-on-year variation stable at around
 22%. The monthly increase was explained, mainly, by
 3 30 cash in circulation and savings account deposits of the
 private sector, which grew favored by seasonal factors
 2 20
 associated with the collection of the supplementary
 half-yearly salary and winter vacations.
 1 10

 0 0 The total of deposits in pesos presented growth
 Monthly variation of M3 of 1.3%, with reductions in the placements of the public
 Y.o.y. variation of M3 (right axis) sector that were more than offset by the increase in
 -1 -10
 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 those of the private sector.

 Note: M3 includes cash in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA

 Graph 2.2 The increase in deposits of the private sector was driven

 thousands of by placements on demand (5.9%), given that those
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
 millions of $ % agreed to fixed-term maintained their balance stable
 300 60
 (see Graph 2.2). Among these latter, reductions were

 250 50 verified in placements of the wholesale segment that
 were offset by the advance in the segment of less than
 200 40
 $1 million. In year-on-year terms, fixed-term deposits
 150 30 of the private sector exhibited variation close to 34%.

 100 20

 Daily balance Foreign currency deposits (expressed in dollars) remained
 50 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 10 relatively stable in July, with a decline of 1% in place-

 0 0 ments belonging to the private sector, partially offset by

 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 those of the public sector. In this way, the broadest
 Source: BCRA
 monetary aggregate, M3*3, presented growth
 of 2.5%, exhibiting year-on-year variation of 24.2%.

 Graph 2.3 The monetary base reached an average balance of

 % Monetary Base %
 (variation of monthly averages) $383,900 million, with an increase of 4.9% in July
 10 50
 and a year-on-year variation rate of 18.6% (see Graph
 8 40 2.3). The monthly increase concentrated mainly in
 6 30 cash in circulation, although bank reserves also
 4 20 registered an increase (comprised of cash in financial
 2 10 entities and the balances of current accounts of financial
 0 0 entities at the Central Bank).

 -2 -10

 -4 Monthly variation -20

 -6 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) -30

 -8 -40
 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
3 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency expressed in pesos.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

 % Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities* ties1
 deposits (monthly average)
 45 Jul-14:

 40 37.2%

 In the local currency segment, the liquidity of financial
% of financial data (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) remained stable in terms of deposits at a level of 37.2% (see Chart 3.1). Regarding composition, a slight increase in the proportion of LEBAC and NOBAC was verified and a slight reduction in bank reserves (cash in banks and current account at the Central Bank). Meanwhile, the surplus of minimum average cash for the month (estimated) was equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity showed a small increase, reaching 104.8% of the total deposits in dollars (1.6 percentage points higher than the June ratio). This was explained by the increase in the proportion of the current account of entities at the Central Bank and cash in banks, partially offset by the decrease in the proportion of LEBAC holdings.

## 4. Loans 1 4

In July, loans in pesos to the private sector increased 1.1% ($5,280 million), driven by lines essentially destined for commercial purposes (see Chart 4.1). The growth rate for the month was similar to those of May and June, while year-over-year variation stood at 22.7%.

Among loans intended to finance commercial activities, the performance of advances stood out, which recorded an increase of 6.3% ($4,130 million), the largest in the last twelve months and similar to that observed in July of other years (see Chart 4.2). Consequently, the year-over-year growth rate remained around 26%. For its part, financing arranged through documents exhibited a monthly growth of 2.5% ($2,700 million), favored by increases recorded at the end of June that left positive "statistical carryover." In this way, they accumulated an increase of 20.9% over the last twelve months.

The remaining commercial financing, grouped under the "Other loans" item, showed an increase of 2.5% ($930 million).

The Central Bank continues to adopt measures to promote credit to the productive sector: in July the fifth stage of the Credit Line for In[vestment] began.

---

**Footnote 4:** Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.
86.9 40 Productive (LCIP). Regarding the fourth stage
 6.1 6.3 6.3
 6 4.6 30 of the LCIP, which took place in the first half of

 4 20 2014, and according to preliminary information, as of the

 2 1.5 2.11.410 month of May, loans would have been agreed upon for 90% of the

 0 0 target established for that period. On the other hand, within the

 -2 -10 framework of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program

 -4 -20 (PFPB), the Central Bank continued disbursing long-term

 -6 -30 funds for investment with a fixed total financial cost in pesos. Thus, the total resources

 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 disbursed since the beginning of the program amounts to $6,568 million.

 Source: BCRA

 On the other hand, credit card financing recorded a decline
 of 3.9% ($3,540 million) in the month, although its year-on-year
 variation continues at elevated levels, standing at 36.3%. Part of
 the monthly decrease was explained by the concentration of heavy
 Chart 4.3
 maturities of certain cards aimed, especially, at financing the
 Pro.Cre.Auto Loans
 millions of $ (balance and estimated number of operations) units purchase of products, inputs and services from agricultural and
 300 3,000 livestock sector producers. Additionally, the perception of the
 mid-year supplementary salary usually motivates a decrease in the
 Daily balance
 250 2,500 demand for personal loans and in credit card consumption, as
 Accumulated number of operations (right axis)
 200 2,000 well as the partial cancellation of previously incurred debts. In
 this way, personal loans reduced their monthly growth rate, showing
 150 1,500
 an increase of 0.7% ($690 million), although in year-on-year terms
 100 1,000 they accumulated growth of 20.1%.

 50 500 It is worth mentioning that, within the framework of
 Pro.Cre.Auto, the Banco de la Nación Argentina (BNA) granted, as
 0 0
 26-Jun 01-Jul 06-Jul 11-Jul 16-Jul 21-Jul 26-Jul 31-Jul of July, personal loans for around $240 million, corresponding to
 Source: BCRA approximately 2,400 operations (see Chart 4.3).

 Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgage loans
 Chart 4.4
 grew 1.2% ($540 million), somewhat more than in June, showing a
 Private Sector Loans in Foreign Currency
 millions US$ millions US$ year-on-year variation of 16.6%. It is worth mentioning that part of
 10,000 1,000 the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not
 reflected in the statistics of bank loans, as it has been channeled
 Monthly variation (right axis) 750
 9,000 Average monthly balance through the Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for Unique
 8,000 500 Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with chattel
 250 mortgage guarantee showed a reduction of 0.5% ($170 million),
 7,000
 0 with a year-on-year increase of 16.5%.

 6,000
 -250 Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency
 5,000 -500 registered an increase of 1.3% (US$50 million), with the average
 -750 monthly balance standing at around US$4,200 million (see Chart
 4,000 -1,000
 4.4).

 3,000
 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14
 Source: BCRA

 5. Interest Rates 5

 Chart 5.1
 Titles Issued by the Central Bank
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary and Secondary Market
 T.N.A % (data at end of month)
 35
 Similar to June, the interest rates paid by the Central Bank
 30

 25 Primary market Jun-14
 Secondary market Jun-14
 20 Primary market Jul-14
 Secondary market Jul-14
 15
10 Central Bank for the placement of Letters and Notes remained stable in July. In this way, the interest rate of LEBAC auctioned at a predetermined cut-off rate – at terms of 100 days and 120 days – were located at 26.8% and 27%, respectively. Likewise, the interest rate of the instrument adjudicated with greater maturity, at 350 days term, stood at 28.2% (see Graph 5.1).

Graph 5.2
Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market

In the secondary market, as in the two previous months, the interest rates of LEBAC at terms exceeding 70 days remained relatively stable in line with the behavior recorded in the primary market. Meanwhile, the interest rates of shorter terms, mainly instruments of less than 30 days, exhibited transitory increases following the behavior observed in interbank markets, although smaller than those recorded in the previous month. The total average amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market increased $525 million in July placing itself at $2,390 million daily, reaching historic highs. The increase was driven by operations with LEBAC around 90 days term (see Graph 5.2).

As in June, the placements of LEBAC and NOBAC that the BCRA carries out each week were the main sterilization instrument. The nominal balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos grew $19,936 million (10.6%) and stood at $207,817 million. The increase was driven by the rise in the balance of LEBAC, partially offset by the decline recorded in the balance of NOBAC. In this way, the stock in circulation stands at approximately 24% of total deposits.

The holders that led the monthly increase in stock were private financial entities, followed by Mutual Investment Funds (see Graph 5.4), Insurance Companies and Work Risk Managers.

Finally, regarding the foreign currency segment, the balance of LEBAC declined again in July, registering a decrease of US$80 million, placing itself at US$827 million. The fall was driven by lower holdings in private banks, offset in part by increases in public banks. The interest rates that the Central Bank pays for its placements remained unchanged.

Central Bank Repo Operations¹

The interest rates of passive repos remain unchanged and are located at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively; while the interest rates of active repos of 1 and 7 days continue at 11% and 11.50%.

---

**Notes:**
- In the primary market, data from the last auction of the month
- Source: BCRA
- Source: BCRA
- Graph 5.3: LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits in circulation
- % (monthly average balances)
- LyN / Total Deposits
- LyN / Private Sector Deposits
- Graph 5.4: Thousands of Holdings of Central Bank Securities (stock at end of month, monthly variation) Thousands of millions $
- Other
- FCIs
- Private Banks
- Public Banks
- Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis)
- Source: BCRA

⁵ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁶ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 7
The average balance of passive repos for the Central Bank – in all the modalities in which the institution participates – registered an increase of almost $800 million and was positioned at $11,900 million. Likewise, active repos for the entity continued to not be registered.

**Graph 5.5**
Interbank Market
(operations at 1 business day) TNA %

Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA | Interfinancial Markets¹
Amount traded Call
Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis)
Interest rate Call (right axis)

Following the increases recorded in the two previous months, in July the interfinancial market rates decreased, in a context where the short-term liquidity needs of financial entities diminished. In this way, the average interest rate of 1 business day operations in the unsecured market (call) decreased 7 p.p., positioning itself at 15.5%.

Likewise, the average interest rate of 1 business day operations between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) fell 6.2 p.p., standing at 14.1% (see Graph 5.5).

The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial market (including the REPO round between entities and the call market) was reduced by $1,100 million compared to the previous month, reaching approximately $6,000 million (see Graph 5.6). As in June, in the call market foreign entities and non-bank financial entities (EFNB) resulted as net fund receivers and had as counterparty national private entities and, to a lesser extent, public entities.

**Graph 5.6**
Interfinancial Markets
thousands of million $ (average daily amount traded)

Passive repos for the BCRA REPO round
Active repos for the BCRA REPO round
Repos between financial entities REPO round
Call

## Passive Interest Rates¹

In July, the interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits continued with the downward trend that they have registered since mid-April.

**Graph 5.7**
Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-35 days term
% TNA (monthly average - Private banks)

p.p. Monthly average variation

In particular, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30-35 days term – averaged 22%, with a monthly decrease of 1 p.p.. In this way, since April the BADLAR accumulates a decrease of 4.3 p.p..

Likewise, in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was positioned at 19.3%, 0.8 p.p. below the June level, accumulating a reduction of 2.2 p.p. since April (see Graph 5.7).

## Active Interest Rates¹

Regarding the interest rates applied on loans in pesos to the private sector, among commercial lines, the monthly average of the interest rate of overdrafts in current account was positioned at 30.7%, decreasing 1.5 p.p. in the month. Within this line, the interest rate for overdrafts to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days term averaged 21.6%, dimin-

**Graph 5.8**

Interest Rates of Overdrafts in Current Account
(monthly average)

TNA, %
p.p. Monthly variations
-6
Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 increasing 4.5 p.p., despite the transitory increase
24
observed in the second half of June, in response
20
to specific liquidity requirements (Chart
16
5.8).
12

8 With respect to financing through documents, the
Total Advances in CC Advances in current account for more than $10 M - up to 7 days
4 behavior of interest rates was mixed. The monthly
0 average of the interest rate applied to document
Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14
Source: BCRA discounting was located at 25.9%, with a monthly
decrease of 0.4 p.p. and 6 p.p. below the maximum
of the year, recorded in February. In this sense, it
should be noted that in July the possibility contin-
ued in effect of applying 10% of the LCIP quota to
Chart 5.9
the discounting of post-dated checks of SMEs (at
an interest rate not exceeding 19.5%).
Interest Rates for Financing through Documents
(monthly average)

TNA, % Participation by maturity bracket in DSF
32 (monthly average) For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate
Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years

100% on documents at sole signature was located at 28%, 1.4 p.p.
80%
28 60% above the June level. Part of this increase is
40%
20%
related to a lower participation of credits granted
0%
Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14
through documents at sole signature within the
24 framework of the LCIP. This is reflected in a fall of the
participation of loans granted for more than 3 years
20
in July, as occurred in July 2013 and last January
16 Documents at Sole Signature (Chart 5.9).
Discounted Documents
12
Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14

Source: BCRA Among the longer maturity lines, an increase in the
interest rate was observed in those destined for

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation loans with real guarantee. In the case of pawn
and issuance expenses or other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans. loans, the interest rate averaged 23.9%, 0.8 p.p.

Chart 5.10 
Interest Rates Active Chart 5.10
TNA, % (monthly average) Monthly variations above the June level, when it had
54 recorded the lowest rate observed in the year. In the
Variations p.p.
2 1.0 0.8
48 case of loans with mortgage guarantee for natural
0
42 -2 persons, the monthly average of the interest rate
-3,1
36 Mortgage Pawn Personal increased 1 p.p. and was located at 18.7%. In con-
trast, the interest rate for personal loans averaged
30
37.4%, declining 3.1 p.p. during the month (Chart
24
5.10). In this sense, it should be recalled that in July
18
the maximum interest rate in effect8 for personal
12
loans was located at 38.9% and 48.2% for entities
6 Pawn Mortgage for natural persons Personal
of Group I and Group II9, respectively.
0
Jul-09 May-10 Mar-11 Jan-12 Nov-12 Sep-13 Jul-14
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and
Foreign Exchange Market1

Chart 6.1 International reserves totaled at the end of July

thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
million U$S US$29,003 million (see Chart 6.1). This balance
31 implied a decrease of only US$275 million compared

Jul-14
to the previous month, since the purchases of foreign
30 currency made by the Central Bank practically compen-
sated for the outflows of foreign currency, associated
29 mainly with payments of debt in foreign currency by
the public sector. Among them, the payment made to
28 the Paris Club of Paris stood out for US$647 million.
Payment
27 In the foreign exchange market, and as occurred in pre-
vious months, the quotation of the US dollar

26 continued relatively stable, since on average it was only
Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 0.4% higher than that of June (8.16 $/US$,
Source: BCRA see Chart 6.2). Meanwhile, the average quotations of the
real and the euro were positioned at 3.7 $/real and
Chart 6.2 11 $/euro respectively; in both cases, with limited move-
ments compared to June. For its part, in the futures mar-
$/US$ Nominal Reference Exchange Rate Monthly Variation of the Nominal ket (ROFEX) the expected quotations for the coming
8.5 14% Reference Exchange Rate months decreased slightly while the daily volume oper-
Daily Quotation ated was reduced 10.9% on average. Meanwhile, the ave-
8.0 Monthly Average Quotation 12%
rage daily amount traded was positioned at $1,740
7.5
10% million.
7.0
8%
6.5
6.0 6%

5.5 Average 2014:
4% 3.8%
Average 2013:
5.0 2.2%
2%
4.5
0.4%
4.0 0%

Jan-12 Jun-12 Nov-12 Apr-13 Sep-13 Feb-14 Jul-14 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Jan-14 May-14

Source: BCRA

8 In June, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set, based on LEBAC yields, maximum interest rates,
mainly for personal loans and auto-secured loans for individuals, which are monthly published by the Central Bank.
9 Groups defined in Communication "A" 5590.

Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 10 Chart 7.1 7. Collective Investment Instruments

Thousands of Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos

Millions of $ Mutual Investment Funds
120

Fixed Income Following the seasonal decline recorded in June, the
100 Money Market equity of Mutual Investment Funds (FCI) in pesos
Mixed Income and in foreign currency grew $8,840 million in July and
80 Variable Income was positioned at $98,880 million (see Chart 7.1).
60

40 The monthly increase was produced fundamentally in
the peso segment and was explained by the increase in
20 the subscription of fund shares in fixed income funds,
which verified patrimonial increases of $5,450 million
0
(12.8%) and in money market funds that increased their

Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 equity by $2,840 million (12.1%; see Chart 7.2). Mean-
Source: CAFCI and BCRA while, the funds that invest most of their portfolio in
mixed income assets recorded increases of $630 million
Chart 7.2 (3.6%) and variable income funds increased by $190 mil-
lion (5.5%). As in June, the growth of mixed income
Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
Thousands of Thousands of funds was driven by the quantity of fund shares, while
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $ that of variable income funds was explained by greater
14.0 120 profitability.
Money Market
12.0
Fixed Income 100 Variable income funds were again the best performing
10.0 Mixed Income in terms of profitability and recorded a monthly return
8.0 Variable Income 80 of 4.9%, followed by fixed income funds that had a
monthly return of 1.4% and money market funds with a
Stock Evolution (right axis) 6.0
60 profitability of 1.3%. For their part, in mixed income
4.0
2.0 40 funds the monthly return was positioned at 1.1% (see
Chart 7.3).
0.0
20
-2.0
-4.0 Finally, regarding the foreign currency segment, the eq-
0 uity of the FCI was reduced by US$37 million, being
-6.0
positioned at US$280 million. The decline was driven
Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 both by fixed income funds (US$19 million) and by
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI mixed income funds (US$18 million).

Chart 7.3

% Estimated Return of Assets
6 (profitability in pesos)
Financial Trusts10
5 4.9
 July 2014
 In July, emissions of Financial Trusts (FF)

 4 totaled around $1,490 million, which
 represented a decrease of 22% compared to June. Regarding the number of operations, there were
 3
 2 1.8 being registered between 17 and 18 monthly operations and in
 1.4 1.3
 1.1 1.0 July 14 operations were carried out (see Chart 7.4).

 1

 0 As for the settlors, retail commerce
 FCI Income Fixed Term FCI Income Money Market FCI Income Dollar securitized assets linked to consumption for
 Variable $ Wholesale Fixed $ $ Mixed $
 Source: BCRA around $550 million (37% of the total), registering
 an increase of almost 70% compared to the modest amount

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.4 of June. For their part, "Mutuals, cooperatives,
 Emissions of Financial Trusts non-banking issuers of credit cards and other
millions of $ (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) financial service
2.400 45 providers" placed

2.100 Amount issued 40 around $450 million (30% of the total), an amount
 Number of operations (right axis) 35 slightly lower than the previous month. In addition to
1.800
 30 personal loans and credit card coupons,
1.500 these settlors securitized postdated checks.
 25
1.200 Both in this case and in that of retail commerce,
 20
 900 15 the amount issued in June was similar to

 600 10 the average of the first half of the year (see Chart 7.5).

 300 5 Meanwhile, financial entities placed just over
 0 0 $420 million, 22% less than in June. The remainder
 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 corresponded to companies in the agricultural sector that

 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others securitized commercial credits and to a company
 dedicated to agricultural machinery production that
 securitized secured credits.

 Finally, the cutoff interest rate (weighted average by
 amount) of senior securities –in pesos and
 with duration less than 14 months– with variable
 Chart 7.5 yield registered an increase of 1.1 p.p. and was placed at
 Amounts Issued by type of Settlor 25.8%. Meanwhile, no fixed rate emissions were
millions of $ recorded.

1.200 (excludes FF from the public sector and other infrastructure)

 Retail Commerce
 Financial Entities 8. Main Policy Measures of Other
 900 Mutuals, coop. and non-banking credit card issuers Central Banks

 Other

 600 During July other central banks implemented a
 large number of measures, continuing with the

 300 dynamism observed in June in this matter. Among the
 relevant changes, the great heterogeneity stands out
 0 regarding the bias of the policies involved, among which
 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Avg. 1st. several monetary authorities continued and even
 Semester deepened measures previously implemented.
Fuente: BCRA based on CNV data and others 2014 On one hand, the Federal Reserve of the United
 States (FED) continued reducing the level of
 monetary stimulus. Likewise, while several countries
 did not take measures and chose to continue waiting for
 the impact of those implemented by the FED, others
 Chart 8.1 modified their respective benchmark interest rates
 or reserve requirement ratios. These latter (those that
 p.p. Real GDP disaggregated by component took measures) prioritized the local macroeconomic
 United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized environment, which, in some cases, was affected by the
8 volatility of their respective exchange rates and its
6 consequent impact on inflation and economic
4 activity. Among these countries are Chile, Peru,
2 Colombia, Uruguay, Russia, South Africa, Turkey,
0 Sweden, Israel and New Zealand.

-2 The FED decided to reduce again by US$10,000

-4
Consumption and Investment Public Exports Net of Goods and Services millions the pace of purchase of its asset program
-6
 Gross Investment Private Consumption
 Inventory Accumulation Real GDP (y-o-y var.) (what is known as tapering) bringing it to
-8
 Mar-10 Dec-10 Sep-11 Jun-12 Mar-13 Dec-13 US$25,000 million per month. In this way, the

Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov
 program would reach its completion in October, as
 was expected. Additionally, it maintained the objective of its reference interest rate, the federal funds

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 12 Chart 8.2 interest rate in the range 0-0.25%. The FED made these

 % Interest Rates and Inflation Target for the United States % decisions in the framework of an economy whose GDP
 7 Personal Consumption Expenditures 15 would have grown 4% in the second quarter, above
 Inflation Target *
 6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures market expectations (3%), following the decline of
 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 10
 5 CPI 2.1% in the first period (quarter against quarter,
 CPI Core without seasonality and annualized, see Chart 8.1). Along with
 4 PPI (right axis)
 5 this, the main price indicators did not show
 3
 significant changes compared to the previous month,
 2
 0 gradually approaching the 2% target (see
 1
 Chart 8.2). It is for this reason that in the press release
 0 -5
 -1 the FED stated that the risks that inflation would

 -2 -10 remain persistently below the target have

 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 diminished. Additionally, slightly less encouraging
 
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve (FED).
 * The FED does not follow an inflation target regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of data were published in the labor market. Among them,
 employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012 a creation of 209 thousand non-agricultural positions was
 an objective of an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. recorded during July, below the 230 thousand positions
 forecast by the market (see Chart 8.3). In its
 press release the FED stopped referring to high
 Chart 8.3 unemployment –which currently stands at 6.2%, the
 second lowest value since October 2008– although
 Monthly Job Creation - U.S.A.
 In thousands Non-Agricultural it mentions that there is high idle capacity
 jobs
500 in the labor market.

300
 For their part, the monetary authorities of England,

100 Japan and the Eurozone kept their monetary
 policy unchanged. In the latter case, this decision
-100
 was made despite the preliminary inflation indicator

-300 for the Eurozone in July registering the lowest

-500 value in the last 4 years (see Chart 8.4).

 Recessions
 Job Creation
-700 6-month Moving Average
 On the other hand, the Central Bank of Israel decided to reduce

-900 its monetary policy interest rate by 0.25 p.p. to
 Jan-70 Jan-74 Jan-78 Jan-82 Jan-86 Jan-90 Jan-94 Jan-98 Jan-02 Jan-06 Jan-10 Jan-140.5%, its lowest historical level. In the case of the

Source: Own elaboration based on BLS.gov Swedish monetary authority, the Riksbank, reduced its
 monetary policy interest rate (Repo Rate) by 0.5
 p.p. to 0.25%, the first reduction since December
 2013. Likewise, the Deposit Rate –lower limit of the
 interest rate corridor– and the Lending Rate –upper limit– were reduced to -0.5% and 1%,
 Chart 8.4 respectively (see Chart 8.5). The measure produced

 Inflation an immediate depreciation of the Swedish crown. Finally,
 Y-o-y var. %
 5 within advanced countries, the Bank of the
# 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations
Principal monetary and financial system variables | Jul-13 | Jul-14 | Jun-14 | Dec-13 | Monthly | Last 12 months

**Monetary Base** | 383,944 | 366,004 | 361,580 | 323,597 | 4.9% | 18.6%
**Monetary Circulation** | 295,134 | 277,800 | 277,095 | 249,827 | 6.2% | 18.1%
Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public | 266,741 | 249,621 | 247,158 | 226,678 | 6.9% | 17.7%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 28,393 | 28,178 | 29,935 | 23,147 | 0.8% | 22.7%
Cancellatory Checks | 0 | 120 | - | - | - | -
Current Account at the BCRA | 88,810 | 88,205 | 84,484 | 73,770 | 0.7% | 20.4%

**Stock of Repo Operations**
Liabilities | 11,918 | 11,123 | 6,351 | 9,644 | 7.1% | 23.6%
Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | -

**Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | 203,599 | 197,196 | 111,491 | 106,037 | 3.2% | 92.0%
In banks | 171,334 | 169,391 | 98,364 | 91,566 | 1.1% | 87.1%

**LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)**
In pesos | 186,305 | 175,616 | 107,309 | 99,752 | 6.1% | 86.8%
In dollars | 891 | 940 | 0 | 0 | -5.2% | -

**NOBAC** | 10,108 | 14,000 | 4,183 | 6,285 | -27.8% | 60.8%

**BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations** | 2009 | 29,519 | 28,863 | 30,612 | 37,310 | 2.3% | -20.9%

**Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 736,886 | 727,623 | 667,632 | 594,865 | 1.3% | 23.9%
Current account (2) | 210,257 | 215,127 | 190,954 | 159,904 | -2.3% | 31.5%
Savings account | 163,014 | 147,249 | 140,307 | 125,024 | 10.7% | 30.4%
Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER | 334,320 | 336,471 | 309,655 | 287,280 | -0.6% | 16.4%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 7 | 7 | 6 | 6 | 0.0% | 16.0%
Other deposits (3) | 29,288 | 28,769 | 26,710 | 22,650 | 1.8% | 29.3%

**Deposits of private sector** | 561,652 | 546,185 | 484,439 | 433,094 | 2.8% | 29.7%

**Deposits of public sector** | 175,233 | 181,438 | 183,193 | 161,771 | -3.4% | 8.3%

**Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 8,579 | 8,614 | 8,263 | 8,302 | -0.4% | 3.3%

**Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 530,763 | 524,614 | 498,212 | 435,034 | 1.2% | 22.0%

---

**Eurozone**

**Inflation of Spain, Greece, Ireland, Italy and Portugal**

[Graph showing inflation trends from Jan-06 to Apr-14 with values ranging from approximately -1 to 4 percent]

Source: BCRA based on Eurostat

---

**Graph 8.5**

**Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target - Sweden**

% (vertical axis)
- Monetary Policy Rate
- Inflation Rate
- Inflation Target Limits
- Rate Corridor

[Graph showing trends from Jan-06 to Apr-14 with values ranging from approximately -2 to 6 percent]

Source: BCRA based on Riksbank

---

**Graph 8.6**

**Interest Rate, Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil**

% (left axis) | % (right axis)
- Industrial Production (Year-over-year variation)
- Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-over-year variation)
- Reference Interest Rate (right axis)
- Inflation Rate (right axis)
- Inflation Target Limits (right axis)

[Graph showing trends from Jan-06 to Apr-14 with values ranging from approximately -20 to 25 percent on left axis and 0 to 18 percent on right axis]

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

---

## Eurozone

Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) again increased its monetary policy rate (the Overnight Cash Rate -OCR-) by 0.25 percentage points to 3.5%.

Among emerging countries, the monetary authorities of Brazil, Chile, Peru and Turkey took measures with an expansionary bias, while those of Colombia and Uruguay made decisions with a contractionary bias. In the case of Brazil, although at the meeting on July 16 the Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Brazil decided, in a unanimous vote, to maintain the target for the Selic rate at 11% (a decision expected by the market, see Graph 8.6), a few days later it reduced the reserve requirement coefficient, which would imply a release of funds of approximately 30,000 million reais.

**Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 13**
Loans to the private sector 487.896 483.044 457.095 397.598 1.0% 22.7%
 Advances 69.530 65.399 56.649 55.162 6.3% 26.0%
 Documents 111.211 108.511 111.440 91.981 2.5% 20.9%
 Mortgage loans 46.024 45.482 43.075 39.466 1.2% 16.6%
 Secured loans 31.739 31.910 31.304 27.240 -0.5% 16.5%
 Personal loans 104.122 103.860 98.468 86.682 0.3% 20.1%
 Credit cards 87.740 91.276 80.716 64.381 -3.9% 36.3%
 Others 37.532 36.606 35.442 32.685 2.5% 14.8%

 Loans to the public sector 42.867 41.570 41.117 37.436 3.1% 14.5%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.221 4.166 3.694 4.726 1.3% -10.7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current accounts in pesos) 476.998 464.749 438.115 386.584 2.6% 23.4%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 640.012 611.997 578.422 511.608 4.6% 25.1%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 1.003.627 977.244 914.793 821.545 2.7% 22.2%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.076.151 1.049.519 968.730 866.728 2.5% 24.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current 399.420 383.137 367.407 334.557 4.3% 19.4%
 accounts in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 547.284 514.413 493.877 448.907 6.4% 21.9%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private 828.394 795.806 731.599 659.774 4.1% 25.6%
 deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 888.242 855.742 775.729 697.341 3.8% 27.4%

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 17.940 4.9% 29.774 8.4% 22.365 6.2% 60.347 18.6%
 Financial sector -850 -0.2% 6.566 1.9% -5.363 -1.5% -1.506 -0.5%
 Public sector 14.036 3.8% 21.337 6.0% 45.882 12.7% 114.031 35.2%
 Private external sector 7.882 2.2% 27.289 7.7% 39.377 10.9% 2.040 0.6%
 BCRA Securities -2.237 -0.6% -23.285 -6.6% -60.715 -16.8% -58.731 -18.1%
 Others -892 -0.2% -2.132 -0.6% 3.183 0.9% 4.513 1.4%

BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 656 2.3% 1.839 6.6% -1.093 -3.6% -7.791 -20.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 969 3.4% 3.386 12.2% 4.706 15.4% -1.629 -4.4%
 Payment to international organizations 75 0.3% 15 0.1% -278 -0.9% 243 0.7%
 Other public sector operations -209 -0.7% -408 -1.5% -1.908 -6.2% 4.582 12.3%
 Minimum cash -149 -0.5% -1.216 -4.4% -3.215 -10.5% -2.572 -6.9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -30 -0.1% 63 0.2% -411 -1.3% -8.429 -22.6%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounting.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month relative to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14
 (1)

National currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.8 11.7 11.8
 Integration 12.0 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.4 67.2 68.7
 30 to 59 days 19.1 20.5 19.5
 60 to 89 days 6.5 6.0 6.4
 90 to 179 days 5.7 4.8 4.0
 More than 180 days 1.4 1.4 1.4
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 43.7 43.9 44.8
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 84.3 83.1 83.0
 Position (2) 40.6 39.3 38.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 48.2 48.3 48.2
 30 to 59 days 20.8 22.4 23.2
 60 to 89 days 11.9 11.1 11.2
 90 to 179 days 12.6 12.7 12.8
 180 to 365 days 5.5 5.0 4.3
 more than 365 days 1.0 0.5 0.3
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 16 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 15.61 22.50 17.12 19.67 13.64
 Amount traded 2,084 2,845 2,810 2,144 2,183

Fixed-term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.17 20.92 21.29 17.67 14.97
 60 days or more 22.00 23.42 24.46 19.00 15.48
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.29 20.25 20.18 17.45 15.16
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.98 23.02 24.66 20.18 17.24

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.91 0.93 0.97 0.34 0.49
 60 days or more 1.40 1.67 1.64 0.65 0.85
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.87 0.88 0.81 0.39 0.55
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.23 1.02 0.99 0.33 0.65

 Active Interest Rates Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.14 23.33 23.74 21.64 18.17
 Amount traded (total terms) 279 299 274 316 277

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.72 32.21 32.21 27.59 23.17
 Documents on signature alone 27.97 26.63 29.43 22.38 20.84
 Mortgages 22.61 21.06 17.44 16.56 15.87
 Pledged property 23.86 23.05 25.43 21.07 20.45
 Personal 37.38 40.51 44.58 39.34 34.99
 Credit cards n/d 41.66 40.02 37.16 34.04

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 21.57 26.05 24.17 22.62 17.32

 International Interest Rates Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.19
 6 months 0.33 0.32 0.32 0.35 0.40

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.49 0.44 0.37 0.33 0.33
 10 years 2.53 2.59 2.55 2.88 2.55

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.00 11.00 11.00 10.00 8.36

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onward correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total trading floor REPO repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 11.95 13.89 12.16 15.81 10.97
 7 days 12.79 13.73 12.47 13.12 10.20

Amount traded in REPO repurchase agreements (daily average) 11,298 10,271 12,691 3,981 7,875

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d
 2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d 14.94
 3 months 26.80 26.83 26.80 15.52 15.42
 9 months n/d 27.90 n/d n/d n/d
 12 months 28.25 28.26 28.26 17.80 17.94

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/d n/d 0.9 n/d n/d

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/d n/d
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/d n/d
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/d n/d
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/d n/d

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,388 1,862 2,239 673 1,078

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 8.16 8.12 8.04 6.32 5.44
 Retail 8.16 8.13 8.05 6.33 5.44

Dollar Forward
 NDF 1 month 8.39 8.35 8.20 6.74 5.61
 ROFEX 1 month 8.34 8.31 8.20 6.56 5.55
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,768 1,992 2,621 1,618 892

Real (Pesos per Real) 3.67 3.63 3.62 2.69 2.42

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 11.04 11.05 11.04 8.67 7.13
# Capital Markets Jul-14 Jun-14 May-14 Dec-13 Jul-13

MERVAL
 Index 8.359 7.839 7.166 5.330 3.283
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 172 193 141 109 53

Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 117.7 122.8 125.4 132.6 134.5
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 108.0 105.0 105.1 106.6 91.0
 BODEN 2014 ($) 98.1 98.4 98.3 93.5 93.1
 DISCOUNT ($) 73.5 76.6 78.5 63.9 45.4

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.048 1.080 921 826 1.273
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 327 344 361 412 379

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
ICF: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | July 2014 | BCRA | 19
