# January 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
January 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Banking Liquidity | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 12

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was February 12, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The broadest private monetary aggregate (private M3) exhibited growth of 1.1% in January, registering a year-on-year variation of 25.1%. The monthly increase continued to be driven by credit in pesos to the private sector.

• Among the components of private M3, fixed-term deposits stood out, which, once the seasonal effects of December that generate high demand for transactional money were overcome, again showed growth that was around 2.2%. Distinguishing by amount stratum, advances were verified both in placements belonging to the wholesale segment (2%) and in those of less than $1 million (2.5%). In year-on-year terms, the increase in fixed-term deposits was located at 31%, maintaining significant dynamism.

• In January, loans in pesos to the private sector registered growth of 2.7% ($12,450 million), somewhat lower than in December, although in line with expectations for this part of the year, when summer recess begins. The year-on-year variation was located at 34.5%.

• Banking liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC; in terms of deposits in pesos) continued at elevated values, standing at a level similar to that of December (30.9%).

• Regarding reserve requirements, two regulatory changes occurred. It was established that starting March 2014 there will be a decrease in the requirement for Minimum Cash in pesos by an amount equivalent to 16% of financing that has been agreed as of January 1, 2014 to SMEs and with a term greater than 5 years, within the framework of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP). On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment it was determined, for each of the next three months, an increase in the requirement of 10 percentage points for sight obligations, and of between 1 and 10 percentage points for fixed-term placements, according to their residual term.

• At the end of January, the Central Bank began to auction LEBAC denominated in US dollars with the objective of promoting the bankarization of dollarized savings. These securities can be subscribed only by financial entities based on the fixed-term deposits in dollars of the private sector that they capture, have terms of 1, 3, 6 and 12 months and are auctioned at predetermined cut rates ranging from 2.5% nominal annual for the shortest term to 4% for the 12-month security. During the month, US$19 million in nominal value of these LEBAC were placed.

• In order to stimulate savings in national currency, the Central Bank increased the interest rates on placements of LEBAC and NOBAC that are carried out weekly in the primary market. Throughout the month, through these securities the Central Bank absorbed $10,746 million.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 % (variation of monthly averages) %
 5 70
 4.4 4.1
 60 In January, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
 4
 3.2 50 (M32) showed an increase of 2.4%. With a monthly
 2.6 40 average balance that reached $937,000 million, the
 2.4
 2 30 M3 accumulated an increase of 25.3% over the last
 1.3 25.3
 20 twelve months (see Graph 2.1).
 1 10

 0 0 For its part, the broadest private monetary aggregate

 Monthly variation of M3 -10 (Private M33) exhibited growth of 1.1% in January,
 -1 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis)
 -20 registering a year-on-year variation of 25.1%. The
 -2 -30 monthly increase continued to be driven by credit in

 -3 -24 pesos to the private sector (see Graph 2.2). Public sec-
 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAtor operations also had an expansive monetary effect,
 although of a much smaller magnitude, while the sale of
 foreign currency by the Central Bank generated a monetary
 Graph 2.2 contraction.

 thousands of Explanatory Factors of Monetary Aggregates
 millions of $ (January 2014, on average)
 Among the components of Private M3, growth was led
 15
 Private M3 by fixed-term deposits, which, once the seasonal
 1.1% effects of December were overcome, which generate
 10
 M2 Private: Priv. Fixed-Term Dep. high demand for transactional money, once again showed
 5 0.8% 2.2% growth that stood at around 2.2% (see Graph 2.3).
 Distinguishing by amount bracket, advances were noted
 0 both in placements belonging to the wholesale segment
 (2%) and in those of less than $1 million (2.5%). In
 -5
 year-on-year terms, the increase in fixed-term deposits
 -10
 was placed at 31%, sustaining significant dynamism.
 Foreign Currency Purchases Public Sector* Loans to Private M2 Private Fixed-Term Dep.
 and Others Sector Priv.
 *Includes public sector operations with effect on the monetary base, loans and deposits of the public sector.
 Source: BCRA
 Foreign currency deposits showed an increase of 6%,
 with advances noted both in placements from the public
 Graph 2.3 sector and from the private sector. In this way, the
 % Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector broadest monetary aggregate, M3*4, showed growth of
 (variations of monthly averages) %
 7 6.7 56 3.3%, accumulating a year-on-year variation of 25.6%.
 Monthly variation
 6 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 5.7 48

 5 40 Regarding the primary creation of money, in January,

 4 3.5 3.4 32 the average balance of the monetary base increased
 31.0
 3 2.2 24 1.8% and its year-on-year rate of variation stood at
 2 1.8 16
 23.5%. Among its components, increases were recorded
 1 8
 in bank reserves (comprised of cash in financial entities
 0 0 and the balances of current accounts of financial entities
 -1 -8 at the Central Bank) and, mainly, currency in circulation.

 -2 -16 However, responding to the seasonality of the month, the
 -3 -24 monetary base decreased when comparing the balance at
 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14
 Source: BCRA
 the end of January with the balance at the end of 2013.

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in pesos.
3 Includes currency in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the non-financial private sector in pesos.
4 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in dollars.

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1

 % of Bank Liquidity in Pesos
 deposits
45 BCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity 3. Bank Liquidity¹

 40 38,238.5
 37,236.4
 35,835.5 34,834.534.1 34.033.9 In January, the main destination of funding from the
 35 33.9 33.533.3
 32,631.5 31,832.031.831.9 increase in peso deposits was the granting of loans, while
 30,930.9 liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of
 30 entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity
 25 13.3 and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) in terms of peso
 20 deposits was similar to that of December, placing itself
 0.7
 15 4.2 at 30.9% (see Chart 3.1). In particular, the sum of liq-
 uidity maintained in repos with the Central Bank and in
 10
 12.7 Central Bank securities increased slightly as a percentage
 5 of deposits (increase in repos slightly higher than the
 0 reduction of LEBAC and NOBAC), while – in terms of
 Fuente: BCRAAbr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Ene-13 Abr-13 Jul-13 Oct-13 Ene-14 deposits – cash in banks showed a decline partially offset
 by the increase in the current account of entities at the
 Central Bank. With respect to the Minimum Cash posi-
 Chart 3.2 tion, January was the second month of the three-month
 % of Accumulated Position Daily Position Minimum Cash Position in Pesos period covering December 2013 - February 2014. At the
 deposits Quarterly end of the month, it is estimated that financial entities
 2.6 Surplus accumulated a surplus equivalent to 0.8% of peso de-
 2.0 1.4 posits (see Chart 3.2), which is expected to decrease dur-
 0.8 0.8 ing February.
 0.2
 -0.4 Through Communication "A" 5524, it was established
 -1.0 Quarterly that starting in March 2014 there will be a decrease in
 Position the requirement for Minimum Cash in pesos in an
 -1.6 amount equivalent to 16% of financing that has been
 -2.2 Implementation of agreed as of January 1, 2014 to SMEs and
 new reserve scheme ATM Deduction -2.8 with a term greater than 5 years under the Productive
 Investment Credit Line (LCIP).
 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14

 On the other hand, liquidity in the foreign currency
 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 6 p.p. segment was placed at 134.9% of dollar deposits,
 6 (average monthly variation) % 70 6 p.p. higher than the level recorded in December 2013.
 Monthly Var. % For this segment there was also a recent regulatory
 5 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 60 change. Through Communication "A" 5534, for each of
 the next three months an increase of 10 p.p. of the re-
 4 50 quirement on sight obligations was determined and be-
 3.2 3.0 3.1 tween 1 and 10 p.p. for fixed-term placements, according
 3 2.740
 to their residual term. In turn, in the same communica-
 2.3 tion a deduction of the reserve requirement in foreign
 2 30 currency was incorporated equivalent to the holding of
 LEBAC in United States dollars, which began to be bid
 1 20 out during January (see section Securities issued by the
 0.3 Central Bank).
 0 10

 -1 0
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14
 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 4. Loans 1 5 6

 millions of $ Bicentennial Advances %
 9,000 (cumulative monthly amounts) 90
 In January, loans in pesos to the private sector
 8,000 Amounts Awarded 80 registered growth of 2.7% ($12,450 million), somewhat
 Amounts Disbursed lower than in December, although in line with what is
 7,000 70 expected for this part of the year, when the holiday
 Disbursed/Awarded Ratio
 6,000 60 recess begins. The year-on-year variation was placed at
 5,000 50 34.5%, showing a slight moderation, although it remains
 4,000 40 at elevated levels (see Chart 4.1).
 3,000 30 Disbursement of part of the allocated funds continued

 2,000 20
1,000 10 dedicated through the auctions of the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). Thus,

0 0 the total funds disbursed since the beginning of the
 Source: BCRAOct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 PFPB amounted to $6,012 million, approximately 77% of
 what was awarded (see Graph 4.2). Additionally, it should
 Graph 4.3 be noted that this month marked the beginning of the
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % fourth stage of the LCIP, which establishes that during
 12 70 the first half of the year the financial entities covered
 10 Average monthly var. 60 by the regulations should agree to loans for at least 5%
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 50 of their deposits in pesos from the private sector by
 8 40 November 30, 2013 (approximately $23,000 million). Un-
 6 4.8 like the previous stages, on this occasion, the entire
 4.2 30 quota must be agreed with SMEs, for a minimum term
 4 2.4 2.1 20 of 36 months, establishing a maximum fixed interest
 2 1.6 1.8 rate of 17.50% for said period. Nevertheless, in the case
 0.3 10 of granting mortgage loans for the purchase, construc-
 0 0 tion or expansion of housing at a fixed rate of 17.50%
 -2 -10 for the first year7 and a minimum term of 10 years,
 -4 -3.3 -20 and/or financing to clients not included in the defini-
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 tion of SMEs, investment projects with specific destina-
 Source: BCRA tions8, they may attribute said amounts to the quota, up
 to a maximum equivalent to 50% of the same. For the
 Graph 4.4 last category of clients – non-SME companies – the in-
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector terest rate shall be freely agreed upon (see Communica-
 8 (contribution to monthly growth) tion "A" 5516).
 Discounted and purchased
 6 documents Lines with mostly commercial destination showed an
 Single signature documents increase compared to the previous month, with differen-
 4 tiated behaviors among the different lines. Influenced by
 2 seasonal factors, financing carried out through docu-
 0 ments decreased their monthly expansion rate in January.
 -2 The increase recorded in the month was 1.8% ($2,015 mil-
 -4 lion), although in the last 12 months they accumulated a
 January 2013-2014 growth of 42.9% (see Graph 4.3). When distinguishing
 Source: BCRA by type of document, it is verified that, after the period
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the of greater liquidity demand by companies, those agreed
portfolio of entities to financial trusts. at short term (discounted and purchased) registered a
6 In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the decrease, after showing in
variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
7 From the second year onward, financial entities may apply a variable rate that shall not exceed the BADLAR rate in pesos of
private banks plus 3 p.p.. Furthermore, that rate may not exceed that of the increase in the Wage Variation Coefficient.
8 The destinations are: the expansion of productive capacity, the increase in direct and formal employment, investment in capital goods, import substitution, the expansion of export capacity, the financing of infrastructure works or export of capital goods.

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 6

Graph 4.5
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 (average monthly var.) 70
 Average monthly var.
12 60 Year-on-year var. (right axis)
10 50
 8 40
 (The text appears to continue beyond what was provided)
6 5.0 30 December a notable dynamism. For their part, the do-
 3.2 cuments on sole signature grew less than in Decem-
 4 2.5 20
 2 10 ber, when they had received an impulse from
 0.7 0.5 placements within the framework of the closing of the third sta-

 0 0 -10 ge of the LCIP (see Chart 4.4). On the other hand, the finan-

-2 -1.5 -10 cing granted through advances increased 3.2%

-4 -20 ($1,790 million), growth that was higher than that of
 -4.1 -4.8
-6 -30 January 2013 (see Chart 4.5). Consequently, its year-
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14over-year variation increased 0.8 p.p and stood at 20.5%.
Source: BCRA
 
Finally, the remaining commercial financings,
 grouped under the heading "Other loans", grew in
 the period 1.7% ($600 million).

 Chart 4.6 The lines oriented mainly toward consumption also

 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector % increased; in particular, financings with

 9 90 credit cards grew in the period 6% ($4,825
 8 Monthly avg. variation 80
 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) million), favored by the strong increases regis-
 7 70
 6.0 6.0 5.9 5.5 tered in the last days of December, associated with
 6 60
 5 4.5 4.8 4.8 50 greater family spending at year-end, which left

 4 3.3 40 a positive statistical carryover. Thus, the increase shown

 3 30 in the month exceeded that of December and stood among the

 2 20 highest of January in recent years, which resulted

 1 10 in an increase of 1.6 p.p. in its year-over-year growth

 0 0
 rate, which reached 44.8% (see Chart 4.6). Meanwhile, personal loans showed a
-1 -10
-2 -20 moderation in their growth rate, in line with what

-3 -30 occurred in January of other years, due to the proximity of

 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14the receipt of the semi-annual supplementary salary,
Source: BCRA
 which usually motivates a decline in the demand for personal
 loans, as well as the partial cancellation
 of balances. The growth recorded in the month was
 1.8% ($1,780 million), while the variation rate
 remained practically unchanged at 31.4%.

 Chart 4.7 Loans with real guarantees continued to grow,
 Goods in Financial Leasing in Pesos
 although they moderated their expansion pace. Mortga-
 % % ge loans presented a monthly growth of 2.3% ($980
10 Monthly variation 100
 million) and on the order of 24% in the last 12 months.
 8 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) 80
 For their part, credits with pledge guarantees increa-
 6 60
 sed in the month 1.5% ($460 million) and in the last
 4 40
 12 months accumulated growth of 40.1%.
 2 20
 0 0 According to the latest available information, corres-
 ponding to December, the financings granted by
-2 -20
 financial entities in the form of leasing contracts9
-4 -40
 accelerated their monthly growth rate and
-6 -60
 registered an increase of 5.2% ($9,930 million), the highest
-8 -80
 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13of the last semester of 2013. Meanwhile, the year-
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 7 over-year variation remained stable around 40% (see
 Chart 4.7). The great dynamism shown by these fina-
 Chart 5.1 ncings in December is explained by the greater
 LEBAC Interest Rate in Pesos in the Primary Market placements within the framework of the closing of the third stage
 A.N.R % (last monthly auction) of the LCIP.
 35
 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, loans
 Jan-14
 Dic-13 to the private sector decreased 1.2% (US$45
 30
 million), and the average balance of the month stood at around
 25.5 25.9 26.5 26.6 26.9 27.2 27.4
 US$3,600 million.
 25
 20 17.9 18.2 5. Interest Rates10
 16.3 16.7 17.1
 16.0
 15
 Titles Issued by the Central Bank11
 Days
 10
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360 390 420 450 480 510
 Source: BCRA
**Graph 5.2 – Amount Awarded of Securities in Pesos in the Primary Market**

With the objective of stimulating savings in national currency, the Central Bank increased the interest rates of LEBAC and NOBAC placements that are conducted each week in the primary market. In this way, in the month, the interest rates of LEBAC with shorter terms –auctioned at 70 days and 100 days and with predetermined levels– grew around 9.5 p.p. and were placed at 25.5% and 25.9%, respectively. Likewise, the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity -with a term of 400 days- was situated at 27.4%, 9.2 p.p. greater than that recorded at the end of December (see Graph 5.1). For its part, after eight months, species at variable rate were awarded again, registering at the end of January a positive spread over the BADLAR of private banks, which ranged from 1.5 p.p. to 2.2 p.p. depending on the term.

**Graph 5.3 – Holding of Central Bank Securities**

In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC descended in the shortest terms (up to 30 days) accompanying the trend recorded in the interbank market, while they recorded increases in the remaining terms, in line with the performance registered in the primary market. This behavior occurred in a context where the total average amount traded grew $360 million, standing at $1,034 million daily.

The outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos, including LEBAC in pesos adjustable by the exchange rate, increased $12,783 million in the month and was situated at $122,609 million (see Graph 5.2). The monetary absorption generated by this increase in stock was $10,746 million. The banks (see Graph 5.3) and, to a lesser extent, the exporting companies of the cereal and oil sector were the holders that concentrated the increase in the balance of securities, which in terms of deposits remains relatively stable and is situated around 15.2%.

**Graph 5.4 – Interbank Markets**

On the other hand, at the end of January the Central Bank began to auction again LEBAC denominated in United States dollars, with the objective of promoting the bancarization of dollarized savings. These species, which

---

**Footnotes:**

9 It comprises the value of capital goods (personal property and real estate) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity by request of these, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to exercise the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

10 The interest rates referenced in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

11 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

*Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 8*
Call Interest Rate (right axis) have not been auctioned since March 2007, they may only be subscribed by financial entities based on fixed-term deposits in dollars of residents that they have captured as of January 27, 2014. The terms of these securities are 1, 3, 6 and 12 months, and they are auctioned at predetermined cut-off rates ranging from 2.5% nominal annual for the shortest term to 4% for the 12-month security. The term in which each financial entity can participate in the auction should be similar to the term of the deposits captured. Additionally, it was determined that the maximum spread between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the rate corresponding to the LEBAC subscribed by the financial entity can be, at most, 0.25 p.p. for the 1-month term, 0.40 p.p. for the 3-month term, 0.50 p.p. for 6 months and 0.60 p.p. for the 12-month LEBAC (Com. A 5527). During the month, US$19 million in par value were placed.

## Central Bank Repo Operations¹

In January, the Central Bank maintained unchanged the interest rates of its repo operations (at 9% and 9.5% for passive repos at 1 and 7 days maturity, and at 11% and 11.5% for active repos at 1 and 7 days maturity, respectively).

The average monthly balance of passive repos for the Central Bank, including all modalities of operations in which this institution participates, grew 56%, reaching $9,900 million. Likewise, active repos continued not to be arranged for the entity.

## Interfinancial Markets¹

The interest rates of the interfinancial market decreased in January, once the period of greater seasonal liquidity demand was overcome. In the unsecured market (call) the average interest rate for 1 business day operations decreased 3.7 p.p., reaching 15.9%. For its part, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations among financial entities in the secured market (REPO wheel) decreased 4.7 p.p. and stood at 14.6% (see Graph 5.4).

The average daily traded amount increased by $418 million, totaling around $4,900 million, driven by operations in the REPO wheel (excluding operations in which the BCRA participates) since in the call market it remained relatively stable. With respect to the net position recorded in the call market, foreign entities were again the only net recipients of funds, and had as counterparties mainly domestic private banks.

## Passive Interest Rates¹

The passive interest rates increased the upward trend that they had been showing in recent months. Towards the end of January, they reflected, in part, the effect of higher interest rates resulting from LEBAC and NOBAC placements.

The interest rates paid by financial entities for fixed-term operations in pesos of the private sector registered increases that, on a monthly average, amounted to around 1 p.p.. This increase was led by the

---

¹² Cereal and oil-producing exporting companies subscribed LEBAC in pesos adjustable to the reference exchange rate for $889 million in January.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 9
16 wholesale segment, while in the retail segment the in-

14 creases were more limited.

12

10 In particular, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of
 Ene-12 Mar-12 May-12 Jul-12 Ago-12 Oct-12 Dic-12 Feb-13 Abr-13 Jun-13 Ago-13 Oct-13 Dic-13
 private banks –interest rate for deposits of $1 million
 and more, with 30-35 days maturity – averaged 21.7%,
 with a monthly increase of 1.5 percentage points with
 respect to December (see Chart 5.6). Due to the fact that
 the increase was concentrated during the last days of the
 month, the level shown at the end of January, 25.4%, was
 Gráfico 5.8 significantly higher than the aforementioned average. On

 Interest Rates on Loans Financed via Documents the other hand, in the retail segment, the interest rate paid
 (monthly average) by financial entities for fixed-term deposits of the
 TNA, % private sector up to $100 thousand averaged 16.9%,
 32 Discounted Documents showing an increase of 0.8 percentage points. In this case,
 Documents at Sole Signature the end of month level (19.1%) also resulted higher than
 28 the average value.

 24 Active Interest Rates1 13

 20 The interest rates applied on loans in pesos to the private
 16 sector showed increases in all lines. Notwithstanding, the
 12 SMEs have access to financing lines with lower interest
 May-08 Apr-09 Mar-10 Feb-11 Jan-12 Dec-12 Nov-13 rates, within the framework of the LCIP (see Loans
 Source: BCRA section).

13 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and origination expenses nor other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 10 Among the commercial lines, the monthly average of the
 Chart 5.9 interest rate on current account overdrafts was placed at
 Interest Rates on Personal Loans and with Real Guarantee 28.7%, showing an increase of 1.3 percentage points in the
 (monthly average) month. Within this line, the interest rate corresponding
 TNA, % to those granted to companies, for more than $10 million
 44 Chattel Mortgages Mortgages on individuals Personal and up to 7 days maturity, averaged 23.6%, registering
 a monthly increase of 1 percentage point. However, this
 38 rate did not show a homogeneous trend throughout the
 month. Following the increases in the last days of De-
 32 cember, January began with a downward trend, stabilizing
 26 mid-month and remaining relatively stable until the last
 week, when it began to increase, following the behavior
 20 of passive rates and Central Bank securities (see Chart
 14 5.7).

 8
 Among the financings carried out through documents,
 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 the increases observed were more pronounced. In particu-
 Source: BCRA lar, the interest rate on discounted documents averaged
 26.7%, increasing 2.3 percentage points in the month. In
 Chart 6.1 turn, the monthly average of the interest rate on docu-
 BCRA International Reserves ments at sole signature was placed at 25.7%, registering
 billions of US$ (excluding 2009 SDR allocations) an increase of 3.4 percentage points in the month (see
 60 Chart 5.8).

 Jan-13 Meanwhile, among loans with real guarantee, the average
 50 of the interest rate applied on mortgage loans to fami-
 40 lies resulted in 17.1%, with a decrease of 0.1 percentage
 points compared to the previous month. The interest rate
 30 on chattel mortgage loans averaged 25.3%, increasing
 20 4.2 percentage points in the month. Finally, the monthly
 average of the interest rate on personal loans was placed
 10 at 40.1%, increasing 0.8 percentage points in the month
 0 (see Chart 5.9).
 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13 Jan-14
 Source: BCRA

 Chart 6.2
Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotations) 6. International Reserves and Foreign

 $/Euro $/Real $/US$
 10.0 5.5 8.0 Exchange Market
 $/Euro $/US$ (Reference)

 9.5 $/Real, right axis 5.0 7.5

 9.0 4.5 7.0 The balance of international reserves of the Central

 8.5 4.0 6.5 Bank at the end of January totaled US$27,748 million

 8.0 3.5 6.0 (see Chart 6.1), that is US$2,851 million below the

 7.5 3.0 5.5 level at the close of 2013.

 7.0 2.5 5.0

 4.5 Within the framework of the managed float policy of the

 6.5 2.0
 exchange rate, the Central Bank carried out net sales in

 4.0
 6.0 1.5 the foreign exchange market, and net payments for

 5.5 1.0 3.5 foreign trade operations channeled through SML14
 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14and ALADI15, in a context of net demand in the

 Source: BCRA

14 Local Currency Payment System. MULC. This was due, basically, to higher import payments

 Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 11 (especially energy inputs), the impact of tourism

 Chart 7.1 expenses in a month of marked seasonality, and lower

 Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos export revenues in practically all exporting sectors.
 thousands (monthly variation of stock at end of month) thousands
 millions of $ millions of $ In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated

 14.0 90 against the US dollar, the euro and the real. The aver-

 Money Market age quotations for January were 7.1 $/US$, and 9.69
 12.0 80
  Fixed Income $/euro and 2.98 $/real (see Chart 6.2), which repre-
  Mixed Income 70
 10.0  Variable Income sented variations with respect to December of 12.3%,
 60
 Stock Evolution (right axis) 11.8% and 10.8%, respectively. It is worth mentioning

 8.0 50 that several emerging countries have had depreciation

 6.0 40 of their currencies and capital outflows as a consequence

 4.0 of the change in FED policy (see section Main Policy
 30
 2.0 20 Measures of Other Central Banks)

 0.0 10
 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI Mutual Investment Funds

 Chart 7.2 In January, the equity of the MIFs grew $13,190 million

 % Estimated Return of MIFs in Pesos (18.1%), reaching $85,940 million (see Chart 7.1).
 10 (profitability in pesos)

 9.0 The increase recorded in January was driven mainly by

 9 8.4 Jan-14 the increase in the quantity of fund shares of the MIFs

 8 in pesos. The performance recorded by fixed income

 7 6.5 funds stood out, which contributed 45% of the monthly

 6 expansion after growing $5,960 million (18.4%), fol-

 5 lowed by Money Market funds that recorded an expan-

 4 sion of $4,790 million (20.5%) and explained 36% of

 3 the total increase. Likewise, funds that invest in mixed

 2 1.2 income assets recorded monthly increases of $1,620

 1 million (12.7%) and variable income funds that, once

 0 again thanks to the good performance of the local stock
 Variable Income MIF $ Mixed Income MIF $ Fixed Income MIF $ Money Market $
 Source: BCRA market, grew $210 million (9.9%).

 In January, variable income funds in pesos were those

 Chart 7.3 with the best relative profitability, and recorded an

 Emissions of Financial Trusts estimated monthly return of 9%, followed by mixed

 millions $(excludes emissions from the public sector and others intended to finance infrastructure works)units income funds that earned, on average, 8.4%; and those of

 2,400 45 fixed income, with a monthly profitability of 6.5%. Finally,

 Amount Issued 40 Money Market funds, of greater liquidity, are positioned,
 2,100
 recording a return of 1.2% (see Chart 7.2).
 1,800 35

 30 Quantity of operations (right axis)
 1,500

 25
 1,200
 20

 900
 15

 600 10

 300 5
0 0
Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 For its part, with regard to the foreign currency segment, the FCIs ended the month with a net worth

15 Latin American Integration Association.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 12 of US$342 million, US$15 million (4.6%) higher than the level recorded in December. This behavior was driven by the advance of mixed-income and fixed-income funds.

Financial Trusts16

Excluding placements by the public sector and others MBT Trust Scheme intended for the financing of infrastructure works, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $870 million, 60% less than in December. This decrease was in line with the behavior observed in January of other years. In this regard, 13 issuances were registered, practically half that of December (see Chart 7.3).

As for the settlors, in all cases a decrease in the volume of securitized assets was verified. The main originators of the month were

Source: BCRA based on CNV the mutual associations, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers and other providers of financial services that placed $355 million. In addition to loans linked to consumption, they securitized pledge loans. In order of importance, they were followed by financial institutions, which placed around $270 million, securitizing mainly personal loans, although an issuance with Chart 7.4 leasing contracts as underlying was also registered. For their part, retail stores securitized personal loans and credit card coupons for around $230 million. The rest corresponded to an issuance from the

Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos agricultural sector.

(duration less than 14 months - weighted monthly average by amount)
YTM; %
40

35 On the other hand, the second series of the MBT trust was placed for US$87.1 million. The first series had been

30 Fixed Rate
placed in March 2009 in order to finance the
25 Variable Rate completion of the Manuel Belgrano and Timbúes

20 Thermoelectric Power Plants, located in the provinces of
Buenos Aires and Santa Fe, respectively, which began
15
operating at the beginning of 2010. Both series were
10 issued by BICE, in its capacity as trustee of
the "Manuel Belgrano Thermoelectric Power Plant
5
Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 Trust" and "Timbúes Thermoelectric Power Plant
Trust", which constitute the "trustee trusts"17. The
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others trust assets consist of the credit rights derived from the electricity supply contracts entered into between the "trustee trusts" and CAMMESA (see FF scheme).

16 Only trusts with public offerings are considered.
17 These were created in 2006 under the Fund for Necessary Investments that would increase the supply of
electricity in the Wholesale Market (FONINVEMEN).

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 13 Finally, regarding the cut-off interest rates, the Chart 8.1 corresponding to senior titles in pesos with duration

Interest Rates, Inflation Rate and Target and Unemployment less than 14 months and agreed at variable rate recorded
%
11 United States an increase of 0.3 p.p. and was placed at 21.8%. Meanwhile, in
Reference Interest Rate the fixed-rate segment no operations were agreed
9 Personal Consumption Expenditures (see Chart 7.4).

Inflation Target

7
Unemployment Rate s.a.

5 8. Main Policy Measures from Other

3 Central Banks

1 Regarding policy measures from other central banks,
the most notable development of the month was the
-1 decision of the Federal Reserve (FED) to continue with the reduction in the pace

Ene-06 Sep-06 May-07 Ene-08 Sep-08 May-09 Ene-10 Sep-10 May-11 Ene-12 Sep-12 May-13 Ene-14
The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime. It has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target of an annual variation of 2% was set for the Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. Source: BCRA based on the Federal Reserve, BEA.gov and BLS.gov in an additional US$10,000 million. It should be recalled that the FED had initiated this policy at the meeting on December 18, and for a similar amount. In this way, the pace of asset purchases stands at US$65,000 million monthly18. In turn, the perspectives are maintained that the FED will continue with a similar reduction pace in the United States the next meetings, so as to end with asset purchases by the end of October 2014. This decision occurs within the framework of a U.S. economy where better indicators of activity, employment and prices stand out (see Chart 8.1 and 8.2).

Additionally, the European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England (BoE) and the Bank of Japan (BoJ) maintained their respective monetary policies unchanged. The ECB did so in a context where fears emerge that the Eurozone could enter a deflationary cycle similar to the one Japan suffered for 15 years. This fear increased with the publication of preliminary inflation in January, which marked the lowest rate since November 2009, 0.7% y.o.y..

In the case of England, the consolidation of recovery indicators continues at the level of activity, in a context in which inflation was located at the target (2%) for the first time in more than six years, and unemployment fell to 7.1%. It should be recalled that the BoE had announced in August 2013 that it would keep its monetary policy interest rate (Bank Rate) unchanged at 0.5%, as long as unemployment remained above 7%. However, recently the president of the BoE stated that, if the Bank Rate were to increase, this would not happen before the end of 2014.

The Japanese case is similar to the English one with better activity indicators, and an inflation of 1.6%, which implies a convergence to the 2% target sooner than expected by the market and by the BoJ. In this way, the possibilities increase that Japan leaves behind its long deflationary cycle.

In the case of emerging countries, with the two reductions in the pace of asset purchases by the FED, the effects that had been observed in May 2013 when the FED had suggested that the beginning of tapering was close were felt strongly again. This is, a process of capital outflows, accompanied by depreciation and increased volatility in the currencies of many emerging markets (see Chart 8.3), mainly, Turkey, South Africa, Russia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Brazil, and among the advanced ones, Canada.

---

**Chart 8.2**
Real GDP disaggregated by component
percentage points
8 United States
6
4
2
0
-2 Inventory Accumulation
-4 Private Consumption
-6 Gross Investment
-8 Net Exports of Goods and Services
Public Consumption and Investment
-10 Real GDP (y.o.y. var.)
Mar-10 Dec-10 Sep-11 Jun-12 Mar-13 Dec-13
Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov

**Chart 8.3**
Exchange Rate
Selected countries - Local currency per dollar. Index 1/05/2013 = 1
1.40 FED announces possible First withdrawal of Second
1.35 withdrawal of stimuli stimuli withdrawal of stimuli
1.30
1.25 Brazil India
South Africa Russia
1.20 Turkey
1.15
1.10
1.05
1.00
0.95
Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13
Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg

18 Currently it purchases US$30,000 million monthly of Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities and US$35,000 million monthly of long-term Treasury bonds.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 14

**Chart 8.4**
Interest Rates
%
24 Turkey
21 Monetary Policy Rate
18 Rate Corridor
15 Cost of TCMB Funding (weighted average)
12
9
6 One of the most affected countries was Turkey, whose monetary authority, in an emergency meeting outside the regular schedule, on January 28, decided to adjust its short-term interest rates: on one hand, it raised the monetary policy rate (the one-week repo rate) from 4.5% to 10%; in turn, it adjusted the interest rate corridor, raising the lower limit (borrowing interest rate) from 3.5% to 8% and the upper limit (lending interest rate) from 7.75% to 12%. Likewise, it increased the interest rate applied to the lending facility (through repo operations) to primary dealer banks from 6.75% to 11.5% (reducing the benefit to these institutions from 1 p.p. to 0.5 p.p., see Graph 8.4).

Furthermore, the central bank of Brazil decided in a unanimous vote to raise the target for the Selic rate for the fifth consecutive meeting by 0.5 p.p. to 10.5%. In this way, since the cycle of increases in the Selic target began, it has accumulated an increase of 3.25 p.p.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 159. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations
Main monetary and financial system variables | Jan-14 | Monthly | Last 12 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Jan-13 | months

Monetary base | 368.236 | 361.580 | 338.343 | 298.282 | 1.8% | 23.5%
Monetary circulation | 280.740 | 277.095 | 260.352 | 231.169 | 1.3% | 21.4%
Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public | 252.135 | 247.137 | 234.779 | 207.715 | 2.0% | 21.4%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities | 28.604 | 29.957 | 25.571 | 23.453 | -4.5% | 22.0%
Cancellation checks | 1 | 2 | 2 | 0 | -52.7% | -
Current account at the BCRA | 87.496 | 84.484 | 77.991 | 67.112 | 3.6% | 30.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 9.909 | 6.351 | 13.855 | 20.871 | 56.0% | -52.5%
Assets | 0000 | | | | |

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 113.791 | 111.491 | 116.131 | 92.714 | 2.1% | 22.7%
In banks | 98.084 | 98.364 | 102.681 | 80.691 | -0.3% | 21.6%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 108.745 | 107.309 | 111.948 | 79.268 | 1.3% | 37.2%
In dollars | 2000 | | | | |

NOBAC | 5.045 | 4.183 | 4.183 | 13.446 | 20.6% | -62.5%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations | 2009 | 29.620 | 30.612 | 32.244 | 42.954 | -3.2% | -31.0%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 684.908 | 667.698 | 654.163 | 540.192 | 2.6% | 26.8%
Current account (2) | 224.322 | 190.943 | 172.813 | 160.026 | 17.5% | 40.2%
Savings account | 137.931 | 140.299 | 125.073 | 107.517 | -1.7% | 28.3%
Time deposit not adjustable by CER | 296.907 | 309.715 | 331.325 | 252.487 | -4.1% | 17.6%
Time deposit adjustable by CER | 6 | 6 | 6 | 7 | -7.0% | -21.3%
Other deposits (3) | 25.742 | 26.735 | 24.945 | 20.155 | -3.7% | 27.7%

Deposits of the private sector | 487.531 | 484.539 | 467.958 | 383.535 | 0.6% | 27.1%

Deposits of the public sector | 197.377 | 183.159 | 186.205 | 156.657 | 7.8% | 26.0%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) | 8.756 | 8.262 | 8.093 | 9.597 | 6.0% | -8.8%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 512.126 | 498.168 | 480.863 | 384.534 | 2.8% | 33.2%

Loans to the private sector | 468.904 | 457.046 | 442.347 | 348.641 | 2.6% | 34.5%
Advances | 58.461 | 56.670 | 57.724 | 48.510 | 3.2% | 20.5%
Documents | 113.427 | 111.414 | 104.863 | 79.391 | 1.8% | 42.9%
Mortgage | 44.059 | 43.075 | 41.982 | 35.583 | 2.3% | 23.8%
Pledge | 31.765 | 31.303 | 30.710 | 22.677 | 1.5% | 40.1%
Personal | 99.674 | 98.484 | 96.573 | 75.877 | 1.2% | 31.4%
Credit cards | 85.494 | 80.670 | 76.730 | 59.051 | 6.0% | 44.8%
Others | 36.024 | 35.430 | 33.765 | 27.552 | 1.7% | 30.8%

Loans to the public sector | 43.223 | 41.122 | 38.516 | 35.893 | 5.1% | 20.4%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) | 3.647 | 3.693 | 3.957 | 5.442 | -1.2% | -33.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 476.458 | 438.082 | 407.594 | 367.742 | 8.8% | 29.6%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 614.389 578.381 532.667 475.259 6.2% 29.3%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 937.044 914.836 888.944 747.908 2.4% 25.3%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.000.792 968.764 938.983 795.391 3.3% 25.8%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 373.174 367.388 350.154 308.383 1.6% 21.0%
accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 497.710 493.849 464.836 406.255 0.8% 22.5%
M3 ((Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private 739.667 731.677 702.739 591.251 1.1% 25.1%
deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 791.033 775.803 744.374 629.565 2.0% 25.6%

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 6.656 1.8% 33.158 9.9% 6.656 1.8% 69.954 23.5%
Financial sector -3.548 -1.0% 2.780 0.8% -3.548 -1.0% 12.508 4.2%
Public sector 14.471 4.0% 46.422 13.9% 14.471 4.0% 95.134 31.9%
Private external sector -7.676 -2.1% -29.615 -8.8% -7.676 -2.1% -38.028 -12.7%
BCRA Securities -832 -0.2% 7.114 2.1% -832 -0.2% -3.867 -1.3%
Others 4.240 1.2% 6.457 1.9% 4.240 1.2% 4.207 1.4%

International reserves of the BCRA excluding SDR allocations 2009 -991 -3.2% -4.638 -13.5% -991 -3.2% -13.334 -31.0%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.137 -3.7% -4.788 -14.0% -1.137 -3.7% -6.148 -14.3%
Payment to international organizations 139 0.5% 474 1.4% 139 0.5% 687 1.6%
Other public sector operations -506 -1.7% -833 -2.4% -506 -1.7% 977 2.3%
Minimum cash 858 2.8% 1.332 3.9% 858 2.8% 616 1.4%
Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -346 -1.1% -822 -2.4% -346 -1.1% -9.466 -22.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Jan-14 Dec-13 Nov-13
(1) (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 11.9 11.9 11.6
Integration 12.6 12.6 11.8
Position (2) 0.8 0.7 0.2
Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 67.5 67.5 63.9
30 to 59 days 22.8 22.8 25.3
60 to 89 days 5.0 5.0 6.3
90 to 179 days 3.2 3.2 3.0
more than 180 days 1.4 1.4 1.5

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 19.2 19.0 19.1
Integration (includes default in resource allocation) 123.4 117.4 111.0
Position (2) 104.3 98.4 91.9
Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 46.9 47.6 49.1
30 to 59 days 23.3 23.1 22.5
60 to 89 days 12.2 11.0 10.5
90 to 179 days 14.9 14.5 13.7
180 to 365 days 2.6 3.8 4.1
more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.0
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Jan-14 Dec-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-13

Call in pesos (15 days)
Rate 16.15 19.67 15.31 19.67 10.81
Amount traded 2.132 2.144 2.218 2.144 1.361
# FIXED-TERM DEPOSITS

## In Pesos
30-44 days | 18.86 | 17.65 | 15.84 | 17.65 | 12.90
60 days or more | 20.17 | 18.98 | 17.79 | 18.98 | 11.39
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 19.19 | 18.55 | 16.79 | 18.55 | 13.04
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 21.69 | 20.18 | 19.05 | 20.18 | 15.14

## In Dollars
30-44 days | 0.40 | 0.34 | 0.37 | 0.34 | 0.59
60 days or more | 0.87 | 0.65 | 0.71 | 0.65 | 1.06
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.44 | 0.33 | 0.39 | 0.33 | 0.68
BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.38 | 0.33 | 0.38 | 0.33 | 0.70

# ACTIVE INTEREST RATES | Jan-14 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Dec-13 | Jan-13

## Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days | 22.65 | 21.64 | 20.22 | 21.64 | 13.93
Amount traded (total terms) | 310 | 316 | 311 | 316 | 198

## Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (1)
Current account advances | 28.68 | 27.61 | 26.19 | 27.61 | 21.56
Documents at sole signature | 25.72 | 22.35 | 21.43 | 22.35 | 19.40
Mortgage | 18.29 | 16.55 | 16.49 | 16.55 | 16.57
Pledge | 25.25 | 21.17 | 22.23 | 21.17 | 21.25
Personal | 40.08 | 39.14 | 38.68 | 39.14 | 34.97
Credit cards | s/d | 36.89 | 35.65 | 36.89 | 33.89

Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 23.62 | 22.62 | 20.20 | 22.62 | 14.49

# INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES | Jan-14 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Dec-13 | Jan-13

## LIBOR
1 month | 0.16 | 0.17 | 0.17 | 0.17 | 0.21
6 months | 0.34 | 0.35 | 0.35 | 0.35 | 0.49

## US Treasury Bond
2 years | 0.38 | 0.33 | 0.29 | 0.33 | 0.26
10 years | 2.84 | 2.88 | 2.71 | 2.88 | 1.88

## FED Funds Rate | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25

## SELIC (at 1 year) | 10.30 | 10.00 | 9.58 | 10.00 | 7.25

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES | Jan-14 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Dec-13 | Jan-13

## BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
Liabilities 1 day | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00 | 9.00
Liabilities 7 days | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50 | 9.50
Assets 7 days | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50 | 11.50

## Total REPO Round Repurchase Agreement Rates
1 day | 11.52 | 15.81 | 11.20 | 15.81 | 9.28
7 days | 12.58 | 13.12 | 10.03 | 13.12 | 9.52

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) | 7,959 | 3,981 | 11,087 | 3,981 | 11,578

## LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
1 month | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o
2 months | 25.52 | s/o | s/o | s/o | 12.28
3 months | 19.99 | 15.52 | 15.28 | 15.52 | 12.87
9 months | 23.91 | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o
12 months | 21.50 | 17.80 | 17.77 | 17.80 | 14.96

## NOBAC Margin in Pesos with Variable Coupon (1)
200 days BADLAR Private Banks | -0.40 | s/o | s/o | s/o | -2.64

## LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1)
1 month | 2.5 | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o
3 months | 3.0 | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o
6 months | 3.5 | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o
12 months | 4.0 | s/o | s/o | s/o | s/o

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) | 1,034 | 673 | 804 | 673 | 1,017

# EXCHANGE MARKET | Jan-14 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Dec-13 | Jan-13

## Dollar Spot
Wholesale | 7.11 | 6.32 | 6.02 | 6.32 | 4.95
Retail | 7.13 | 6.33 | 6.02 | 6.33 | 4.95

## Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month | 7.72 | 6.75 | 6.38 | 6.75 | 5.05
ROFEX 1 month | 7.39 | 6.56 | 6.17 | 6.56 | 5.02
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) | 2,503 | 1,618 | 1,642 | 1,618 | 685

Real (Pesos per Real) | 2.98 | 2.69 | 2.61 | 2.69 | 2.44

Euro (Pesos per Euro) | 9.69 | 8.67 | 8.12 | 8.67 | 6.58

# CAPITAL MARKET | Jan-14 | Dec-13 | Nov-13 | Dec-13 | Jan-13

## MERVAL
Index | 5,631 | 5,330 | 5,429 | 5,330 | 3,176
Amount traded (millions of pesos) | 95 | 109 | 122 | 109 | 65

## Government Bonds (at par)
BODEN 2015 (US$) | 133.38 | 132.63 | 143.34 | 132.63 | 127.44
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 98.90 | 106.64 | 119.79 | 106.64 | 99.65
BODEN 2014 ($) | 94.00 | 93.47 | 94.15 | 93.47 | 94.77
DISCOUNT ($) | 62.39 | 63.95 | 59.79 | 63.95 | 49.46

## Country Risk (basis points)
BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 1,085 | 826 | 897 | 826 | 1,262
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) | 430 | 412 | 415 | 412 | 288

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
# Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 19

10. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentenary Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

STV: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | January 2014 | BCRA | 20
