# February 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
## February 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on March 12, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 2

## 1. Summary

• The average monthly balance of private M3 remained relatively stable in February, resulting from a decline in means of payment offset by the increase in fixed-term placements. This latter type of deposit exhibited one of the largest monthly increases in the last 12 months (3.9%), exceeding the increase in February 2013. Thus, fixed-term placements by the private sector increased their year-on-year variation rate to 32.7%, 1.7 percentage points above the previous month.

• As is expected in February, loans in pesos to the private sector moderated their monthly expansion rate, influenced by seasonal factors related to summer recess. The growth recorded in the month was 1.3% ($6,230 million) and was explained mainly by the increase in overdrafts on current accounts and credit card financing. In this way, the balance of loans to the private sector in pesos accumulated growth of 34.1% over the last 12 months.

• Within the policies to stimulate credit to the productive sector, the Central Bank continued making disbursements of funds allocated through the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). In February it made the delivery of $81.6 million, bringing the total disbursed since the beginning of the PFPB to $6,093 million, close to 80% of the total allocated. On the other hand, with respect to the "Credit Line for Productive Investment" (LCIP), at the end of February the Central Bank decided that during March up to 10% of the quota for the first semester of 2014 could be applied to the discounting of deferred payment checks from SMEs, and up to an additional 10% during April 2014, with the objective of maintaining a fluid financing of working capital for smaller companies with greater relative job creation.

• At the beginning of February, the Central Bank, through communication "A" 5536, decided to restore the limit to the positive Net Global Position (PGN) in foreign currency of financial entities to the values in effect until April 2005. It was established that the positive PGN may not exceed 30% of Computable Equity Responsibility (RPC) or liquid assets, whichever is less. Additionally, it was established that the positive PGN in foreign currency at term may not be greater than 10% of the RPC. As a result of this measure, the supply of foreign exchange and other assets denominated in foreign currency increased, since the entities had to unwind positions in assets in such denomination.
• The sale of dollars by financial entities as a result of the aforementioned regulatory modification generated an increase in their liquidity in local currency. Thus, the liquidity in pesos of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased 1.6 p.p. compared to January, standing at 32.5% of peso deposits. The main increase was verified in excess liquidity: net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and holding of LEBAC and NOBAC.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates
(February 2014, on average) In February, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos

Total Dep. Public Sector (M32) presented a decrease of 0.6%. With a year-on-year

Dep. Term and Other Private Sector variation of 24%, which was 1.2 p.p. lower than that of
January, it continued to moderate its expansion rate.
M3
-0.6% The monthly decline in M3 was explained fundamen-
M3 Private
tally by the decrease in deposits belonging to the public
Dep. Sight Private Sector -0.3%
sector, given that the broadest private monetary aggre-
Bills and Coins gate (M3 private3) maintained its balance relatively sta-
ble (see Chart 2.1).
-10 -5 0 5 10 15
Among the components of private M3, the means of
Note: percentages figures correspond to monthly variation.
Thousands of millions of $ payment recorded a decrease, which was offset by the
Source: BCRA
increase in fixed-term placements. This latter type of de-
posit, responding to remuneration incentives, exhibited
one of the largest monthly increases in the last twelve
months (3.9%), exceeding the increase of February 2013
(see Chart 2.2). Thus, the fixed-term placements of the
Chart 2.2
private sector increased their year-on-year rate of varia-
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
% % tion to 32.7%, 1.7 p.p. above the previous month. Distin-
7 56 guishing by amount bracket, in February advances were
(variations of monthly averages)
6 48 verified both in placements belonging to the wholesale
Monthly variation
5 4.8 40 segment (5.3%) and in those of less than $1 million
Y-o-y variation (right axis)
4,4 3,9 (2.3%).
4 3.5 32
32,7
3 2.6 24
Foreign currency deposits presented an increase in
2 1.5 16 the monthly average balance, observing increases in
1 8 placements belonging to the private sector that more
0 0 than offset the decrease in those corresponding to the
-1 -8 public sector. In this way, the broadest monetary aggre-
-2 -16 gate, M3*4, presented a growth of 0.2%, accumulating a
-3 -24 year-on-year variation of 26%.
Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14
Source: BCRA
With respect to primary money creation, the monetary
base reached an average balance of $347,700 million,
Chart 2.3
presenting a monthly decrease of 5.6% (See Chart 2.3).
% Monetary Base % Its year-on-year rate of variation stood at 18.9%, 4.5
10 (variation of monthly averages) 50
p.p. below January and one of the lowest levels since the
8 40 beginning of 2010. Among its components, in February
6 30 reductions were presented in currency in circulation
4 20 held by the public and, mainly, in banking reserves (com-
18,9
2 10 posed of cash in financial entities and the balances of
0 0 the current accounts of financial entities in the Central
-0.2 Bank). It is worth noting that the decline in current ac-
-2 -10
-2.4 -2.3 -2.0-2.0counts in the Central Bank was associated fundamentally
-4 -20
with the closure of
-6 Monthly variation -5.6 -30
Y-o-y var. (right axis) -5.8
-8 -40
Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14
Source: BCRA
2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

3 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private non-financial sector in pesos.

4 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 4 rre of the quarterly position of Minimum Cash (see section Liquidity of Financial Entities).

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹

Chart 3.1 In February the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, deposits in the current account of entities at the Central Bank,

% of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repurchase Agreements LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity net repurchase agreements with such entity and the holding of LEBAC

40 38.2 38.5 and NOBAC) increased on average by the equivalent

37.2 36.4
 35.8 35.5 34.8 34.5 34.1 of 1.6% of deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.1).

35 33.9 33.9 33.5 33.3
 32.6 31.5 31.8 32.0 31.8 31.9 32.5 In this way, the average liquidity ratio for the month

31.0 30.9 was 32.5%. It should be noted that part of the increase

30 mentioned came from the sale of dollars by entities in

25 15.8 order to comply with communication "A" 5536 (see sec-

20 tion on International Reserves and Foreign Exchange

15 1.7 Market).

4.0 The main increase was verified in excess liquidity

10 (net repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and

5 10.9 holding of LEBAC and NOBAC), while bank reserves

0 (cash in banks and current account of entities at the

 Source: BCRAApr-12 Jun-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Central Bank) decreased mainly due to the decline in

the current account of entities at the Central Bank. This latter behavior was explained by the possibility of entities to offset the surplus accumulated in the first two months of the quarterly Minimum Cash position with lower integration in February (see Chart 3.2). Thus, the estimated surplus of the quarterly calculation of the reserve requirement regime was 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos.

Chart 3.2

% of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos

Surplus Quarterly Position
2.4 Accumulated Position
2.4 Meanwhile, liquidity in the foreign currency segment

1.8 Daily Position continued at elevated values, although it showed a decline

1.2 and stood at 118.8% of the total deposits in dollars

0.6 0.2 (16.2 p.p. lower than in January). The component that

0.0 determined this reduction was the foreign currency cur-

-0.6 rent account of entities at the Central Bank, primarily

-1.2 as a consequence of the adequacy of balances at the end

-1.8 of complying with communication "A" 5536. In turn,

-2.4 starting this month there was a change in the composi-

-3.0 tion of liquidity in this segment, in favor of LEBACs in

 ATMs Deduction dollars and to the detriment of foreign currency current

 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 accounts.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.1 4. Loans¹⁵

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

% % As is usual, in February loans in pesos to the private

6 60 Monthly Variation sector moderated their pace of monthly expansion, influ-

5 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 50 enced by seasonal factors related to the summer recess.

The growth recorded in the month was 1.3% ($6,230

4 40 million) and was explained, principally, by the increase

3 30 in overdrafts in current accounts and credit card financ-

1.9 ing. In this way, they accumulated an increase of 34.1%

2 1.6 20 over the last twelve months (see Chart 4.1).

1.3 1.4 1.6 1.3

1 10

0.2 0

0 0

-0.1
# -1 -10 Regarding the credit lines intended to finance commercial activities mainly, financings arranged through documents presented a decrease of 0.5% ($590 million), following the behavior of other years. In effect, the year-on-year variation remained practically stable, standing at 43.1% (see Graph 4.2). For its part, advances accelerated their monthly expansion pace, reflecting an increase of 3.8% ($2,200 million), while their year-on-year growth rate stood at around 20% (see Graph 4.3).

Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14
Source: BCRA

**Graph 4.2**
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
12 70 With respect to credit stimulus policies for the productive sector, the Central Bank continued to make disbursements of the funds awarded through the Bicentennial Productive Financing Program (PFPB). In February it completed the delivery of $81.6 million, bringing the total disbursed since the beginning of the PFPB to $6,093 million, close to 80% of the total awarded. On the other hand, with respect to the "Productive Investment Credit Line" (LCIP), at the end of February the Central Bank provided that during March up to 10% of the first semester 2014 quota could be applied to the discount of post-dated checks from MSMEs, and up to an additional 10% during April 2014, with any amount not applied in March not being able to be carried over to the following month. The interest rate of the financing shall not exceed 17.50% and, although the minimum term of 36 months will not be applied, the level of application reached in April must be maintained, at minimum, until June 30, 2014 (Communication "A" 5554). The measure was taken with the objective of maintaining fluid financing of working capital for smaller-sized companies and those with greater relative employment generation.

Var. prom. mensual 60
10 Var. i.a. (eje derecho)
8 50
40
6
30
4
20
2
10
0.1 0.6
0 0
-0.6 -1.2 -0.7 -0.5

-2 -10
-2.1 -2.3

-4 -20
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14

Source: BCRA

**Graph 4.3**
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 (monthly average variation) 70
12 Var. prom. mensual 60
Var. i.a. (eje derecho)
10 50
8 6.6 40
6.0
6 30
4.3 3.8
4 20
2 10
0 0
-2 -1.1 -1.5 -10
-2.1
-4 -20
-6 -30
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14

Source: BCRA

---

5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 6 The loans intended mainly to finance family consumption continued to grow. Financing with credit cards increased 2.9% ($2,500 million) in February. Although this increase was lower than that of the previous month, it was one of the highest for the period in recent years. Consequently, the year-on-year variation continued to increase, reaching 45.6% (see Graph 4.4). Meanwhile, personal loans showed growth of 1.8% ($1,800 million) in the month, similar to that of the previous month and lower than observed in February of other years, accumulating an increase of close to 30% in the last twelve months.

**Graph 4.4**
% Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
9 90
8 Var. prom. mensual 80
Var. i.a. (eje derecho)
7 70
6 60

5 50
4 40
3.1 30
3 2.4 2.6 2.9
2 20
10

Within loans with real collateral, pledged loans showed growth of 2.1% ($650 million), higher than that of the previous two-month period but lower than that observed
1 0.6 10 in the same month of previous years (excluding February of
 0.0
 0 0 2009 and 2010; both with poor loan performance).

 -1 -0.7 -10
 -2 -20 Consequently, they moderated their growth rate, although

 -3 -2.2 -30 this continues at elevated levels in year-over-year terms,
 standing at 39.4%. For their part, loans with mortgage
 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 guarantee showed monthly growth of 0.6% ($250 million),
 Source: BCRA while their year-over-year variation stood at around
 23%. It should be noted that part of the demand for
 mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected
 in bank lending statistics, since it has been channeled
 through the Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for
 Chart 4.5 Single-Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). Likewise, the possi-
 Goods in Financial Lease in Argentine Pesos bility of applying mortgage loans for purchase, construc-

 % % tion or expansion of housing with a minimum term of
 10 Monthly Var. 100 10 years to the new LCIP quota would provide a boost to
 8 Y.o.Y. Var. (right axis) 80
 this line to the extent that such loans are granted
 6 60
 4 40 throughout the first semester of the year.
 2 20
 0 0 According to the latest available information, corres-
 -2 -20 ponding to January, financing granted by financial enti-
 -4 -40 ties in the form of leasing contracts6 registered an
 -6 -60 increase of 1.4% ($140 million). Meanwhile, the year-
 -8 -80 over-year variation remained relatively stable at a value
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 close to 40% (see Chart 4.5).

 Source: SEFyC (balance sheet information)

 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, loans to the
 private sector registered an increase of 0.7% (US$26
 million). Thus, the average balance for the month stood
 at around US$3,700 million.

6 Includes the value of capital goods (movable and immovable property) leased to third parties, specially acquired by the entity at
their request, for which the lessee pays periodically and during the stipulated term a price and has the unilateral right to exercise
the purchase option, paying the previously established residual value.

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.1 5. Interest Rates 7
 LEBAC Interest Rate in Pesos in the Primary Market
 A.N.R. %
 35 (last auction of the month)

 33 Feb-14 Securities Issued by the Central Bank8

 31 29.9 30.2 30.3 Jan-14
 29.1 29.5
 29 28.7 28.9 Continuing with the policy of promoting savings in
 27 26.9 27.2 27.4 national currency and balancing the monetary market, in
 26.6
 25 25.5 25.9 26.5 the first auction of the month the Central Bank increased
 23 the interest rates of the securities it awards in the
 21 primary market; and maintained those values during the
 19 rest of February. In the case of LEBACs, which represent
 17 the largest portion of the amount placed, the increase
 Days
 15 was 3 p.p. and was replicated again along the entire
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360 390 420 450 480 510 yield curve. Thus, at the end of February the interest
 Source: BCRA rate of the shorter-term maturities, auctioned with pre-
 determined values – at 85 days and 100 days – stood at
 28.7% and 28.9% respectively. Likewise, the interest
 rate of the species awarded with greater maturity –
 Chart 5.2 with a term of 380 days – was situated at 30.3% (see
 Amount Awarded of Securities in Pesos in the Primary Market Chart 5.1). For its part, for the second consecutive month

 thousands of LEBAC NOBACthousands of thousands of securities with variable rate were auctioned again, with a
 millions $ millions $ millions $
 40 More than 360 days 140 12 Between 12 and 18 months 30 spread over BADLAR of private banks that was positive,
 From 271 to 360 days 12 months of approximately 1.2 p.p.
 35 From 181 to 270 days 130 Between 6 and 12 months
 From 91 to 180 days 10 6 months 25
Up to 90 days Less than 6
30 120 For its part, in the secondary market, LEBAC interest rates
Balance at end of month (right axis) Balance at end of month (right axis)
8 Maturities 20
Maturities
25 110 decreased in terms shorter than

20 100 6 15 30 days (the most traded) following the trend

15 90 recorded in the interfinancial market; however,
4 10
10 80 they registered increases in the rest of the terms in
2 5
5 70 line with the performance recorded in the primary
0 60 0 0 market. As a result, the LEBAC yield curve
Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14
Source: BCRA steepened even more in February. The total average
amount traded increased $166 million, reaching
$1,200 million daily.

The outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC in pesos
registered a monthly growth of $29,559 million and
was positioned at the end of February at $152,168 million (see
Chart 5.3 Chart 5.2). The holders that most increased their
thousands of
Central Bank Securities Holdings millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) balances were banks, followed by Investment
32 Funds (FCI) and, to a lesser extent, insurance
Other companies and Work Risk Managers (see Chart 5.3).
28 FCIs Although in terms of deposits the balance of securities
24 Private Banks
Public Banks grew to reach 18.1%, this level continues to be low
20 compared to historical values (see Chart 5.4).
16
12 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, placements
8 totaled US$528 million in February, while interest
4 rates were maintained at previous levels.
-
-4
-8
-12 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Jan-14

Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to data at end of month, except where otherwise indicated.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.4 Central Bank Repurchase Operations1
LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits
% (monthly average balances)
50
44.4 In February, the interest rates of all modalities
45 LyN / Total Deposits
of repurchase operations remained unchanged. The
40 LyN / Private Sector Deposits
passive repurchase rates were located at 9% and 9.50%, for 1 and 7 days,
35 32.6
respectively; while the interest rates of active repurchase operations
30
of 1 and 7 days remained at 11% and 11.50%,
25.1 respectively.
25
20 18.1 On the other hand, the average stock of passive repurchase operations for

15 the Central Bank registered an increase of $7,700 million,

10 positioning itself at $17,600 million, while no active repurchase

5 operations were recorded with the entity.

0
Feb-02 Feb-03 Feb-04 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14
Source: BCRA
Interfinancial Markets1

The interfinancial market rates decreased in February,
observing a short-term liquidity surplus in financial
entities. In the unsecured market (call) the average
Chart 5.5 interest rate of operations at 1 business day decreased
Interbank Market
thousands of 1.3 p.p. positioning itself at 14.6%. For its part, the average
millions of $ TNA %
6 21 interest rate of operations at 1 business day between
Amount traded Call
Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA 19 financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) was
5 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis)
Interest rate Call (right axis) 17 reduced by 3 p.p. and was positioned at 11.6% (see Chart 5.5).
4 15
The average daily amount traded was reduced by $314
3 13
million, totaling around $4,580 million. The decline
11 was explained in almost equal parts by the falls
2
9 recorded in the REPO round and in the call market.

1 7 With respect to the net position recorded in the market

0 5
Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 of call, private national entities were the
 Source: BCRA
 main net providers of funds, and had as
 counterparty mainly foreign banks and
 non-bank financial entities that, after nine
 months, became net borrowers again in the market
 (see Chart 5.6).

 Passive Interest Rates1

 Chart 5.6 In February, passive interest rates increased again,
 Call Market
 millions of $ (average monthly net position by group of entities)
 in line with the higher interest rates
1.000
 NFBE resulting from LEBAC and NOBAC placements.
 800
 Public In this way, the increases concentrated funda-
 600 Priv. Nat.
 Foreign mentally during the first week of the month, to
 400
 200 remain relatively stable during the rest of February.

 0

 -200 The interest rates paid by financial entities for

 -400 fixed-term operations in pesos of the private sector

 -600 recorded increases that, on a monthly average,

 -800 exceeded 3 p.p.. This increase was led by the

-1.000 wholesale segment, while in the retail segment
 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 the increases were more limited.
Fuente: BCRA

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 9 In particular, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of
 Chart 5.7 private banks – interest rate for deposits of $1 mil-
 BADLAR of private banks
 % TNA (daily data) lion and more, 30-35 days maturity – averaged 25.6%,

 32 with a monthly increase of 3.9 p.p. (see Chart 5.7).
 Avg. Feb-14
 28 BADLAR 25.5 On the other hand, in the retail segment, the interest

 24 rate paid by financial entities for fixed-term deposits

 20 of the private sector up to $100 thousand averaged
 20.2%, showing an increase of 3.3 p.p.
 16

 12 Active Interest Rates1 9

 8

 4 In general, the interest rates applied to loans

 0 in pesos to the private sector showed increases

 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13during February. The main increases among commercial
 Source: BCRA
 lines were recorded in financings implemented
 through documents. In particular, the monthly average of the interest rate on
 Chart 5.8 documents at single signature was located at 29%, showing
 Active Interest Rates an increase of 3.3 p.p. in the month. Similarly, the interest rate
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % TNA, %applied to document discounts averaged
 35 Overdrafts Doc. Discounted 50
 31.9%, noting an increase of 5.2 p.p. during Fe-

 Doc. Single Signature Pledge Loans
 30 45 bruary. It should be noted that the Central Bank makes possible
 Mortgage Loans to individuals Personal - right axis
 the access of MSMEs to financing lines
 40 with significantly lower interest rates, within
 25
 the framework of the LCIP (see Loans section).
 35

 20
 30 For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate
 on overdrafts was located at 31.4%
 15 25
 with an increase of 2.8 p.p. in the month. Within this line,
 the interest rate corresponding to those granted
 10 20
 Source: SISCEN Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13to companies, for more than $10 million and up to seven
 days maturity, reached an average of 25.9%, 2.3 p.p.
 above the January average.

 Meanwhile, among the longer-term lines, the one applied
 to loans with pledge guarantee averaged 23.9%, decreasing
 Chart 6.1 1.4 p.p. in the month. For its part, the monthly average of the
 interest rate applied to mortgage loans to families was 17.3%,
 Variation Factors of International Reserves
 thousands of with an increase of 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month and
 (February 2014)
 millions
 of u$s remaining virtually unchanged compared to December (+0.1 p.p.). Finally, the interest rate of loans
1.0 personal loans was at 44.9%, increasing

0.5 by 4.4 p.p. during the month.

0.0

-0.5

-1.0 6. International Reserves and Foreign

-1.5 Exchange Market
-2.0

-2.5 International reserves totaled at the end of February
 International Purchases of Forex Sector Cash Other
 Reserves Public Minimum US$27,546 million. This represented a reduction
 Source: BCRA

9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 10 monthly of US$202 million, considerably lower
 than that recorded in January. It should be noted that at the beginning
 of the month, through communication "A" 5536, the
 suspension of the limit on the net global position (PGN) was lifted
 positive in foreign currency that had been in effect
 since May 2005. Consequently, the limit of 30% of liquid own
 Chart 6.2 resources, or the computable capital responsibility (RPC),

 Nominal Reference Exchange Rate came back into effect, whichever was lower. In this sense, during the
 $/US$ course of the month a reduction was observed in the accounts of Cash
 8.5 Minimum in dollars that was offset by net purchases
 Feb-14 by the Central Bank in the Free and Unified Exchange Market
 7.5 Daily quotation (see Chart 6.1). Furthermore, a limit of 10% of the RPC was
 established for the positive PGN in derivative
 6.5 products.

 5.5 The aforementioned measure increased the supply of foreign currency and other
 assets denominated in foreign currency, since the
 4.5 entities began to unwind positions of assets
 in that denomination, thus contributing to stabilize
 3.5 the exchange market. In this way, in the foreign exchange
 market, the quotation of the United States dollar at the end of
 2.5 February was 1.7% lower than at the end of January with
 Feb-07 Nov-07 Aug-08 May-09 Feb-10 Nov-10 Aug-11 May-12 Feb-13 Nov-13 a level of 7.9 $/US$ (see Chart 6.2). For its part, in
 Source: BCRA the futures market (ROFEX), an increase of 15% in the volume
 traded was verified, which raised the average daily amount
 traded to more than $2,900 million; while the quotations at
 the end of the month were reduced compared to those
 observed at the end of January.

 Chart 7.1 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Assets of Common Investment Funds in Pesos thousands of thousands of
 millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $

 14.0 90
 12.0 Money Market 80 Common Investment Funds

  Fixed Income
 10.0  Mixed Income 70

 8.0  Variable Income After the sharp increase recorded in January, the assets
 60 Evolution of stock (right axis) of the FCI decreased by $5,530 million (6.4%) and
 6.0
 50 ended February at $80,410 million.
 4.0
 40
 2.0 The monthly decline, unusual for this time of year, was
 0.0 30 explained as a consequence of the behavior recorded
 -2.0 20 in FCIs in pesos, highlighting Money Market funds
 -4.0 10 which contributed 56% of the decline by falling $3,070 million (10.9%), followed by
 -6.0 0 fixed income funds that recorded a reduction of
 Dec-10 Apr-11 Aug-11 Dec-11 Apr-12 Aug-12 Dec-12 Apr-13 Aug-13 Dec-13 $2,370 million (6.2%) and explained 43% of the fall.
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI In both cases, this behavior was explained by
 both the redemption of quotas and the decrease in
 prices. Likewise, variable income funds were reduced by $50 million (2.4%) driven by the
 performance in the quotations of portfolio assets.
 Meanwhile, funds that invest in mixed income assets recorded monthly increases of $230 million

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 11 Chart 7.2 (1.6%) offsetting part of the general behavior
Estimated Performance of FCIs in Pesos (see Graph 7.1).
 %
 10 (profitability in pesos)
 During February the Money Market funds registered
 8 Feb-14
 Accumulated 2014 a monthly return of 1.1% and were those with the best relative
 
 6 performance. Meanwhile, mixed income and fixed
 income funds registered almost null returns and variable
 4 income funds lost on average 2.6% (see Graph 7.2).

 2

 0 Finally, FCIs in foreign currency ended February with
 -2 a net worth of US$314 million, US$30 million (8.3%)
 -4 lower than the level registered in the previous month;
 behavior that was driven by the decline recorded in all
 Money Market $ Fixed Income FCI $ Mixed Income FCI $ Variable Income FCI $
 active segments. Let us recall that since September
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
 2011 there have been no money funds in dollars.

 Graph 7.3 Financial Trusts10

 Financial Trust Emissions

 millions $ (excludes those from the public sector and others intended to finance infrastructure works) units In February, the emissions of financial trusts totaled
 2,400 45 $4,290 million through 23 operations, 2 of which were
 Issued Amount (FF) 2,100 40 linked to infrastructure works financing. In particular,
 Quantity of operations (right axis) the National Government issued $1,500 million
 1,800 35 through series III of the "Trust Created by Decree
 30 976/01-SIFER", intended to finance railway works.
 1,500
 25 The other emission corresponded to an FF of $490
 1,200 million, whose settlors were Electroingeniería S.A.
 20 and Vialnoa S.A, both companies linked to the
 900 15 execution of public works. In this sense, the first of
 600 10 the aforementioned companies ceded to the trust the
 collection rights under the operation and maintenance
 300 5 contract of the Bicentennial Power Station of the
 0 0 Province of Córdoba, and the second the collection
 Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14
 rights that emerge from the toll concession contract
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others of Corridor Road No. 7.

 Graph 7.4
 Participation by Settlor Excluding this type of emissions, of singular magnitude
 (excludes those linked to infrastructure FF) and nature, the total placed in the month amounted to
 $2,300 million, almost three times the amount issued in
 Retail Stores
 January and the highest since records began (see
 32.4%
 Graph 7.3). Distinguishing said amount by type of
 Mutuals, cooperatives, non-
 settlororiginator, it is verified that it was distributed
 banking credit card issuers
 and other financial in similar portions among the different types of
 service providers originators (see Graph 7.4). In effect, both "retail
 32.4% stores" and "mutuals, cooperatives, non-banking
 credit card issuers and other financial service
 Financial Entities
 31.8% providers" placed approximately $745 million,
 while "financial entities" issued $730 million. The
 Source: Own preparation based on CNV and others. Others vast majority of the assets in trust corresponded to
 3.3%
 those linked to consumption (personal loans and
10 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
 
 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 12 Graph 8.1 credit card coupons). There was also recorded a
 Exchange Rate placement denominated in dollars (pesos adjustable by
 Selected Countries - Local currency per dollar. Index 1/5/2013 = 1 According to exchange rate) of a group of SMEs from the
 1.40 (possible withdrawal of Second agricultural sector that securitized commercial
 FED announces possible stimulus First withdrawal loans.
 1,35 stimulus withdrawal of stimuli
 1,30 With respect to interest rates of cut (weighted average
 by amount), the one corresponding to senior titles in
 1,25 pesos with duration of less than 14 months and
 1,20 Brazil India
 South Africa Russia
 1,15
 Turkey
 1,10
1.05 agreed at variable rate was located at 25.6%,

1.00 showing an increase of 3.9 p.p. with respect to the previous month.
 Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment a single
0.95
 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 operation was recorded, whose cut-off interest rate amounted to
 32.5%.
 8. Main Policy Measures of
 Other Central Banks
 Chart 8.2

 In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation The main element that characterized the period under ana-
 of jobs
 lysis was the appreciation of the currencies of the
350
 Employment countries emerging markets that were most affected by the decision
 6-month moving average
300 of the Federal Reserve (FED) of the U.S. –at the end of January

250 230226217209 and for the second consecutive meeting– to reduce the pace of
 177
 183185 206 207208215203195185 asset purchases (tapering; see Chart 8.1)). These coun-
200 185 180180 191
 174 169175175 175179 tries, as mentioned in the previous Report, at the end of
 159141 158
150 130138 January had taken a series of measures to correct

100 the depreciatory pressures produced by the FED's decision.
 On the other hand, among advanced countries,
 50 only in Japan were new measures of magnitude taken

 0 during February.
 Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov
 Among advanced countries, the Federal Open Market
 Committee (FOMC) of the FED did not have a
 meeting scheduled for the month of February. However, data
 from the North American economy became known that
 impacted markets and will surely influence the
 FOMC meeting in mid-March (see Chart 8.3
 Chart 8.2). In this sense, non-agricultural employment creation was,
 for the second consecutive month, below

 % Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States %
 7 Personal Consumption Expenditures 15 market expectations in January. In

 Inflation Target * December 75 thousand jobs had been created and
 6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures
 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 10 in January 113 thousand, compared to 200 thousand and 180 thousand
 5 CPI
 CPI Core that private analysts had predicted respectively. For
 4 PPI (right axis)
 5 their part, the main price indices in the U.S.,
 3

 2 which until now maintained a decreasing trend and
 0
 1 worried some members of the FOMC,

 0 -5 began to gradually reverse said trajectory

-1 (see Chart 8.3).

-2 -10
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED). Furthermore, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of

* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime, it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of England (BoE) maintained their respective policies
employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. On the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012
an objective of an annual variation of 2% was set for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.
 monetary without changes. The ECB did so in a context
 where the risk of a potential deflationary cycle remains
 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 13 in the Eurozone. The preliminary publication
 Chart 8.4 of February inflation indicates that for the fourth consecutive month
 Interest Rate, Unemployment Rate, Inflation Rate and Target, and Non-Conventional £ Thousands of it remained at 0.8%.
 % Millions
 9 Monetary Policy 400
 Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis) England
 8 Unemployment Rate
 Inflation Target 350 In England, in general, the consolidation of
 Inflation Rate
 7 Monetary Policy Rate 300 recovery indicators in the level of activity continued,
 6 250 while inflation was located in January at 1.9%
 year-on-year, practically at the target level (2%).
 5 200
 150 For their part, the latest unemployment data increased
 4
 slightly, to 7.2% (0.1 p.p. higher than the previous). In
2 100 Within this framework, at its meeting on February 6, the Monetary
 Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England (BoE)
 1 50 decided to keep unchanged both its policy interest rate
 0 0 (Bank Rate, at 0.5%) as well as its quantitative easing
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 program (Asset Purchase Facility), which has remained
 at £375 billion since July 2012 (see Chart 8.4). However, with
 Source: BCRA based on data from bankofengland.co.uk and ONS.gov.uk the publication of its Inflation Report, the BoE president
 stated that the Bank Rate would not be increased until next
 year11.

Chart 8.5
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target
% Brazil %
 18 8 For its part, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) was the only
 7 monetary authority among advanced countries to take
 6 an expansionary measure of some magnitude. In effect, the
 14 BoJ, while not modifying the expansion pace of the
 5 monetary base (it increases between ¥60-70 trillion per
 4 year, and would double between March 2013 and the same
 3 month in 2015)12, decided to extend the duration, make
 10 Reference Interest Rate 2 more attractive and double the lending lines framed within
 Inflation Rate (right axis) its Bank Lending and Growth-Supporting Facilities program
 1 up to the equivalent of US$360 billion.
 Inflation Target Limits (right axis)
 6 0
 Jan-06 Sep-06 May-07 Jan-08 Sep-08 May-09 Jan-10 Sep-10 May-11 Jan-12 Sep-12 May-13 Jan-14

 Source: own elaboration based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br Among emerging countries, the measure by the
 monetary authority of Brazil stood out. The Central Bank of
 Brazil (BCB), in a unanimous vote, for the sixth consecutive
Real GDP meeting, decided to raise the target for the Selic rate by
% seasonally adjusted - quarter against previous quarter 0.25 p.p. to 10.75% (private sector analysts estimated a
 3 2.6 2.7 Selic increase of this magnitude).

 2.1 2.1 2.0 In this way, the BCB increased the Selic target by 3.5 p.p.
 21.8 1.8 1.8 since the rate hike cycle began in April 2013 (see Chart
 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.6 1.5 1.3 1.0 1.0 0.8
 1.0 0.9 8.5). The decision to increase the Selic rate was made in a
 1 0.5 0.5 0.7 context where Brazil's economy grew in the last four months
 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.0
 0 of 2013 more than expected by the market, 0.7% with
 -0.5 respect to the previous quarter (seasonally adjusted, see
 -1 Chart 8.6). For its part, inflation registered a deceleration
 -2 -1.6 in January to 5.6% year-on-year, 0.3 p.p. below the previous
 -3 reading and, for the seventh consecutive month within the
 -4 -3.9 target range (4.5% ± 2 p.p.). This deceleration in inflation,
 2006-I 2007-III 2009-I 2010-III 2012-I 2013-III together with lower exchange rate volatility, may have been
 Source: BCRA based on IBGE elements that influenced the BCB's decision to reduce the
 pace of increase of the Selic target to 0.25 p.p. Finally, it
 can be interpreted from the BCB minutes that the Bank would
 make one last increase of the Selic target of 0.25 p.p. in its

11 It should be recalled that in August 2013 the BoE had announced that it would not increase the Bank Rate if unemployment
was above 7% (in the coming months it would fall below that level).
12 In this regard, between March 2013 and January 2014 the monetary base increased 37.5%.

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 14 next meeting in early April, since despite the better growth
 data from late 2013, market projections (Focus survey) indicate
 that a slowdown in the level of activity is expected in 2014.

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Feb-14 Monthly Last 12 Jan-14 Dec-13 Feb-13
 months
Monetary base 347.707 368.236 361.580 292.390 -5.6% 18.9%
 Monetary circulation 272.780 280.740 277.095 229.440 -2.8% 18.9%
 Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public 244.995 252.115 247.138 206.093 -2.8% 18.9%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 27.784 28.624 29.956 23.344 -2.9% 19.0%
 Cancellatory Checks 1120 -2.6% -
 Current account at the BCRA 74.927 87.496 84.484 62.951 -14.4% 19.0%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 17.584 9.909 6.351 18.191 77.5% -3.3%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 137.407 113.791 111.491 104.185 20.8% 31.9%
 In banks 115.606 98.084 98.364 91.273 17.9% 26.7%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 121.866 108.745 107.309 92.509 12.1% 31.7%
 In dollars 314 0 0 0

 NOBAC 15.541 5.045 4.183 11.676 208.0% 33.1%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 27.678 29.620 30.612 42.181 -6.6% -34.4%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 686.181 684.911 667.661 544.604 0.2% 26.0%
 Current account (2) 200.448 224.328 190.935 143.518 -10.6% 39.7%
 Savings account 131.333 137.936 140.311 109.379 -4.8% 20.1%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 328.397 296.909 309.708 270.740 10.6% 21.3%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 5 6 6 8 -10.3% -34.1%
 Other deposits (3) 25.999 25.732 26.701 20.960 1.0% 24.0%

 Deposits of the private sector 492.455 487.509 484.495 388.732 1.0% 26.7%

 Deposits of the public sector 193.726 197.402 183.165 155.872 -1.9% 24.3%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.843 8.756 8.262 9.021 1.0% -2.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 517.675 512.351 498.195 390.233 1.0% 32.7%

 Loans to the private sector 474.986 469.127 457.071 354.188 1.2% 34.1%
 Advances 60.709 58.514 56.651 50.574 3.8% 20.0%
 Documents 112.847 113.438 111.432 78.851 -0.5% 43.1%
 Mortgages 44.307 44.060 43.075 36.032 0.6% 23.0%
 Pledges 32.421 31.766 31.304 23.252 2.1% 39.4%
 Personal loans 101.127 99.698 98.481 77.922 1.4% 29.8%
 Credit cards 88.147 85.635 80.685 60.558 2.9% 45.6%
 Others 35.428 36.016 35.443 26.999 -1.6% 31.2%

 Loans to the public sector 42.689 43.224 41.124 36.045 -1.2% 18.4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.676 3.650 3.695 5.448 0.7% -32.5%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 445.443 476.444 438.075 349.613 -6.5% 27.4%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 576.776 614.380 578.386 458.993 -6.1% 25.7%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 931.177 937.027 914.800 750.700 -0.6% 24.0%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.002.563 1.000.775 968.727 795.881 0.2% 26.0%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 364.231 373.141 367.379 306.583 -2.4% 18.8%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 486.223 497.681 493.852 404.604 -2.3% 20.2%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in possession of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 737.451 739.625 731.635 594.828 -0.3% 24.0%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 795.400 790.992 775.760 632.586 0.6% 25.7%

 Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date accumulated Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base -20.529 -5.6% 9.364 2.8% -13.873 -3.8% 55.316 18.9%
 Financial sector -7.611 -2.1% -3.656 -1.1% -11.159 -3.1% 1.930 0.7%
 Public sector 4.405 1.2% 36.542 10.8% 18.877 5.2% 99.065 33.9%
 Private external sector 1.700 0.5% -16.299 -4.8% -5.976 -1.7% -36.333 -12.4%
 BCRA Securities -21.503 -5.8% -16.345 -4.8% -22.334 -6.2% -16.361 -5.6%
 Others 2.480 0.7% 9.122 2.7% 6.720 1.9% 7.016 2.4%
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE BCRA EXCLUDING SDR ALLOCATIONS 2009

-1.942 -6,6% -4.566 -14,2% -2.934 -9,6% -14.503 -34,4%

**Intervention in the foreign exchange market** 183 0,6% -2.644 -8,2% -953 -3,1% -5.966 -14,1%

**Payment to international organizations** -104 -0,4% 321 1,0% 35 0,1% 692 1,6%

**Other public sector operations** -146 -0,5% -870 -2,7% -652 -2,1% 848 2,0%

**Minimum cash** -1.530 -5,2% -268 -0,8% -672 -2,2% -349 -0,8%

**Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation)** -348 -1,2% -1.106 -3,4% -694 -2,3% -9.730 -23,1%

---

¹ Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. The figures for loans correspond to statistical information, without adjustment for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

² Net of the utilization of unified funds.

³ Net of accounted BODEN.

⁴ The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.

⁵ Provisional figures subject to valuation change

**Sources:** Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

---

## REQUIREMENT AND INTEGRATION OF MINIMUM CASH

| | Feb-14 | Ene-14 | Dic-13 |
|---|---|---|---|
| | (1) | (1) | (1) |

**National Currency % of total deposits in pesos**

| Requirement | 11,8 | 11,9 | 11,9 |
|---|---|---|---|
| Integration | 12,1 | 12,6 | 12,6 |
| Position (2) | 0,2 | 0,8 | 0,7 |

**Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the calculation of the requirement (3)**

| Up to 29 days | 67,5 | 67,5 | 67,5 |
|---|---|---|---|
| 30 to 59 days | 22,8 | 22,8 | 22,8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5,0 | 5,0 | 5,0 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3,2 | 3,2 | 3,2 |
| more than 180 days | 1,4 | 1,4 | 1,4 |

**Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency**

| Requirement | 29,3 | 20,8 | 19,7 |
|---|---|---|---|
| Integration (includes default of application of resources) | 104,8 | 123,8 | 117,4 |
| Position (2) | 75,5 | 103,0 | 97,7 |

**Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the calculation of the requirement (3)**

| Up to 29 days | 46,6 | 46,9 | 47,6 |
|---|---|---|---|
| 30 to 59 days | 25,3 | 23,3 | 23,1 |
| 60 to 89 days | 11,9 | 12,2 | 11,0 |
| 90 to 179 days | 13,7 | 14,9 | 14,5 |
| 180 to 365 days | 2,2 | 2,6 | 3,8 |
| more than 365 days | 0,2 | 0,1 | 0,1 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

**Source:** BCRA

---

**Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.**

## PASSIVE INTEREST RATES

| | Feb-14 | Ene-14 | Dic-13 | Dic-13 | Feb-13 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|

**Call in pesos (at 15 days)**

| Rate | 14,73 | 16,15 | 19,67 | 19,67 | 11,04 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Amount traded | 1.977 | 2.131 | 2.144 | 2.144 | 1.471 |

**Fixed Term**

**In pesos**

| 30-44 days | 20,99 | 18,86 | 17,67 | 17,67 | 13,10 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 60 days or more | 23,87 | 20,17 | 19,00 | 19,00 | 13,46 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 22,43 | 19,19 | 18,55 | 18,55 | 12,50 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 25,58 | 21,69 | 20,18 | 20,18 | 14,76 |

**In dollars**

| 30-44 days | 0,94 | 0,40 | 0,34 | 0,34 | 0,58 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 60 days or more | 1,71 | 0,87 | 0,65 | 0,65 | 1,12 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1,04 | 0,44 | 0,33 | 0,33 | 0,69 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1,08 | 0,38 | 0,33 | 0,33 | 0,79 |

---

## ACTIVE INTEREST RATES

| | Feb-14 | Ene-14 | Dic-13 | Dic-13 | Feb-13 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|

**Repurchase agreements in pesos**

| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 25,73 | 22,65 | 21,64 | 21,64 | 13,86 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Amount traded (total terms) | 282 | 310 | 316 | 316 | 237 |

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**

| Current account advances | 31,44 | 28,90 | 27,60 | 27,60 | 21,50 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Documents at sole signature | 29,01 | 26,05 | 22,35 | 22,35 | 19,37 |
| Mortgages | 17,51 | 18,29 | 16,53 | 16,53 | 16,20 |
| Pledges | 23,87 | 25,25 | 21,08 | 21,08 | 20,85 |
| Personal loans | 44,90 | 40,13 | 39,29 | 39,29 | 34,77 |
| Credit cards n/d | 35,96 | 37,12 | 37,12 | 33,90 |
| Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 25,89 | 23,62 | 21,39 | 21,39 | 14,34 |

---

## INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES

| | Feb-14 | Ene-14 | Dic-13 | Dic-13 | Feb-13 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|

**LIBOR**

| 1 month | 0,16 | 0,16 | 0,17 | 0,17 | 0,20 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 6 months | 0,33 | 0,34 | 0,35 | 0,35 | 0,46 |

**US Treasury Bond**

| 2 years | 0,32 | 0,38 | 0,33 | 0,33 | 0,26 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 10 years | 2,70 | 2,84 | 2,88 | 2,88 | 1,96 |

**FED Funds Rate** | 0,25 | 0,25 | 0,25 | 0,25 | 0,25 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|

**SELIC (at 1 year)** | 10,54 | 10,30 | 10,00 | 10,00 | 7,25 |
(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Dec-13 Feb-13

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total repo trading floor rates
 1 day 9.69 11.52 15.81 15.81 9.30
 7 days 10.42 12.58 13.12 13.12 9.56

Amount operated in repo trading floor (daily average) 14,259 7,959 3,981 3,981 12,051

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months 28.52 25.52 n/a n/a 12.66
 3 months 28.73 19.99 15.52 15.52 12.95
 9 months 29.90 23.91 n/a n/a n/a
 12 months 30.23 21.50 17.80 17.80 15.09

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks 1.49 -0.40 n/a n/a n/a

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.5 2.50 n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 3.0 3.00 n/a n/a n/a
 6 months 3.5 3.50 n/a n/a n/a
 12 months 4.0 4.00 n/a n/a n/a

Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 1,200 1,034 673 673 1,256

Foreign Exchange Market Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Dec-13 Feb-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 7.85 7.11 6.32 6.32 5.01
 Retail 7.87 7.13 6.33 6.33 5.01

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.05 7.72 6.75 6.75 5.14
 ROFEX 1 month 7.91 7.39 6.56 6.56 5.08
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,917 2,503 1,618 1,618 921

Real (Pesos x Real) 3.30 2.98 2.69 2.69 2.54

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 10.73 9.69 8.67 8.67 6.69

Capital Market Feb-14 Jan-14 Dec-13 Dec-13 Feb-13

MERVAL
 Index 5,893 5,631 5,330 5,330 3,256
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 103 95 109 109 61

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 126.40 133.38 132.63 132.63 133.06
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 95.49 98.90 106.64 106.64 99.69
 BODEN 2014 ($) 97.71 94.00 93.47 93.47 95.53
 DISCOUNT ($) 71.86 62.39 63.95 63.95 50.25

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,855 1,085 826 826 1,325
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 454 430 412 412 296

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 19

10. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-on-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2014 | BCRA | 20
