# September 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
September 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 4

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 8

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 8

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 10

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 12

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 12

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

10. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was October 9, 2014. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In September, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 1.5%, maintaining its stable year-on-year expansion rate around 21%. Among its components, private sector placements were those that registered the largest increases. Private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos grew 1.2%, with year-on-year growth close to 28%.

• The liquidity of financial entities in the national currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with this institution and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) increased in September to 39% in terms of peso deposits. Regarding its composition, the increase of 1.2 percentage points in the ratio was explained mainly by the rise in excess liquidity (repurchase agreements with the Central Bank and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC).

• In September, loans in pesos to the private sector showed growth of 1.9% ($9,330 million), accumulating over the last twelve months an increase of 20.5%. The growth of loans instrumented through documents and personal loans stood out; the amount granted of the latter in September turned out to be the highest of recent years. Around $8,300 million were placed in the month, of which approximately $740 million corresponded to credits granted included in the Pro.Cre.Auto program. In this way, since its inception, within the framework of Pro.Cre.Auto, loans of approximately $1,600 million were granted, having carried out approximately 16,070 operations.

• Mid-month saw the launch of the "NOW 12" program, through which entities offer the private sector financing in 12 interest-free installments for the purchase of goods and services, with the objective of stimulating domestic consumption. The Central Bank issued two regulations aimed at supporting the implementation of this program. On one hand, it arranged that financing to non-financial companies that issue credit cards at 0% interest rate may be assigned to complete part of the quota of the Productive Investment Credit Line, insofar as these companies have adhered to the "NOW 12" program. On the other hand, through Communication "A" 5638, a deduction of the reserve requirement equivalent to 16% of the financing that financial entities grant within the framework of the "NOW 12" program and those directed to non-financial companies that issue credit cards at 0% interest rate was established, insofar as those companies have adhered to said program.

• The interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits decreased. With respect to the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks fell 0.9 percentage points, averaging 20.3%. In the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days stood at 18.4%, registering, as in August, a monthly decline of 0.5 percentage points. This behavior was also observed in the interest rates applied to commercial loans in pesos (current account advances, -2 p.p.; and documents, both discounted, -0.3 p.p., and at sole signature, -1.6 p.p.).

• With the objective of promoting savings in national currency, through Communication "A" 5640 a minimum was established for the interest rates of fixed-term deposits made by natural persons as of October 8, provided that the total fixed-term deposits per natural person in the entity does not exceed the amount of the deposit guarantee insurance coverage. The minimum interest rates are a proportion of the cut-off interest rate of the LEBAC with the term closest to 90 days. In turn, in order to expand the protection of savers, the amount of the deposit guarantee coverage per account holder was increased from $120,000 to $350,000 (Communication "A" 5641).
• As of October 3rd, new levels began to take effect for the Central Bank's repo interest rates: those corresponding to passive repos moved to 13% and 14%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively; while those for active repos for the same terms rose to 16% and 17%.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates¹

 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 (variation of monthly averages)
 % Monthly Variation of M3 % In September, the broadest monetary aggregate in
 5 Year-on-year Variation of M3 (right axis) 50 September - Monthly Variation
 pesos (M3²) presented growth of 1.5%, maintain-

 4 40 Dep. Sec. ing its year-on-year expansion rate stable around

 Público 21%. The increase was led by placements from the

 3 30
 private sector and, to a lesser extent, by currency in

 2 20 Dep. Sec. circulation and deposits from the public sector (see
 Privado
 Graph 2.1).
 1 10 Dep. on demand

 0 0 Banknotes and Dep. at term and other The deposits in pesos from the private sector presented a
 Coins
 monthly increase of 1.5%, with increases verified
 -1 -10
 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-140246810both in demand placements and in fixed-term depos-
 thousands of
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAmillions of $its. The latter showed growth of 1.2%, which was driven mainly
 by deposits from the wholesale segment, although
 those from the segment of less than $1 million also
 increased.
 Graph 2.2 In this way, fixed-term placements from the private

 thousands of sector continued growing, accumulating in the last
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector
millions of $ %
300 60 twelve months an increase close to 28% (see
 Graph 2.2).

250 50
 Deposits in foreign currency increased in September,
200 40
 which was driven by the growth in placements belong-

150 30 ing to the public sector, while those corresponding to
 the private sector presented a slight decline. In this

100 20 way, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*³, pre-

 Monthly average balance sented growth of 1.5%, exhibiting a year-on-year
 50 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 10 variation of 22.5%.

 0 0
 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14With an average balance reaching $395,600 million,
 Source: BCRA
 the monetary base showed in September growth of
 1.2%, the smallest increase since June (see Graph 2.3).
 In year-on-year terms, it accumulates an increase close
 to 20%, which is similar to that recorded in previous
 months. The monthly increase was driven equally by
 Graph 2.3 currency in circulation and by bank reserves (composed

 % Monetary Base % of cash in financial entities and the balances of current
 (variation of monthly averages)
 10 50 accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank).

 8 40
 
 6 30 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

 4 20 ties¹

 2 10

 0 0 The liquidity of financial entities in the national cur-

 -2 -10 rency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current
 -4 Variation monthly account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with
 -20
 -6 Year-on-year var. (right axis) this institution and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs)
 -8 -40 increased in September to reach 39% in terms of deposits
 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14
 in pesos (see Graph 3.1). In addition to the already
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits from private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

3 Includes M3 and deposits from public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 4 mentioned increase in deposits, the sale of dollars orig-
 inated in the regulation that set at 20% of the RPC the
 limit of the Net Global Position of foreign currency
 also constituted a source of funding for financial enti-
 ties; this with—
# % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities* contributed to the increase in liquidity. Regarding its
 deposits (monthly average)
 45 Sep-14: composition, the increase of 1.2 p.p. of the li-
 39.0%
 40 quidity ratio was explained, mainly, by the increase of

 35 % of the Liquidity in Pesos
 deposits 40 CCBCRA Cash Net Passes LEBACs and NOBACs
 30
 35
 25 30 21.6

 25 For its part, the estimated average surplus for the month
 20
 20
 1.5 of the Minimum Cash regime was 0.3% of deposits in
 15 15 3.9

 10 pesos. It should be remembered that as of September,
 10
 5 12.0 through Communication "A" 5623, changes were estab-

 5 0

 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sept-14lished in the aforementioned regime. These changes
 0
 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sept-14sought two objectives: 1) to increase incentives for the
 * Includes cash in banks, current accounts in the BCRA, net passes with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.installation of ATMs in areas with lower banking devel-
 Source: BCRA
 opment, providing for the increase in the deduction of
 reserve requirements for cash withdrawals from ATMs
 that are not for exclusive use of each entity's customers;
 and 2) to promote the payment service for social secu-
 rity benefits, which generally involves greater cash with-
 drawal at bank branch windows; for this purpose, the
 reserve requirement was reduced based on credits made
 by the National Social Security Administration for the
 payment of salaries and/or other social security benefits.

 Graph 4.1

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Additionally, through Communication "A" 5638, as of
 % % October 2014, an additional deduction of the reserve
6 60
 Monthly Variation requirement equivalent to 16% was established for fi-
5 Graph 4.1 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 50 nancings that financial entities grant within the frame-
work of the "AHORA 12" program (see Loans section)
4 40
 and those directed to non-financial companies that issue
3 30 credit cards at an interest rate of 0%, provided that
 those companies have joined the "AHORA 12" program.

2 20

1 10 Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment, and within
 the framework of changes in the Net Global Position of
0 0
 foreign currency, liquidity fell 2 p.p., averaging Sep-
-1 -10
Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14tember at 104.7% of the total deposits in dollars.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 5 4. Loans 1 4
 Graph 4.2

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector In September, loans in pesos to the private sector
millions of $ (monthly average variation) %
10,000 60 showed growth of 1.9% ($9,330 million), which was
 similar to the previous month, accumulating in the last
 8,000 Sep-14. vs. Aug-14. 50
 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 12 months an increase of 20.5% (see Graph 4.1). Distin-

 6,000 40 guishing by credit line, the growth of documents and
 34.0
 personal loans stood out (see Graph 4.2).

 4,000 30
 20.5 20.7 18.3 19.2
 2,000 14.0 14.4 20 Loans intended to finance commercial activities pre-
 11.9 sented heterogeneous behaviors. On one hand, finan-
 0 10 cings implemented through documents continued to
 grow, registering an increase of 4.4% ($5,040 million),
-2,000 0 the highest of this year and similar to that of September
 of last year (see Graph 4.3). Consequently, the year-
 Source: BCRA over-year rate of variation remained practically stable at
 20.7%. It is worth mentioning that in September, finan-
 Graph 4.3 cial entities
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % had to comply with an intermediate goal of the "Productive
14 70
 Investment Credit Line" (LCIP). In par-
12 Monthly avg. var. 60
 ticular, they had to agree to financing for at least
10 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 50
 50% of the total amount of the second installment of the 2014
 8 7.2 40 Quota,
 6 5.2 30 and at least half of that requirement had to be allo-
 3.8 4.4 4.2 4.4
 4 20 cated to SMEs. This requirement prompted, by the end of Septem-
 2 1.5 1.2 10 ber, significant increases in financing via
 documents at sole signature, a line through which many of
 0 0
 these operations are implemented. Likewise, the
 -2 -10
 discounted documents showed very good perfor-
 mance, continuing with the upward trend started
 -4 -20
 in August (see Chart 4.4). On the other hand, advances
 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14
 Source: BCRA registered a slight decrease of 1.1% ($750 million),
 although in the last 12 months they accumulated growth of 18.3%. Meanwhile, the remaining commercial
 financings, grouped under the heading "Other loans"
 Chart 4.4
 registered a decline of 0.8% ($300 million).
 thousands of Documents in Pesos of the Private Sector thousands of
 millions $ millions $
38 (evolution of daily balance) 79

37 78 With respect to lines aimed at financing, princi-

 Discounted Documents pally, family consumption, personal loans accelerated their
36 77
 Documents at Sole Signature (right axis) monthly expansion rate, exhibiting
35 76
 an increase of 3% ($3,170 million), the highest
34 75
 of the last 10 months. Meanwhile, its year-on-year
33 74
 variation continued showing moderation and was
32 73 located at 19.2%. When contemplating the evolution of new
31 72 personal loans, it is verified that the amount granted
30 71 in September turned out to be the highest of the last
29 70 years. In fact, around $8,300 million were placed in the
 01-Apr 16-Apr 01-May 16-May 31-May 15-Jun 30-Jun 15-Jul 30-Jul 14-Aug 29-Aug 13-Sep 28-Sep month, of which $740 million correspon-
Source: BCRA

4 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts
granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast, the
variation of the balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 6 ded to credits granted under the framework of the
 Pro.Cre.Auto (see Chart 4.5). In this way, since
 its inception, within the framework of this program, loans
 were granted for around $1,600 million, having
 carried out approximately 16,070 operations.

 Chart 4.5 For its part, credit card financings
 millions of $ Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector moderated their growth rate, evidencing an
 (amounts granted in the month)
 9,000 increase of 1.8% ($1,640 million), while in
 8,000 Pro.Cre.Auto year-on-year terms they accumulated growth of
 7,000 Other purposes 34%. It should be mentioned that in mid-month the
 6,000 "NOW 12"5 program was launched, through which entities
 offer the private sector financing in 12 installments
 5,000
 with no interest for the purchase of goods and services, with the
 4,000
 objective of stimulating internal consumption. In relation to
 3,000
 the same, it was also provided that financings to non-
 2,000 financial companies that are credit card issuers at
 1,000 an interest rate of 0% can be allocated to complete
part of the LCIP quota, to the extent that these
 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14
 Source: BCRA companies have adhered to the "AHORA 12" program.
 These financing operations, together with those incorporated
 by each financial entity through transmission, assignment or
 by means of trusts (provided that the originator and
 assignor of the assigned or trust credits,
 as appropriate, is a financial entity of Group
 II6), shall not represent more than 15% of the second
 tranche of this year's LCIP quota.

 Chart 5.1 With regard to loans with real guarantee, mortgages
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market registered an increase of 0.6% ($295 mil-
 TNA % (last auction of the month) lion), similar to that of the previous month, with an
 32 inter-annual growth of 14.4%. It is worth noting that a part of the

 30 demand for mortgage credit for housing (natural persons) is not reflected in the statistics of bank
 28 loans, as it has been channeled through the

 26 Argentine Bicentenary Credit Program for Single
 24 Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with
 pledge guarantee registered the second
 September
 Augus consecutive increase, after several months of
 22 presenting declines. In September, they grew 0.7% ($230 mil-
 20 lion); meanwhile, their inter-annual variation continued reflecting
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450
 a slowdown, reaching 11.9%.
 Source: BCRA

 Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign
 currency presented a decline of 4.6% (US$195
 million), with their average monthly balance at around
 US$4,000 million.

5 Joint Resolution 671/2014 and 267/2014.
6 Group defined in Communication "A" 5590.

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.2 5. Interest Rates 7

 Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market
 millions of $ (daily average traded) Titles Issued by the Central Bank8
 3,000

 More than 360 days
 2,500 Between 270 and 360 days In September, the LEBAC interest rate curve steepened, as
 Between 180 and 270 days increases in longer-term interest rates were observed,
 Between 90 and 180 days
 2,000 Between 60 and 90 days of between 0.5 p.p. and 0.8 p.p.. The interest rates
 Between 30 and 60 days of LEBAC auctioned at a predetermined cutoff rate
 Between 15 and 30 days –at terms of 100 days and 115 days– remained
 1,500 Up to 15 days stable and were located at 26.9% and 27.4%,

 1,000 respectively. Meanwhile, the interest rate of the
 species awarded with greater maturity, at 365 days term,
 500 stood at 29.3%, 0.8 p.p. above the record at the end
 of August (see Chart 5.1).
 0
 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14

 With regard to the secondary market for titles, the
 interest rates of LEBAC ended the month at levels
 similar to those of the previous month. The total average
 amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary
 market marked a new all-time high after increasing
 Chart 5.3 $432 million, reaching $2,473 million
 Amount Awarded of Titles in Pesos in the Primary Market daily average. The monthly increase was driven by
 thousands of thousands of LEBAC NOBAC operations in the species of less than 90
 thousands millions $ millions $
 60 260 14 60 days term (see Chart 5.2).
 More than 360 days More than 360 days
 From 271 to 360 days 240 From 271 to 360 days
 From 181 to 270 days From 181 to 270 days
 50 12 From 91 to 180 days 50 The titles of the Central Bank continued to be the
 From 91 to 180 days 220
 Up to 90 days Up to 90 days
 Month-end balance (right axis) Month-end balance (right axis) principal sterilization instrument in September. At
 40 Repurchases 200 10 Repurchases the end of the month the nominal balance outstanding of LE-
 Maturities 40
 Maturities 180
 8

 30 160 30
140 6
BAC and NOBAC were located at $234,340 million, registering
20 120 20
4 a growth of 9.8% compared to the end of
10 100
2 10 August. The increase was concentrated again in LE-
80
BAC, while the NOBAC balance continued to re-
0 60 0 0
Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 duce. The balance of LEBAC in circulation grew

Source: BCRA

10.7%, ending the month at $233,480 million. The
amount awarded of LEBAC reached $51,909 million.
80% of the total was placed at terms between 90 and 180 days
and, as in previous months, placements at terms greater than 365 days continued not to be
Graph 5.4 made (see Graph 5.3). The balance in circulation is equivalent
LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits to approximately 30% of total deposits in pesos.

% (average monthly balances)
60

LyN / Total Deposits Regarding the main holders of LEBAC and
LyN / Private Sector Deposits NOBAC, the monthly increase in balance was led by
50
the portfolios of financial entities, followed by those
40 39.5 of Mutual Investment Funds (FCI) and those of
other holders (see Graph 5.5), among which the
30 29.6
insurance companies and work risk administrators
20 stood out.

10

0
Sep-02 Sep-03 Sep-04 Sep-05 Sep-06 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14
Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 8 Finally, regarding the foreign currency segment,
Graph 5.5 the balance of LEBAC continued to decline,
thousands of Holdings of Central Bank Securities thousands of
millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) millions $ this time US$57 million, down to US$761 million. The

36 270 decline was driven again by lower holdings in
private banks. In turn, the interest rates that
32 Others
FCIs the Central Bank pays for its placements remained
28 220
Financial Entities unchanged.
24
Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis)
20
16 170

12
8 120 Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1

4
- During the month, the interest rates for passive repurchase
-4 70 agreements remained unchanged and were located at 9% and
-8 9.50%, for terms of 1 and 7 days, respectively; while
-12 20 the interest rates for active repurchase agreements of 1 and 7 days
were at 11% and 11.50%.
Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Jan-14 May-14 Sep-14

Source: BCRA

In September, in a context where short-term liquidity levels increased, the average balance
of passive repurchase agreements for the Central Bank –in all the
Graph 5.6 modalities in which the institution participates– registered
Balance of Passive Repurchase Agreements with the BCRA an increase of almost $5,100 million (26%) and was located at
millions of $ $19,700 million (see Graph 5.7). The increase was
40,000 driven by repurchase agreements from financial entities, followed
to a lesser extent by those of FCI. For its part, active
35,000 repurchase agreements for the entity continued not to be registered.
30,000

25,000 It is important to note that as of October 3, new levels began to
apply for the interest rates of Central Bank repurchase agreement
20,000 operations: those corresponding to passive repurchase agreements
moved to 13% and 14%, for 1 and 7 days, respectively; while
15,000 those for active repurchase agreements for the same terms rose
to 16% and 17%.
10,000

5,000 Interbank Markets1

0
Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14
Interbank market interest rates decreased in September, in a context of higher short-term liquidity levels in financial institutions. The average interest rate for 1 business day operations in the unsecured market (call) decreased 5.7 percentage points, positioning itself at 13%. Likewise, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the secured market (REPO round) decreased 5.9 p.p., settling at 12.7% (see Graph 5.7).

The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial market (including the REPO round between entities and the call market) grew $700 million (12%) and was positioned around $6,500 million. The increase was explained mainly by the increase registered in the volume of the REPO round.

**Graph 5.7 - Interbank Market**
- Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA
- Amount traded Call
- Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis)
- Interest rate Call (right axis)
- TNA %
- Source: BCRA

In September, the interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits maintained the downward trend registered since mid-April. As usually happens, the decrease was led by the interest rate applied to wholesale deposits.

With respect to the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30-35 days term – decreased 0.9 p.p., averaging 20.3%. In this way, in the last five months it accumulated a decline close to 6 p.p., positioning itself at levels similar to those registered at the end of December 2013.

**Graph 5.8 - Passive Interest Rates**
- Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-35 days term
- % TNA (monthly average - Private banks)
- BADLAR Up to $100 thousand
- p.p. Monthly average variation

In the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was positioned at 18.4% recording, as in August, a monthly decline of 0.5 p.p.. In any case, it accumulates a decrease of more than 3 p.p. since April (see Graph 5.8).

It should be noted that, to promote savings instruments in national currency, through Communication "A" 5640 a minimum was established for interest rates on fixed-term deposits made by individuals, provided that the total of fixed-term deposits per individual at the entity does not exceed the amount of deposit guarantee insurance coverage. The minimum interest rates were established as a proportion of the interest rate cutoff of LEBAC with the term closest to 90 days⁹. The proportion of the aforementioned reference interest rate varies according to the deposit term: it is 87% for placements up to

**Graph 5.9 - Interest Rates for Current Account Overdrafts**
- TNA, % (monthly average)
- %, TNA Daily data
- Total Current Account Overdrafts
- Current account overdrafts for more than $10 M - up to 7 days
- Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.10**

[Text continues but is cut off at the end]
Interest Rates on Financing through Documents 44 days, 89% for deposits between 45 and 59 days and
(monthly average)
TNA, % Participation in amounts granted by DSF to SMEs 93% for those of 60 days or more. This measure will be
Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years
32 100% in effect as of October 8. In turn, with the

80% Documents at Sole Signature

60%

40% Discounted Documents objective of expanding the protection of savers, the

28 20%

0% guarantee coverage amount for depo-

Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14
sits, per account holder, was increased from $120,000 to $350,000 (Communica-
24
tion "A" 5641).

20
Active Interest Rates1 10

16
In September, the interest rates applied to loans to the

12 private sector showed dissimilar behaviors: on one hand,

Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 those applied to commercial lines decreased, while those asso-
Source: BCRA

9 To determine the reference interest rate, the simple average of the cut-off rates of the second month immediately
prior to the month of capture of the deposits is considered.
10 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation
and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 10 ciated with loans of longer terms increased
moderately.

Among the commercial lines, the interest rates applied
to overdrafts were those
Chart 5.11

Active Interest Rates that showed the greatest declines. The monthly average

TNA, % (monthly average) applied to companies for more than $10 million and
54 Monthly Variations
up to 7 days of term averaged 18.9%, declining 4.4
2 p.p.
1 0.6 0.5 0.6 p.p. in the month and placing itself at the lowest levels of
48
0 the last 12. On the other hand, the interest rate of the total
42 Mortgages Chattel overdrafts averaged 28.9%,
Mortgages Chattel Personal
36 almost 2 p.p. below the August level (Chart 5.9).

30

24 Likewise, the interest rates on financing

18 instrumented through documents decreased in the

12 month. The monthly average of the interest rate applied

6 Chattel Mortgages Personal to persons on the discount of documents noted a decline of
0 0.3 p.p., placing itself at 24.8%. For its part, the monthly
0
Jul-09 May-10 Mar-11 Jan-12 Nov-12 Sep-13 Jul-14 average of the interest rate on documents at sole

Source: BCRA signature was placed at 24.7%, declining 1.6 p.p., in line
with greater participation of credits granted within the
framework of the LCIP, in a month where financings had
to be agreed for at least 50% of the total amount of the
second installment of the 2014 quota. In this way,
the interest rate on documents at sole signature
continues to decrease, while an increase is observed in
the contribution of loans granted for more than 3 years
(Chart 5.10).

The interest rates applied to longer-term financings
increased in the month. Within loans with real guarantee,
the monthly average of the interest rate charged for chattel
loans averaged 25.6%, 0.5 p.p. above that of August.
For its part, the interest rate of loans with
mortgage guarantee intended for persons
averaged 19.2%, increasing 0.6 p.p..
Regarding the maximum interest rates in effect in September for personal loans, they remained virtually unchanged compared to those in August, in line with the average interest rate of LEBACs at 90 days from July, standing at 38.9% and 48.2% for entities in Group I and Group II, respectively. However, and due to a change in participation in the amounts operated, the weighted average interest rate of total personal loans averaged 37.8%, increasing 0.6 percentage points during the month (Graph 5.11)

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 11 Graph 6.1 6. International Reserves and Currency Market

thousands of BCRA International Reserves of Foreign Exchange1
millions of U$S
45

International reserves totaled at the end of September US$27,866 million (see Graph 6.1),
40 US$754 million less than recorded in August. Among the factors that explained such decline are the
35 payments of foreign currency debt by the public sector, the sales of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the exchange market and the loss due to
30 valuation in dollars of assets in other currencies that make up international reserves. Regarding the
Paris Club Payment last factor, it is important to note that approximately 20% of international reserves
25 is composed of foreign currency assets other than the US dollar. When the exchange rate of these
Ene-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14currencies falls, the value of international reserves is reduced by an accounting effect, since the total is
Source: BCRA
measured in dollars. In particular, in September, there was a significant appreciation of the US dollar with
respect to other currencies, which meant for this Central Bank's international reserves a decline
of US$264 million.
Graph 6.2

In the exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect to the US dollar, and appreciated with
Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate respect to the real and the euro. The average quotations for the month were 8.4 $/US$ (1.1% higher than in August), 3.6 $/real (-2%) and
15%
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real
10.8 $/euro (-2.1%; see Graph 6.2). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX) the expected quotations for
10% Depreciation the coming months decreased slightly compared to the previous month, while daily operating
Appreciation volume decreased approximately 18% on average, after having experienced an increase in August. Meanwhile, the average daily amount traded exceeded $2,400 million.
5%

0% 7. Collective Investment Instruments

Common Investment Funds

Graph 7.1 In September, investors continued allocating excess liquidity to the subscription of share units of
thousands of Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos Common Investment Funds (FCI). The equity in pesos and in foreign currency grew $14,750 million
thousands of (12.6%) ending the month at $132,100 million.
24,0 140 millions of $

Money Market
Renta Fija 120 The monthly increase was driven again by the peso segment, mainly by fixed income funds that verified
Renta Mixta equity increases of $5,270 million (9.6%) thanks to the increase in the quantity of share units
19,0
Renta Variable 100 and monthly returns. Likewise, money market funds increased $3,770 million
14,0 Evolution of stock (right axis)
80
9,0
60

4,0
40
-1,0

20
-6,0 0
Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14

Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
# Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 12

...llions (10.7%) and mixed-return funds grew
**Chart 7.2**
Estimated Performance of Assets
% (profitability in pesos)
35
30.3

30 September 2014

25 $3.710 million (17.8%); in both cases they were driven
by the greater number of fund shares. Finally, the funds
20 that invest the majority of their portfolio in equity
assets increased $1.640 million (39.2%) thanks to their
15 profitability – which was boosted by the good
performance recorded in the local stock market – as well
10 as by the subscription of fund shares.
4.8 3.7
5 In September, equity funds were again the best
1.2
0 performers in terms of profitability and registered a
Variable Income FCIs $ Mixed Income FCIs $ Fixed Income FCIs $ Money Market $ monthly return of 30%, followed by mixed-return funds,
Source: BCRA which had a monthly return of 4.8%; and fixed-income
funds, with a profitability of 3.7%. Meanwhile, short-
term fixed-income funds that have the BADLAR of
private banks as a benchmark, which represent 50% of
the segment and present higher liquidity levels than the
**Chart 7.3** previous ones, registered a monthly profitability of 1.9%.
Financial Trusts Issuances Finally, in money market funds, which are the most
millions of $ (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) liquid units given that the redemption of fund shares is
2.700 45 credited to the bank account immediately, the monthly
return was placed at 1.2%.
2.400 Amount Issued 40 Quantity of Operations (right axis)
2.100 35

1.800 30 With regard to the foreign currency segment, the
1.500 25 patrimony of FCIs increased for the second consecutive
1.200 20 month and reached the highest level so far in 2014,
900 15 reaching US$349 million. The increase of US$40 million
600 10 was driven mainly by fixed-income funds (US$36
300 5 million).

0 0
Aug-08 Aug-09 Aug-10 Aug-11 Aug-12 Aug-13 Aug-14 Financial Trusts11
Source: BCRA based on CNV and other data

In September, Financial Trusts (FF) issuances totaled
around $2.480 million, registering an increase of 23%
compared to the previous month and reaching the
highest amount in recent years (see Chart 7.3). 21
operations were conducted in the month, 2 more than
**Chart 7.4** in August. It should be noted that several issuances
Senior Bonds Cut-off Rates in Pesos were conducted under the dollar linked modality.
(duration less than 14 months - monthly weighted average)
TIR; % Regarding the settlors, retail commerce placed
40 Fixed Rate $775 million, 44% more than the securitized
35 Variable Rate volume in the previous month. For its part, financial
30 entities issued around $650 million, showing a slight
25 decrease compared to August (15%). In addition to
20 personal loans, this group of settlors securitized pledge
15 credits. Meanwhile, "Mutual societies, cooperatives,
10 non-bank credit card issuers and other providers of
5 financial services" securitized assets – mostly linked to
Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 consumption – for just over $300 million, half that of
Source: BCRA based on CNV and other data the previous month. The remainder corresponded to
11 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered. issuances from the agricultural sector (some of them
adjustable by the peso / dollar exchange rate) that
Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 13 **Chart 8.1** totaled around $720 million and were backed by
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target commercial credits. Furthermore, one...
% 
7 eurozone
6 Monetary Policy Rate
5 Inflation Rate
4 Inflation Target
Corridor of Rates
3 company that offers equipment for the CNG industry, placed US$3 million ($25 million, adjustable by peso/dollar exchange rate). The fiduciary assets consisted of leasing contracts.

0

-1 Finally, the cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior securities –in pesos and of duration less than 14 months– with variable yield was located at 24.5%, 0.5 p.p. above that of the previous month (see Chart 7.4). Meanwhile, in the fixed-rate segment, no operations were registered.

Chart 8.2 8. Main Monetary Policy Measures from Other Central Banks

% Eurozone Inflation
4

3 During September, most of the monetary policy measures adopted by other central banks had an expansionary bias, both in advanced and emerging countries. The expansionary measures adopted by the monetary authorities of the euro zone, China, Chile and Peru stand out; while the Federal Reserve of the USA (FED) was an exception, by taking a measure with a contractionary bias.

2

1 Within the first group, the European Central Bank (ECB) unexpectedly decided to reduce its monetary policy interest rate to a historic minimum of 0.05% (-0.1 p.p., see Chart 8.1). It also brought to a record in negative territory the interest rate of the deposit facility, which stands at -0.2%. Furthermore, it announced two purchase programs for Asset Back Securities and Covered Bonds that will be operative from October onwards, on which no further details were provided. However, some private sector estimates indicate that the program volume would be between €400 and €500 billion. Along with this, the ECB conducted the first auction of its TLTRO line where fewer funds were placed than estimated by the private sector, due to lower demand from banks.

0

-1 The ECB took these measures in a context where price and activity indicators continue to signal strong deceleration. On one hand, the preliminary estimate of inflation (CPI) of the euro zone for September was 0.3% y.o.y., 0.1 p.p. lower than August and the lowest of the last 5 years. For its part, inflation in the main member of the Eurozone, Germany, would have remained in September at 0.8% y.o.y. according to a preliminary estimate from the German statistics office (unchanged from August, see Chart 8.2). As for activity data, increasingly more indicators emerge that signal that the level of activity of the euro zone's largest partner is also slowing down. In this sense, during August, purchase orders from German industry fell 5.7% compared to the previous month, the largest reduction since 2009.

The monetary authorities of the People's Bank of China (PBoC) also took measures with an expansionary bias. Although they left unchanged the monetary policy rate (the 1-year deposit rate), which

Chart 8.3

Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
% China
10 Monetary Policy Interest Rate
 Inflation Rate
8 Inflation Target

6

4

2

0

-2
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14
Source: BCRA based on PBoC. The PBoC does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, the Chinese government has an annual objective that is currently 3.5%.

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 14

Chart 8.4

Activity Level Indicators
Y.o.y. Var. % China
20

15

10

Source: Own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% y.o.y. Source: Own elaboration based on Eurostat and Destatis.
GDP continues at 3% (see Chart 8.3), in a context of Industrial Production deceleration in the level of activity (see chart 8.4); the PBoC decided, in mid-September, to activate (for the fourth time since its establishment in 2013) the Standing Lending Facility (SLF) through which it provides funds to commercial banks at 1 and 3 months. On this occasion it injected funds for 500,000 billion yuan, the equivalent of just over US$80,000 billion, at 3 months' maturity. Additionally, on September 17 it reduced the rate for its 3-month repo operations from 3.7% to 3.5%.

Other central banks that adopted expansive measures were those of Chile and Peru. In the first case, the Central Bank of Chile decided again to reduce by 0.25 p.p. its reference interest rate (Monetary Policy Rate –TPM) to 3.25%, following the three previous reductions (0.25 p.p. each) of February, March, and August. For its part, the Central Bank of Peru's Reserve reduced by 0.25 p.p. to 3.5% the target for the interbank market interest rate.

In the case of measures with contractionary bias, the Federal Reserve again reduced the pace of asset purchases (what is known as tapering) from US$25,000 billion to US$15,000 billion per month. In this manner, it is expected that the asset purchase program will end in October, after the next Open Market Committee meeting on the 29th of that month. Additionally, the FED maintained in its press release the phrases ("wording") in which it makes reference to its intention to maintain the federal funds rate objective in the current range for a considerable time (at least six months) after having completed the asset purchase program. This decision was made despite the fact that the latest macroeconomic indicators showed that non-agricultural employment creation in August was below market estimates (see Chart 8.5), and that CPI variation decelerated in the last three months. Indeed, the variation for August was 1.7% y.o.y., 0.3 p.p. lower than the previous month.

**Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 15**

**9. Monetary and Financial Indicators**

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Monthly averages Sep-13 | Sep-14 | Ago-14 | Dic-13 | Monthly variation % | Last 12 months % |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 395,573 | 390,997 | 361,580 | 329,769 | 1.2% | 20.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 303,587 | 300,243 | 277,095 | 254,326 | 1.1% | 19.4% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 274,028 | 270,686 | 247,158 | 231,389 | 1.2% | 18.4% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 29,557 | 29,557 | 29,935 | 22,935 | 0.0% | 28.9% |
| Settlement Checks | 1.7 | 0.4 | 2.1 | 0.0 | - | - |
| Current account in the BCRA | 91,987 | 90,754 | 84,484 | 75,443 | 1.4% | 21.9% |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 20,036 | 15,614 | 6,351 | 14,892 | 28.3% | 34.5% |
| Assets | 0000 | | | | | |
| **Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** | 227,893 | 210,816 | 111,491 | 113,561 | 8.1% | 100.7% |
| In banks | 178,750 | 171,259 | 98,364 | 98,905 | 4.4% | 80.7% |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 225,078 | 203,987 | 107,309 | 108,809 | 10.3% | 106.9% |
| In dollars | 778 | 828 | 0 | 0 | -6.1% | |
| **NOBAC** | 2,037 | 6,001 | 4,183 | 4,753 | -66.1% | -57.1% |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009** | 28,281 | 28,861 | 30,612 | 35,612 | -2.0% | -20.6% |

**Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 16**
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 763.330 750.989 667.633 626.883 1,6% 21,8%
 Current account (2) 221.879 217.109 190.954 171.844 2,2% 29,1%
 Savings account 160.201 158.995 140.307 124.791 0,8% 28,4%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER 351.996 345.840 309.655 306.839 1,8% 14,7%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 8 8 6 6 4,2% 33,3%
 Other deposits (3) 29.246 29.038 26.711 23.404 0,7% 25,0%

 Deposits from the private sector 574.880 566.556 484.439 449.848 1,5% 27,8%

 Deposits from the public sector 188.449 184.433 183.194 177.035 2,2% 6,4%

 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.235 8.205 8.263 8.149 0,4% 1,1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 549.195 540.323 498.212 457.313 1,6% 20,1%

 Loans to the private sector 506.231 497.413 457.095 420.095 1,8% 20,5%
 Advances 70.050 70.802 56.649 59.219 -1,1% 18,3%
 Documents 118.555 113.515 111.440 98.206 4,4% 20,7%
 Mortgage loans 46.556 46.261 43.075 40.686 0,6% 14,4%
 Pledged loans 32.140 31.907 31.304 28.718 0,7% 11,9%
 Personal loans 108.669 106.007 98.468 91.142 2,5% 19,2%
 Credit cards 92.648 91.007 80.716 69.143 1,8% 34,0%
 Others 37.613 37.915 35.442 32.983 -0,8% 14,0%

 Loans to the public sector 42.964 42.910 41.117 37.217 0,1% 15,4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.025 4.220 3.694 4.308 -4,6% -6,6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 495.909 487.796 438.115 403.234 1,7% 23,0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 656.110 646.790 578.422 528.025 1,4% 24,3%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 1.037.360 1.021.676 914.793 858.273 1,5% 20,9%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.108.985 1.092.262 968.731 905.543 1,5% 22,5%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 418.057 409.398 367.407 342.771 2,1% 22,0%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 560.379 552.264 493.877 454.957 1,5% 23,2%
 M3 ((Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 848.910 837.243 731.599 681.239 1,4% 24,6%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 909.871 897.710 775.730 720.721 1,4% 26,2%

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 4.576 1,2% 29.569 8,1% 33.994 9,4% 65.805 20,0%
 Financial sector -18.539 -4,7% -47.563 -13,0% -52.076 -14,4% -43.299 -13,1%
 Public sector 19.327 4,9% 45.903 12,5% 77.750 21,5% 124.299 37,7%
 Private external sector -273 -0,1% 9.028 2,5% 40.522 11,2% 9.106 2,8%
 BCRA securities -11.552 -3,0% -22.259 -6,1% -80.737 -22,3% -74.470 -22,6%
 Others 15.614 4,0% 44.461 12,1% 48.535 13,4% 50.169 15,2%

 BCRA international reserves excluding SDR allocations 2009 -581 -2,0% -582 -2,0% -2.331 -7,6% -7.331 -20,6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -31 -0,1% 1.202 4,2% 4.939 16,1% -346 -1,0%
 Payment to international organizations -1 0,0% 36 0,1% -318 -1,0% 146 0,4%
 Other public sector operations -130 -0,4% -722 -2,5% -2.421 -7,9% -3.984 -11,2%
 Minimum cash -258 -0,9% -800 -2,8% -3.865 -12,6% -3.320 -9,3%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -161 -0,6% -298 -1,0% -680 -2,2% 160 0,4%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.7 11.8 11.8
 Integration 12.0 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.9 65.9 67.4
 30 to 59 days 20.9 20.7 19.1
 60 to 89 days 5.9 7.3 6.5
 90 to 179 days 4.3 5.1 5.7
 more than 180 days 1.0 1.1 1.4
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 43.8 43.7 43.8
 Integration (includes resource application default) 84.5 86.3 84.6
 Position (2) 40.7 42.6 40.8
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.6 46.7 48.2
 30 to 59 days 20.2 22.6 20.8
 60 to 89 days 10.6 10.7 11.9
 90 to 179 days 13.6 13.8 12.6
 180 to 365 days 5.7 5.9 5.5
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.3 1.0
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position= Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 18 Interest Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 13.08 18.78 15.61 19.67 12.19
 Amount traded 2,051 1,874 2,084 2,144 1,874

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.17 19.64 20.17 17.67 15.58
 60 days or more 20.79 21.54 22.02 19.00 15.80
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.41 19.00 19.57 17.45 14.81
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.28 21.18 21.98 20.18 18.00

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.87 0.85 0.91 0.34 0.47
 60 days or more 1.55 1.52 1.40 0.65 0.95
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.85 0.81 0.89 0.39 0.52
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.93 0.92 1.23 0.33 0.61

 Active Interest Rates Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.58 19.84 21.14 21.64 18.23
 Amount traded (total terms) 291 279 279 316 259

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 28.91 30.87 30.74 27.59 23.54
 Documents on signature alone 24.71 26.29 28.00 22.38 20.68
 Mortgage loans 23.42 20.88 22.60 16.56 16.20
 Pledge loans 25.61 25.08 23.86 21.07 21.55
 Personal loans 37.84 37.26 37.40 39.34 36.36
 Credit cards n/a 41.20 40.12 37.16 35.22

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 18.94 23.37 21.57 22.62 17.39

 International Interest Rates Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.16 0.15 0.17 0.18
 6 months 0.33 0.33 0.33 0.35 0.38

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.55 0.46 0.49 0.33 0.39
 10 years 2.52 2.41 2.53 2.88 2.80

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.00 11.00 11.00 10.00 9.00

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 19 Interest Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

BCRA repurchase rates
 Passive 1 day 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50
Rates of total REPO round passes
 1 day 10.07 13.20 11.95 15.81 10.04
 7 days 12.73 12.33 12.79 13.12 10.03

Amount traded of REPO round passes (daily average) 16,784 12,176 11,298 3,981 8,488

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 2 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 3 months 26.80 26.38 26.80 15.52 15.34
 9 months n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
 12 months 29.29 28.02 28.25 17.80 17.89

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/a n/a
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/a n/a
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/a n/a
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,738 2,281 2,563 673 1,068

 Foreign Exchange Market Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.42 8.32 8.16 6.32 5.74
 Retail 8.43 8.32 8.16 6.33 5.75

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.73 8.60 8.39 6.75 5.97
 ROFEX 1 month 8.58 8.50 8.34 6.56 5.87
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,446 2,992 1,768 1,618 1,869

Real (Pesos per Real) 3.61 3.67 3.67 2.69 2.53

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.85 11.07 11.04 8.67 7.67

 Capital Market Sep-14 Aug-14 Jul-14 Dec-13 Sep-13

MERVAL
 Index 11,292 8,794 8,359 5,330 4,531
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 304 196 172 109 120

Government Bonds (at par value)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 151.5 128.7 117.7 132.6 145.8
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 130.9 107.2 108.0 106.6 100.2
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 140.3 121.0 113.9 121.6 131.4
 DISCOUNT ($) 67.0 68.8 73.5 63.9 48.5

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,421 1,416 1,048 826 1,114
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 380 355 327 412 381

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 2010. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentenary Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | September 2014 | BCRA | 21
