# October 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
October 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

   - Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7
   - Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9
   - Interbank Markets | Page 9
   - Passive Interest Rates | Page 10
   - Active Interest Rates | Page 11

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 12

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 13

   - Mutual Investment Funds | Page 13
   - Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

10. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on November 13, 2014. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In October, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) presented growth of 1.9% and maintained its stable year-on-year expansion rate around 21%, with a generalized increase in all its components.

• The increase in fixed-term deposits from the private sector was explained by deposits from the wholesale segment, although from the date on which the minimum interest rate limit established by the BCRA for fixed-term deposits made by individuals came into effect, an increase in placements of the retail segment was observed. In effect, in order to promote savings instruments in national currency, on October 8th Communication "A" 5640 came into effect, through which a minimum was established for the interest rates of fixed-term deposits made by individuals, provided that the total fixed-term placements per individual in each entity does not exceed the amount of deposit guarantee insurance coverage. The entry into effect of the measure was reflected in the behavior of interest rates in the retail segment, which reversed the downward trend they had shown since April, exhibiting a significant monthly increase, until positioning themselves above those perceived by wholesalers.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited growth of 3.3% ($16,730 million), markedly higher than in the previous months. Said increase, greater than that observed in October of last year, led to an acceleration in the year-on-year growth rate, which went from being at 20.5% to 21.1%. Loans aimed at consumption and financing implemented through documents led the growth for the month. Among the factors that motivated the increase in these financings, it is worth mentioning the greater consumption associated with Mother's Day, to which this year was added the boost from the "AHORA 12" program, which offers financing in 12 interest-free installments for the purchase of goods and services, and the credit granted under the Pro.Cre.Auto framework, which since its inception, at the end of June, has accumulated placements of more than $2,000 million.

• The liquidity in pesos of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBACs and NOBACs) remained at elevated levels, and in October averaged 38.7% of total deposits in pesos, a ratio similar to that of the previous month. On the other hand, as of October, entities were allowed a reduction in the minimum cash requirement by an amount equivalent to 16% of the financing granted under the "Ahora 12" program.

• Likewise, at the end of October, the Central Bank relaunched LEBACs in pesos redeemable at the reference exchange rate. Although the letters will continue to be subscribed by exporters from the cereal and oil sector that have liquidated foreign currency through the Unified and Free Exchange Market (MULC) for the dollar equivalent of the amount to be subscribed, on this occasion the possibility of subscribing to the securities was added in the event of liquidating through the MULC revenues from advances and pre-financing of exports additional to those provided for their normal operation.

• With the objective of reducing volatility in short-term interest rates, at the beginning of the month the BCRA modified the interest rates for its repo operations. In the case of passive repos for the Central Bank, the increase was between 4 p.p. and 4.5 p.p., with rates remaining at 13% and 14% for terms of 1 and 7 days, respectively. In the case of active repos, the increase was between 5 p.p. and 6 p.p., resulting in levels of 16%, 17%, and 20%, according to whether the terms are 1, 7, or 60 days, respectively. The interest rate curve of the Letters that the Central Bank places each week remained stable.

• International reserves increased by US$246 million in October and totaled at the end of the month
US$28.111 million. During the month, a first tranche of the local currency swap agreement with the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was activated for the equivalent of US$814 million. It is worth recalling that under the framework of this agreement, the BCRA will be able to request additional exchanges for up to a maximum close to US$11 billion, which represents support for implementing its financial, exchange rate and monetary policy, in compliance with the mandates of the Organic Charter.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 Monetary Aggregates - M3
(variation of monthly averages)
% Monthly Variation of M3 % 2. Monetary Aggregates1
5 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 50 October - Monthly Variation

4 40 Public Sector
Deposits
In October, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
3 30
(M32) showed growth of 1.9% (see Chart 2.1)
and maintained its year-on-year expansion rate stable
2 20 Private Sector around 21%. Although monthly growth was
Deposits largely driven by private sector deposits,
1 10 Demand Deposits placements from the public sector and
0 0 Bills and Coins Time Deposits and cash in circulation also registered increases.
Others
-1 -10
Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14024681012
thousands
Note: M3 includes cash in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAmillions of $The total deposits of the private sector in pesos presented
a monthly increase of 1.9%, with increases in demand
deposits and those agreed as fixed-term deposits.
With respect to the latter, they grew in October 1.1%,
accumulating 26.3% over the last 12 months (see Chart
2.2). The increase in fixed-term deposits of the private
sector, on average, was explained by deposits from the
wholesale segment. However, it should be noted
Chart 2.2 that as of the date Communication "A" 5640 came into

thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector effect, which established a minimum for
millions of $ % interest rates for fixed-term deposits made
300 60 by individuals, an increase in deposits from the
Monthly average balance Year-on-year variation (right axis) retail segment was observed. For their part, deposits

250 50 in foreign currency of the private sector also
showed an increase.
200 40
Regarding the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*3,
150 30 it presented growth of 1.8%, exhibiting a year-on-year
variation of 22.2%.
100 20

50 10 The monetary base showed monthly growth of
1.4%, reaching an average balance of $401,130 mil-
0 0 lion (see Chart 2.3). In year-on-year terms, it
Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 maintains an increase close to 20%, which is one of
Source: BCRA
the lowest of recent years. The monthly increase
was driven by cash in circulation and, mainly, by
Chart 2.3 banking reserves (composed of cash in financial

% Monetary Base % entities and the balances of current accounts of

10 (variation of monthly averages) 50 financial entities at the Central Bank).

8 40

6 30

4 20

2 10

0 0

-2 -10

-4 Monthly variation -20

-6 Year-on-year var. (right axis) -30

-8 -40
Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14
Source: BCRA

2 Includes cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits from non-financial private and public sectors
in pesos.
3 Includes M3, cancelatory checks in foreign currency and deposits from non-financial public and private sectors
in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.1 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

% Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities*
deposits ties1
45 (monthly average)

The liquidity of the segment in national currency of
40
financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the

October 2014 Oct-14; current account of entities at the Central Bank,
35 (% of deposits)4.0 38.7

Cash net repos with such entity and the holding of LE-

30 21.5 BACs and NOBACs) is maintained at elevated levels, and
CCBCRA

Repos 12.0 in October it averaged 38.7% of total deposits in
25
LEBACs and pesos (see Chart 3.1), a ratio similar to that of the previous
NOBACs
1.2 month.
20
 Aug-09 Jan-10 Jun-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12 Jul-12 Dec-12 May-13 Oct-13 Mar-14 Aug-14 For its part, the estimated surplus of the
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA minimum cash requirement was approximately 0.3% of
 the total of deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2). It is worth
 recalling that as of October, and according to what was
 Chart 3.2 established by Communication "A" 5638, entities were
 allowed a reduction in the minimum cash requirement
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos per an amount equivalent to 16% of the financing
 deposits
 2.6 granted under the "Now 12" program.

 2.0
 Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity
 1.4
 stood at 107.1% of the total of dollar deposits for the
 0.8 October average, showing an increase of 2.5 percentage
 0.3
 0.2 points compared to September.

-0.4

-1.0
 Surplus 4. Loans 1 4
-1.6 Accumulated Position

-2.2 Daily Position
 In October, loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited
-2.8
 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 a growth of 3.3% (16,730 million pesos), markedly higher
 Source: BCRA than that of the previous months. This increase was also
 greater than that observed in October of last year, which
 led to an acceleration in the year-over-year growth rate,
 Chart 4.1 which went from standing at 20.5% to 21.1% (see Chart 4.1).
 Loans destined for consumption and financing instruments
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector through documents led the month's growth.
 % %
 6 60 Within the loans destined to finance commercial activi-
 Monthly Variation

 5 Year-over-year Variation (right axis)4.5 4.350ties, those instrumentalized via documents continued increas-
 4 3.6 40 ing their monthly growth rate, favored by the positive
 3.3

 3 2.7 2.730 statistical carryover that September left, the month in
 2.3 which entities should have agreed to financing of at least

 2 20 50% of the total amount of the allocation of the Credit
 1.3 Line for Productive Investment (LCIP) for the second

 1 10 tranche of 2014. The increase recorded in October in
 documents was 5.7% (6,800 million pesos), the highest of
 0 0
 this year and higher than that of the same month in 2013.
-1 -10 In this way, the year-over-year variation stood at 22.6%,
 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14
Source: BCRA 1.9 percentage points above that recorded the previous

4 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios of entities
to financial trusts. In the present report "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) agreed
upon in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of the loans agreed upon, minus the amortizations and cancellations
of the period.

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 month (see Chart 4.2). For its part, advances reflected a

 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % decrease of 3.3% (2,320 million pesos), while in the last

14 70 12 months they accumulated growth on the order of

12 Avg. Monthly Var. 60 14%. Additionally, the remaining commercial financings,

10 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 50 grouped under the heading "Other Loans", registered an
 increase of 1.2% (465 million pesos).
 8 40 5.7
 Continuing with the credit stimulus policies for the
 6 4.9 5.0 5.630
 3.9 4.1 22.5 productive sector, the Central Bank held a new auction
 4 20
 1.8 2.1 within the framework of the Financing Program

 2 10

 0 0

-2 -10

-4 -20
Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14 Bicentennial Productive Fund (PFPB). This was auction No. 28, through which $211 million were awarded to Banco de la Nación Argentina. In this way, the total resources awarded since the beginning of the PFPB, in mid-2010, amounted to $8,091 million, with approximately 80% of the funds having been disbursed (see Graph 4.3). The interest rate to be paid will be 13% annually, while the total financial cost for the borrowers of these funds will be 14.3% annually.

Graph 4.3
millions of $ Bicentennial Advances %
9,000 (accumulated monthly amounts) 90
 Awarded Amounts
8,000 Disbursed Amounts 80 Loans aimed at financing mainly family consumption showed great dynamism.
 Disbursed/Awarded Ratio (right axis)
7,000 70
 Credit card financing showed growth of 8% ($7,420 million), one of the highest in recent years. Among the factors that motivated the increase in these financing arrangements, it is worth mentioning the greater consumption associated with Mother's Day, to which this year was added the impetus from the "AHORA 12" program, which offers financing
6,000 60
 in 12 interest-free installments for the purchase of goods and services. In this way, the year-on-year rate of change registered an increase of 6.1 p.p., reaching 40% (see Graph 4.4). For its part, personal loans continued growing at a good pace, with an increase of 3.3% ($3,560 million), similar to that of September and higher than the rest of the year. In year-on-year terms, they accumulated growth of 18.9%. The amounts granted within this line began to show greater dynamism starting in July, the month following when maximum interest rate limits were established for this type of loan. Indeed, in October the new loans granted totaled more than
5,000 50
4,000 40
3,000 30
2,000 20
1,000 10
 0 0
 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 $8,000 million, an amount that, like that of the previous month, is high in relation to what was operated the rest of the year (see Graph 4.5). It should be noted that, among the new personal loans are the credits granted within the framework of Pro.Cre.Auto, which since its inception, at the end of June, has accumulated placements of more than $2,000 million, through approximately 20,230 operations (see Graph 4.6).

Source: BCRA

Graph 4.4
% Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
9 90 With respect to loans with real guarantee, mortgages
8 Average monthly variation 8.0 80 registered an increase of 0.8% ($370 million),
7 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 70
6 60 slightly higher than in September, accumulating in the last 12 months growth close to 14%. While this line has shown limited dynamism, it should be noted that part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected in the statistics of bank loans, since it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Program of the Bicentennial for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with pledged guarantee completed a quarter of growth, after a period of successive reductions. In fact, they exhibited an increase of 1.4% ($435 million), although
5 50
4 40
3 30
2 20
1 10
0 0
-1 -10
-2 -20
-3 -30
-4 -40
 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 6 Graph 4.5

 thousands of
millions $ Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (amounts granted and TNA - country total) %
 9 52
 Amount
 8 Interest rate (right axis) 49
 7 46
 6 43
 5 40
 4 37
 3 34
 2 31
 1 28
 0 25
 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 Jun-14 Oct-14
Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁶

The interest rate curve of the Letters that the Central Bank places each week remained stable in October. The interest rates of the LEBACs that the Central Bank places at predetermined rates –at maturities of 100 days and 120 days– remained at 26.9% and 27.7%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity, at 360 days maturity, stood at 29.3% (see Graph 5.1).

In the secondary market, the interest rates of the LEBACs registered certain volatility in the shorter maturities (less than 40 days) in line with the behavior recorded in the interbank market. Meanwhile the interest rates of the longer maturities remained relatively stable. The average amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market stood at $2,600 million daily. In particular, operations with LEBACs stood out in the species at less than 15 days maturity (see Graph 5.2).

The Central Bank's securities continued to be in October the main instrument for absorbing excess liquidity. At the end of the month the nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC and NOBAC stood at $243,933 million, approximately 30% of the total of deposits in pesos (see Graph 5.3), registering a growth of 4.1% compared to the end of September. The increase occurred again in fixed rate securities (LEBACs), while the balance of securities that accrue a variable rate (NOBACs) remained stable at $860 million (which are close to maturing in early November).

The awarded amount of LEBAC reached $51,976 million, and while most continued to be placed at maturities between 90 and 180 days (68% of the total), an increase in the awarded amount at maturities of between 270 and 365 days stood out, reaching 26% of the total (see Graph 5.4).

Regarding the main holders, the increase in the monthly balance was driven by holders that

---

⁵ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
⁶ In this section the figures correspond to data at the end of the month, except where another specification is indicated.
40.8 are not banks (see Chart 5.5), among which institutional investors stand out (Mutual Funds and Insurance Companies, among others).

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the LEBAC balance decreased by US$48 million, ending the month at US$713 million. Unlike the previous month, the decline was driven by lower holdings in public banks. This behavior occurred in a context where the interest rates paid by the Central Bank for its placements remained unchanged.

Likewise, at the end of October the Central Bank relaunched LEBACs in pesos redeemable at the reference exchange rate. Although the bills will continue to be subscribed by exporters from the grain and oil sector who have settled through the Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market (MULC) foreign currency for the equivalent in dollars of the amount to be subscribed, on this occasion the possibility was added to subscribe to the securities in the case of settling in the MULC income from advances and pre-financing of exports additional to those provided for in their normal operations, as established by Communication "A" 5655.

In relation to these latter securities, their issuance conditions did not register changes. They will be subscribed in pesos, with a maturity of 180 days and a predetermined cut-off rate of 3.65%. At the maturity of the instrument, settlement will be carried out at the nominal subscribed value, applying the variation of the reference exchange rate between the subscription and maturity date. Within the issuance conditions, the bills may be transferred only once and their counterparty must be an agent from the same sector.

## Central Bank Repo Operations

With the objective of reducing volatility in short-term interest rates, at the beginning of the month the BCRA modified the interest rates for its repo operations. In the case of passive repos for the Central Bank, the increase was between 4 p.p. and 4.5 p.p., leaving the rates...
Source: BCRA

ses at 13% and 14% for the terms of 1 and 7 days, respectively. In the case of active pases, the increase was between 5 p.p. and 6 p.p., resulting in levels of 16%, 17% and 20%, according to whether the terms are 1, 7 or 60 days, respectively (see Table 1). For its part, the interest rate on active pases at variable rate available up to 90 days continues to be a margin of 2 p.p. over the BADLAR private banks.

Table 1 Interest Rates for Pases in the REPO Round

In October, the average balance of passive pases for the Central Bank –in all the modalities in which the institution participates– recorded a decrease of almost $1,190 million (6%) and was placed at $18,847 million (see Graph 5.7). The decline was explained by financial entities, since the balance of pases of FCIs recorded an increase. For its part, active pases continued to not be registered.

| Term | Passive Pases | Active Pases |
|------|---|---|
| | previous | current | previous | current |
| 1 | 9.0 | 13.0 | 11.0 | 16.0 |
| 7 | 9.5 | 14.0 | 11.5 | 17.0 |
| 60 | 14.0 | 20.0 | | |

## Interfinancial Markets¹

In October, the interest rates in the interfinancial market increased. The average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the call market rose 8 p.p., placing itself at around 21%. Likewise, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day in the REPO round between financial entities increased 9 p.p., standing at 22% (see Graph 5.7).

**Graph 5.6**
**Balance of Passive Pases with the BCRA**
thousands of millions of $

[Chart showing daily balance and monthly average from Jun-14 to Oct-14, ranging from 0 to 45 on y-axis]

Source: BCRA

This behavior is explained by various factors. On one hand, the increase in the Central Bank's pase rates, especially those of passive pase operations for the BCRA that represent a floor to the interest rate of the interfinancial market. On the other hand, the fact that during the first part of the month, when entities habitually try to accumulate numerals to comply with their minimum cash position, the growth of loans was much higher than that of deposits, which elevated the demand for liquidity.

**Graph 5.7**
**Interbank Market**
thousands of millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA %

[Chart showing REPO round amount excluding BCRA, Call amount, REPO round interest rate excluding BCRA (right axis), and Call interest rate (right axis) from Oct-10 to Oct-14]

Source: BCRA

The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial market (including the REPO round between entities and the call market) was placed around $6,800 million.

## Passive Interest Rates¹

With the objective of favoring savings instruments in national currency, on October 8th Communication "A" 5640 came into effect, through which a minimum for the interest rates of fixed-term deposits made by individuals was established, provided that the total of term placements per individual person in each entity does not exceed the amount of the deposit guarantee insurance coverage. In this sense and with the objective of expanding the protection of savers, Communication "A" 5641 increased, as of November, the amount of the deposit guarantee coverage per holder, from $120,000 to $350,000. The minimum interest rates were established as a proportion of the LEBAC interest rate cut of predetermined rate with the closest term to 90 days⁷. The proportion of the interest rate of reference mentioned varies according to the term of the deposit: it is 87% for placements up to 44 days, 89% for deposits of en-

**Graph 5.8**
**Interfinancial Markets**
TNA % (daily data; 2014)

[Chart showing Call interest rate at 1 day, REPO round interest rate excluding BCRA operations, and 1 business day Passive Pases interest rate, ranging from approximately 5% to 35%]
20 between 45 and 59 days and 93% for those of 60 days or more.
Thus the minimum rates were 22.9%, 23.4% and 24.5%
15 in October, respectively.

10
The implementation of the measure was reflected in
5
the interest rates of the retail segment, which reversed

0 the downward trend they had shown since April,
01-Mar 31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sep 27-Octexhibiting a significant monthly increase, positioning themselves
Source: BCRA
above those perceived by wholesalers.

In effect, the monthly average of the interest rate paid
by private entities for their deposits in
the retail segment – up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days –
Graph 5.9 registered an increase of 3.2 p.p., positioning itself at 21.6%
Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits of 30-35 days (see Graph 5.9). In particular, when analyzing fixed-term
% TNA (monthly average - Private banks)
30 deposits of individuals up to $100 thousand by maturity bracket,

BADLAR Up to $100 thousand it is observed that entities have adjusted their interest
25
21.6 rates in accordance with the new regulations, so that

20 20.0
the monthly average as of October 8 – the date of

15 entry into force of the regulation – stood at 22.8% for

p.p. Monthly average variation
5 placements up to 44 days, which is the maturity bracket
10 4
3 that operates with the highest volume (see Graph 5.10).
2
1 It should be noted that starting in November, minimum rates
5 0
-1 will apply to placements up to $350 thousand, and will
-2
Oct-13 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14be positioned at 23.3% for placements up to 44 days, and
0
Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14
Source: BCRA

7 To determine the reference interest rate, the simple average of the cut-off rates of the second month immediately
prior to the placement capture month is considered.

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 10 Graph 5.10 23.9% and 24.9% for deposits of 45 to 59 days and 60

Individuals' Deposits up to $100 thousand: Interest Rates and Participation days or more, respectively (Communication "B" 10889).

%
25 Sep-14 8 to 31 Oct-14 Minimum rate: 24.5%
Regarding the wholesale segment, the BADLAR
24 24.4
Minimum rate: 22.9% Minimum rate: 23.4% of private banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits

23 23.3 of $1 million or more, 30-35 days maturity –
22.8
22 averaged 20%, decreasing 0.3 p.p. during the month and positioning

21 itself below the levels observed in De-

20 cember 2013.

19 18.9 19.0 19.3

18 Active Interest Rates1 8
average maturity by maturity bracket
17
20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90The interest rates applied to loans to the private
Up to 44 days 45 to 59 days 60 days or more
Note: In each maturity bracket the average maturity was calculated by weighting by amount. sector showed heterogeneous behaviors.

Source: BCRA

Among the interest rates applied to commercial lines,
increases were led by overdrafts, which exhibited their usual intra-
monthly seasonality, in line with specific early-
Graph 5.11 month liquidity requirements, although in
Interest Rates for Overdraft Advances this case the increase was more pronounced. This dynamic

TNA, % (monthly average)

%, TNA Daily data
36 is usually especially evident in the interest rate of
40 Total Overdraft Advances
32
28 overdraft advances to companies for more than $10 million and up
36
24 Overdraft advances for more than to 7 days maturity, which represent approximately 25% of
$10 M - up to 7 days
20
32 31.0 the total overdraft advances. In effect, in Oc-
16

12
28 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14tober, this interest rate averaged 25.3%, increasing

25.3 6.3 p.p., while the interest rate of the total over-
24
draft advances averaged 31%, 2.1 p.p.
20
above that of September (see Graph 5.11).
16
12 Likewise, the interest rates on financing instruments implemented through documents increased in the month, following the decline in September. The monthly average of the interest rate applied on document discounts was placed at 25.2%, increasing 0.4 p.p.

For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate on documents at sole signature was placed at 25.9%, reversing part of the September decline, as it increased 1.2 p.p. In this sense, part of the increase is explained by the lower participation of credits granted under the framework of the LCIP, having passed the intermediate target of September, when financing should have been agreed for at least 50% of the total amount of the second tranche of the 2014 quota. This lower participation of LCIP loans within the total line is reflected in a lower participation of amounts granted for more than 3 years compared to September (see Graph 5.12).

In general, the interest rates applied to longer-term financing decreased in the month. Within loans with real guarantee, the interest rate charged for pledged loans was the only one that registered an increase (0.9 p.p.), averaging 26.4%.

For its part, the interest rate on mortgage-guaranteed loans allocated to individuals averaged 18.5%, 0.7 p.p. below the September level.

Regarding the interest rate on personal loans, the maximum rates in effect in October were located slightly above those of September, in line with the increase in the simple average interest rate of LEBACs closest to 90 days of August⁹: 39.7% and 49.3% for entities of Group I and Group II¹⁰, respectively. However, this increase was not reflected in the monthly average interest rate of the line, which was placed at 37.4%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. in the month (see Graph 5.13).

In November, the maximum interest rate in effect for personal loans will be 38.9% and 48.2% for entities of Group I and Group II, respectively (Communication "B" 10889).

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market¹

International reserves increased US$246 million in October and totaled US$28.111 million at the end of the month (see Graph 6.1). During the month, a first tranche of the swap agreement with the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was activated.

Payment to the Paris Club
25 local currencies with the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
 Jan-13 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14
Source: BCRA People's Bank of China, for the equivalent of US$814 million.
 It is worth recalling that within the framework of this agreement, the
 BCRA may request additional exchanges, for
 Graph 6.2 up to a maximum close to US$11 billion, which
 represents support for implementing its policy
 Foreign Exchange Market (average quotations)
 financial, exchange and monetary, in compliance with
 $/Euro $/Real $/US$ the mandates of the Organic Charter.
 11.5 5.5 9.0
 $/Euro $/US$ (Reference)
 5.0 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against
 10.5 $/Real, right axis 8.0 the United States dollar, although it appreciated against the
 4.5
 real and the euro. The average quotations for the month were
 9.5 4.0 7.0
 3.5 of 8.5 $/US$, increasing at a slower pace than that
 8.5 6.0 recorded the previous month (0.7% with respect to September),
 3.0
 7.5 2.5 5.0 3.5 $/real (-3.7%) and 10.7 $/euro (-0.8%; see Graph
 2.0 6.2). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the
 6.5 4.0
 1.5 average daily amount traded exceeded $1,800 million,
 5.5 1.0 3.0 with a 25% decline in average daily volume
 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14
Source: BCRA

9 As of November, and in accordance with Communication "A" 5651, the definition of "reference interest rate"
was unified for minimum and maximum rates, which will be calculated based on the simple average of the predetermined cut-off rates of
LEBAC with maturity closest to 90 days of the second immediately preceding month to the loan disbursement
10 Groups defined in Communication "A" 5590.

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 12 Graph 7.1 rio operated. Meanwhile, the quotations expected for the
 Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos next months were reduced compared to what was
 thousands of thousands of observed the previous month.
 millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $

 24.0 160 Money Market
  Fixed Income 140
 19.0  Mixed Income
  Variable Income 120
 14.0 Evolution of stock (right axis)
 100 Mutual Investment Funds

 9.0 80

 60 In October, investors continued to allocate their
 4.0 excess liquidity to the purchase of shares of
 40 Mutual Investment Funds (FCI), although at a slower
 -1.0 pace than that recorded in the three previous months. The
 20 equity of the total of funds, denominated in both pesos
 -6.0 0 and foreign currency, grew by $4,090 million
 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI (3.1%) placing itself at the end of the month at $136,300 million.

 The monthly increase was driven by the segment
 in pesos, and, in particular, by the increase of Fixed
 Graph 7.2 Income short-term funds, which have the BADLAR of
 Estimated Performance of FCI Fixed Income by Segment private banks as a benchmark11, which increased
 % (profitability in pesos) their equity by around $6,300 million (20.9%),
 3.0 as a consequence of both the increase in the quantity
 2.0 1.9 of shares, as well as the increase in their value. The rest
 October 2014 of the fixed income FCI segments registered declines,
 1.0 as did the Money Market funds.
 0.0
 -1.0 For its part, the funds that invest most of their portfolio
 -2.0 -1.4 -1.6 in variable income assets verified a decline of $590
 -3.0 million (-10.2%), and mixed income funds of about
 -4.0 $100 million (-0.4%), but in these cases it was
 -4.2 a consequence of the losses recorded in the value of the
 -5.0 portfolio assets, due to the declines recorded in the
 Short Term that Rest of funds Medium Term Long Term local stock market.
 replicate BADLAR of Short Term of Short Term
Source: BCRAof private banks*
* based on the classification of the Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds
Indeed, in October the estimated returns of variable income and mixed income funds were negative (10% and 1.8% in the month, respectively) while Graph 7.3 Financial Trusts Issuances those of fixed income funds were almost neutral. Within (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) units these, profitability was negative in most of the
millions of $
2,700 35 segments, except in the case of funds that have
 Issued Amount
2,400 Number of Operations (right axis) 30 as benchmark the BADLAR of private banks that

2,100 registered positive monthly returns of 1.9%. Finally, in
 25 Money Market funds, the monthly return was placed at
1,800

1,500 20 1.1%.

1,200 15
 Regarding the foreign currency segment, the FCIs
 900
 10 assets were reduced by US$16 million to US$336
 600 million. The decline was driven mainly by fixed
 300 5 income funds, which fell US$10 million.

 0 0
 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13 Oct-14
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

11 Classification based on the Argentine Common Investment Funds Chamber (CAFCI). They are FCI whose objective is to replicate the BADLAR of private banks.

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 13 Graph 7.4 Financial Trusts12

 Cut Rates of Senior Securities in Pesos
 (duration less than 14 months - weighted monthly average by amount) In October, the issuances of Financial Trusts (FF)
 YTM; %
 40 totaled around $2,080 million through 18 operations.

 35 Fixed Rate This amount represented a 16% decrease compared to
 Variable Rate
 BADLAR private banks the high volume traded in September, although
 30
 24.2 similar to that of August (see Graph 7.3).

 25

 20 Among the settlors, financial entities stood out, which
 concentrated more than half of the total issued in the
 15 month. Indeed, they placed approximately $1,100 million,
 10 68% more than in September, being the most important
 5 amount since January 2013. In addition to consumption-
 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 related loans, among the assets securitized by this group
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others of settlors were leasing contracts. For their part, retail
 stores securitized personal loans for $535 million,
 approximately 30% less than the previous month and a
 similar amount to that observed in July and August. Meanwhile,
 Graph 8.1 "Mutuals, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers
 Monetary Base and other financial services providers" placed $450
 Billions Japan - In levels and as % of GDP %
260 60 million, showing a 44% increase compared to the previous
 month.

240 55
 Finally, the cut interest rate (weighted average by amount) of
220 Monetary Base (in levels) 50 senior securities - in pesos and with duration less than 14
200 Monetary Base/GDP (right axis) 45 months - with variable yield remained relatively stable,
180 40 placed at 24.2% (see Graph 7.4). Meanwhile, in the fixed rate
160 35 segment, no operations were recorded.

140 30

120 25

100 20

 80 15 8. Main Measures of Policy
 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14
 Source: BCRA based on Bank of Japan Other Central Banks
During October, significant monetary policy measures continued to be adopted in markets, both by developed countries and emerging markets. In some cases, the measures had an expansive character at the margin (that is, more expansive or less contractionary than previously), as in the case of the monetary authorities of Japan, Sweden, South Korea and Chile, and in others, contractionary (or less expansive), such as those of the USA, Russia and Brazil.

Among the measures of developed countries, the monetary impulse announced by the Bank of Japan (BoJ) at the end of the month surprised markets. The Bank decided to increase its commitment to expand the monetary base to ¥80 trillion per year – approximately US$700 billion, whereas before it was around ¥60-70 trillion per year–. In addition, the BoJ decided to increase its purchase target for Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)13 and assets linked to the real estate sector (tripling it in both cases to US$27 billion and US$1 billion, respectively). Since the BoJ began its quantitative and qualitative expansion program in April 2013, the monetary base has increased 73% (¥106.5 trillion, see Chart 8.1). Japan's monetary authority took these measures while releasing new projections regarding the Japanese economy. In them, the BoJ forecasts growth of 0.5% for fiscal year 2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015), half of what was forecast in July. Regarding inflation for this fiscal year (adjusted for the increase in consumption tax in April 2014), the Bank projects an increase of 1.2%, 0.1 p.p. less than the previous projection. Additionally, the latest September inflation data remained unchanged from the previous month at 3.3% y.o.y. (see Chart 8.2).

Sweden also took expansive measures. In effect, Sweden's monetary authority (the Riksbank) decided to reduce its monetary policy interest rate (the Repo Rate) by 0.25 p.p. to 0%, while the limits of the interest rate corridor were adjusted to 0.75% and -0.75%, respectively. It took this measure with the objective of contributing to an increase in inflationary pressures, in a context of deflation (see Chart 8.3).

For its part, as expected at its meeting on October 29, the Federal Reserve's (FED) Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to end its program of purchasing treasury securities (QE3, which had begun on September 13, 2012), which was at a level of US$15 billion in monthly purchases. In its statement, the FED highlighted the improvement in underemployment indicators (see Chart 8.4),
Monthly Indicator of Economic Activity while it stated that the chances decreased that
Var i.a. %
15 Chile inflation would remain persistently below
13
2%. In this context, it noted that if the next
11
inflation and employment indicators show
 9
a faster improvement than projected, the FOMC
 7
could begin to raise the objective of the Federal
 5
Funds Rate earlier than expected by the market (for
 3
consensus it would be June 17, 2015).
 1

-1 Among emerging countries, the monetary authorities
-3 of South Korea and Chile took measures with an
-5 expansionary bias. In the first case, the Bank of South
 Jan-09 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Korea decided to reduce its monetary policy interest
 Source: BCRA based on BCCh rate, the 1-week repo rate (Base Rate), by 0.25 p.p. to 2%.

13 Funds that allow taking positions on indices built with respect to the price of a very wide variety of assets (stocks, bonds, commodities, other indices, etc.).

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 15 Graph 8.6 This rate had already been reduced by the same magnitude
 in its August meeting. This decision was made in a
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil % context in which inflation is located below the
 % target (2.5%-3.5%) and is decreasing, while some
 25 Industrial Production (Var. i.a.) 18 activity indicators would be signaling better
 Economic Activity Index of BCB (Var. i.a.)
 20 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16 perspectives for aggregate demand. In the case of
 Inflation Rate (right axis)
 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) Chile, its central bank decided once again to reduce
 15 14 by 0.25 p.p. its reference interest rate to 3%, after the
 10 12 four previous reductions of 2014 (0.25 p.p. each). This
 5 10 decision was made in a context of marked deceleration
 0 8 of the level of activity (see Graph 8.5), and despite the
 -5 6 fact that inflation was 4.9% i.a., for the sixth consecutive
-10 4 month above the target (3% ± 1 p.p.). Nevertheless, the
-15 2 Central Bank of Chile stated in its press release that
-20 0 medium-term inflation expectations remain around
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 3%.

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br Finally, Russia and Brazil took contractionary
 measures. In the first case, the Central Bank of Russia
 increased by 1.5 p.p. to 9.5% the Key Rate to face
 growing inflationary pressures and attempt to halt the
 depreciation of the ruble. In the case of the Central
 Bank of Brazil, the Monetary Policy Committee
 (COPOM) decided, unexpectedly and in a divided
 vote, to increase the target for the Selic rate by 0.25
 p.p. to 11.25%. In its press release, it was indicated that
 the balance of risks on inflation has deteriorated, among
 other factors, due to the intensification in the adjustment
 of relative prices in the economy. The COPOM made
 this decision despite the fact that the most recent
 activity data continues to be unencouraging. Industrial
 production reached six consecutive months of year-on-
 year decline, while the Leading Index of GDP (IBC-Br)
 has already reached five (see Graph 8.6).

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 169. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Oct-13 Oct-14 Sep-14 Monthly Last 12 Dec-13
 months
Monetary base 401,131 395,573 361,580 335,078 1.4% 19.7%
 Monetary circulation 306,366 303,587 277,095 258,276 0.9% 18.6%
 Banknotes and Coins in hands of the public 275,179 274,094 247,158 234,464 0.4% 17.4%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 31,186 29,491 29,935 23,808 5.7% 31.0%
 Cancellatory Checks 1.1 1.7 2.1 0.0 - -
 Current account at the BCRA 94,765 91,987 84,484 76,803 3.0% 23.4%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 18,834 20,036 6,351 12,577 -6.0% 49.8%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value) 239,558 227,893 111,491 116,946 5.1% 104.8%
 In banks 184,017 178,750 98,364 103,245 2.9% 78.2%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 237,971 225,078 107,309 112,745 5.7% 111.1%
 In dollars 727 778 0 0 -6.5%

 NOBAC 860 2,037 4,183 4,201 -57.8% -79.5%

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) excluding 2009 SDR allocations 27,570 28,281 30,612 34,258 -2.5% -19.5%

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 781,894 763,436 667,633 640,467 2.4% 22.1%
 Current account (2) 233,625 221,870 190,954 171,788 5.3% 36.0%
 Savings account 161,034 160,203 140,307 127,322 0.5% 26.5%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 356,413 352,032 309,655 316,688 1.2% 12.5%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 8 8 6 6 0.0% 33.3%
 Other deposits (3) 30,814 29,323 26,711 24,663 5.1% 24.9%

 Deposits of the private sector 586,059 575,053 484,439 459,470 1.9% 27.6%

 Deposits of the public sector 195,835 188,383 183,194 180,996 4.0% 8.2%

 Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 8,245 8,236 8,263 8,169 0.1% 0.9%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 565,135 549,107 498,212 469,372 2.9% 20.4%

 Loans to the private sector 522,642 506,141 457,095 431,423 3.3% 21.1%
 Advances 67,718 70,041 56,649 59,543 -3.3% 13.7%
 Documents 125,367 118,562 111,440 102,273 5.7% 22.6%
 Mortgages 46,926 46,556 43,075 41,248 0.8% 13.8%
 Pledges 32,569 32,134 31,304 29,687 1.4% 9.7%
 Personal 111,977 108,648 98,468 94,161 3.1% 18.9%
 Credit cards 100,032 92,611 80,716 71,454 8.0% 40.0%
 Others 38,053 37,589 35,442 33,057 1.2% 15.1%

 Loans to the public sector 42,493 42,966 41,117 37,949 -1.1% 12.0%

 Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 3,797 4,025 3,694 4,148 -5.7% -8.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 508,805 495,965 438,115 406,255 2.6% 25.2%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 669,839 656,168 578,422 533,577 2.1% 25.5%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1,057,074 1,037,531 914,793 874,934 1.9% 20.8%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,129,447 1,109,160 968,731 924,229 1.8% 22.2%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 425,167 418,150 367,407 347,925 1.7% 22.2%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 568,768 560,472 493,877 462,222 1.5% 23.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 861,239 849,149 731,599 693,937 1.4% 24.1%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 923,149 910,112 775,730 735,231 1.4% 25.6%

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 17 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 5,558 1.4% 17,187 4.5% 39,551 10.9% 66,053 19.7%
 Financial sector 1,151 0.3% -7,073 -1.8% -12,436 -3.4% -6,108 -1.8%
 Public sector 16,467 4.2% 56,200 14.6% 102,083 28.2% 134,033 40.0%
 Private external sector -4,148 -1.0% -2,274 -0.6% 37,103 10.3% 15,164 4.5%
 BCRA Securities -6,407 -1.6% -26,429 -6.9% -87,144 -24.1% -79,198 -23.6%
 Others -1,506 -0.4% -3,238 -0.8% -55 0.0% 2,162 0.6%
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE BCRA -711 -2.5% -1.949 -6.6% -3.042 -9.9% -6.688 -19.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -488 -1.7% -255 -0.9% 4.451 14.5% 800 2.3%
 Payment to international organizations -34 -0.1% -74 -0.2% -352 -1.1% -17 -0.1%
 Other public sector operations 2.921 10.3% 2.413 8.2% 505 1.7% 178 0.5%
 Minimum cash -30 -0.1% -681 -2.3% -3.896 -12.7% -3.422 -10.0%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -3.079 -10.9% -3.353 -11.4% -3.764 -12.3% -4.240 -12.4%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN recorded.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.8 11.7 11.8
 Integration 12.0 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 69.3 67.9 65.9
 30 to 59 days 19.9 20.9 20.7
 60 to 89 days 5.8 5.9 7.3
 90 to 179 days 3.9 4.3 5.1
 more than 180 days 1.0 1.0 1.1

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 44.5 44.3 43.7
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 86.8 85.0 86.3
 Position (2) 42.2 40.7 42.6
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 46.9 49.7 46.7
 30 to 59 days 21.4 20.2 22.6
 60 to 89 days 12.3 10.6 10.7
 90 to 179 days 13.3 13.6 13.8
 180 to 365 days 6.0 5.7 5.9
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.2 0.3
(1) Estimated data on Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

 Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 21.05 13.08 18.78 19.67 12.24
 Amount operated 2.295 2.048 1.874 2.144 1.856

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.46 19.17 19.64 17.67 16.27
 60 days or more 22.34 20.79 21.54 19.00 18.01
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.02 18.45 19.00 17.45 16.70
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.01 20.28 21.18 20.18 18.74

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.84 0.87 0.85 0.34 0.41
 60 days or more 1.45 1.55 1.51 0.65 0.84
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.77 0.87 0.81 0.39 0.46
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.14 0.93 0.92 0.33 0.50

## Active Interest Rates Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.93 21.58 19.84 21.64 18.42
 Amount operated (total terms) 316 291 279 316 290

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 31.01 28.93 30.90 27.59 25.02
 Single signature documents 25.93 24.73 26.29 22.38 21.11
 Mortgage 20.39 23.45 20.88 16.56 17.16
 Pledge 26.43 25.61 25.08 21.07 22.42
 Personal 37.42 37.85 37.27 39.34 38.37
 Credit cards n/d 40.72 41.11 37.16 34.69

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 25.27 18.94 23.38 22.62 18.72

## International Interest Rates Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.15 0.16 0.17 0.17
 6 months 0.32 0.33 0.33 0.35 0.36

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.43 0.55 0.46 0.33 0.32
 10 years 2.29 2.52 2.41 2.88 2.60

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.03 11.00 11.00 10.00 9.36
(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 12.65 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 13.61 9.50 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Assets 7 days 16.52 11.50 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO market repo rates
 1 day 17.40 10.07 13.20 15.81 10.25
 7 days 14.46 12.73 12.33 13.12 9.68

Amount traded in REPO market repos (daily average) 14,891 16,784 12,176 3,981 8,484

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 14.93
 3 months 26.86 26.80 26.38 15.52 15.23
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months 29.29 29.29 28.02 17.80 17.81

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/o n/o
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/o n/o
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/o n/o
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/o n/o

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,585 2,738 2,281 673 1,181

Foreign Exchange Market Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.48 8.42 8.32 6.32 5.85
 Retail 8.49 8.43 8.32 6.33 5.85

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.74 8.73 8.60 6.75 6.14
 ROFEX 1 month 8.60 8.58 8.50 6.56 6.00
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,809 2,446 2,992 1,618 1,332

Real (Pesos x Real) 3.46 3.61 3.67 2.69 2.67

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 10.74 10.85 11.07 8.67 7.98

Capital Market Oct-14 Sep-14 Aug-14 Dec-13 Oct-13

MERVAL
 Index 10,565 11,292 8,794 5,330 5,227
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 282 304 196 109 139

Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 144.0 151.5 128.7 132.6 148.9
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 125.7 130.9 107.2 106.6 114.7
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 134.7 140.3 121.0 121.6 137.0
 DISCOUNT ($) 65.3 67.0 68.8 63.9 58.4

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,733 1,421 1,416 826 960
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 427 380 355 412 384

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 2010. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with terms of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-on-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LCIP:** Credit Line for Productive Investment.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Bond.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STV:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**FV:** Face Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | October 2014 | BCRA | 21
