# November 2014 Monthly Monetary Report
November 2014

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was December 11, 2014. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed a growth of 2.2% and maintained its stable year-on-year expansion rate around 21%. The increase was driven by deposits from the private sector, although increases were also shown in public sector placements and cash in circulation held by the public.

• Time deposits in pesos from the private sector showed a growth of $3,800 million (1.4%), with increases verified in the wholesale stratum and, mainly, in the segment of less than $1 million. In effect, time deposits of less than $1 million grew 2%, significantly above the previous two-month period, promoted by the Central Bank regulation that, at the beginning of October, established a scheme for determining minimum interest rates for deposits from individuals up to an amount equivalent to that which applies to deposit guarantees.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a growth of 2.1% ($11,080 million) and a year-on-year variation of 20.6%. In this way, its monthly rate of change returned to values similar to those observed in August and September. The month's growth was driven, again, by loans directed toward consumption and financing instruments executed through documents.

• The liquidity of the financial entities' segment in domestic currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and NOBAC) averaged 39.2% in terms of total deposits in pesos and grew 0.6 p.p. compared to October. Among its components, the sustained increase in the proportion of LEBAC and NOBAC stands out.

• With respect to interest rates, those paid in the retail time deposit segment were aligned with the minimum values established by the Central Bank, while in the wholesale segment they remained relatively stable compared to last month. Meanwhile, interest rates applied to loans to the private sector, in general, declined. Those corresponding to commercial financing lines stood out: the monthly average interest rate for advances to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity was set at 23%, decreasing 2.3 p.p. during the month; likewise, the monthly average interest rate for document discounts was 24.9%, 0.3 p.p. below that of October and the monthly average interest rate for single-signature documents was set at 23.8%, declining 2.1 p.p. during the month.

• During the month, the second tranche of the local currency swap agreement with the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was activated. It should be recalled that within the framework of this agreement, the BCRA may request, for all eligible purposes, additional exchanges for up to a maximum close to US$11,000 million, which represents support for implementing its financial, exchange and monetary policy, in compliance with the mandates of the Organic Charter. International reserves reached a balance at the end of November of US$28,911 million.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1
Monetary Aggregates - M3
(variation of monthly averages) 2. Monetary Aggregates1
% Monthly variation of M3 %
5 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 50 November - Monthly Variation
In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pe-
4 40 Public Sector
ses (M32) showed a growth of 2.2% (see Chart 2.1) Dep.

3 30 and maintained its stable year-on-year expansion rate
Dep. Private around 21%. As in previous months, the increase
2 20
Sector was driven fundamentally by deposits from the private
Demand
1 10 sector, although increases were also shown Deposits
**Notes and Deposits at Term and increases in placements of the public sector and circulating currency in the hands of the public.**

-1 -10
Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
thousands of The total deposits in pesos of the private sector recorded
Note: M3 includes circulating currency in the hands of the public and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA millions of $
a monthly increase of 2.1%, with increases in both
sight deposits and those agreed to fixed-term
deposits. The latter showed growth of $3,800
million (1.4%), verifying increases in the
wholesale stratum and, mainly, in the segment of less
Graph 2.2
than $1 million. In effect, fixed-term deposits of less
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector than $1 million grew 2%, significantly above
millions of $ (evolution of daily balance)
160 the previous two-month period, promoted by the Central
More than $1 million Bank regulation that, at the beginning of October, es-
150 Less than $1 million
tablished a scheme for determining minimum interest
140 rates for deposits of individuals up to an
amount equivalent to that which applies to the guarantee of de-
130 posits. In this way, fixed-term deposits of the private
sector accumulated in the last twelve months an
120
increase of 25.5% (see Graph 2.2).
110

100 Foreign currency deposits presented an increase
Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 of 1.9% in their average monthly balance, with in-
Source: BCRA creases in those belonging to the private sector and in
those of the public sector. In this way, the broadest mon-
Graph 2.3 Monetary Base etary aggregate, M3*³, presented growth of
% % (variation of monthly averages) 2.2%, exhibiting an annual variation of 23.1%.
10 50

8 40 The monetary base showed monthly growth of
6 30 1.7%, reaching an average balance of $407,830 mil-
lion (see Graph 2.3). In year-on-year terms, it
4 20 maintained its variation close to 20%, being one of the lowest
2 10 levels of recent years. The monthly increase
was led by the behavior of bank reserves (cash in financial
0 0 entities and the balances of current accounts of financial entities
in the Central Bank) and, to a lesser extent, by that of circulating
-2 Monthly variation -10 currency in the hands of the public.
Var. y.o.y. (right axis)
-4 -20

-6 -30
Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14
Source: BCRA

² Includes circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public
non-financial sectors in pesos.
³ Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 4 Graph 3.1 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-

% of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities* ties¹
deposits (monthly average)
45 Nov14:
39.2%
40 The liquidity of the segment in national currency of financial
entities remains at elevated levels. The
35 % of the liquidity ratio (sum of cash in banks, the current
deposits Liquidity in Pesos
40 CCBCRA Cash account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such
Pases Netos LEBACs and NOBACs entity and holdings of LEBAC and NO-
30 35
BACs with respect to total deposits) showed an in-
25 30
crease in November (0.6 p.p.) and, in this way, averaged
20 25 39.2% (see Graph 3.1). Among its components:
1.3
20
15 4.0
15
10 12.1
10
5 21.8
5
0
Nov-12 Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 highlights the sustained increase in the proportion maintained in holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs. For its part, and

* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net repos with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA according to estimates, the surplus of the Minimum Cash regime corresponding to November would have been equivalent to 0.3% of the total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 3.2
% of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
In the foreign currency segment, liquidity deposits 2.6 remained relatively stable with respect to October and 2.0 continued at elevated levels (107.3% of the total de-
1.4 posits in dollars for the November average).
0.8
0.2 0.3 4. Loans 1 4
-0.4
-1.0 In November, loans in pesos to the private sector Surplus -1.6 presented growth of 2.1% ($11,080 million) Accumulated position -2.2 Daily position and an inter-annual variation of 20.6%. In this way, its -2.8 monthly variation rate returned to values similar to Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 those observed in August and September (see Chart 4.1).
Source: BCRA

The month's growth was driven, once again, by Chart 4.1 loans aimed at consumption and financings Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector implemented through documents.
% %
6 60 Monthly variation Loans with essentially commercial purpose continued Inter-annual variation (right axis) 50 showing heterogeneous behavior.
5
4 40 On one hand, financings implemented via do-
3 30 cuments continued to increase, reflecting in the 2 20 0.4 month an increase of 2.9% ($3,640 million), higher than
1 10 that observed in November 2013. In this way, the
0 0 inter-annual growth rate of this line increased
-1 -10 0.4 p.p., placing itself at 23% (see Chart 4.2). On the
Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 other hand, advances showed a decline, replicating the
Source: BCRA behavior of last year. The decrease recorded in the month was 4.5% ($3,030 million), while

4 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused in inter-annual terms they grew around 12%.
by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, less amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 For their part, the remaining commercial financings, Pesos Documents to the Private Sector grouped under the heading "Other loans", registered % % an increase of 3.2% ($1,220 million).
14 70
12 Monthly avg. variation 60 Loans aimed at financing mainly the 10 Inter-annual variation (right axis) 50 consumption of families moderated their growth 8 40 pace with respect to the previous month, although they 6 30 continued showing very good performance in relation to the rest of
4 20 the lines. In fact, credit card financings exhibited 2 10 an increase of 5.6% ($5,620 million), accumulating 0 0 in the last 12 months growth close to 38%. For their -2 -10 part, personal loans showed an increase of 2.9% ($3,220 million), being among the highest of the year. Meanwhile,
-4 -20 its year-on-year growth rate remained practically
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14
Source: BCRA stable, standing at 18.9%. The new loans granted through this line totaled around $7,000 million in November. It should be noted that they began to show greater dynamism starting in July, when maximum limits were established for the interest rates of this type of loans (see Graph 4.3). Personal loans also contributed to growth,
 Graph 4.3 the loans granted under the Pro.Cre.Auto program, which are channeled through
 thousands of Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
millions $ %
 (amounts granted and TNA - nationwide) this line. Since the beginning of the program, approximately $2,500 million have been granted through approximately 24,580 operations (see Graph 4.4).
9 52
 Amounts
8 49
 Interest rate (right axis) Loans with real collateral exhibited modest increases.
7 46
 Mortgage loans grew 0.4% ($200 million) in November and accumulated growth close to 12% in the last 12 months. Although this line has been showing scarce dynamism, it should be taken into account that part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected in banking loan statistics, as it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Program of the Bicentennial for Single Family Housing
6 43

5 40 (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with pledge collateral registered the fourth consecutive increase of the year. The monthly variation was 0.6% ($210 million)

4 37 and in year-on-year terms they grew 6.8%. If the financing granted under

3 34 the Pro.Cre.Auto program units were included, which finance the purchase of vehicles

2 31 but were channeled through personal loans, the monthly increase would amount to 1.7%, while the year-on-year variation would be around 14%.

1 28

0 25 Finally, loans to the private sector in foreign currency decreased 6.8% (US$260 million),

Nov-11 Mar-12 Jul-12 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 Nov-13 Mar-14 Jul-14 Nov-14 reaching an average monthly balance of around US$3,500 million.

Source: BCRA
 
 Graph 4.4 Pro.Cre.Auto Loans
 millions of $ (balance and estimated quantity of operations) units
 3,000 30,000
 Graph 5.1 5. Interest Rates 5
 Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market
 Balance at end of month
 2,500 25,000 TNA % (last monthly auction)
 Accumulated quantity of operations
 at end of each month
 2,000 20,000 32
 Titles Issued by the Central Bank6
 1,500 15,000
 30
 1,000 10,000 The interest rate curve of the Notes that the Central
 Bank places each week remained stable in November. The interest rates of the LEBAC that the Central Bank places at a predetermined rate – at terms of 100 days and 120 days – remained at 26.9% and 27.7%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity, at 360 days term, stood at 29.3% (see Graph 5.1).

 500 5,000

 0 0
 Jul-14 Ago-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14
 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 6 28

 26 November
 October
 24

 22

 20
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450

 Source: BCRA In the secondary market, the interest rates of the LEBAC registered certain volatility in the shorter terms in line with the behavior registered in the interfinancial market, although with levels lower than those recorded in the previous month. For its part, as with the interest rates of LEBAC in the primary market, the interest rates of the longer terms remained relatively stable. The average amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market grew in

 Graph 5.2
 LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits in Pesos
 %
 60 (average monthly balances)
 LyN / Total Deposits
 LyN / Private Sector Deposits
 50
42
40 November and stood at $3,400 million daily. As in
 31
30 October, operations with LEBAC stood out in the
 species with less than 30 days maturity.

20 Central Bank securities continued to be an instrument
 for absorbing excess liquidity. At the end of November,
10 the nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC and
 0 NOBAC stood at $256,087 million, equivalent to
 Nov-02 Nov-03 Nov-04 Nov-05 Nov-06 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14approximately 31% of total deposits in pesos (see
Source: BCRA
 Chart 5.2), recording growth of 5% compared to the
 balance at the end of October. The increase occurred
 again in fixed-rate securities (LEBAC), as the balance
 of securities bearing a variable rate (NOBAC) decreased
 by $860 million after the last species in circulation
 matured. In this way, at the end of November all Central
 Bank securities bore a fixed interest rate.

 Chart 5.3
 Amount Awarded of Securities in Pesos in the Primary Market The amount awarded of LEBAC reached approximately
 thousands of LEBAC NOBAC thousands of thousands of
 millions $ millions $ millions $ $49,800 million, with 99% of the total being LEBAC in
 60 31014 60
 More than 360 days More than 360 days pesos, while only 1% corresponded to awards of LEBAC
 271 to 360 days 271 to 360 days
 181 to 270 days 12 181 to 270 days in pesos that adjust to the exchange rate reference. Within
 50 91 to 180 days 260 91 to 180 days 50 LEBAC in pesos, although the majority continued to be
 Up to 90 days Up to 90 days
 Balance at end of month (right axis) 10 Balance at end of month (right axis) placed at maturities between 90 and 180 days (66% of
 40 Repurchases Repurchases 40
 Maturities Maturities the total), an increase in the amount awarded at longer
 210 8 maturities, between 270 and 365 days, which reached
 30 30 34% of the total, stood out (see Chart 5.3).
 160 6
 20 20
 4
 10 110 10
 2
 0 60 0 0
 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14

Source: BCRA

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise indicated.

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.4 Regarding the main holders of Central Bank securities,
 
 thousands of Holdings of Central Bank Securities thousands of the increase in the monthly balance was driven by financial
 millions $ (stock at end of month, monthly variation) millions $ entities. Likewise, although at a slower pace than in
 36 270 previous months, FCIs, Insurance Companies and ARTs
 32 Others continued being LEBAC demanders (see Chart 5.4).
 28 FCIs 220
 24 Financial Entities
 
 Total stock of LEBAC and NOBAC (right axis)
 20
 16 170 With respect to the foreign currency segment, the
 12 LEBAC balance was reduced by almost US$40 million,
 8 120 ending the month at US$677 million. The decline was
 4 driven by both lower holdings of public banks and
 - 70
 -4 private banks.
 -8
 -12 20
 Nov-12 Mar-13 Jul-13 Nov-13 Mar-14 Jul-14 Nov-14 Central Bank Repo Operations1

 Source: BCRA The interest rates on passive repos for the Central Bank
 remained at 13% and 14% for maturities of 1 and
 7 days, respectively. In the case of active repos they
 are at 16% and 17% for the same maturities. For its
 part, the interest rate on active repos at variable rate
 Chart 5.5 available up to 90 days maturity continues to be
 thousands of Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA equivalent to the BADLAR of private banks plus a
 millions of $ margin of 2 p.p.
 45
 40 Daily Balance
35 Monthly Average In November, the average balance of passive repos for
 the Central Bank –in all the modalities in which the
 30
 institution participates – remained relatively stable
 25
 and was located at $18,400 million (see Chart 5.5), con-
 20
 centrated fundamentally in operations with public
 15 financial entities.

 10

 5 Interfinancial Markets1

 0

Source: BCRAJun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14
 In November, the interest rates of the interfinancial
 market decreased slightly. The average interest rate of
 operations at 1 business day in the call market was re-
 duced by 1 p.p., positioning itself at around 20%. Like-
 wise, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business
 day among financial entities in the REPO session de-
 creased 1.4 p.p., settling at 20.5%
 Chart 5.6 (see Chart 5.6).

 thousands of Interbank Market

 millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA %
 10 25 The average daily amount traded in the interfinancial
 Amount traded REPO session excluding BCRA market (including the REPO session among entities
 9 Amount traded Call
 8 Interest rate REPO session excluding BCRA (right axis) 20 and the call market) was located around $6,400 mi-

 Interest rate Call (right axis) llion, approximately $360 million lower than the
 7
 amount recorded in the previous month, remaining
 6 15
 5 still at historically elevated levels.

 4 10

 3 Passive Interest Rates1

 2 5

 1 The interest rates paid by financial entities
 0 0 registered mixed behaviors in November,
 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.7 distinguishing themselves according to the segment of amount being
 Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of 30-35 days wholesale or retail.

% TNA (daily data and monthly averages)
32
 BADLAR - private banks The monthly average of the interest rate paid by
28 Fixed-Term Deposits of up to $100 thousand - private banks private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to
 LEBAC 3 months Avg. Nov-14
24 23.2 $100 thousand and up to 35 days of maturity was located at 23.2%,
20
 Avg. Nov-14 registering a monthly increase of 1.5 p.p. (Chart
16 19.8 5.7). It should be noted that the interest rates of the
 retail segment of November were affected by the
12
 regulations that established minimum levels for the
 8
 interest rates that entities should pay to those

 4 fixed-term deposits of individuals who have

 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14 up to $350 thousand in the entity. The minimum
Source: BCRA
 interest rates were located at 23.3%, 23.9% and 24.9% for
 deposits with terms of up to 44 days, from 45 to 59 days and
 more than 60 days, respectively.

 Meanwhile, for December, the minimum interest rates
 Chart 5.8 in effect will be located at 23.4% for placements of up to
 Interest Rates on Current Account Advances 44 days and; 23.9% and 25% for deposits of 45 to 59 days and

 TNA, (monthly average)
 p.p Monthly Variation
 % 8
 36 Current account advances Total Current Account Advances 60 days or more, respectively, virtually without
 6
 4 Advances over $10 M - up to 7 days
 Current account advances over changes with respect to those of November, in line with the
 33 2
 0 $10 M - up to 7 days 30.8
 evolution of the interest rates of the LEBAC of Sep-
 30 -2

 -4 tember.
 27 -6 23.0
 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14
 24 With respect to the wholesale segment, the BADLAR

 21 of private banks –interest rate for fixed-term deposits
 of $1 million or more, of 30-35 days maturity–
 18
 averaged 19.8%, decreasing 0.2 p.p. during the month. In
 15
 this way, and as a consequence of the establishment
 12
 of the minimum interest rates, in November the rate of
 9
Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14 interest paid to wholesale depositors was located below
 Source: BCRA
 that perceived by families, widening the difference
 between them with respect to what was observed
 in October.

 Active Interest Rates1 7

 Chart 5.9 In general, the interest rates applied to loans to the
 Interest Rates of Loans Financed via Documents private sector showed decreases throughout November.
 (monthly average)
 p.p Monthly Variations
 6.0 Discounted Documents
 TNA, %
 4.5
 36 3.0 Documents on Sole Signature

 33 1.5 Within the commercial lines, the monthly average of

 0.0
 30 -1.5 the interest rate of advances in current account was
 located at 30.8%, decreasing 0.2 p.p.. Likewise, the
 -3.0 interest rate of advances to companies for more than
 27 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14
 24.9
 24 $10 million and up to 7 days of maturity, which repre-

 21 23.8 sents approximately 25% of total advances, averaged 23%,
 decreasing 2.3 p.p. in the month (see Chart 5.8).

 18

 15

 12

 9
 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14
 Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation
and origination expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 9 The interest rates of financings implemented through
 documents also decreased in the month. The monthly
 average of the interest rate applied to document
 discounting was located at 24.9%, 0.3 p.p. below that
 of October. Meanwhile, the monthly average of the
 interest rate of documents on sole signature was
 Chart 5.10 located at 23.8%, reversing the increase of October,
 Interest Rates of Loans with Real Guarantee and those destined for Consumption as it decreased 2.1 p.p. (see Chart 5.9).
 (monthly average)

 TNA, %
 50 Chattel Mortgages Mortgages to Natural Persons Personal
 The interest rates of loans with real guarantee
 45 increased in the month. Meanwhile, the interest rate
 40 37.4 charged for chattel mortgage loans registered an
 increase (0.3 p.p.), averaging 26.7%. Meanwhile, the
 35 interest rate of loans with mortgage guarantee
 30 destined to natural persons averaged 18.9%, with a
 26.7 monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. in the month.
 25
 18.9 Regarding the interest rate of personal loans, the
 20 maximum rates in effect in November decreased
 approximately 1 p.p. compared to those in effect in
 15 October, being located at 38.9% and 48.2% for entities
 10 of Group I and Group II8, respectively. In any case,
 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 the monthly average of the interest rate for personal
 Source: BCRA
 loans remained unchanged, averaging 37.4% (see Chart 5.10).

 The maximum interest rates that will be in effect in
 December for personal loans remain virtually without
 variants: 38.9% and 48.3% for entities of Group I
 and Group II, respectively (Communication "B" 10899).

 Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 thousands of Currency Market1
 millions of U$S International Reserves of the BCRA

 45
 Nov-14 International reserves showed monthly growth of
 US$799 million in November, with a balance at month-
 40 end of US$28.911 billion (see Chart 6.1). In November,
 another tranche of the currency swap agreement with
 35 the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China
 was activated, which allows the Central Bank to have
 backing to implement its policy
 Swap with Central Bank of the
 People's Republic of China
30 financial, foreign exchange and monetary matters, in compliance with the mandates of the Organic Charter. It is worth noting that within the framework of this agreement, the Central Bank may request, for all eligible purposes, additional exchanges of up to a maximum close to US$11,000 million. Additionally, among the factors that explained the variation in reserves are the net purchases by the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market.

8 Groups defined in Communication "A" 5590.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 10 Chart 6.2 In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the United States dollar for the third consecutive month,

$/US$ Nominal Reference Exchange Rate | 14% Monthly Variation of the Exchange Rate
although at a slower pace (see Chart 6.2). Thus, the average quotation for the month was 8.5 $/US$ (0.4% above October). Meanwhile, with respect to the real and euro, the quotations were 3.3 $/real (-3.5%) and 10.6
Nominal Reference | 9.0 | Daily Quotation | 12%
$/euro (-1.1%). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily amount traded exceeded $2,100 million, increasing 18% compared to
8.5 | Monthly Average Quotation | 10%
October. In turn, the contracts entered into showed
8.0 | 8% | Expected quotations for the coming months
7.5 | Average 2014: lower by 2.2% compared to what was observed the previous month.
6% 
6.5 | Average 2013: 2.8%
6.0 | 2.2%
5.5 | 4% 
5.0 | 2% 7. Collective Investment Instruments
4.5 | 0.4% 
4.0 | 0% Common Investment Funds
Dec-11 May-12 Oct-12 Mar-13 Aug-13 Jan-14 Jun-14 Nov-14 | Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Jan-14 May-14 Sep-14
Source: BCRA

In November, and after four consecutive months of increases, the assets of Common Investment Funds (FCI), denominated in both pesos and foreign currency, decreased by $960 million (0.7%), ending the month at $135,340 million (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1
Assets of Common Investment Funds in Pesos | thousands of | billions of $
millions of $ | (monthly variation of stock at month end)
24.0 | 160 | Money Market
19.0 | 140 | Fixed Income
14.0 | 120 | Mixed Income | The monthly decline was driven by common funds investing in pesos, and, in particular, by Money Market funds ($1,040 million), Variable Income funds ($450 million), and Mixed Income funds ($350 million).
9.0 | 100 | Variable Income
80 | Stock Evolution (right axis)
4.0 | 60 | Meanwhile, Fixed Income funds continued growing ($1,040 million), although at a slower pace, thanks to the growth of short-term Fixed Income funds
-1.0 | 40 | that attempt to replicate the performance of the BADLAR of private banks9, which increased their assets by approximately $1,700 million (4.7%).

-6.0 | 20 | 
0 | In November, the estimated returns of variable income and mixed income funds were again negative (-9% and -0.4%, respectively), while those of fixed income funds were slightly positive (0.6%). In this latter case, although returns were negative in most funds, those attempting to replicate the performance of the BADLAR of private banks registered monthly positive returns of around 1.6% and drove the monthly profitability. Finally, in Money Market funds, the monthly return was at 1% (see Chart 7.2).

Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI

Chart 7.2
% Estimated Performance of FCIs in Pesos
(profitability in pesos)
2

0

-2

-4

Nov-14

-6

-8

-10

FCI Variable Income $ | FCI Mixed Income $ | FCI Fixed Income $ | Money Market $
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the assets of FCIs were reduced by US$19 million down to US$316 million. The decline was driven
9 Classification based on the Argentine Chamber of Common Investment Funds (CAFCI). These are CIFs whose objective is to replicate the performance of the BADLAR of private banks.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 11 Graph 7.3 mainly due to fixed income funds, which fell

Issuances of Financial Trusts US$18 million.

millions of $ (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) units
2,700 35
Amounts issued Financial Trusts10
2,400 Number of operations (right axis) 30

2,100
25 The issuances of Financial Trusts (FF)
1,800
accumulated $1,500 million in November, an amount
1,500 20
lower than that of the previous three months. This decrease

1,200 15 (of 28% with respect to October) was associated with the lower

900 number of operations carried out in the month. In effect,
10
600 15 placements were recorded, while in the

300 5 previous quarter between 18 and 21

0 0 monthly operations had been recorded (see Graph 7.3).

Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others
The main settlors were retail trade businesses,
which placed slightly more than $700 million,
an amount around 30% higher than in October, although
similar to September (see Graph 7.4). Meanwhile, financial
entities, which last month had
Graph 7.4
reached a record in placements, issued in
Amounts Issued by Type of Settlor
millions of $
3,000 (excludes FF from public sector and other infrastructure) November approximately $370 million, which implied

2,700 Mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers a decline of 66% in relation to the previous month. For their

2,400 Financial Entities part, the "Mutuals, cooperatives, non-bank credit card
2,100 Retail Commerce
Agropecuarian Sector issuers and other providers of financial services" securitized
Others consumption-linked assets for $265 million, this being the
1,800
lowest amount of the last 6 months. The remainder corresponded
1,500
to other types of originators: a company linked to the food
1,200
industry and another to the gas and oil industry. In both cases,
900
the trust assets corresponded to leasing contracts.
600

300 Finally, the cut-off interest rate (amount-weighted average)
of senior securities –in pesos and with duration less than
0
Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 14 months– was located at 25.2%, which implied an increase
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others
of 1 p.p. with respect to the previous month. In the month
no operations at fixed rate were recorded.

Graph 8.1
8. Main Monetary Policy Measures,
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
%
7 Eurozone Other Central Banks

6
Monetary Policy Rate During this period, the monetary authorities of

5 Inflation Rate developed countries did not adopt significant measures
Target Inflation
4 Rate Corridor in terms of their impact on markets, while some

3 central banks of emerging countries modified their

2 benchmark interest rates or reserve requirement
coefficients, highlighting the cases of China, Russia,
1
Indonesia and Peru.
0

-1 In the case of developed countries, the monetary
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14
authorities of the Eurozone and England did not introduce
The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% p.a. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats.
changes in their policy variables in their meetings

10 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.
Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 12 Chart 8.2 monthly. However, various authorities of the European
 Central Bank (ECB) again made reference to the
 Interest Rate, Unemployment Rate, Inflation Rate and Target, and Non-Conventional £ Thousands possibility that the Bank will implement in the coming
 % Millions Monetary Policy 400 months a public securities purchase program. These
 Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis) England 9 statements were made in the context of inflation levels
 8 Unemployment Rate 350 in the Eurozone markedly below the ECB's objective of
 Inflation Target
 Inflation Rate 2% (the preliminary inflation figure for November was
 7 Monetary Policy Rate 300 0.3% y.o.y.; see Chart 8.1) and activity indicators
 250 close to contraction levels. Indeed, the Purchasing
 6 Managers' Index (PMI) for November was 50.1¹¹, below
 200
 5 market expectations that expected 50.4.
 150
 4
 In the case of the Bank of England (BoE), members of
 3 100 the Monetary Policy Committee stated that taking into
 2 50 account the latest inflation data and the macroeconomic
 1 situation in the Eurozone (main destination of English
 0 0 exports), the Bank could maintain its monetary policy
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 interest rate, the Bank Rate, at current levels for longer
 than previously expected. In this context, market
Source: BCRA based on data from bankofengland.co.uk and ONS.gov.uk expectations regarding when the first Bank Rate increase
 will occur shifted from the first quarter of 2015 (which is
 what was forecast last August) to the third quarter of
 Chart 8.3 next year. Furthermore, the latest available inflation
 Real GDP and Industry figure (October) stood at 1.3% y.o.y. (0.7 p.p. below the
var y.o.y. % var y.o.y. % 2% y.o.y. target), almost unchanged compared to
 8 Japan 40 September, being the second smallest change in the last
 6 30 five years (see Chart 8.2).
 4 20
 2 10 For its part, the authorities of the Bank of Japan at their
 0 0 mid-November monetary policy meeting did not modify
 -2 -10 their monetary policy. However, it should be recalled
 -4 -20 that at the previous mid-October meeting they had
 -6 -30 launched new stimulus measures. Additionally, it was
 Real GDP (var. y.o.y.) learned that third quarter GDP contracted 0.4% with
 Industrial Prod. (var. y.o.y., right axis)
 -8 -40 respect to the previous quarter, while market projections
-10 -40 expected a rise of 0.5% (see Chart 8.3). Along with this,
 2006-I 2006-IV 2007-III 2008-I 2008-IV 2009-III 2010-I 2010-IV 2011-III 2012-I 2012-IV 2013-III 2014-I the BoJ president affirmed that it is likely that inflation
 will be located for a considerable time at values around
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg 1% y.o.y. (net of the consumption tax increase effect), or
 even below¹².
 Chart 8.4
 Among emerging countries, the People's Bank of China
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target (PBoC) reduced its monetary policy rate for the first
 % China time in 28 months (see Chart 8.4). It made this cut
10 Monetary Policy Interest Rate in a context where GDP registered the lowest growth in
 Inflation Rate the last 5 years (see Chart 8.5) and the
 8 Inflation Target
 6
 4
 2
 0
 -2
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14

Source: BCRA based on PBoC. The PBoC does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, the Chinese government has an annual objective that is currently measured at 3.5%.
# 11 Values above 50 imply expansion of the level of activity, while below imply contraction.
12 In this context, the Japanese Prime Minister decided to indefinitely postpone the new increase in consumption tax
planned for October 2015. Along with this, he decided to call for early elections seeking support for his government that would back this decision.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 13 inflation was the lowest since early 2010 (1.6%
y-o-y). Throughout 2014 the PBoC had already lowered some
reserve requirement ratios and the active reverse repo rate.

Furthermore, in a context of strong exchange rate volatility,
Chart 8.5 the Russian Central Bank decided to increase by 1.5
p.p. the Key Rate13, to 9.5%. For its part, the Bank of In-
GDP donesia (BI), took a series of measures with a con-
% China - Year-over-Year Change
13 tractionary bias, following the central government's decision to reduce

12 fuel subsidies, which led to a 30% increase in its

11 price. Among the measures announced by Bank Indonesia is the increase

10 in its reference interest rate (the BI Rate) by

9 0.25 p.p. to 7.75%.

8

7

6
 Finally, among the countries in the region, the Central
5
 Bank of Reserve of Peru (BCRP) decided to maintain at
4
 3.5% the target for the interbank market interest
3
 rate (see Chart 8.6). Likewise, it reduced from 10.5%
2006-I 2007-I 2008-I 2009-I 2010-I 2011-I 2012-I 2013-I 2014-I
 to 10% the reserve requirement ratio in domestic currency, with the
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg objective of promoting credit in soles. In this way, the reserve
 requirement ratio accumulated a decrease of 10 p.p. since
 June 2013 –when the reduction of the reserve requirement
 coefficient in domestic currency began–, while the
 reference interest rate accumulated a decline of 0.5
 p.p. during the year, in a context of economic growth
 below potential and an inflation rate of 3.1%
 year-over-year in October, slightly above the target range (1-3%).

 Chart 8.6

 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
 % Peru Reference Interest Rate
 7

 6 Inflation Rate

 Inflation Target Limits
 5

 4

 3

 2

 1

 0

-1
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14

 Source: BCRA based on bcrp.gob.pe

13 Monetary policy interest rate of Russia.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations
Principal monetary and financial system variables Nov-13 Nov-14 Oct-14 Dec-13 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary base 407,830 401,131 361,580 338,343 1.7% 20.5%
Monetary circulation 309,706 306,366 277,095 260,352 1.1% 19.0%
Bills and coins in the hands of the public 277,446 275,382 247,158 234,788 0.7% 18.2%
Bills and coins in financial entities 32,259 30,982 29,935 25,562 4.1% 26.2%
Cancellatory checks 0.7 1.1 2.1 0.0 - -
Current account at the BCRA 98,124 94,765 84,484 77,991 3.5% 25.8%

Stock of Reverse Repos
Passive 18,374 18,834 6,351 13,855 -2.4% 32.6%
Active 0 0 0 0 - -

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 251,537 239,558 111,491 116,131 5.0% 116.6%
In banks 192,065 184,017 98,364 102,681 4.4% 87.0%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for reverse repos)
In pesos 250,731 237,971 107,309 111,948 5.4% 124.0%
In dollars 692 727 0 0 -4.8% -

NOBAC 115 860 4,183 4,183 -86.7% -97.3%

BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 2009 28,477 27,570 30,612 32,244 3.3% -11.7%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 804,743 783,701 667,633 654,149 2.7% 23.0%
Current account (2) 244,810 233,689 190,954 172,816 4.8% 41.7%
Savings account 166,142 161,026 140,307 125,074 3.2% 32.8%
Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 361,811 358,120 309,655 331,310 1.0% 9.2%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 8 8 6 6 1.3% 34.3%
Other deposits (3) 31,971 30,858 26,711 24,943 3.6% 28.2%
Private sector deposits 600.198 587.852 484.439 467.946 2.1% 28.3%

Public sector deposits 204.545 195.849 183.194 186.202 4.4% 9.9%

Deposits of private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8.401 8.246 8.263 8.094 1.9% 3.8%

Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 573.403 565.141 498.212 480.865 1.5% 19.2%

Loans to private sector 533.368 522.625 457.095 442.353 2.1% 20.6%
 Advances 64.681 67.708 56.649 57.713 -4.5% 12.1%
 Documents 129.013 125.378 111.440 104.879 2.9% 23.0%
 Mortgage loans 47.099 46.902 43.075 41.983 0.4% 12.2%
 Secured loans 32.780 32.570 31.304 30.706 0.6% 6.8%
 Personal loans 114.861 111.973 98.468 96.571 2.6% 18.9%
 Credit cards 105.617 100.001 80.716 76.741 5.6% 37.6%
 Others 39.317 38.093 35.442 33.760 3.2% 16.5%

Loans to public sector 40.035 42.516 41.117 38.512 -5.8% 4.0%

Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.538 3.796 3.694 3.957 -6.8% -10.6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + canceled checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 522.257 2.6% 28.1% 509.072 438.115 407.607

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 688.400 670.098 578.422 532.680 2.7% 29.2%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + canceled checks in pesos + total deposits 1.082.190 1.059.084 914.794 888.939 2.2% 21.7%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + canceled checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.156.087 1.131.463 968.731 938.987 2.2% 23.1%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + canceled checks in pesos + private current account in 432.016 425.382 367.407 350.174 1.6% 23.4%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 578.758 568.976 493.877 464.857 1.7% 24.5%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + canceled checks in pesos + total private deposits 877.645 863.235 731.599 702.737 1.7% 24.9%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + canceled checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 940.438 925.148 775.730 744.375 1.7% 26.3%

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2014 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 6.699 1.7% 16.833 4.3% 46.251 12.8% 69.487 20.5%
 Financial sector 445 0.1% -2.870 -0.7% -11.991 -3.3% -4.489 -1.3%
 Public sector 12.377 3.1% 50.876 13.0% 114.460 31.7% 132.125 39.1%
 Private external sector 963 0.2% -3.457 -0.9% 38.067 10.5% 27.744 8.2%
 BCRA Securities -5.249 -1.3% -23.208 -5.9% -92.393 -25.6% -86.403 -25.5%
 Others -1.837 -0.5% -4.507 -1.2% -1.892 -0.5% 510 0.2%

BCRA International Reserves 907 3.3% -384 -1.3% -2.135 -7.0% -3.767 -11.7%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 118 0.4% -401 -1.4% 4.569 14.9% 2.878 8.9%
 Payment to international organizations 46 0.2% 11 0.0% -305 -1.0% -20 -0.1%
 Other public sector operations 79 0.3% 2.876 10.0% 585 1.9% 367 1.1%
 Minimum cash -49 -0.2% -338 -1.2% -3.945 -12.9% -3.542 -11.0%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 713 2.6% -2.532 -8.8% -3.051 -10.0% -3.463 -10.7%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the principal variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.8 11.8 11.7
 Integration 12.1 12.0 12.0
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 69.5 69.3 67.9
 30 to 59 days 20.6 19.9 20.9
 60 to 89 days 5.8 5.8 5.9
 90 to 179 days 3.1 3.9 4.3
 More than 180 days 1.0 1.0 1.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 44.9 44.2 44.3
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 88.0 87.1 85.0
 Position (2) 43.1 42.9 40.7
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 47.0 46.9 49.7
 30 to 59 days 22.9 21.4 20.2
 60 to 89 days 13.0 12.3 10.6
 90 to 179 days 11.4 13.3 13.6
 180 to 365 days 5.6 6.0 5.7
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.2
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 16 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 19.99 21.05 13.08 19.67 15.31
 Amount traded 2,371 2,295 2,048 2,144 2,218

 Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.75 19.46 19.17 17.67 15.84
 60 days or more 22.82 22.34 20.79 19.00 17.79
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 17.63 18.06 18.45 17.45 14.68
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.77 20.01 20.28 20.18 19.05

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.87 0.84 0.87 0.34 0.37
 60 days or more 1.37 1.45 1.55 0.65 0.71
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.83 0.77 0.87 0.39 0.39
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.15 1.14 0.93 0.33 0.38

 Active Interest Rates Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 22.77 21.93 21.58 21.64 20.22
 Amount traded (total terms) 345 316 291 316 311

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 30.80 31.02 28.92 27.59 26.19
 Documents on signature only 23.77 25.95 24.79 22.38 21.43
 Mortgage 21.67 20.39 23.45 16.56 16.51
 Pledge 26.66 26.45 25.56 21.07 22.17
 Personal 37.41 37.44 37.85 39.34 38.91
 Credit cards n/d 40.53 41.52 37.16 35.75

 Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 22.98 25.27 18.94 22.62 20.20

 International Interest Rates Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.17 0.17
 6 months 0.33 0.32 0.33 0.35 0.35

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.52 0.43 0.55 0.33 0.29
 10 years 2.31 2.29 2.52 2.88 2.71

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 11.25 11.03 11.00 10.00 9.58

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 13.00 12.74 9.00 9.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 14.00 13.71 9.50 9.50 9.50
 Active 7 days 17.00 16.65 11.50 11.50 11.50

Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 16.08 17.40 10.07 15.81 11.20
 7 days 16.43 14.46 12.73 13.12 10.03

Amount traded of REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 12,971 14,891 16,784 3,981 11,087

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d
 2 months n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d
 3 months 26.86 26.86 26.80 15.52 15.28
 9 months n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d
 12 months 29.29 29.29 29.29 17.80 17.77

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/d n/d n/d n/d n/d

LEBAC rates in dollars (1)
 1 month 2.50 2.50 2.50 n/d n/d
 3 months 3.00 3.00 3.00 n/d n/d
 6 months 3.50 3.50 3.50 n/d n/d
 12 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 n/d n/d
Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 3.435 2.525 2738 673 804

## Foreign Exchange Market Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

**Spot Dollar**
 Wholesale 8.51 8.48 8.42 6.32 6.02
 Retail 8.52 8.49 8.43 6.33 6.02

**Future Dollar**
 NDF 1 month 8.65 8.74 8.73 6.75 6.38
 ROFEX 1 month 8.60 8.60 8.58 6.56 6.17
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 2.150 1.815 2.446 1.618 1.642

**Real (Pesos per Real)** 3.34 3.46 3.61 2.69 2.61

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** 10.63 10.74 10.85 8.67 8.12

## Capital Market Nov-14 Oct-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Nov-13

**MERVAL**
 Index 10.165 10.565 11.292 5.330 5.429
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 168 282 304 109 122

**Government Bonds (at par)**
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 138.2 144.0 151.5 132.6 143.3
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 125.4 125.7 130.9 106.6 119.8
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 132.1 134.7 140.3 121.6 132.7
 DISCOUNT ($) 70.5 65.3 67.0 63.9 59.8

**Country Risk (basis points)**
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1.175 1.733 1.421 826 897
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 444 427 380 412 415

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

---

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 18-10. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.
**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with 30 to 35 days maturity.
**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Common Investment Funds.
**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.
**USA:** United States of America.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash.
**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.
**FF:** Financial Trust.
**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.
**y-o-y:** year-over-year.
**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.
**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.
**LCIP:** Line of Credit for Productive Investment.
**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.
**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.
**MULC:** Single and Free Exchange Market.
**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.
**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.
**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.
**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.
**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.
**PM:** Monetary Program.
**BP:** Basis Points.
**pp:** Percentage points.
**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.
**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.
**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.
**STV:** Short-Term Debt Value.
**NV:** Nominal Value.
**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | November 2014 | BCRA | 19
