# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 9

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 12

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 12

 Financial Trusts | Page 13

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on March 12, 2015. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• In February, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) grew 0.6%, driven by
the increase in fixed-term deposits from the private sector. Meanwhile, the means of payment of
the private sector, as is expected during this period of the year, maintained their average balance
practically stable.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 4.7% in the month, with
similar growth across all lending segments. The increase in retail fixed-term deposits continued to be
favored by the minimum interest rate scheme established by the Central Bank since last October, exceeding
the variations observed in the same month of previous years. Thus, the total fixed-term deposits
of the private sector accumulated growth close to 30% over the last year, while placements of less than $1 million
totaled an increase of 38% in the same period.

• The liquidity ratio of the domestic currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the
current account of entities at the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and the holding
of LEBAC, in terms of total deposits in pesos) stood on average at 41%, 0.8
p.p. above January. Among its components, a greater participation of LEBAC
holdings was observed.

• In line with what is expected for this time of year, loans in pesos to the private sector
decelerated their monthly expansion rate, increasing 0.5% ($2,690 million), with a
year-over-year variation of 19.1%. Personal loans stood out, favored by the maximum interest rate
policy established for this type of loan and by credit granted under the PRO.CRE.Auto framework.

• The monthly averages of most active interest rates decreased by approximately 1 p.p. in
the month. Such are the cases of interest rates applied on advances to
companies in the most traded segment (for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity), those
corresponding to financing with collateral guarantee and the interest rate of personal
loans.

• Among the interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits in pesos, those of the retail
segment remained stable, in line with the reference values established by the Central
Bank; while the BADLAR of private banks increased 0.4 p.p. with respect to January, averaging 20.6%.

• In February, the Central Bank adjusted the margin that financial entities
subscribing to LEBAC in dollars receive, with the aim that they pass on to their clients most of
the returns on these instruments. Simultaneously, it was decided to increase the minimum interest rates
that depositors will receive for their placements at fixed terms in foreign currency in
entities that purchase these LEBAC, with the objective of encouraging the maintenance of
dollar savings within the financial system. Towards the end of February, this measure resulted
in an increase in interest rates on fixed-term deposits in dollars and, in particular, for
placements of up to US$500 thousand.

---

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

**Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1**

**2. Monetary Aggregates¹**

**Monetary Aggregates - M3**
**(variation of monthly averages)** In February, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
**% Monthly Variation of M3** **%** (M3²) showed growth of 0.6%, driven by
**6** **Variation y.o.y. of M3 (right axis)** **50** **February - Monthly Variation** the increase in fixed-term deposits from the pri-
**5** **40** **Total** vate sector, which more than offset the decrease in
**Dep. S.** **Public** public sector placements. Meanwhile, the means of
**4** **30** **Deposits** payment of the private sector (M2 private) maintained its
**3** **20** **Term and** balance practically stable, in line with the behavior
**2** **Other** **10** of previous years and influenced by factors of an
**S. Private** order
**1**
0 M2 seasonal. In year-on-year terms, M3 accumulated an
 0 Private
 increase close to 29% (see Chart 2.1).
 -1 -10
 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-15-10 -5 0 5 10 15
 billions
 Note: M3 includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAThe total deposits in pesos of the private sector registered
 a monthly increase of 2.4%, verifying stability in the balance of sight deposits and the aforementioned rise in fixed-term deposits. The latter
 Chart 2.2 showed growth of 4.7% in February, with high
 
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector increases in both the wholesale stratum and in the
 % (variations of monthly averages)
 % February - Var. Avg. Monthly of operations of smaller amounts In fact, the fixed-
 8 Monthly variation 55 % More than $1 million
 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 6 term deposits of less than $1 million grew
 7 50 5
 4.7%, above what was observed in previous years for
 6 45 4
 3 the same month, favored by the scheme of minimum
 5 40
 2 2010 interest rates for individuals established by the BCRA,
 4 35 1
 0 2011 as well as by the greater stability observed in the foreign
 3 30 Less than $1 million2012 exchange market. In this way, fixed-term deposits of the
 % 2013
 2 25 6 private sector continued to accelerate their expansion
 5 2014 pace and accumulated in the last year an advance close to
 1 20 4 2015 30%, highlighting deposits of less than $1 million,
 0 15 3 which totaled an increase of 38% in the same period
 -1 10 2 (see Chart 2.2).
 1
 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-150
 Source: BCRA On the other hand, deposits in foreign currency
 showed an increase of 1.8%, with increases in those
 belonging to the private sector; these exceeded the
 reduction in those of the public sector. Consequently, the
 Chart 2.3 broader monetary aggregate, M3*3, grew 0.7%,
 
Monetary Base maintaining its year-on-year variation close to 28%.
 %
 (year-on-year variation of 30-day average)
 45
 The average monetary base for February reached
 40 $450,670 million, which meant a decrease of 0.7%
 compared to the average for January. Nevertheless, an
 35
 acceleration in its year-on-year variation was verified,
 30 which ended February at 29.6% (see Chart 2.3), almost
 6 percentage points above the previous month, and res-
 Feb-15
 ponded fundamentally to a comparison base problem.
 25
 In fact, the monetary base of February 2014 had
 Feb-14 registered an extraordinarily low level, originating in
 20
 both the behavior of cash in circulation held by the
 15
 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 public, as well as in that of current accounts of the
 Source: BCRA entities at the BCRA. In the first case, the lower
2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
3 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.4 growth was explained by the context of greater foreign
 
 thousands of Cash in Circulation Held by the Public exchange volatility in the first months of 2014
 millions of $ (daily balance - base index avg. 7 days as of Nov 30-14) (see Chart 2.4); while in the second, the cause was
 the different strategy of the entities regarding the
 330
 integration of the quarterly position of the minimum
 320 cash regime: the previous year they underintegrated
 in February, while this year the integration of reserve
 310 2015 requirements was relatively more stable throughout the
 300 2013 period (see Chart 2.5).
 290 2014
 280
 2014-2015
 270 2013-2014
 2012-2013
 260
 
 250
 
 240 3. Liquidity of Financial Enti-
 Nov-30 Dec-30 Jan-30 Feb-28
 Source: BCRA ties1
In February, financial entities channeled the increase in peso deposits mainly towards
Graph 2.5 liquid assets, at a time of year with low seasonal
growth in loans (see section 4. Loans). In this way, the
thousands of liquidity ratio of the segment in national currency (sum of
Deposits in Current Accounts at the BCRA
millions of $ (daily balance - average base index 7 days as of Nov-30-14) cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
130 2014-2015
Bank, net transfers with such entity and LEBAC holdings,
2013-2014
in terms of total peso deposits) was located on average at
120
41%, 0.8 p.p. above that of January (see Graph 3.1). The
Quarterly average 2015
increase was composed of the rise in LEBAC holdings, to
110
the detriment of the proportion maintained of cash in
Feb-2015 average
banks and of the current account at the Central Bank. In
100 Year-on-year Var.
Year-on-year Var. 40% relation to this last concept, the quarterly calculation
27%
(December 2014-February 2015) of the minimum cash
90
position enables entities to manage their liquidity during
80 Quarterly average 2014
the period, so that due to the integration surplus regis-
Feb-2014 average
tered in the first two months, the corresponding to the
70
30-Nov 30-Dec 30-Jan 28-Feb-2015 average of February was slightly reduced. In this way, the
Source: BCRA estimated average surplus of the quarterly position was
located, at the end of February, at 0.2% of deposits in
pesos.
Graph 3.1

% of For its part, the liquidity ratio of the segment in
Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities* Feb-15:
deposits (monthly average) foreign currency averaged February at 107.4% of the total
45
41.0%
of deposits in dollars, remaining stable compared to the
40
% of previous month (-1 p.p.).
35 deposits
Liquidity in Pesos
45 CCBCRA Cash
30 Net Transfers LEBACs and NOBACs
40
25 35
30
20 25

15 20

15 4. Loans 1 4
10 10

5
5 0

Feb-13 May-13 Aug-13 Nov-13 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15In February, loans in pesos to the private sector decel-
0
Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Feb-15erated their monthly expansion rate, in line with what is
* Includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, net transfers with the BCRA and holdings of LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA

4 Monthly loan variations are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the loan portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. On the other hand, the variation in the balance is composed of the loans arranged, minus the amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 5 expected for this time of year. The increase registered
Graph 4.1 in the month was 0.5% ($2,690 million), while the year-
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% % on-year variation decreased slightly, placing itself at 19.1%
6 (average monthly var.) 60
Monthly % Var.
Year-on-year Variation (right axis) (see Graph 4.1).

5 50

4 40 Influenced by seasonal factors associated with lower
economic activity during the summer recess, the lines
3 30 oriented mainly to finance commercial activities pre-
sented insignificant variations. On one hand, advances
2 1.9 20 recorded an increase of 1% ($700 million), while financ-
1.6 1.4 1.6
1.3 1.3 ings arranged through documents, as in February of other
1 0.5 10
years, recorded a decrease (see Graph 4.2). The decline
0.2
0 0 evidenced in the month was 0.9% ($1,210 million). In
-0.1
year-on-year terms, the growth of both lines was located
-1 -10
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-15around 18%.
Source: BCRA
Securities Issued by the Central Bank

In the primary market, the interest rate of the Letters that the Central Bank places each week declined...
26 basis points for the predetermined rate segment at 3 months, while

February January those corresponding to the remaining terms remained stable. Thus, the interest rates on LEBAC that the Central Bank places at predetermined rate—at terms of 100 days and 120 days—were located at 26.33% and 27.24%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity, at a 360-day term, remained at 28.94% (see Chart 5.1).

Source: BCRA

In the secondary market, the interest rates on LEBAC registered some volatility in the shorter terms (less than 40 days) in line with the behavior recorded in the interbank market. For its part, like the interest rates on LEBAC in the primary market, the interest rates for the longer terms remained stable. The average amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market was located at $3,550 million daily and concentrated in operations with LEBAC of less than 15 days term. It should be noted that in recent months, the amount traded of BCRA securities in the secondary markets represented around 50% of the total traded in fixed income instruments (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.2
Amounts Traded of LEBAC / Amount Traded
% of Total Fixed Income

70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

(*) Information corresponding to February 2015 provisional.
Source: MAE and BCBA.

5 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
6 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

As in the previous months, the placements of LEBAC that the BCRA carries out in the primary market were the main sterilization instrument. Upon finalizing the month, the nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC, at nominal value, was located at $322,575 million, registering an increase of 8% with respect to the end of January. Thus, the stock of BCRA letters in relation to deposits reached approximately 32% (see Chart 5.3). It should be noted that since 2014 a significant part of the increase in the balance of securities issued by the BCRA is explained by the increase in stock in the portfolio of holders that are not financial entities (common investment funds, insurance companies, occupational risk managers, etc.). Thus, these investors increased their participation in the total of securities in circulation, moving from representing 16% in February 2014 to 23% in February of this year (see Chart 5.4).

Chart 5.3
LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits
% (monthly average balances)
50
LyN / Total Deposits
45 43.1
LyN / Private Sector Deposits
40
35
31.9
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Feb-03 Feb-04 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-15
Source: BCRA

The adjudicated amount of LEBAC in local currency reached approximately $63,600 million at nominal value, with the totality being LEBAC in pesos, given that no adjudications of LEBAC in pesos that adjust to the reference exchange rate were recorded in the month. Within the LEBAC in pesos, as in the previous month, although the majority continued to be placed at terms between 90 and 180 days (42% of the total), there was a notable increase in the adjudicated amount in intermediate terms, of between 180 and 270 days, which reached 26% of the total (see Chart 5.5).

Chart 5.4
Participation of Non-Financial Entity Holders in the Balance
% of BCRA Securities
25 23
20
15
10
5
-

With respect to the foreign currency segment, the balance of LEBAC decreased by US$16 million, finalizing—

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 7
Feb-10 Ago-10 Feb-11 Ago-11 Feb-12 Ago-12 Feb-13 Ago-13 Feb-14 Ago-14 Feb-15 during the month in US$656 million.
Source: BCRA

It should be noted that during the month the BCRA adjusted the margin that financial entities subscribing to LEBAC in dollars perceive, with the purpose that they pass on to their clients most of the yield of these instruments7. Simultaneously, it was decided to increase the minimum interest rates that depositors will receive for their time deposits in foreign currency, with the objective of stimulating the maintenance of dollar savings within the financial system. Specifically, the BCRA began to offer LEBAC in dollars in two segments. In segment "V", financial entities can subscribe to LEBAC for time deposits in dollars from the private sector that they have captured, including renewals. In this tier, the maximum margin between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the interest rate subscribed by the financial entity is 0.8 p.p. annually. In the other segment, called "N" financial entities can access a maximum margin of 1.3 p.p. and can subscribe to LEBAC if they experienced an increase in time deposits (net of reductions in the balance of sight deposits from the private sector).

**Graph 5.5**
Awarded Amount of LEBAC by Term - Primary Market thousands of millions $ thousands of millions $

**Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1**

In February, the interest rates for passive repurchase agreements for the Central Bank for terms of 1 and 7 days remained at 13% and 14%, respectively. While for active repurchase agreements and for the same terms the interest rates were maintained at 16% and 17%.

The balance of passive repurchase agreements for all modalities in which the Central Bank participates decreased more than $4,100 million on average, standing at $21,700 million (see Graph 5.6).

**Interfinancial Markets1**

In February the interest rates in the interfinancial markets showed a decline, accompanied by a moderation in the amounts operated. The liquidity levels of the system contributed to the fact that, in the month of closing the minimum cash quarterly position, no pressures were generated in the interest rates of the interfinancial markets.

In particular, in the unsecured market (call) the interest rate of operations for 1 business day averaged 20.5%, declining 2.4 p.p., more than reversing the increase observed in January. Likewise, the average interest rate of operations for 1 business day between financial entities in the secured market (REPO wheel) was 21.4%, noting a decrease of 1.8 p.p. during the month (see Graph 5.7).

**Passive Interest Rates1**

In February the interest rates paid by financial entities for their time deposits in pesos for 30-35 days...

7 See Communication A 5711 and Statement P 50517.

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 8
(daily data and monthly averages) retail segment remained stable, while those associated with the wholesale segment showed a modest increase.

TNA %
31 BADLAR - private banks
29 Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100 thousand - private banks
27
25 The monthly average of the interest rate paid by private
23 LEBAC 3 months Feb-15 entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand
23.2
21 and up to 35 days maturity was 23.2%, a level that
19 has been maintained since November (Chart 5.8). It should
Feb-15
17 20.6 be recalled that the LEBAC levels that govern the calcula-
15 tion of minimum interest rate limits8 have a two-month
13
11 time lag, so that the slight decrease observed in January
9 in those rates will only impact the interest rates of retail
7 placements that are made in March. Indeed, in March
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
Source: BCRA the minimum interest rate paid by deposits of natural

8 See Communication "A" 5640.

 Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 9 persons of up to $350 thousand and up to 44 days will be

Chart 5.9 23.3%, only 0.1 p.p. below the rate in effect in the previous

Interest Rates on Financing through Documents months.
(monthly average)

TNA, % Participation in amounts granted of DSF to SMEs
Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years
32 100% Documents at Sole Signature For its part, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of
80%
60% Discounted Documents private banks – the interest rate for fixed-term deposits
40%
28 20% of $1 million or more, 30-35 days maturity – averaged
0%
 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-1526.5 20.6%, 0.4 p.p. above the January level.

24 24.4 Following the modification of the margins to be received
20 by financial entities that subscribe to LEBAC in dollars
16 (see Section 5. Securities issued by the Central Bank) and
12 the increase in minimum interest rates that these entities
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
Source: BCRA must offer their customers for their fixed-term deposits in

 dollars, at the end of February the interest rates paid by
 private sector placements in foreign currency began to

Chart 5.10 register increases. Said increase was verified, fundamen-

Interest Rates on Current Account Overdrafts tally, in deposits for amounts lower than US$500 thou-

TNA, p.p Monthly Variation (monthly average) sand. In particular, the interest rate of fixed-term deposits
% 8
 Current Account Overdrafts Total Overdrafts in CC up to US$100 thousand and up to 44 days maturity
36 6 Overdrafts of more than $10 M - up to 7 days
4 ended February at 2%, close to 1 p.p. above the levels
33 2 Current account overdrafts for more observed prior to this regulatory modification.
0 than $10 M - up to 7 days
30 -2 30.5
-4 Active Interest Rates1 9
27 -6
 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15
24
24.3 In general, the interest rates applied to loans to the private
21 sector decreased throughout February.
18

15 Among the interest rates applied to commercial loans, the
12 monthly average of the interest rate applied to the dis-
9 count of documents was placed at 24.4%, decreasing
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
Source: BCRA 0.2 p.p. during the month. For its part, the interest rate

 of documents at sole signature averaged 26.5%, decreas-

Chart 5.11 Active Interest Rates ing 0.1 p.p. during the month. In this case, a greater

TNA, % (monthly average) participation of loans granted under the LCIP framework

p.p. Monthly Variations was observed, which accrue interest rates lower than the
54 2
1 0.8 rest and are negotiated for longer terms, which was re-
48
0 flected in a greater participation of loans granted
42 -1 -0.8 -0.8
-2 37.6 Mortgage Secured by Pledge Personal
36
30 27.3 we are moving to longer-term brackets (Chart 5.9).

24

18 21.1 Likewise, in February the interest rate on current account
12 advances averaged 30.5%, 0.4 p.p. below
6 Chattel Mortgage Personal loans to individuals the previous month. Within this line, the interest rate
0 corresponding to advances to companies for more than
Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 $10 million and up to 7 days of maturity, reversed the
Source: BCRA increase observed in January (1.3 p.p.), placing itself at
24.3% (Chart 5.10).

9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation
and origination expenses nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total The interest rates of the longer-term lines presented
financial cost of the loans. mixed behaviors. Among the lines with real guarantees,
the monthly average of the interest rate for mortgage
Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 10 loans to individuals continued the upward trend it has
Chart 6.1 been registering in recent months, placing itself at 21.1%,
0.8 p.p. above January. In the case of loans with chattel
International Reserves of the BCRA mortgage guarantee, the interest rate averaged 27.3%,
thousands of millions of U$S partially reversing the increase of the previous month, by
45 declining 0.8 p.p. (Chart 5.11).

Feb-15
Regarding the interest rate on personal loans, the
40 maximum rates10 in effect in February remained
unchanged at 38.9% and 48.3% for entities in Group I
and Group II11, respectively. However, the monthly
35
weighted average of interest rates on personal loans
declined 0.8 p.p., placing itself at 37.6%, reversing the
30 increases that had been recorded in the two previous
months. Meanwhile, the maximum interest rates in effect
in March are placed at 38.8% and 48.2% for Group I and
25 Group II, respectively.
Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15
Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Market
Chart 6.2 Foreign Exchange Market1
(average quotations)

$/Euro $/Real $/U$S
11.5 7 9
$/Euro International reserves remained stable in
$/U$S (Reference) February and were located at month-end at US$31,470
$/Real, right axis million (see Chart 6.1). During the month, an additional
10.5 6 8 tranche of the local currency swap agreement with the
Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was
9.5 5 7 activated.

Additionally, there were inflows of foreign currency
8.5 4 6 from debt placements and an increase in deposits in
foreign currency that implied an increase in the current
7.5 3 5 accounts of entities in the Central Bank.

In part, these movements were offset by payments in
6.5 2 4 foreign currency made by the Treasury through its
accounts in the Central Bank and by the net sale of
Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Feb-15 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Feb-15 foreign currency in the foreign exchange market.
Source: BCRA

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated
with respect to the United States dollar (see Chart 6.2).
The monthly average quotation was placed at 8.7 $/U$S
(1% higher than the previous month). Meanwhile, with
respect to the real and the euro the peso appreciated,
and the quotations were 3.1 $/real (-
10 In June, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal loans and chattel mortgage loans for motor vehicles to natural persons, calculated based on LEBAC yields and which are published monthly by the Central Bank.

11 For the establishment of maximum levels for personal and chattel mortgage loan rates, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II comprises the remaining entities.

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 11 5.5%) and 9.9 $/euro (-1.3%). Meanwhile, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily trading amount was close to $2,000 million, which turned out to be 22% lower than January. Likewise, according to what is observed in the contracts entered into during the month, the expected quotations for the coming months were lower than what was observed in previous months.

Chart 7.1
Equity of Mutual Funds in Pesos
billions of $ Monthly variation
(July 2012) million $
160

140 Money Market
  Fixed Income
  Mixed Portfolio
  Variable Income
120

100

80

60

40

20

0
Feb-10 Aug-10 Feb-11 Aug-11 Feb-12 Aug-12 Feb-13 Aug-13 Feb-14 Aug-14 Feb-15

Source: CAFCI and BCRA

7. Collective Investment Instruments

Mutual Funds

The equity of Mutual Funds, denominated both in pesos and in foreign currency, ended February with a growth of $7,580 million (5.4%), reaching $148,140 million at the close of the month. The growth was distributed among all types of funds.

The monthly increase was driven fundamentally by fixed income funds in pesos (see Chart 7.1), whose equity grew more than $4,100 million (5.8%), reaching $75,000 million in units. As in the previous month, the increase in these funds was driven fundamentally by short-term funds that replicate the yield of the BADLAR of private banks, whose equity increased approximately $3,100 million.

Meanwhile, both the equity of Money Market funds, which grew $1,500 million (4.1%) to reach a total of $39,000 million, and that of mixed portfolio funds, which rose $1,000 million (4.3%) to $26,000 million, also showed increases, as did variable income funds which grew slightly more than $700 million (17.2%) reaching $5,000 million.

In all cases, the growth in equity was explained both by the subscription of new fund units and by the evolution of their prices.

Regarding returns, during February all funds in pesos presented positive returns. Particularly notable was the estimated return of variable income funds, which showed an increase of 14.8%, in line with the growth of the MERVAL Index (9.2%). Meanwhile, the monthly return of mixed portfolio funds remained at 2.3% as in January, while the returns corresponding to fixed income and Money Market funds decelerated slightly to 2% (-0.3 p.p.) and 1.1% (-0.1 p.p.), respectively.

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the equity...

Chart 7.2
Issues of Financial Trusts
million $ (excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works) 
Amount issued Quantity of issues (right axis)

2,500 45
2,000 40
1,500 35
1,000 30
500 25
0 20
Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-15

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

Chart 7.3
Retail Stores
million $ (amounts issued)
1,200 Monthly amounts
Annual monthly average
1,000 681
800 610
600 555
391
400 353
300 256
200 189
**Patrimony of the FCI increased 2.9% to US$306 million.**

| Dec-07 | Dec-08 | Dec-09 | Dec-10 | Dec-11 | Dec-12 | Dec-13 | Dec-14 |

On this occasion, the increase concentrated in fixed income funds (US$5.7 million) and mixed income funds (US$2.4 million).

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others.

**Chart 8.1**

**US$ per barrel Brent Oil Price**

| 120 |
| 110 |
| 100 |
| 90 |
| 80 |
| 70 |
| 60 |
| 50 |
| 40 |

Jan-14 | Mar-14 | May-14 | Jul-14 | Sep-14 | Nov-14 | Jan-15

Source: BCRA based on http://www.eia.gov/

**Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 12**

---

## **Financial Trusts**12

In February, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $1,460 million through 12 operations. Among the placements of the month, a FF was registered intended for financing electrical infrastructure works in the Province of Chaco. In effect, Servicios Energéticos del Chaco State Company of the provincial government (SECHEEP) placed Fiduciary Debt Securities (VDF) for $82.9 million. These securities bear an annual nominal interest rate equivalent to BADLAR of private banks plus 4 percentage points and have a duration of approximately 18 months.

Excluding this type of issuances, the amount issued in February ($1,375 million) was 38% higher than the previous month, although it was below the value of February 2014 (see Chart 7.2). All of the securitized assets corresponded to financing related to consumption (personal loans and credit card installments). The main originators were retail businesses, which placed $1,065 million, almost four times the amount issued the previous month (see Chart 7.3). For its part, "Mutual societies, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers" issued $200 million, half of what was issued in January. Meanwhile, in the case of financial entities, only one placement of $110 million was recorded.

Finally, the cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior securities –in pesos and with duration less than 14 months– with variable yield decreased 0.9 percentage points and was placed at 25.3%. Meanwhile, no fixed-rate operations were registered.

---

**Chart 8.2**

**% Inflation Rate and Target**

| 10 |
| 9 |
| 8 |
| 7 |
| 6 |
| 5 |
| 4 |
| 3 |
| 2 |
| 1 |
| 0 |
| -1 |

Jun-14 | Sep-14 | Jan-15

The circles, squares and triangles correspond to inflation without the effect of the fall in oil prices for June and September 2014, and January 2015, respectively.

Range of the Meta

Australia and New Zealand publish their inflation quarterly. The United States and Eurozone have only indicative inflation, not an inflation targeting regime.

Source: BCRA based on websites of the respective Central Banks.

---

**Chart 8.3**

**Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target**

**Suecia (Sweden)**

| % |
| 6 |
| 5 |
| 4 |
| 3 |
| 2 |
| 1 |
| 0 |
| -1 |
| -2 |

Monetary Policy Rate | Inflation Rate | Inflation Target Limits | Rate Corridor

Jan-06 | Oct-06 | Jul-07 | Apr-08 | Jan-09 | Oct-09 | Jul-10 | Apr-11 | Jan-12 | Oct-12 | Jul-13 | Apr-14 | Jan-15

Source: BCRA based on Riksbank

12 Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

**Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 13**

---

## **8. Main Measures of Monetary Policy Other Central Banks**

In the period under analysis, all banks that modified the bias of their monetary policy did so in an expansionary direction. These decisions occurred in the context of the fall in oil prices (see Chart 8.1) and its expected impact of reducing inflation rates globally. It is worth noting that in several countries inflation rates are in negative territory (see Chart 8.2).

**Chart 8.4**

**Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target**

**Israel**

| % |
| 6 |
| 5 |
| 4 |

Among those cases is Sweden, whose inflation rate was at -0.2% annualized in January, and where the Central Bank (Riksbank) reduced its monetary policy interest rate (Repo Rate) to -0.1%. On that occasion, it also modified the interest rate on the
3 deposit facility and the credit facility interest rate at -0.85% and 0.65%, respectively (see
 2 Graph 8.3). Additionally, it launched a program to purchase
 1 public securities (Quantitative Easing) for 10,000
 0 million Swedish kronor (equivalent to US$1,200
 Monetary Policy Rate Inflation Rate
 -1 million and 0.3% of Swedish GDP).
 Limits Inflation Target Interest Rate Corridor
 -2
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15

Also, in a context of negative inflation (-0.5% i.a. in January), on February 23, the Bank of Israel (BoI) decided to reduce the monetary policy rate by 0.15 percentage points, to 0.1% (its lowest historical level). Additionally, it also adjusted the width of its interest rate corridor, from ±0.25 p.p. to ±0.1 p.p., maintaining its lower limit at 0% (see Graph 8.4).

Source: BCRA based on http://www.bankisrael.gov.il/en/

Graph 8.5
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
%
China
10
Monetary Policy Interest Rate
Inflation Rate
8 Inflation Target
6

4

2

0

-2
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15

Source: BCRA based on PBoC. The PBoC does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, the Chinese government has an annual objective that is currently 3.5%.

Another case is that of Denmark, where markets foresaw a strong appreciation of the currency following the appreciation, last January, of the Swiss franc in relation to the euro. To discourage the strong inflow of capital towards Denmark, its monetary authority (the Danmarks Nationalbank), which maintains a floating band with the euro13, reduced, on four occasions and in just over two weeks, the interest rate on certificates of deposit of commercial banks at the Danmarks Nationalbank; until placing it at -0.75%. Along with this, it had to intervene in the foreign exchange market, accumulating during January and February sales of Danish kronor for 274,900 million, equivalent to approximately US$40,000 million (14.5% of GDP).

For its part, the People's Bank of China (PBoC) decided to reduce the reserve requirement for large banks by 0.5 p.p., to 19.5%. Additionally, on February 28, it reduced again—following the modification in November—its monetary policy rate (for one-year deposits) to 2.5%, in the context of a January 2015 inflation rate of 0.8% i.a. (see Graph 8.5), the lowest since late 2009. Along with this, the IMF's projection for GDP growth in 2015 is 6.8%, the lowest since 1990.

Graph 8.6
Monthly Job Creation - U.S.A.
In thousands Non-Agricultural
of jobs
500

300

100

-100

-300

-500
Recessions
Job Creation
-700 6-Month Moving Average
-900
Jan-70 Jan-74 Jan-78 Jan-82 Jan-86 Jan-90 Jan-94 Jan-98 Jan-02 Jan-06 Jan-10 Jan-14

Source: Own elaboration based on BLS.gov

Finally, in the U.S.A., although the Federal Reserve (FED) did not meet during February, the latest indicators from the labor market and the latest statements from its president in her biannual presentation before Congress indicate that the objective of the

13 The Danish krone fluctuates with respect to the euro in a band scheme.
# Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 14

reference interest rate, the federal funds rate (FFR), would be increased in the second half of 2015. Indeed, it should be recalled that FED authorities had stated at the time that they considered that the creation for six months of more than 200 thousand jobs (non-agricultural) was considered as a signal of normalization of the labor market. According to the latest available data, there have already been 11 months with job creation greater than 200 thousand positions (see Graph 8.6). This improvement in the labor market would allow the FED to begin raising the FFR since it would be close to meeting its objective of "maximum employment" in a context of price stability (if the effect of the fall in oil prices is excluded) and moderate long-term interest rates.

 Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Feb-14 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Monthly Last 12 months

 Monetary base 450,670 453,976 442,861 347,707 -0.7% 29.6%
 Monetary circulation 345,721 348,760 338,425 272,780 -0.9% 26.7%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 310,942 311,569 299,385 244,987 -0.2% 26.9%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 34,778 37,191 39,038 27,791 -6.5% 25.1%
 Cancellatory checks 0.5 0.7 0.9 0.0 -23.2% -
 Current account at the BCRA 104,949 105,216 104,436 74,927 -0.3% 40.1%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 21,729 25,879 15,333 17,584 -16.0% 23.6%
 Assets 0 0 0 0 - -

 Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value) 310,924 281,097 259,788 137,407 10.6% 126.3%
 In banks 237,398 216,396 200,220 115,598 9.7% 105.4%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 310,246 280,424 259,788 121,866 10.6% 154.6%
 In dollars 678 673 0 0 0.8% -

 NOBAC 0 0 0 15,541 - -

 BCRA international reserves (5) excluding SDR allocations 31,350 31,275 30,233 27,678 0.2% 13.3%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 890,228 882,951 840,085 685,965 0.8% 29.8%
 Current account (2) 251,060 294,327 275,626 200,452 -14.7% 25.2%
 Savings account 179,320 179,177 175,719 131,340 0.1% 36.5%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 426,698 377,495 356,311 328,211 13.0% 30.0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 9 9 8 5 4.5% 78.7%
 Other deposits (3) 33,141 31,943 32,420 25,957 3.7% 27.7%

 Deposits of the private sector 653,837 638,354 624,729 492,599 2.4% 32.7%

 Deposits of the public sector 236,391 244,597 215,355 193,366 -3.4% 22.3%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9,312 9,147 8,788 8,845 1.8% 5.3%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 607,007 605,699 590,839 517,694 0.2% 17.3%

 Loans to the private sector 565,707 563,013 549,809 474,999 0.5% 19.1%
 Advances 71,523 70,823 66,801 60,629 1.0% 18.0%
 Documents 133,014 134,226 133,922 112,860 -0.9% 17.9%
 Mortgages 47,924 47,872 47,502 44,306 0.1% 8.2%
 Pledges 32,725 32,570 32,700 32,425 0.5% 0.9%
 Personal loans 121,538 118,891 117,247 101,102 2.2% 20.2%
 Credit cards 118,684 117,961 110,982 88,198 0.6% 34.6%
 Others 40,300 40,669 40,654 35,480 -0.9% 13.6%

 Loans to the public sector 41,300 42,687 41,029 42,695 -3.2% -3.3%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 3,498 3,392 3,331 3,673 3.1% -4.8%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 562,002 605,897 575,013 445,441 -7.2% 26.2%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 741,322 785,074 750,732 576,780 -5.6% 28.5%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1,201,170 1,194,521 1,139,471 930,954 0.6% 29.0%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,285,324 1,276,442 1,217,423 1,002,352 0.7% 28.2%
# Private Monetary Aggregates

| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| M1 (Banknotes and coins in the public's possession + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts in pesos) | 473.483 | 472.766 | 459.749 | 364.233 | 0.2% | 30.0% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 638.941 | 638.695 | 621.067 | 486.232 | 0.0% | 31.4% |
| M3 (Banknotes and coins in the public's possession + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 964.779 | 949.924 | 924.116 | 737.588 | 1.6% | 30.8% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDI N) | 1.034.700 | 1.016.834 | 988.632 | 795.543 | 1.8% | 30.1% |

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations

## Variation Factors

| | Monthly | | Quarterly | | Accumulated 2015 | | Last 12 months | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| Monetary base | -3.306 | -0.7% | 42.839 | 10.5% | 7.809 | 1.8% | 102.963 | 29.6% |
| Financial sector | 4.323 | 1.0% | -28.934 | -7.1% | -6.190 | -1.4% | -29.766 | -8.6% |
| Public sector | 14.948 | 3.3% | 75.578 | 18.5% | 45.579 | 10.3% | 171.161 | 49.2% |
| Private external sector | -2.189 | -0.5% | 5.044 | 1.2% | 1.229 | 0.3% | 49.087 | 14.1% |
| BCRA titles | -19.945 | -4.4% | -33.638 | -8.2% | -32.347 | -7.3% | -103.697 | -29.8% |
| Others | -444 | -0.1% | 24.789 | 6.1% | -462 | -0.1% | 16.177 | 4.7% |

## BCRA International Reserves

| | Monthly | | Quarterly | | Accumulated 2015 | | Last 12 months | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| International Reserves of the BCRA | 75 | 0.2% | 2.873 | 10.1% | 1.117 | 3.7% | 3.672 | 13.3% |
| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | -246 | -0.8% | 585 | 2.1% | 156 | 0.5% | 6.108 | 22.1% |
| Payment to international organizations | -154 | -0.5% | -197 | -0.7% | -236 | -0.8% | -538 | -1.9% |
| Other operations of the public sector | -81 | -0.3% | 6.251 | 22.0% | 2.504 | 8.3% | 7.488 | 27.1% |
| Minimum cash | 211 | 0.7% | 817 | 2.9% | 581 | 1.9% | -2.456 | -8.9% |
| Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | 345 | 1.1% | -4.583 | -16.1% | -1.888 | -6.2% | -6.941 | -25.1% |

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN recorded.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and Informative Regime SISCEN.

## Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

| | Feb-15 (1) | Jan-15 (1) | Dec-14 (1) |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** |
| Requirement | 11.8 | 11.8 | 12.0 |
| Integration | 12.0 | 12.1 | 12.4 |
| Position (2) | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.4 |
| **Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %** |  |  |  |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (3)** |  |  |  |
| Up to 29 days | 69.0 | 69.0 | 69.0 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.4 | 21.4 | 21.4 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.3 | 5.3 | 5.3 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3.4 | 3.4 | 3.4 |
| more than 180 days | 1.0 | 1.0 | 1.0 |

| | Feb-15 | Jan-15 | Dec-14 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** |
| Requirement | 44.9 | 47.7 | 45.7 |
| Integration (includes defect of application of resources) | 90.2 | 89.8 | 89.2 |
| Position (2) | 45.3 | 42.1 | 43.6 |
| **Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %** |  |  |  |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (3)** |  |  |  |
| Up to 29 days | 45.5 | 48.1 | 48.3 |
| 30 to 59 days | 22.7 | 21.1 | 24.1 |
| 60 to 89 days | 11.6 | 12.0 | 10.0 |
| 90 to 179 days | 15.7 | 13.2 | 12.1 |
| 180 to 365 days | 4.3 | 5.2 | 5.3 |
| more than 365 days | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.2 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 17 Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | Feb-15 | Jan-15 | Dec-14 | Feb-14 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** |  |  |  |  |
| Rate | 20.52 | 22.93 | 21.82 | 14.66 |
| Operated amount | 3.218 | 3.300 | 2.177 | 2.028 |
| **Fixed Term** |  |  |  |  |
| **In pesos** |  |  |  |  |
| 30-44 days | 19.84 | 18.60 | 19.97 | 21.00 |
| 60 days or more | 23.01 | 23.05 | 23.12 | 23.88 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 17.42 | 15.98 | 17.81 | 19.70 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 20.62 | 20.20 | 19.98 | 25.58 |
In dollars
 30-44 days 0.98 0.85 0.88 0.93
 60 days or more 1.52 1.43 1.67 1.71
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.78 0.70 0.85 0.81
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.60 1.00 0.99 1.08

 Active Interest Rates Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Feb-14

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 24.27 23.88 24.00 25.73
 Amount traded (total terms) 477 376 377 282

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.48 30.84 30.87 31.62
 Documents on sole signature 26.54 26.60 25.98 29.22
 Mortgages 25.76 22.19 21.46 17.51
 Pledges 27.25 28.07 26.35 24.25
 Personal loans 37.57 38.41 37.69 45.02
 Credit cards n/a 40.78 41.77 38.30

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.26 25.64 24.31 25.89

 International Interest Rates Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Feb-14

LIBOR
 1 month 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.16
 6 months 0.38 0.36 0.34 0.33

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.60 0.53 0.61 0.32
 10 years 1.96 1.87 2.20 2.70

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.25 11.94 11.70 10.54

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Feb-14

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 13.00 13.00 13.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 14.00 14.00 14.00 9.50
 Assets 7 days 17.00 17.00 17.00 11.50

Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 15.64 16.06 16.33 9.69
 7 days 15.71 14.22 15.01 10.42

Amount traded in REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 15,221 18,415 12,550 14,259

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o 28.52
 3 months 26.50 26.78 26.84 28.73
 9 months n/o n/o 29.08 29.90
 12 months 28.94 29.13 29.29 30.23

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o 1.49

LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 2.88 2.50 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.45 3.00 3.00 3.00
 6 months 3.75 3.50 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.10 4.00 4.00 4.00

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 3,550 3,200 3,518 1,245

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Feb-14

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.68 8.60 8.55 7.85
 Retail 8.69 8.61 8.55 7.87

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8.85 8.81 8.76 8.05
 ROFEX 1 month 8.83 8.75 8.73 7.91
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 1,985 2,547 2,413 2,917

Real (Pesos per Real) 3.08 3.26 3.24 3.30

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 9.86 9.99 10.54 10.73

 Capital Market Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Feb-14

MERVAL
 Index 9,270 8,519 8,563 5,893
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 164 112 174 103

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 138.3 132.3 130.6 126.4
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Legislation) 128.3 117.3 111.7 95.5
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 135.1 125.6 126.6 111.2
 DISCOUNT ($) 78.2 70.2 72.3 71.9

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 787 1,014 1,146 1,328
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 516 541 502 454

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 19

## Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y-o-y: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2015 | BCRA | 20
