# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 10

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 10

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 14

10. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was October 15, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary¹

• The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) registered growth of 1.8% in September, maintaining its year-on-year variation stable at around 35%. All its components showed increases.

• The increase in M3 was led by fixed-term deposits from the private sector, which grew 2.8% and reached a year-on-year variation of 46.2%. Placements of more than $1 million registered the largest monthly increase of the last four months, while deposits of less than $1 million maintained a firm upward trend, favored by the minimum interest rate scheme established by the BCRA. In the last 2 months retail fixed-term deposits increased $15,600 million and reached a year-on-year increase of 53.7%.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate, exhibiting an increase of 3.1% ($20,000 million), which was higher than in August and the same month of last year. Thus, their year-on-year growth stood at around 32%. The lines that contributed most to the monthly increase were financing granted through documents, personal loans, and credit card financing.

• In the aforementioned context of greater dynamism in loans, the liquidity ratio of financial entities in the peso segment decreased 0.8 p.p. compared to August, although it remained at elevated levels: 38% in terms of peso deposits. The reduction was manifested in a decrease in excess liquidity, particularly associated with lower holdings of LEBAC.

• Passive interest rates remained at levels similar to those of August. Among those in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity was 23.5%, in line with the minimum values established by the BCRA. For its part, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 21.2%.

• Interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed heterogeneous movements. Among commercial lines, the monthly average interest rate on advances stood at 30.3%, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month. In the case of single-signature documents, the interest rate averaged 25.3%, exhibiting a monthly decline of 0.9 p.p. By contrast, the interest rate on discounted documents averaged 23.3%, increasing 0.2 p.p. during the month.

¹ Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 % (variation of monthly averages) %
 6 60 The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3 2) re-
 Monthly variation of M3
 5 Variation y.o.y. of M3 (right axis) 50 corded in September a growth of 1.8%, maintaining
 its year-on-year variation stable around 35%
 4 40
 (see Chart 2.1). Although all components of M3
 3 30
 presented an increase in the month, the largest increase
 2 20
 was concentrated in fixed-term deposits of the private
 1 10 sector (see Chart 2.2).

 0 0 Fixed-term placements of the private sector main-
 tained high dynamism and grew 2.8%. This behavior
 -1 -10
 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15 prompted a new acceleration in its year-on-year varia-

 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA tion which stood at 46.2% (see Chart 2.3). Both retail
 placements and those of more than $1 million presented
 increases, with the latter standing out, whose monthly
 Chart 2.2 increase (2.4%) was the largest of the last four months.
 Monetary Aggregates For their part, deposits of less than $1 million main-
 (September 2015, average variation) tained a firm upward trend, favored by the minimum
 Total Dep. S. interest rate scheme established by the BCRA. Thus,
 Public retail fixed-term deposits increased in the last 2 months
 $15,600 million and reached an increase of 53.7% in
 Dep. Fixed Term and Others the last twelve months. The growth of fixed-term place-
 S. Private ments together with the increase of 1.6% in sight depos-
 M3 its, led to the total deposits of the private sector in-
 1.8%
 Dep. Sight S. M3 Private creasing 2.1% in September.
 Private 1.9%
 Deposits in foreign currency decreased in the month,
 Currency in circulation
 in the hands of the public verifying reductions in placements of the public sec-
 tor that were partially offset by the increase in depos-
 0 2 4 6 8 10 12
 its of the private sector. Consequently, the broadest
 billion $ monetary aggregate, M3*3, presented a monthly growth
 Note: the percentages in the figures correspond to the monthly variation. of 1.6%, reaching a year-on-year variation close to 36%.
 Source: BCRA

 Chart 2.3 With a monthly average balance of $533,353 million,
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector the monetary base increased 1.2% and maintained its
 % (variations of monthly averages) % year-on-year variation stable, close to 35%. The
 7 Variation monthly increase 56 monthly increase was driven both by currency in
 6 Variation y.o.y. (right axis) 48 circulation and by bank reserves (which include cash in
 5 40 financial entities and the balances of current accounts
 4 32 of financial entities in the BCRA).

 3 24

 2 16

 1 8

 0 0

 -1 -8
 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
3 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

 4 Chart 3.1 3. Loans 1 4
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 %
 6 60
 Monthly variation 5.1 In September, loans in pesos to the private sector
 5 Variation y.o.y. (right axis) 50 displayed an increase of 3.1% ($20,000 million), which
 3.6 resulted higher than that of August and that of the same
 4 3.4 40
 3.1 3.1 month of the past year. Thus, they showed an accel-
 3 2.7 30
 2.2 eration in their year-on-year growth rate, which stood
 1.9 around 32% (see Chart 3.1). Distinguishing by credit
 2 20
 1.1 line, the growth of documents, personal loans and
 1 10
 credit card financing continued to stand out (see Chart
 0 0 3.2).
-1 -10
 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15

Regarding loans intended mainly to finance commercial activities, advances registered an increase of 1.1% ($920 million), accumulating a growth of 19.6% over the last 12 months. For their part, financing instruments implemented through documents reflected an increase of 4.2% ($6,570 million), slightly lower than observed in the previous two-month period, with an year-on-year variation that remained around 39% (see Graph 3.3). In the case of single-signature documents, a line through which a large part of the operations agreed within the framework of the "Productive Investment Credit Line" (LCIP) are implemented, a greater participation was observed of new loans granted at interest rates close to those established for the second half of 2015 (see Graph 3.4). In this sense, it should be noted that by September, financial entities should have agreed financing for at least 30% of the semester's quota.

Source: BCRA

**Graph 3.2**

Millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector (average monthly variation) 53.7%
21,000 56
18,000 Sep-15. vs. Aug-15. 49
15,000 38.7% 42
12,000 35.1% 35
9,000 32.3% 28
6,000 19.6% 21
 19.5% 14
3,000 13.8% 7
 9.2%
0 0
 Y.o.y. Var. (right axis)

Source: BCRA

Continuing with the initiatives aimed at promoting credit to the productive sector, in September the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance held the first auction under the Regional Economies Competitiveness Program (PROCER), which aims to increase the productivity of a set of value chains located in the extra-pampean provinces⁵ through loans, essentially to SMEs, destined to finance investment projects and working capital. Credits are granted in pesos and at a fixed interest rate, which results from the auction. Financial entities must indicate in each auction the maximum spread to be applied above the interest rate to be paid for the funds, which is 9% n.a. for investment projects and 13% n.a. for working capital. In this first auction, $60 million were awarded and the cut-off spread was 4.3%.

**Graph 3.3**

% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 70
12 Avg. monthly var. 60
 Y.o.y. Var. (right axis)
10 50
8 7.2 40
6 5.2 30
 3.8 4.4 4.2 4.4 4.2
4 20
2 1.5 1.2 10
0 0
-2 -10
-4 -20
 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15

Source: BCRA

⁴ Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) entered into in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans entered into, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

⁵ Excluding the provinces of Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Santa Fe and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires.

**Graph 3.4**

Financing more associated with family consumption continued to accelerate its expansion rate. Personal loans registered a monthly increase of 3.9% ($5,550 million), the highest in the last four years. Thus, the year-on-year variation continued to increase and rose from 33.4% in August to 35.1% in September. It should be noted that the sharp reduction in financing costs following the implementation of maximum interest rates in June 2014, has contributed to the dynamism of the line. For their part, financing with credit cards exhibited growth...

**Single-Signature Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector (amounts granted by type of rate and by range of TNA fixed and adjustable rate)**

%
100
90
80
70 Variable
 19.75 and over
60 19.25 to 19.75
50 18.25 to 19.25
40 17.75 to 18.25
 17.51 to 17.75
30 Less than 17.5
20 16.5 increase of 4.1% ($5,550 million), the largest increase
 10 3.1 7.2 of the year and also higher than that of September 2014.

 0 Consequently, the year-on-year rate of change continued
 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15to increase, reaching a value close to
 Source: BCRA
 54% (see Chart 3.5). In this way, it continues to be
 the credit line with the highest year-on-year growth.
 It should be noted that the official "AHORA 12" program, which
 offers financing in 12 interest-free installments for the
 Chart 3.5 purchase of goods and services, has been contributing to the
 dynamism shown by credit card financings.

 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 9 90
 8 Monthly avg. var. 80
 7 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) Loans with real collateral showed heterogeneous
 5.8 70
 6 5.6 60 behaviors. Mortgage loans registered a
 5 53.6
 3.8 4.050 modest increase of 0.6% ($310 million), although
 4 40
 3 2.3 2.6 it should be recalled that part of the demand for
 2.1 1.9 30
 2 mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not
 1 0.5 20
 10 reflected in bank loan statistics, since
 0
 -1 0 it has been channeled through the Argentine Bicentennial
 -2 -10 Credit Program for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). Meanwhile,
 -3 -20
 -30 credits with pledge collateral continued showing certain
 -4
 -5 -40 improvement in their performance, exhibiting a monthly increase

 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15of 2.7% ($950 million), which was the highest since
 Source: BCRA
 late 2013.

 Finally, the balance of loans in foreign currency to the
 private sector stood at US$4,000 million, reflecting a
 Chart 4.1 decrease of 6.3% (US$270 million) during the month.

 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
 deposits
45 BCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity
 39.540.241.040.7 39.7
40 37.838.938.639.2 39.7 39.539.238.838.0
 36.637.437.3
 35.7
35 32.533.7
 32.031.831.931.031.0
30 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities1

 22.822.4
25

20

15 0.70.6 Within the framework of the greater dynamism shown by
 3.73.5
10 loans in pesos, the liquidity ratio of financial entities

5 11.611.6 in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks,

0 the current account of entities at the Central Bank,
 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15net repos with that entity, and holding of LEBAC) decreased
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA
 0.8 p.p. with respect to August, although it continued at
 Chart 4.2 high levels (38% in terms of deposits in pesos, see Chart 4.1).
 The reduction was manifested in a decrease in excess
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos liquidity, particularly associated with lower LEBAC
 % of
 deposits holdings, and, to a lesser extent, by a reduction
 2.6 in cash holdings.

 2.0

 1.4 Regarding the Minimum Cash regime, it is estimated
 0.8 that financial entities ended September with a surplus
 0.2
 0.2 equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos
 -0.4 (see Chart 4.2).

 -1.0

 -1.6 Surplus
 Accumulated Position Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment liquidity
 Daily Position
 -2.2 grew again during September, and its average was
 -2.8
 equivalent to 103.7% of the total deposits in dollars.
 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15This value represented an increase of 4.1 p.p., distributed
 Source: BCRA
 between a higher balance of current accounts of entities
 at the Central Bank and a higher holding of excess liquidity.
 In particular, LEBAC in foreign currency increased by
 1.2 p.p. as a proportion of deposits in this denomination.

 Chart 5.1
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
 TNA % (last monthly auction)

 32
# 5. Interest Rates

## Securities Issued by the Central Bank

In September, the interest rates of the Bills that the Central Bank places each week in the primary market remained unchanged. At the end of the month, the interest rates of LEBAC at predetermined rate – at maturities of 100 days and 120 days – were located at 26% and 26.4%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity, at 255 days maturity, was located at 28.25% (see Graph 5.1).

The awarded amount of LEBAC in September was located at VN$58,756 million. The distribution of placements by maturity bracket remained relatively stable compared to what was observed in August (see Graph 5.2). At the end of the month, the nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC decreased $11,340 million compared to the end of August, being placed at $334,621 million. Regarding the main holders, the decline in balance was explained fundamentally by the behavior of financial entities, followed by insurance companies. Meanwhile, mutual investment funds registered increases in their holdings.

In the secondary market of LEBAC, interest rates decreased throughout the month in shorter maturities (mainly under 45 days), in line with the performance recorded in the interfinancial market. While, the interest rates negotiated in maturities greater than 90 days remained stable, as did those of the primary market (see Graph 5.3).

The average amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market was located at almost $3,500 million daily.

With regard to the foreign currency segment, the balance of LEBAC grew US$43 million and was located at the end of September at US$1,896 million. The increase in balance was explained fundamentally by the performance of the "V" segment which grew US$52 million, while the "N" segment recorded a slight decline of almost US$8 million.

## Central Bank Repo Operations

Following the increase recorded at the end of July, the interest rates of the Central Bank repo corridor remained unchanged. In this way, the interest rates of passive repos for the Central Bank for maturities of 1 and 7 days were located at 18% and 20%, respectively. While for active repos and for the same maturities, the interest rates are located at 23% and 24%.

The average balance of passive repos for all modalities in which the Central Bank participates remained relatively stable, being placed at $17,135 million (see Graph 5.4).

## Interfinancial Markets

---

**Footnotes:**
6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.
In September, the average interest rates in the inter-
financial market decreased compared to August, while
intramonthly volatility remained limited compared to
that observed in previous months. In the unsecured
market (call), the interest rate for operations at 1 busi-
ness day averaged 22%, 0.8 percentage points below
the value recorded in August. Likewise, the average
interest rate for operations at 1 business day between
financial entities in the secured market (REPO round
excluding BCRA) stood at 22%, verifying a decrease
of almost 2 percentage points (see Chart 5.5). The
average daily amount traded fell around $1,350 million
in September, totaling approximately $7,200 million.

**Passive Interest Rates 1**

The interest rates paid by financial entities for their
fixed-term deposits in pesos remained stable in Sep-
tember.

In the retail segment, the monthly average interest
rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of
up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity stood
at 23.5%, remaining unchanged compared to August,
in line with the reference interest rates for this lending
segment. Thus, in the last 12 months it accumulated
an increase of 5.1 percentage points.

In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private
banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1
million and more, 30-35 days maturity – averaged
21.2%, registering an increase of 0.2 percentage points
in the month (see Chart 5.6).

**Active Interest Rates 1**

In September, the interest rates applied to loans to
the private sector showed heterogeneous movements.

Among commercial lines, the interest rates associated
with overdrafts decreased compared to that recorded
in August. The monthly average interest rate for over-
drafts stood at 30.3%, showing a decrease of 0.2 per-
centage points compared to the previous month.
Within this line, the interest rate for overdrafts to
companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days
maturity decreased 0.7 percentage points, averaging
24.5% (Chart 5.7).

In the case of unsecured promissory notes, the inter-
est rate averaged 25.2%, exhibiting a monthly decrease
of 0.9 percentage points, influenced by the greater
participation of loans granted under the LCIP frame-
work. On the contrary, the interest rate for discounted
promissory notes averaged 23.4%, increasing 0.2 per-
centage points in the month (Chart 5.8).

For its part, regarding the interest rates for loans
with real collateral, the monthly average of the
24 23.4 interest rate on pawn loans was located at

 21
 24.5%, remaining stable in relation to August. For its
 18
 part, the interest rate on mortgage loans was 23.6%,

 15 showing an increase of 2 p.p. (see Chart 5.9).

 12

 9
 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15

Regarding the interest rate on personal loans, the maximum rates⁹ in effect in September were located at 37.7% and 46.8% for Group I and Group II entities¹⁰, respectively, whereby they remained practically stable compared to August.

 Source: BCRA

8 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other outlays (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

9 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal and pawn loans for motor vehicles to individuals, calculated based on LEBAC yields and that are monthly published by the Central Bank.

9 Chart 5.9 Thus, the interest rate on personal loans was
 Interest Rates on Personal Loans and Loans with Real Guarantee 36.7%, showing an increase of 0.2 p.p. in relation to August. In October the maximum interest rates will remain virtually unchanged at 37.6% and 46.7% for Group I and Group II, respectively.

 TNA, (monthly average) %  p.p. Monthly Variations Pawn Loans
 3  2.0
 50  2  Mortgage Loans  Total
 Personal
 1  0.2
 44  0
 -1  -0.1
 38  Mortgage  Pawn  Personal
 32

 26  24.5
 23.6
 20

 14

 8
 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15

 Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Foreign
 Chart 6.1 Exchange Market¹

 thousands of
 International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of U$S
 45
 Sep-15

International reserves reached a balance of US$33,257 million at the end of September, presenting a decrease of US$349 million compared to the end of August (see Chart 6.1).

 40

Regarding the exchange rate of the peso, it registered a depreciation against the United States dollar and the euro, while it appreciated in relation to the real (see Chart 6.2). The monthly average quotations were located at 9.36 $/US$, with a monthly variation similar to that of the previous month (2.4%), 10.52 $/euro (4.7%) and 2.40 $/real (-14.9%). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily amount traded was located around $3,900 million, slightly above the previous month (2%). Meanwhile, the contracts executed during the month reflected expected quotations through December similar to what was observed in August, although lower for the first five months of the next year.

 35

 30

 25
 Sep-13  Dec-13  Mar-14  Jun-14  Sep-14  Dec-14  Mar-15  Jun-15  Sep-15

 Source: BCRA

7. Collective Investment Instruments
 Chart 6.2 Mutual Investment Funds

 Foreign Exchange Market In September the assets of Mutual Investment Funds (FCI) denominated in pesos and in foreign currency remained relatively stable, standing at the close of the month at $183,260 million.

 (average quotations)
 $/Euro  $/Real  $/US$
 11.5  7  10

 $/US$ (Reference)

 10.5  6  9  It is worth noting that toward the end of the month the National Securities Commission (CNV) resolved changes in the FCI valuation criteria. Under the new regulatory framework¹¹ all securities in the FCI portfolio that are traded in foreign markets must be valued in the same currency in which they were issued, provided that this is the same payment currency. For purposes of said valuation, the buying exchange rate of the Banco de la Nación Argentina applicable to financial transfers must be used.

 9.5  $/Euro  5  8
 $/Real, right axis

 8.5  4  7

 7.5  3  6

 6.5  2  5
 Sep-13  Mar-14  Sep-14  Mar-15  Sep-15  Sep-13  Mar-14  Sep-14  Mar-15  Sep-15

 Source: BCRA
10 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and pawn loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II comprises the remaining entities.
11 General Resolution No. 646 of the National Securities Commission.

10 Chart 7.1 Considering the segment of FCIs in pesos, which repre-
 Equity of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of thousands of
 millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $sents 98% of the industry, fixed income funds grew
 24 200
 $1,500 million (1.5%). Within these funds, the increase
 Money Market 180
 19 registered in long-term funds stood out, with an increase
  Fixed Income 160
  Mixed Income in equity of $830 million (10%) thanks to the increase
 14  Variable Income 140
 in the quantity of shares, followed by short-term funds,
 Stock Evolution (right axis) 120
 9 100 with increases of $612 million (0.8%). Meanwhile, the

 80 medium-term funds remained relatively stable.

 4 60 Likewise, the increase registered in mixed income
 funds stood out, which totaled $490 million (1.5%),
 -1
 20 explained fundamentally by the increase registered in the
 -6 0 quantity of shares, since prices registered declines.
 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15 Counteracting this behavior, Money Market funds
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI verified declines of $870 million in the month
 (2.1%), driven by share redemptions, and the equity of
 variable income funds was reduced by $580 million
 (10.4%), fundamentally due to the decline in the price
 Chart 7.2 of shares (see Chart 7.1).
 
 Issuances of Financial Trusts

 millions of $ (excluding FF from public sector and other infrastructure) units
 3,300 35 With respect to estimated profitability, during
 Amount Issued
 3,000 Number of Operations (right axis) September the return of fixed income and Money Market
 30
 2,700 funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return of
 2,400 25 approximately 1.2%. While mixed income and variable
 2,100 funds registered losses of 2.9% and 9.7%,
 1,800 20
 respectively.
 1,500
 15 In the foreign currency segment, the equity of FCIs
 1,200
 900 10 was reduced by US$10 million to US$329 million.

 600 5
 300
 Financial Trusts12
 0 0
 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others In September, the issuances of financial trusts (FF)
 totaled approximately $2,200 million through 17
 operations, which implied an increase in the volume of
 Chart 7.3 securitized assets of 32% compared to the previous
 Amounts Issued by Type of Trustor month (see Chart 7.2). It should be noted that among
 millions of $ the month's issuances, there was an FF intended to
 3,300 (excludes FF from public sector and other infrastructure) finance a real estate development in Pilar, Province
 Mutual Societies, coop. and non-bank credit card issuers of Buenos Aires.
 3,000 Financial Entities
 2,700 Retail Commerce
 Agricultural Sector Among the trustors, financial entities and retail
 2,400 Others commerce stood out, which placed approximately
 $845 million and $770 million, respectively. In this
 2,100
 way, they concentrated approximately 70% of the
 1,800
 amount issued in the month, securitizing in both
 1,500
 1,200 cases assets associated with consumption (personal
 900 loans and credit card vouchers). For their part, the
 600 "Mutual Societies, cooperatives and non-bank credit
 300 card issuers and other financial service providers"
 0 securitized assets for approximately
 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others
12 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

11 Graph 8.1 of $380 million, which consisted of consumer
 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the U.S. and credits, pledged loans and leasing contracts. There were
 Eurozone also some issues from the agricultural sector and
 (VIX and VStoxx Index)
 55 the rest corresponded to a company dedicated to the
 50 VIX Index (S&P 500) marketing and transportation of natural gas and to a
 VStoxx Index 50 (Eurozone) real estate project developer (see Graph 7.3).
 45

 40 Finally, the cut-off interest rate (amount-weighted
 35 average) of senior securities - in pesos and with dura-
 30 tion less than 14 months - with variable yield was
 25 located at 26.6%, increasing 0.6 p.p. with respect to
 20 the previous month. Meanwhile, in the fixed-rate seg-
 15 ment a single operation was registered, with a cut-off
 10 rate of 26.5%.
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data

 8. Main Policy Measures of
 Other Central Banks

 In September, high volatility continued to be observed
 in financial markets (see Graph 8.1), especially in the
 Graph 8.2 Exchange Rate foreign exchange market (see Graph 8.2) and above all
 Local currency per dollar - Index 2/7/14 = 1 Brazil in Brazil. Brazil's monetary authority was the most active
 1.9 Brazil Chile Colombia in its interventions in the foreign exchange market. This
 1.8 Mexico Peru Uruguay
 was because on Thursday the 24th, the value of the real
 1.7 Eurozone United Kingdom Canada
 touched a historic minimum against the dollar (with an
 Japan Australia Turkey
 1.6 South Korea South Africa Israel Colombia exchange rate of 4.24 reals/dollar, although it closed
 Indonesia New Zealand Sweden
 1.5 China that day at 4.18, see Graph 8.3). In that context, the
 1.4 Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) intervened in the active
 1.3 repurchase agreement market in dollars (which imply
 1.2 only a temporary decline in international reserve
 1.1 stocks) and, for the first time since March 2015, in the
 1.0 China currency swap market (which do not imply a loss of
 0.9
 Jul-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Aug-15 international reserves). Along with this, the president of
 the BCB stated that "international reserves (around US$
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg 370,000 million) are insurance that can and should
 be used."

 The greater volatility in Brazil's financial markets was
 linked to the fact that on September 9th, in a context of
 Graph 8.3 marked deceleration in the level of activity, Standard &
 Exchange Rate Poor's reduced Brazil's sovereign debt rating from
 5.0 Real per dollar BBB- to BB+ with a negative outlook, warning that it
 4.7034 could be lowered again in the coming months. In this
 4.5 Real Spot NDF 3 months 4.4393 way, Brazil lost investment grade status.
 4.3093
 4.0753 Different indicators point to a deterioration in Brazilian
 4.0 NDF 12 months 3.9492 economic activity. Industrial production fell 9% y.o.y.
 in August. Along with this, the IBC-Br (monthly activity
 3.5 indicator of the BCB) decreased 4.3% y.o.y. in July, a
 decline 3 p.p. greater than in June, (see Graph 8.4). For
 3.0 its part, the latest inflation data shows some leveling off
 2.5 at the margin.

 In this context, the BCB's Focus survey does not
 2.0 anticipate a new increase in the target for the Selic
 Jul-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Aug-15 rate.
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg

 The month also highlighted the decision to maintain
 Graph 8.4 unchanged the objective of the reference interest rate
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil adopted by the Open Market Committee
 %
 30 Industrial Production (Var. y.o.y.) 18
 BCB Economic Activity Index (Var. y.o.y.)
 25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
 Inflation Rate (right axis)
 20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14
Main monetary and financial system variables

| | Monthly Averages | | Percentage Variations | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Sep-14 | Sep-15 | Aug-15 | Monthly | Last 12 Months |
| | | | | | Dec-14 |
| Monetary Base | 533,353 | 526,990 | 442,861 | 395,573 | 1.2% | 34.8% |
| Monetary Circulation | 413,949 | 409,912 | 338,425 | 303,587 | 1.0% | 36.4% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 377,500 | 372,341 | 299,390 | 274,013 | 1.4% | 37.8% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 36,447 | 37,568 | 39,034 | 29,572 | -3.0% | 23.2% |
| Cancellation Checks | 1.8 | 2.8 | 0.9 | 0.0 | -35.1% | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 119,404 | 117,078 | 104,436 | 91,987 | 2.0% | 29.8% |

| Stock of Passes | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities | 17,135 | 17,049 | 15,333 | 20,036 | 0.5% | -14.5% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | |

| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 358,810 | 357,982 | 265,505 | 233,697 | 0.2% | 53.5% |
| In banks | 268,196 | 267,488 | 200,644 | 179,056 | 0.3% | 49.8% |

| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for passes) | | | | | |
| In pesos | 341,031 | 341,041 | 259,788 | 225,078 | 0.0% | 51.5% |
| In dollars | 1,888 | 1,822 | 668 | 778 | 3.6% | 142.7% |

| NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,037 | - | - |

| BCRA International Reserves (5) | 33,423 | 33,721 | 30,233 | 28,281 | -0.9% | 18.2% |

| Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 1,028,769 | 1,008,391 | 840,058 | 764,112 | 2.0% | 34.6% |
| Current account (2) | 291,872 | 285,908 | 275,630 | 221,869 | 2.1% | 31.6% |
| Savings account | 215,732 | 211,928 | 175,719 | 160,204 | 1.8% | 34.7% |
| Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER | 482,938 | 472,648 | 356,281 | 352,693 | 2.2% | 36.9% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 10 | 10 | 8 | 8 | 2.6% | 24.6% |
| Other deposits (3) | 38,216 | 37,897 | 32,420 | 29,338 | 0.8% | 30.3% |

| Deposits of the private sector | 803,788 | 786,870 | 624,701 | 575,723 | 2.1% | 39.6% |

| Deposits of the public sector | 224,981 | 221,521 | 215,357 | 188,389 | 1.6% | 19.4% |
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 10.059 10.376 8.788 8.236 -3.1% 22.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 720.945 700.907 590.814 549.179 2.9% 31.3%

Loans to the private sector 669.869 650.085 549.787 506.218 3.0% 32.3%
Advances 83.775 82.856 66.782 70.034 1.1% 19.6%
Documents 164.468 157.894 133.922 118.555 4.2% 38.7%
Mortgage loans 50.835 50.520 47.502 46.563 0.6% 9.2%
Pledge loans 36.583 35.630 32.700 32.143 2.7% 13.8%
Personal loans 146.774 141.394 117.247 108.649 3.8% 35.1%
Credit cards 142.543 136.989 110.982 92.718 4.1% 53.7%
Others 44.892 44.802 40.651 37.557 0.2% 19.5%

Loans to the public sector 51.076 50.822 41.027 42.961 0.5% 18.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4.026 4.282 3.331 4.026 -6.0% 0.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + checking accounts in pesos) 669.374 658.252 575.021 495.884 1.7% 35.0%

M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 885.106 870.180 750.740 656.088 1.7% 34.9%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 1.406.271 1.380.735 1.139.449 1.038.127 1.8% 35.5%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.505.720 1.481.487 1.217.403 1.109.762 1.6% 35.7%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private checking accounts in 564.082 554.774 459.757 418.068 1.7% 34.9%
pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 760.886 749.744 621.075 560.392 1.5% 35.8%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.159.214 1.181.290 924.092 849.738 1.9% 39.0%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.264.112 1.239.871 988.611 910.707 2.0% 38.8%

14 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date 2015 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 6.362 1.2% 45.303 9.3% 90.492 20.4% 137.779 34.8%
Financial sector -105 0.0% 3.562 0.7% -1.657 -0.4% 2.954 0.7%
Public sector 16.305 3.1% 55.584 11.4% 117.088 26.4% 175.433 44.3%
External private sector -14.888 -2.8% -20.202 -4.1% -2.070 -0.5% -1.622 -0.4%
BCRA Securities 5.072 1.0% 4.746 1.0% -22.344 -5.0% -35.291 -8.9%
Others -21 0.0% 1.614 0.3% -526 -0.1% -3.694 -0.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA -297 -0.9% -257 -0.8% 3.191 10.6% 5.143 18.2%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.595 -4.7% -2.155 -6.4% -105 -0.3% -46 -0.2%
Payment to international organizations -172 -0.5% -333 -1.0% -1.372 -4.5% -1.321 -4.7%
Other public sector operations 390 1.2% 1.375 4.1% 3.927 13.0% 10.674 37.7%
Minimum cash -68 -0.2% 296 0.9% -409 -1.4% -253 -0.9%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 1.147 3.4% 560 1.7% 1.150 3.8% -3.911 -13.8%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to exchange rate valuation changes

Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.3 11.3 11.4
 Integration 11.5 11.5 11.6
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 65.6 65.1 66.7
 30 to 59 days 22.2 22.7 21.4
 60 to 89 days 6.2 6.8 6.5
 90 to 179 days 4.9 4.3 4.2
 more than 180 days 1.2 1.2 1.3
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 40.6 40.9 41.2
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 74.2 73.1 70.8
 Position (2) 33.6 32.2 29.5
 Residual term structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 50.8 48.7 52.2
 30 to 59 days 22.7 21.9 20.3
 60 to 89 days 10.5 14.0 12.6
 90 to 179 days 10.8 9.9 9.9
 180 to 365 days 5.1 5.4 4.9
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 15 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 21.92 22.76 23.86 21.83 13.08
 Amount operated 3,262 3,415 3,455 2,176 2,048

 Fixed-term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.16 20.70 20.18 19.97 19.17
 60 days or more 23.73 23.93 22.94 23.12 20.79
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.78 18.00 17.71 17.81 18.45
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.15 20.95 20.69 19.98 20.28

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.72 1.70 1.69 0.88 0.87
 60 days or more 2.57 2.48 2.56 1.67 1.55
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.37 1.42 1.43 0.85 0.87
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.23 2.25 2.38 1.02 1.08

 Active Interest Rates Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.69 23.63 23.64 24.00 21.58
 Amount operated (total terms) 642 616 593 377 291

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.32 30.50 30.43 30.86 28.92
 Documents on sole signature 25.27 26.14 26.25 26.15 26.31
 Mortgages 23.72 21.64 25.10 22.30 23.45
 Pledge loans 24.52 24.54 25.04 26.35 25.56
 Personal loans 36.72 36.55 36.44 37.70 37.85
 Credit cards n/a 40.09 39.80 42.74 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.47 25.17 26.19 24.31 18.94

 International Interest Rates Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.20 0.20 0.19 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.54 0.52 0.46 0.34 0.33

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.71 0.68 0.66 0.61 0.55
 10 years 2.16 2.16 2.32 2.20 2.52

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 13.82 11.70 11.00

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 18.00 18.00 13.81 13.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 20.00 20.00 14.97 14.00 9.50
 Active 7 days 24.00 24.00 18.13 17.00 11.50

 Total REPO trading floor repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 20.02 20.07 17.19 16.33 10.07
 7 days 20.27 20.09 21.20 15.01 12.73

 Amount operated of REPO trading floor repurchase agreements (daily average) 12,656 15,495 19,639 12,550 16,784

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 25.95 25.93 26.00 26.84 26.80
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 29.29 29.29

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

 Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 3,482 3,418 2,773 3,518 2,738
# Foreign Exchange Market Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 9.36 9.24 9.14 8.55 8.42
 Retail 9.38 9.26 9.15 8.55 8.43

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 9.53 9.36 9.26 8.76 8.73
 ROFEX 1 month 9.50 9.38 9.27 8.73 8.58
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 3,929 3,851 2,335 2,413 2,446

 Real (Pesos per Real) 2.40 2.63 2.82 3.24 3.61

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.52 10.30 10.06 10.54 10.85

 Capital Markets Sep-15 Aug-15 Jul-15 Dec-14 Sep-14

 MERVAL
 Index 10,433 10,980 11,678 8,563 11,292
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 183 167 149 174 304

 Government Bonds (at parity)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 141.2 145.9 144.4 130.6 151.5
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 148.3 141.3 135.2 111.7 130.9
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 144.1 139.9 140.4 126.6 140.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 81.2 78.3 74.9 72.3 67.0

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,917 1,010 880 1,146 1,421
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 580 573 536 502 380

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 1710. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and for a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: Year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 18
