# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

   Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

   Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

   Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

   Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

   Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 12

   Mutual Investment Funds | Page 12

   Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on April 16, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In March, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 0.4% and 30% year-over-year. The monthly increase was driven, once again, by fixed-term deposits from the private sector, which more than offset the decrease in public sector placements. Meanwhile, the private sector's means of payment maintained their average balance practically stable.

• Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector showed the largest monthly increase in the last three years. The monthly growth of this type of placement reached 6.4% and was explained both by the behavior of wholesale deposits and retail deposits. It is worth noting that the latter have maintained sustained dynamism since the establishment of minimum interest rates for deposits from individuals in October of last year: in March they increased for the third consecutive month by more than 4%. Thus, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector completed an increase of 32% in the last twelve months.

• The liquidity ratio of the domestic currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, in terms of total deposits in pesos) remained relatively stable compared to February, standing at 40.7%. Among its components, a greater participation of LEBAC holdings and deposits in the current account at the Central Bank was observed, offset by a fall in the repo balance.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate, registering an increase of 2.1% ($11,920 million) in the month, which was markedly higher than that observed in the same month of last year. Thus, the year-over-year variation increased by more than 2 p.p. to reach 21.5%. The month's growth was explained both by lines aimed at consumption and by those intended to finance mainly commercial activities, in line with companies' return to full activity.

• The monthly averages of most active interest rates decreased once again. Interest rates on loans with real guarantees recorded the largest reductions of the month: the monthly average interest rate on mortgage loans to individuals stood at 19.1%, while that for lines with chattel mortgage guarantee was 26.5%. In turn, the interest rate on advances to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity declined 0.4 p.p., standing at 23.9%.

• Among the interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits in pesos, those in the retail segment remained stable, in line with the reference values established by the Central Bank; while the BADLAR of private banks increased 0.2 p.p. compared to February, averaging 20.8%. In the dollar segment, the interest rate on fixed-term deposits up to US$100 thousand and up to 44 days maturity averaged 1.9%, about 1 p.p. above the February average. This behavior reflects the effect of the increase in minimum interest rates that entities participating in LEBAC auctions in foreign currency must pay (for a 30-day deposit they must pay 2.45% p.a.).

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1

Monetary Aggregates - M3
% % In March, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
6 (variation of monthly averages) 50 (M32) showed growth of 0.4% and, in year-over-year terms,

5 40 accumulated an increase close to 30%

4 (see Graph 2.1). The increase in the month was driven,

30 once again, by fixed-term deposits from the private

3 sector, which more than offset the decrease in

20 public sector placements. For its part, the
# Translation to English

10 means of payment of the private sector (M2 private) maintained their average balance practically stable. It should be noted that the presence of holidays that differ from one year to another make comparisons difficult with previous years. In particular, in March of 2015, influenced by the holidays of the last week of the month and those at the beginning of April, a slight increase in currency in circulation was observed and a slight decrease in sight deposits, explained by placements in savings accounts.

Monthly Variation of M3
- Monthly variation
- Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis)

Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA

The total deposits in pesos of the private sector registered a monthly growth of 2.9%, with the aforementioned decrease in sight placements and a sharp increase in fixed-term impositions. The latter increased 6.4%, experiencing the largest monthly increase since early 2012 (see Graph 2.2). Both wholesale and retail fixed-term deposits registered high increases, although the segment corresponding to operations of more than $1 million stood out, whose monthly growth (8.4%) was markedly above the increases observed during the same month in previous years. In the case of deposits of less than $1 million, although its monthly growth of 4.2% was similar to that of March 2014, it maintained its dynamism and, for the third consecutive month, grew at rates exceeding 4%, favored by the minimum interest rate scheme for individuals established by the BCRA, and by the greater stability presented by the exchange market. In this way, fixed-term deposits of the private sector continued accelerating its expansion rate and accumulated in the last year an advance close to 32%.

With regard to deposits in foreign currency, they presented an increase of 4.3%, with increases both in those belonging to the private sector and in those corresponding to the public sector. Among the placements of the private sector, the evolution of fixed-term deposits stood out, which began to increase starting from the last week of February (see Graph 2.3), as higher interest rates were observed for these placements³. In short, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*⁴, grew 0.7%, with its year-on-year variation close to 30%.

**Graph 2.2**
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
% (variations of monthly averages) March - Average Monthly Variation
% Monthly variation
Year-on-year variation (right axis)
- More than $1 million
- Less than $1 million
Years: 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015

Source: BCRA

**Graph 2.3**
Fixed-Term Deposits in Dollars of the Private Sector
(includes immobilized balances)
Millions of US$
26-Feb
01-Jan-15 15-Jan-15 29-Jan-15 12-Feb-15 26-Feb-15 12-Mar-15 26-Mar-15

Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 4

**Graph 3.1**
Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
% of deposits
CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity

The monetary base reached an average monthly balance of $453,065 million, showing an increase of 0.5% in March. The monthly increase was concentrated mainly in bank reserves (composed of cash in financial entities and balances at the
11.9 current accounts of financial entities in the
5 BCRA), given that cash in circulation held by the public
0 registered a slight increase. In year-on-year terms, its variation
Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 stood at 29%, 0.6 p.p. below February.

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹

Chart 3.2 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
% of
deposits
2.6 The liquidity of financial entities in the local currency
2.0 segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account
1.4 of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such
0.8 entity and holdings of LEBAC and NO-
0.3 BAC) remained relatively stable in March, at
0.2 elevated levels. On average, broad liquidity was
-0.4 equivalent to 40.7% of total deposits in pesos
-1.0 (see Chart 3.1).
-1.6
 Surplus
-2.2 Accumulated Position A decline in excess liquidity was observed, explained
Daily Position by a decrease in repos with the BCRA, which
-2.8 was partially offset by an increase in LEBAC
May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Ago-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dic-14 Ene-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 holdings. The proportion held in cash at the entities
Source: BCRA also decreased while the current account at the Central
 Bank grew. In this regard, it is estimated that financial
 entities ended March with an over-integration of the
 Minimum Cash requirement equivalent to 0.3% of total
Chart 4.1 deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
% % For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity
6 60 Monthly variation remained relatively stable, standing at 107.7% of total
5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50 deposits in dollars. The increase in the balance of LEBAC
4 40 in dollars (driven by the regulatory change established
by the BCRA at the end of February³) was offset by the
32.8 30 decrease in the proportion of other liquid assets, especially
2.2 2.2 2.2 2.1 in dollar current accounts of entities at the Central Bank
2 1.8 20 and in repos in foreign currency with the Central Bank.
1.3
1.0
1 10

0.1
0 0

-1 -10
Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15
Source: BCRA

³ It should be noted that when relaunching LEBAC in dollars, the margin between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the rate
corresponding to LEBAC subscribed by financial entities was adjusted. See Communications A 5527 and A 5711.
⁴ Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 5 Chart 4.2 4. Loans¹⁵
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 (monthly average variation) 70
 In March, loans in pesos to the private sector
12 Avg. monthly var. 60 registered an increase of 2.1% ($11,920 million), which
Var. y-o-y (right axis) proved markedly higher than that observed in the
10 50 same month of the previous year. Thus, the year-on-year
 variation increased by more than 2 p.p. to reach 21.5%
8 6.6 40 (see Chart 4.1). The month's growth was explained by
6 30 both credit lines oriented towards consumption and those
4 3.7 20 intended to finance mainly commercial activities, in line
 1.9 2.6 with the return of companies to full activity.
2 0.9 0.6 0.8 10
 0.1 0.2
0 0 Indeed, credit lines intended to finance mainly
-2 -10 commercial activity began to show greater dynamism.
-4 -20 Advances accelerated their monthly expansion rate,
-6 -30 exhibiting an increase of 3.7% ($2,680 million), which
Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 was above that recorded in March of the two previous
Source: BCRA years. Therefore, their year-on-year variation increased
 by 1.3 p.p., reaching 19.2% (see

Chart 4.3
% Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 70
12 Avg. monthly var. 60
Var. y-o-y (right axis) Graph 4.2). For its part, financings instruments
10 50
 tated through documents resumed the growth path,
 8 40
 showing an increase of 1.9% ($2,470 mil-

 6 30 lions), which contrasted with the drop recorded in March

 4 3.6 20 of last year. This led to an acceleration in the inter-annual

 2.5 1.9 2.2 1.9
 2 1.4 1.9 10 growth rate, which went from 18% to 22.5%

 0 0 (see Graph 4.3).

 -2 -0.8 -10

 -2.0 Regarding the "Credit Line for Productive Investment"
 -4 -20
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 (LCIP), in March financial institutions had
 Source: BCRA to meet an intermediate target that establishes that, by
 said date, financings should have been agreed for at
 least 30% of the total amount of the first tranche of
 the 2015 Cap. In the case of documents with single
 signature, line through which many of these operations
 Graph 4.4 are implemented, this requirement was reflected in a greater

 Single Signature Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector participation of new loans granted at interest rates
 % (amounts granted by type of rate and range of TNA close to those established for the first tranche
 100
 of the 2015 Cap (interest rate range of 18.75%-
 90
 Variable 19.25%; see Graph 4.4).
 80
 70 19.75 and above

 19.25 and 19.75 Regarding financings aimed at financing
 60
 18.75 to 19.25 mainly household consumption, personal loans
 50
 17.75 to 18.75 continued to grow at a good pace, favored
 40
 17.51 to 17.75 by the maximum interest rate policy established
 30
 for this type of loans. In effect, in the last
 20 17.25 to 17.50
 month they recorded an increase of 2.8% ($3,390 million),
 10 Less than 17.25
 higher than that of the three previous months. Likewise, they
 0
 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 accelerated their inter-annual growth rate, which stood at

 Source: BCRA

5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts
granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast,
the change in balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations in the period.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 6 22.7%, 2.5 p.p. above that observed in February
 (see Graph 4.5). Thus, the line continues to exhibit, since
 the second half of 2014, growth rates higher than those
 observed in the first part of that year. For its part, credit
 card financings presented a monthly increase of 2.4% ($2,890

 Graph 4.5 millions), while the inter-annual variation remains
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % at elevated levels, in the order of 37.5%. This line
 8 90 continued to be favored by the official program
 7 Avg. monthly var. 80 "NOW 12", for the promotion of domestic consumption
 Var. y-o-y (right axis)
 6 70 through this financial instrument.
 4.9 60
 5 4.4
 50
 4 Loans with real guarantees kept their balance
 2.9 40
 3 2.9 2.8 practically stable in March. Mortgages again
 2.6 30
 recorded a slight increase (0.1%, $70 mil-
 2 1.6 20
 lions), accumulating in the last twelve months a growth
 1 0.8 0.5 10 close to 8%. It should be noted that, although mortgage
 0 0 loans have been showing scarce dynamism...
Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 the same, a portion of the demand for mortgage credit
Source: BCRA
 for housing (natural persons) is not reflected in the sta-
 tistics of bank loans, as it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Program of the Bicentennial for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee also registered an increase of 0.3% ($90 million).

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to grow. In the last month they registered an increase of 2.6% (US$90 million), which was explained by the behavior of unsecured promissory notes in foreign currency, associated primarily with foreign trade operations. Meanwhile, the balance corresponding to credit card operations decreased, after the period of greater use of cards abroad during summer vacations.

 5. Interest Rates 6

 Central Bank Issued Securities7

 In March the interest rate curve of the Letters that the Central Bank places each week in the primary market steepened, registering a slight decrease for securities with shorter maturities and slight increases in longer maturities. At the end of the month the interest rates of LEBAC at predetermined rates – at maturities of 95 days and 120 days – were located at 26.2% and 27.04%, respectively; while the interest rate of the security awarded with longer maturity, at 305 days maturity, was located at 29.04% (see Chart 5.1).

 The amount awarded of LEBAC in local currency reached approximately $45,500 million, with all LEBAC being in pesos, given that no awards were registered in the month of LEBAC in pesos that adjust to the reference exchange rate. Within LEBAC in pesos the greater part was awarded at maturities between 180 and 360 days (62% of the total; see Chart 5.2). In particular, towards the end of the month LEBAC auctions at 360-day maturities were discontinued to avoid an overlap in that maturity, in coordination with the BONAC issuances of 12 and 18 months that the National Treasury began to carry out8.

 At the end of the month the nominal balance in circulation of LEBAC in pesos was located at approximately $313,900 million, registering a decline of 3% compared to the end of February. In relation to deposits in pesos the balance of securities was located at approximately 36% (see Chart 5.3). Throughout March the decline in the balance was explained mainly by the behavior registered by public financial entities, while private entities and other holders registered increases.

 In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC exhibited stability throughout the month, with the exception of the shortest maturities (less than fifteen days) which, towards the second half of March, showed declines in line with the behavior registered in the interbank market. The average amount traded

---

**Footnotes:**
6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 7
Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15

of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market was loca-
Source: BCRA
ted at $2,350 million daily. Operations with LEBAC stood out in the species with less than 15 days
of maturity.

Graph 5.4 Regarding LEBAC in foreign currency,
billions Balance of Central Bank Securities in Dollars
of $ its balance recorded the impact of the new provisions
1.6 (nominal value)
established by the BCRA at the end of February9. The stock

1.4 increased US$657 million and, at the end of March it was located at

1.2 US$1,313 million (see Graph 5.4).

1.0
Central Bank Repo Operations1
0.8

0.6 In March, the interest rates for passive repos for the

0.4 Central Bank for the terms of 1 and 7 days remained

0.2 at 13% and 14%, respectively. Meanwhile, for active

0.0 repos and for the same terms the interest rates remained

Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15at 16% and 17%.

Source: BCRA

8 On March 27, the National Treasury held an auction for two securities in the local market, for 12 and 18 months. See http://www.mecon.gob.ar/wp-
content/uploads/2015/03/Comunicado-BONAC.pdf
9 See Communication 5711

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.5 The balance of passive repos for all modalities in

thousands Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA which the Central Bank participates was reduced by about $4,700
of $ million on average, being located at $17,000 million
45
(see Graph 5.5).
40 Daily balance
Monthly average
35 Interbank Markets1
30
In March, the interest rates of interbank markets
25
did not show major changes. In the unsecured market
20
(call) the interest rate of operations at 1 business day
15
averaged 21.2%, 0.7 percentage points more than in
10
February, mainly due to the performance recorded at
5
the beginning of the month since by the end of March
0 the interest rate was located below the level registered at
Source: BCRAJun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15the end of February. For its part, the average interest rate
of operations at 1 business day between financial entities
in the secured market (REPO wheel) was 21.1%,
verifying a decrease of 0.3 percentage points in the month
(see Graph 5.6). The average daily amount traded remained
Graph 5.6 relatively stable, totaling around $7,000 million.
thousands Interbank Market

of millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA % 10 25

9 Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (daily average)
Amount traded Call (daily average) Passive Interest Rates1
8 20
Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis)
7 Interest rate Call (right axis)
6 15 The interest rates paid by financial entities for their

5 fixed-term deposits in pesos in the retail segment remained

4 10 stable in March, while those associated with the wholesale

3 segment continued with the slightly upward trend that has

2 5 been observed since December.

1 0
0 0
Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15
Source: BCRA In the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest
rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to
$100 thousand and up to 35 days of maturity remained
Graph 5.7 unchanged since November, at 23.2% (Graph 5.7). It should
Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 days be noted that since October 2014, minimum levels for interest
(daily data and monthly averages)
%; TNA rates in the retail segment have been in effect, which are
associated with the interest rate of LEBAC for the term
30
closest to 90 days10. Meanwhile, given the reduction observed
in February in the interest rate of three-month LEBAC,
28 BADLAR - private banks
 ses, in April the minimum interest rate for deposits
26 Fixed-Term Deposits up to $100 thousand - private banks
24 of individuals up to $350 thousand and up to 44 days,
 LEBAC 3 months Mar-15
 23.2 will be 23.1%, 0.2 p.p. lower than the one in effect in
22

20 March.

18 Mar-15
 20.8
16 For its part, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of

14 private banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits

12 of $1 million and more, with 30-35 days maturity – continued

10
 with a slight upward trend, averaging 20.8%
 8
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 with an increase of 0.2 p.p. in the month. Despite having
Source: BCRA
 increased 1 p.p. since November, the rate perceived

10 See Communication "A" 5640.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 9 by wholesale depositors is still more than 2
 Chart 5.8 p.p. below that charged to retail depositors.
 Active Interest Rates
 TNA, % (monthly average)

 p.p. Monthly Variations
54 0.0
 -0.5 0.0 In the foreign currency segment, the interest rates
48 -1.0 -0.7 Pawn Mortgage to individuals Personal applied to fixed-term deposits of the private sector
 -1.5
 -2.0 registered a marked increase 3. In effect, the
42 -2.5 -2.0 37.6

 Mortgage Pawn Personal interest rate on fixed-term deposits up to
36
 US$100 thousand and up to 44 days maturity averaged 1.9%,
30 26.5 approximately 1 p.p. above the February average.

24

18 19.1 Active Interest Rates1 11

12
 The interest rates applied to loans to the private sector
 6 registered declines during March, led by those paid on
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
Source: BCRA
 longer-term lines.

 Chart 5.9
 In particular, the interest rates on loans with real
 Interest Rates on Unsecured Notes
 (monthly average)
 guarantee noted the largest decreases of the month:
 Participation by term stratum in amounts granted to SMEs the monthly average of the interest rate on mortgage
 TNA, % (monthly average)
 Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years loans to individuals was located at 19.1%,
 32 100% while that of the pawn guarantee lines was 26.5%,
 80%
 25.9 exhibiting decreases of 2 p.p. and 0.7 p.p. respectively
 28
 60% (Chart 5.8).

 40%

 20% in the month.
 24 0%

 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15
 Among the commercial lines, the decrease in the
 20
 interest rate on unsecured notes stood out (0.7 p.p.),

 16 which averaged 25.9%, its lowest level in more than a year
 (see Chart 5.9). As in the case of loans with real
 12 guarantee, this decrease is partly explained by a greater
 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15participation of loans granted under the LCIP framework,
 Source: BCRA
 which bear relatively lower interest rates (19%) and are
 negotiated at longer terms (no less than 36 months), in a
 Chart 5.10 month where financings had to be agreed on for at least
 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities 30% of the total amount of the first tranche of the quota
 TNA, (monthly average)
 % 2015.
 36 Discounted Documents Variations
 p.p
 0.0

 32 Overdrafts in current account -0.1
 30.1
 On the other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate
 Overdrafts in current account for more than
 28 $10 M - up to 7 days -0.5 -0.4 -0.4 -0.4 applied to document discounting was 24.4%, 0.1 p.p.
 24.4 24.4% below the previous month (Chart 5.10).

 24
 -0.8
 23.9 -0.9 Meanwhile, in March, the interest rate on overdrafts
 -1.0
 20 in current account averaged 30.1%, while the one applied
 16 Monthly Var. Dec-14 Var. to companies, for more than $10 million and up to 7

 -1.5
 12
8 -2.0 days of maturity fell again, placing itself at
 DD Advances ctaAdvances (more
 Source: BCRAMar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15cte$10 M- 7 days)23.9%. In both lines, the monthly decline was 0.4
 p.p..

11 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation
and granting expenses or other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 10 With respect to the interest rate on personal
 loans, the maximum rates12 in effect in March de-
 creased 0.1 p.p., placing themselves at 38.8% and 48.2%
 for entities in Group I and Group II 13, respective-
 Chart 6.1 ly. In line with this, the monthly average of the interest
 rate on personal loans was 37.6%,
 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of U$S remaining at the same level as in February. Draw-
 45 ing on the impact of the cut in the interest rates of

 Mar-15 LEBACs in February, the maximum interest rates that

 40 are in effect in April are placed at 38.4% and 47.7% for Group
 I and Group II, respectively.

 35
 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 Exchange Market1

 30
 International reserves remained stable,

 25 with a balance of US$31,490 million at the end of March (see

 Mar-13 May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15Chart 6.1). During the month, two additional installments
 Source: BCRA
 of the currency swap agreement with
 the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China were activated.
 Also, current accounts in foreign currency
 of entities at the Central Bank were reduced, partly
 due to the decrease in third-party transfers
 pending settlement. Likewise, the Treasury made
 foreign currency payments and there was net sale of foreign currency
 in the foreign exchange market.

 Chart 6.2 With respect to the foreign exchange market, in March the peso
 Foreign Exchange Market maintained the pace of nominal depreciation with respect to the
 (average quotations)
 U.S. dollar. The monthly average quotation
 $/Euro $/Real$/US$
 11.5 7 9 was placed at 8.8 $/U$S, 1.1% higher than that of the previous
 $/Euro $/US$ (Reference)
 month (Chart 6.2). In the opposite sense, the peso appre-
 $/Real, right axis
 ciated with respect to the real (-9.4%) and the euro (-3.8%), whose quo-
 10.5 6 8 tations were placed at 2.8 $/real and 9.5 $/euro, respective-
 ly.

 9.5 5 7
 For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the
 average daily amount traded was close to $2,400
 8.5 4 6 million, which was 20% higher than February. It should
 be noted that in March the Central Bank began to oper-
 7.5 3 5 ate in the longer-term contracts, which expire between
 November 2015 and March 2016. Thus, the
 6.5 2 increases that had occurred during the first half
 4
 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15of the month were reversed, and at the end of March the prices of
 Source: BCRA
 the futures contracts were lower than those in effect at the end
 of February in all maturity periods.

12 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal
loans and chattel mortgage loans for vehicles to individuals, calculated based on LEBAC returns and which are
published monthly by the Central Bank.
13 For the establishment of maximum levels for personal and chattel mortgage loan interest rates, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 11 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Mutual Investment Funds
The assets of the FCIs, denominated both in pesos as well as in foreign currency, ended March with a growth of $5,160 million (5.4%), standing at the close of the month at $153,300 million.

**Graph 7.1**
**Assets of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos**

**Monthly Variation** (July 2012)
**thousands of millions of $**

The monthly increase was driven by mixed-income and Money Market funds in pesos. Each of these segments accumulated growth of approximately $1,500 million (see Graph 7.1), driven fundamentally by the subscription of fund shares. For its part, the assets of fixed-income funds grew by $1,100 million and variable-income funds verified an increase of $900 million.

Regarding profitability, during March, and as in February, all peso-denominated funds presented positive returns. Particularly noteworthy was the estimated gain of variable-income funds, which stood at around 14%, following the trend recorded in local market stock quotes. For their part, the increase in quotations of mixed-income and fixed-income funds stood at 1.9%, while returns corresponding to Money Market funds reached 1.2%.

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the assets of the FCIs increased by US$8 million and stood at US$314 million. As in the previous month, the increase concentrated in fixed-income funds (US$6 million).

## Financial Trusts

**Graph 7.2**
**Financial Trusts Issuances**
**(excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)**

In March, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $1,445 million, an amount similar to that of the previous month, although lower than that of March 2014 (see Graph 7.2). Regarding the number of placements, and as in February, in the last month 11 operations were conducted.

Regarding the settlors, financial entities issued around $530 million, somewhat more than the previous month. A similar amount was placed by retail merchants, which implied in this case a decrease of 50% with respect to the previous month. Meanwhile, "Mutuals, cooperatives, non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers" issued close to $380 million, 90% more than in February and a value similar to that of January. Regarding the trust assets, they corresponded entirely to financing related to consumption (personal loans and credit card installments).

Finally, the cut-off interest rate (amount-weighted average) of senior titles—in pesos and of duration less than 14 months—with variable yield stood at 27.6%, 2.3 percentage points above that of the previous month (see Graph 7.3). Meanwhile, no operations at fixed rates were recorded.

**Graph 7.3**
**Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos**
**IRR; % (duration less than 14 months - monthly average weighted by amount)**

Fixed Rate
Variable Rate
BADLAR private banks

## 8. Principal Policy Measures of Other Central Banks

---

*Source: CAFCI and BCRA*
*Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others*
*Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 12*
In the period under analysis, the effect that the decline in the international price of oil had on price indices persisted, both in advanced countries and

**Chart 8.1**

**Exchange Rate and Brent Oil Price**
**Index 31/10/14 = 1**

Brazil Chile Colombia Mexico Peru Uruguay Eurozone United Kingdom Canada Japan Australia Turkey South Korea South Africa Israel Indonesia New Zealand Sweden Russia (right axis) Brent (right axis)

emerging markets. It is for this reason that, in a framework of reduced global inflation, mixed results on growth expectations, greater volatility and uncertainty in international financial markets and a consequent increase in the flow of international capital with impact on foreign exchange markets (see Chart 8.1), there were several central banks that decided to implement measures aimed at promoting the growth of economic activity.

On the other hand, the decision of the United States Federal Reserve (FED) stood out, seeking to modify the text of its press release, in order to signal that during 2015¹⁵ it would raise its target for the Federal Funds Rate (FFR), which has been in the 0-0.25% range since December 2008 (see Chart 8.2). This occurred in a context where job creation, and labor market data in general, had been showing sustained improvement. Specifically, regarding non-agricultural sector employment, twelve months had already accumulated with job creation greater than 200,000 positions. The FED had mentioned that if this value were maintained for at least six months it would be an indicator of strength in said market. However, the latest data for this indicator, released in early April (after the FED meeting), was 126,000 positions (see Chart 8.3). This data, together with activity level indicators worse than expected, would have increased the possibilities that the first increase in the FFR would take place toward the end of the year.

**Chart 8.2**

**Projections and Median Target for Federal Funds Rate**
%

Projection of each FOMC member
Median

2015 2016 2017 Long Term

Source: BCRA based on federalreserve.gov

¹⁵ Days later, the FED president indicated at a press conference that the conditions projected for 2015 would guarantee the increase in the FFR during this year, although she emphasized that the process would be gradual

**Chart 8.3**

**Non-Agricultural Employment Creation**
In thousands of jobs

Employment
6-month moving average

Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 Jun-14 Oct-14 Feb-15

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 13

On the other hand, the case of Sweden should be highlighted, where its Central Bank (Riksbank) decided, in an off-calendar meeting, to reduce the Repo Rate to -0.25%. In turn, it maintained the width of the interest rate corridor which, in this way, is located at -1% and 0.5%, for the deposit facility interest rate and the credit facility interest rate, respectively (see Chart 8.4). Likewise, just one month after having announced its securities purchase program (QE), it decided to quadruple its amount, to 40,000 million Swedish crowns (1% of Swedish GDP and equivalent to approximately US$4,700 million).

Meanwhile, the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) decided, in a unanimous vote and anticipated by the markets,
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov
increase the target for the Selic rate again by
0.5 p.p. to 12.75% (see Chart 8.5). This decision was
taken in a context of weak activity levels, growing
inflation and a depreciation of the real of 18.1% in
what has occurred so far in 2015. With regard to the
latter, as of end of March, the BCB announced that, from
April onwards, it will not renew its program of currency
swap auctions and dollar sales with repurchase
commitment. In this way, the swaps that expire from
May 1st will be renewed in their entirety (taking
Chart 8.4
into account their demand and market conditions) and
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target - Sweden
% dollar sales with repurchase promise will also
6
Monetary Policy Rate
5 Inflation Rate be carried out contingent on market conditions.
Inflation Target Limits
4 Rate Corridor
3
Finally, other emerging countries that took
2 measures did so with an expansive bias. Among
1 them are the monetary authorities of
0 China, Russia, India, Thailand and South Korea, which
-1 took such measures within a framework of
-2 moderate (or declining) growth and low inflation
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15
rates (or deflation). In the first case, the People's
Source: BCRA based on Riksbank
Bank of China (PBoC) decided to reduce by 0.25 p.p.,
from 2.75 to 2.5%, its monetary policy rate (the one-
year deposit rate), within the framework of the lower
inflation rate since late 2009 and historically low
Chart 8.5 growth rates.
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity
Indicators - Brazil %
% Industrial Production (Year-over-year Var.) 18
25
Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-over-year Var.)
20 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
Inflation Rate (right axis)
15 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14

10 12

5 10

0 8

-5 6

-10 4

-15 2

-20 0
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 149. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Mar-14 Mar-15 Feb-15 Dec-14 Monthly Last 12
Months

Monetary base 453,065 450,670 442,861 351,349 0.5% 29.0%
Monetary circulation 346,137 345,721 338,425 268,830 0.1% 28.8%
Bills and coins in the hands of the public 311,775 310,991 299,390 240,596 0.3% 29.6%
Bills and coins in financial entities 34,360 34,729 39,034 28,232 -1.1% 21.7%
Cancellation checks 0.9 0.5 0.9 0.0 69.4% -
Current account at the BCRA 106,929 104,949 104,436 82,520 1.9% 29.6%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 16,987 21,729 15,333 11,593 -21.8% 46.5%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 322,061 310,924 259,788 147,043 3.6% 119.0%
In banks 243,692 237,398 200,220 123,131 2.7% 97.9%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 321,020 310,246 259,788 127,073 3.5% 152.6%
In dollars 1,040 678 0 0 53.5%

NOBAC 0 0 0 19,970 - -

BCRA international reserves (5) 31,432 31,350 30,233 27,332 0.3% 15.0%

Deposits from private and public sectors in pesos (1) 893,924 890,217 840,088 686,422 0.4% 30.2%
Current account (2) 250,048 251,065 275,630 185,914 -0.4% 34.5%
Savings account 179,351 179,315 175,719 132,646 0.0% 35.2%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 431,578 426,617 356,311 341,249 1.2% 26.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 10 9 8 6 5.7% 66.7%
Other deposits (3) 32,936 33,210 32,420 26,607 -0.8% 23.8%

Private sector deposits 672,562 653,755 624,733 503,159 2.9% 33.7%

Public sector deposits 221,362 236,462 215,355 183,263 -6.4% 20.8%

Deposits from private and public sectors in dollars (1) 9,713 9,311 8,788 8,406 4.3% 15.5%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 617.454 607.116 590.814 518.225 1.7% 19.1%

 Loans to the private sector 577.184 565.823 549.787 475.204 2.0% 21.5%
 Advances 74.173 71.497 66.782 62.220 3.7% 19.2%
 Documents 135.494 133.021 133.922 110.565 1.9% 22.5%
 Mortgage loans 47.994 47.922 47.502 44.566 0.1% 7.7%
 Pledge loans 32.800 32.713 32.700 32.441 0.3% 1.1%
 Personal loans 124.373 121.541 117.247 101.367 2.3% 22.7%
 Credit cards 121.570 118.673 110.982 88.396 2.4% 37.5%
 Others 40.781 40.454 40.651 35.649 0.8% 14.4%

 Loans to the public sector 40.269 41.294 41.027 43.021 -2.5% -6.4%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.594 3.498 3.331 3.599 2.7% -0.1%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 561.824 562.056 575.021 426.512 0.0% 31.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 741.176 741.372 750.740 559.158 0.0% 32.6%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.205.700 1.201.208 1.139.479 927.020 0.4% 30.1%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.294.516 1.285.352 1.217.432 995.518 0.7% 30.0%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 476.332 473.525 459.757 360.777 0.6% 32.0%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 639.336 638.977 621.075 481.759 0.1% 32.7%
 M3 ((Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 984.338 964.746 924.124 743.757 2.0% 32.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.056.902 1.034.657 988.641 799.225 2.1% 32.2%

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 15 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2015 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2.396 0.5% 10.204 2.3% 10.204 2.3% 101.716 29.0%
 Financial sector 4.771 1.1% -1.418 -0.3% -1.418 -0.3% -5.236 -1.5%
 Public sector 6.147 1.4% 51.725 11.7% 51.725 11.7% 176.831 50.3%
 Private external sector -4.505 -1.0% -3.276 -0.7% -3.276 -0.7% 38.762 11.0%
 BCRA securities -3.208 -0.7% -35.555 -8.0% -35.555 -8.0% -99.347 -28.3%
 Others -810 -0.2% -1.272 -0.3% -1.272 -0.3% -9.295 -2.6%

International reserves of the BCRA 82 0.3% 1.199 4.0% 1.199 4.0% 4.100 15.0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -510 -1.6% -355 -1.2% -355 -1.2% 4.877 17.8%
 Payments to international organizations -189 -0.6% -424 -1.4% -424 -1.4% -593 -2.2%
 Other public sector operations -116 -0.4% 2.388 7.9% 2.388 7.9% 7.548 27.6%
 Minimum cash 89 0.3% 670 2.2% 670 2.2% -1.102 -4.0%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) 809 2.6% -1.079 -3.6% -1.079 -3.6% -6.629 -24.3%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of pooled funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to exchange rate valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15
 (1) (1) (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.6 11.8 11.8
 Integration 11.9 12.0 12.1
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.3
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 70.3 69.0 69.0
 30 to 59 days 20.8 21.4 21.4
 60 to 89 days 4.9 5.3 5.3
 90 to 179 days 3.0 3.4 3.4
 more than 180 days 1.0 1.0 1.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 42.8 45.5 45.7
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 87.4 90.6 89.8
 Position (2) 44.6 45.2 44.1
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 47.0 45.5 48.1
 30 to 59 days 22.3 22.7 21.1
 60 to 89 days 10.5 11.6 12.0
 90 to 179 days 15.6 15.7 13.2
 180 to 365 days 4.4 4.3 5.2
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.2 0.3
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 21.13 20.52 22.93 21.83 19.17
 Amount traded 2,856 3,218 3,300 2,176 2,203

Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.87 19.84 18.60 19.97 21.42
 60 days or more 23.57 23.00 23.05 23.12 24.98
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 17.45 17.43 15.98 17.81 19.90
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.80 20.62 20.20 19.98 26.17

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.59 0.98 0.85 0.88 0.97
 60 days or more 2.48 1.52 1.43 1.67 1.60
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.17 0.81 0.70 0.85 0.86
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.15 1.60 1.00 0.99 1.02

 Active Interest Rates Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

Securities Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.44 24.27 23.88 24.00 27.98
 Amount traded (total of maturities) 522 477 376 377 324

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 30.09 30.50 30.84 30.87 33.27
 Documents at sole signature 25.67 26.57 26.64 26.01 29.54
 Mortgage loans 23.09 25.74 23.73 22.30 17.79
 Pledge loans 26.54 27.25 28.08 26.36 28.60
 Personal loans 37.58 37.58 38.42 37.69 46.09
 Credit cards n/d 40.92 40.58 42.76 39.39

 Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 23.89 24.26 25.64 24.31 27.31

 International Interest Rates Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

LIBOR
 1 month 0.18 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.40 0.38 0.36 0.34 0.33

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.64 0.60 0.53 0.61 0.39
 10 years 2.05 1.96 1.87 2.20 2.72

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.70 12.25 11.94 11.70 10.75

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 17 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 9.00
 Passive 7 days 14.00 14.00 14.00 14.00 9.50
 Active 7 days 17.00 17.00 17.00 17.00 11.50

Repurchase agreement rates total REPO round
 1 day 17.01 15.64 16.06 16.33 14.88
 7 days 17.61 15.71 14.22 15.01 12.99

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 12,616 15,221 18,415 12,550 10,127

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 26.24 26.50 26.78 26.84 28.78
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 29.88
 12 months 29.29 28.94 29.13 29.29 30.30

NOBAC spread in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 1.06

LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 2.88 2.50 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.45 3.00 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 3.75 3.50 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.10 4.00 4.00 4.00
Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2.350 3.550 3200 3518 1553

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8,78 8,68 8,60 8,55 7,93
 Retail 8,78 8,69 8,61 8,55 7,93

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 8,95 8,85 8,81 8,76 8,08
 ROFEX 1 month 8,95 8,83 8,75 8,73 8,06
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 2.911 1.986 2.547 2.413 2.300

Real (Pesos per Real) 2,79 3,08 3,26 3,24 3,41

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 9,49 9,86 9,99 10,54 10,98

 Capital Market Mar-15 Feb-15 Jan-15 Dec-14 Mar-14

MERVAL
 Index 10.442 9.270 8.519 8.563 5.937
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 265 164 112 174 86

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 134,3 138,3 132,3 130,6 121,1
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 134,2 128,3 117,3 111,7 95,8
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 132,6 135,1 125,6 126,6 108,2
 DISCOUNT ($) 88,3 78,2 70,2 72,3 86,1

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BODEN 2015 vs. US Treasury Bond 813 787 1.014 1.146 1.112
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 532 516 541 502 400

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
IVF: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Share Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | March 2015 | BCRA | 19
