# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was on June 11, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In May, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a growth of 2.5%, with increases verified in the means of payment (M2) and in fixed-term deposits. Among the factors that promoted the monthly increase, the BCRA's foreign currency purchases and the expansion of private sector loans in pesos stood out. In year-over-year terms, the variation of M3 was located close to 31%.

• Within the private sector placements, fixed-term deposits continued to stand out, which increased 4.4% and continued to accelerate their year-over-year expansion rate, reaching a variation of 36%. The average monthly increase was influenced by the statistical carryover from April, since May is a month in which an increase in this type of placements is not expected due to the high liquidity demand of companies to face tax payment deadlines. The average balance of operations of more than $1 million grew 4.8% in the month, which meant an increase of almost 6 p.p. in its year-over-year variation. For their part, deposits of less than $1 million continued growing firmly during May (4%), favored by the minimum interest rate scheme for individuals established by the BCRA and by stability in the foreign exchange market.

• The monetary base increased 2.2% in May, with a growth in banking reserves (cash in financial entities and balances of current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA) and circulating currency in the hands of the public. It should be noted that due to the long weekend of May 25 followed by two days of bank strikes, there was an exceptional increase in cash holdings, both in the hands of financial entities and in the hands of the public. This has had an impact on the behavior of the monetary base, which in year-over-year terms grew 32.5%.

• The liquidity ratio of the segment in national currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net transactions with such entity and the holding of LEBAC, in terms of total deposits in pesos) remained at high levels (39.6%), practically unchanged from the previous month.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector presented a growth of 2% ($11,590 million), similar to that of the previous two-month period and higher than that observed in May of last year. Consequently, a new acceleration was verified in the year-over-year variation, which went from 24.3% in April to 25.6% in the last month. Among the lines that drove the month's growth, credit card financing, personal loans, and those implemented through documents stood out.

• Passive interest rates decreased slightly compared to the previous month. In particular, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 20.2%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. in the month, noting its second consecutive decline. For its part, according to the evolution of reference interest rates, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity, was located at 22.7%, 0.2 p.p. below the April level.

• The majority of interest rates applied to loans in pesos decreased. While the interest rates applied to financing through documents decreased 0.4 p.p. compared to April, that of loans with pledged collateral was reduced 0.9 p.p. and that corresponding to personal loans decreased 0.4 p.p.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
Monetary Aggregates - M3
% %
6 (variation of monthly averages) 50
In May, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
5 40
(M32) presented a growth of 2.5%, with increases verified
4 increases in the means of payment (M2) and in deposits
30
3 to fixed term. Among the factors that promoted the in-
20 crease were highlighted the purchases of foreign currency
2
by the BCRA and the expansion of loans in pesos from the
10
1 private sector. In year-on-year terms, the variation of
0 0 M3 was located close to 31% (see Chart 2.1).
Monthly Variation of M3
-1 Y.o.y. Variation of M3 (right axis) -10
May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15
Note: M3 includes cash in circulation in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAthe total of deposits in pesos grew 2.5% in May, with
an increase in those belonging to the private sector
that resulted, in part, offset by the reduction in
those corresponding to the public sector.

Chart 2.2
Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
% (variations of monthly averages) May - Monthly Average Variation
%
8 Monthly variation 55 % More than $ 1 million Increases were recorded within the placements of the private
7 Y.o.y. variation (right axis) 50 5 sector, sight deposits and, principally, those agreed to fixed
4
6 45 3 term. The latter increased on average 4.4% maintaining
5 40 2 the growth of the previous months and, in this way, continued
1 2010 accelerating their year-on-year expansion rate, reaching a
4 35 0 variation close to 36% (see Chart 2.2). It should be noted that
2011 this increase was influenced by the statistical carryover from
3 30 -1 2012 April. Indeed, May is a month in which an increase of this
% Less than $ 1 million type of placement is not expected, especially in the wholesale
2 25 5 2013
4 2014 segment, due to the high liquidity demand from companies to
1 20 3 meet tax payment deadlines. Returning to the analysis of
0 15 2 2015 variables as an average of daily balances, this year it was
1 10 0 observed that operations of more than $1 million grew 4.8%
-1 -10 -1 in the month, which meant an increase of almost 6 p.p. in
May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 their year-on-year variation. For their part, deposits of less
Source: BCRA than $1 million, continued growing steadily during May (4%),
favored by the scheme of minimum interest rates for natural
Chart 2.3 persons established by the BCRA and by stability in the foreign
Fixed Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Foreign Currency exchange market³.
thousands of
millions of US$ (daily balance)
Deposits in foreign currency grew 1.9%, with
4.25
an increase in placements from the private sector and a decrease
4.20 in those from the public sector. Within the deposits of the
private sector, the boost from placements by energy companies
4.15
stood out and the upward trend that fixed-term deposits con-
4.10 tinued to show (see Chart 2.3)⁴. Consequently, the broader
monetary aggregate, M3*⁵, grew 2.5%, reaching a year-on-
4.05 year variation close to 31%.

4.00
The monetary base increased 2.2% in May, reaching a
3.95 monthly average balance of $468,116 million. The increase
was observed both in the bank reserves
Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 (composed of cash in financial entities and

Note: includes immobilized balances. Source: BCRA

² Includes cash in circulation in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits from non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
³ On May 26 and 27, declines related to the bank strike were observed, which were offset by operations in subsequent days.
⁴ It should be noted that when relaunching LEBACs in dollars, the margin between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the rate corresponding to the LEBAC subscribed by financial entities was adjusted. See Communications A 5527 and A 5711.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 4

Chart 3.1
% of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity
 the balances of current accounts of financial entities
40 38.8 38.5 39.2 39.4 40.1 40.9 40.6 39.6 39.7
 at the BCRA) as well as in circulation in the hands
35 35.6 36.5 37.2 37.1 37.7 of the public. It should be noted that due to the end of
 33.2 32.5 33.6 the long weekend of May 25 followed by two days of
30 31.4 31.7 31.9 31.7 31.8 30.9 30.9 32.4 bank strike, there was an exceptional increase in cash
 23.0 23.1 holdings, both in the hands of financial entities and in
25 the hands of the public. This had an impact on the
20 behavior of the monetary base, which in year-over-year
 0.9 1.0 terms grew 32.5%. As for the factors that generated
15 3.8 3.8 the monthly increase, primary expansion came essen-
10 tially from net purchases of foreign exchange by the
 5 11.9 11.7 BCRA.
 0
* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15

Source: BCRA

 3. Liquidity of Financial Entities 1

 The liquidity ratio of financial entities in the peso
 segment (sum of cash in banks, current account of
 Chart 3.2 entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity
 and holdings of LEBAC) remained stable during the
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
 month, remaining at elevated levels (39.6% in terms of
 of deposits deposits in pesos - see Chart 3.1). The proportion
 2.6 maintained in each liquid asset was similar to that of
 2.0 the previous month for the total of financial entities.

 1.4
 0.8 Regarding the Minimum Cash regime, it is estimated
 that financial entities would have ended May with a
 0.2 0.3 surplus equivalent to 0.3% of total deposits in pesos
 -0.4 (see Chart 3.2).
 -1.0
 Surplus On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment
 -1.6 Accumulated Position liquidity in May continued to be elevated and averaged
 Daily Position 102.9% of total dollar deposits. In relation to the pre-
 -2.2 vious month, it decreased by 1.8 p.p. and in particular,
 -2.8 an increase was recorded in the balance of LEBAC in
 Jun-14 Jul-14 Ago-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Ene-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Abr-15 May-15 dollars, more than offset by the reduction in the balance
 Source: BCRA of deposits in current account of entities at the Central
 Bank and of cash in foreign currency.

5 Includes M3 and deposits of public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 5 4. Loans 1 6
 Chart 4.1
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % % In May, loans in pesos to the private sector presented
 6 60 a growth of 2% ($11,590 million), similar to that of the
 Monthly variation
 5 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 50 previous two-month period and higher than that observed
 in May of last year. Consequently, a new acceleration
 4 40 was verified in the year-over-year variation, which went
 from 24.3% in April to 25.6% in the last month (see
 3 30 Chart 4.1). Among the lines that drove the month's
 2 20 growth, credit card financing, personal loans and those
 granted through documents stood out.
 1 10

 0 0 Within the lines intended to finance mostly commercial
 activity, financing instruments through documents
 -1 -10 maintained a growth pace similar to that of March and
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 April, registering an increase of 1.9% ($2,600 million),
 Source: BCRA which contrasted with the decline recorded in the same
 month of last year. This led to the year-over-year
 Chart 4.2 variation presenting an increase of more than 4 p.p. and
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % standing at 31.1% (see Chart 4.2). For its part, the
 14 70 average monthly balance of advances remained
 12 Average monthly var. 60 practically stable. The lower growth in this line...
 Year-over-year var. (right axis)
 10 50

 8 40
6 30 growth exhibited in May compared to the same month in
 4 20 other years is explained, in large part, by the negative "statistical
 2 10 carry-over" left by April. In effect, by con-
 0 0 templating the daily evolution of the balance, a significant
 -2 -10 increase is noted in the first part of the month –
 -4 -20 consistent with the greater demand for liquidity by
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 companies during that period, to meet tax
 Source: BCRA payments – and when comparing the balance at the end of
 May with that at the end of April, an increase of
 4.3% is observed ($3,000 million; see Chart 4.3). In the last
 Chart 4.3 twelve months, these financings accumulated an
 thousands of Advances in Pesos from the Private Sector increase of approximately 16%.
 millions $
 82 The lines oriented mainly at financing household
 consumption continued showing good performance. Personal
 Daily Balance loans exhibited growth of 3% during the period ($3,770 million),
 77 Monthly Average Balance which ranked among the highest of the last twelve months.
 31-May-15 Additionally, they continued showing an important acceleration
 73.0 in their year-on-year growth rate, which reached 27.5% (2.4 p.p.
 72 more than in April; see Chart 4.4). It is worth highlighting that,
 +4.3% favored by the policy of maximum interest rates established
 30-Apr-15 for this type of loans, the line continues displaying, since the
 70.0 second half of 2014, growth rates higher than those observed
 67 in the first part of that year. For their part, credit card
 62 financings grew 3.3% ($4,200 million), in line with the increase
 57 observed in May of other years. Thus, the year-on-year growth
 01-Oct-14 03-Nov-14 06-Dec-14 08-Jan-15 10-Feb-15 15-Mar-15 17-Apr-15 20-May-15 rate continued at elevated levels, reaching 43.2%. It should be
 Source: BCRA noted that this line continued being favored by the official
 "AHORA 12" program, which promotes domestic consumption
 6 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit through the portfolio through the entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to mean loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 6 through this financial instrument.

Chart 4.4 As for loans with real collateral, mortgages grew 0.6%
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % ($300 million), accumulating in the last twelve months
 8 90 growth close to 8%. As on other occasions, it is recalled that,
 Monthly average variation 80 although mortgage loans have been showing limited
 7 Year-on-year variation (right axis) dynamism, part of the demand for mortgage credit for
 6 70 housing (individuals) is not reflected in the statistics of bank
 60 loans, as it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit
 5 Program of the Bicentennial for Single Family Housing
 50 (Pro.Cre.Ar). For their part, pledged security loans registered
 4 40 an increase of 1.4% ($470 million), one of the highest since
 3 30 March 2014.

 2 20 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 1 10 registered a new increase in May of 7.4% (US$290 million).
 0 0 The same was explained mainly by the behavior of the
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 documents
 Source: BCRA

Chart 5.1
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
 TNA % (last auction of the month)
 32

 31

 30

 29

 28
27
ments at sole signature in foreign currency, financ-
26 May-15
ings that are strongly associated with foreign trade
25 Apr-15
Mar-15 operations. In this way, in the first five months of the
24 year, financings in foreign currency accumulated an
23 increase close to US$870 million.
22
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 million.

Source: BCRA

5. Interest Rates 7

Titles Issued by the Central Bank8

In May, the interest rates of the Notes that the Central
Chart 5.2 Bank places each week in the primary market fell.
Adjudicated Amount of LEBAC in the Primary Market The decreases concentrated again in the middle section
(as percentage of total) of the yield curve, at terms of between 120 and 200
% Up to 90 days From 91 to 180 days From 181 to 270 days From 271 to 360 days More than 360 days days, and totaled approximately 0.3 percentage points.
100 In this way, at the end of the month the interest rates
90 of LEBAC at predetermined rates – at terms of 100
80 days and 120 days – were located at 26% and 26.4%,
70 respectively; while the interest rate of the security
60 adjudicated with greater maturity, at 255 days term,
50 was located at 28.25% (see Chart 5.1).
40
30 It is worth noting that in the last two months LEBAC
20 auctions were discontinued at terms around one year,
10 in coordination with the National Treasury, which has
0 been carrying out placements of BONAC in that segment
May-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15 of the yield curve.
Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to data at end of month, unless otherwise specified.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.3 LEBAC and NOBAC and Deposits in Pesos

In this context, of the total amount placed in the month
% (monthly average balances)
60 (ARS 37,070 million), the amount adjudicated at
LyN / Total Deposits shorter terms stood out again, between 91 and 180 days,
50 LyN / Private Sector Deposits which concentrated 52% (see Chart 5.2).
45

40 At the end of the month the nominal balance in circulation
35 of LEBAC remained at a relatively stable level with
30 respect to end of April, placing itself at VN ARS 323,336
20 million. In relation to deposits in pesos the balance of
10 securities was located at approximately 35% (see
0 Chart 5.3). Regarding this indicator, it is important to
May-03 May-04 May-05 May-06 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 note that approximately 27% of the LEBAC stock is in
Source: BCRA the hands of holders that are not financial entities. In
May, while private financial entities and mutual funds
registered declines in their holdings, increases were
observed in public entities and insurance companies.

Chart 5.4
Balance of Central Bank Securities in Dollars In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC
billions of ARS (nominal value) increased throughout the month, mainly in the
1.8 shorter terms that showed increases toward the second
1.6 1.7
1.6 half of the month, following the behavior registered in
1.4 the interbank market. The average amount operated of
1.3
1.2 LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market was
1.0 located at almost ARS 2,960 million daily.
0.8
0.7
0.6 With respect to the foreign currency segment, the
0.4 balance of LEBAC grew US$14 million and was
0.2 located at the end of May at US$1,655 million (see
0.0 Chart 5.4).
May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15

Source: BCRA

Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1
In May, the interest rates on passive repos for the Central Bank for terms of 1 and 7 days remained at 13% and 14%, respectively. Meanwhile, for active repos, and for the same terms, the interest rates were maintained at 16% and 17%.

**Graph 5.5 Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA**
*thousands of millions of $*

The monthly average balance of passive repos for all modalities in which the Central Bank participates decreased by $600 million, standing at $17,200 million (see Graph 5.5). The decline was explained mainly by the behavior observed in mutual funds, since financial institutions registered increases.

## Interfinancial Markets¹

In May, the average interest rates in the interfinancial market increased. It should be recalled that this is a month characterized by the greatest liquidity needs of financial institutions as a consequence of tax payments, but on this occasion, these needs were increased by the long weekend of May 25 and the lower banking activity in the days following, which, as was noted, increased the demand for cash by families and banks. In the unsecured market (call), the interest rate on one-business-day operations averaged 22.6%, 4.8 p.p. more than in April. Likewise, the average interest rate on one-business-day operations among financial institutions in the secured market (REPO round) was located at 23.3%, verifying an increase of 5.3 p.p. (see Graph 5.6). The average daily amount traded grew by around $900 million in May, totaling approximately $8,200 million. The increase was driven by operations in the REPO round.

**Graph 5.6 Interbank Market**
*thousands of millions of $ (one-business-day operations) TNA %*

**Graph 5.7**
*%; p.p. Short-Term Interest Rates Passive Interest Rates¹*
*daily data*

The interest rates paid by financial institutions for their fixed-term deposits in pesos showed a slight decrease in May, led by the interest rate of the wholesale segment.

**Minimum Rates**

In particular, the BADLAR of private banks –interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with a 30-35 day term – averaged 20.2%, decreasing 0.5 p.p. during the month, noting its second consecutive decline.

For its part, as from October 2014 minimum interest rates have applied for the interest rates of the retail segment, associated with the rates of the LEBAC closest to 90 days of the second month immediately prior to the capture of the deposits⁹, and in March the interest rates of the LEBAC decreased, the minimum rate in force for placements of up to 44 days¹⁰ was 22.8%, exhibiting a reduction of 0.2 p.p. compared to the previous month. That decline was reflected in the monthly average of the interest rate paid by financial entities...

**Graph 5.8**
*Interest Rates on Current Account Advances*
*(monthly average) TNA, %, TNA Daily Data*
24 private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to

20 $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity, which stood at

16 22.7%, 0.2 p.p. below the April level (Chart

5.7). In this way, thanks to the establishment of this

12 measure, families receive for their placements more

8 than 2 p.p. than wholesale depositors.
Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15
Source: BCRA

9 See Communication "A" 5640.
10 See Communication "B" 10994.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 9 Active Interest Rates 1 11

Like in the case of passive interest rates, the
majority of those applied to loans to the private
sector showed a decline in the month of May.
Chart 5.9 Interest Rates on Loans Financed via Documents The exception to the aforementioned behavior was

(monthly average)

p.p Monthly Variations
3.0 Discounted Documents constituted by the evolution of the interest rate of
TNA, %
36 1.5 Single-Name Documents advances in current account, which was influenced

33 0.0 by specific liquidity needs, which also affected

30 -1.5 the interest rates of interbank markets.

-3.0 26.1
27 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 The monthly average of the interest rate on

24 current account advances was 30.1%, increasing
24.1
21 1 p.p. during the month. Within this line, the interest

18 rate on those advances to companies for more than $10

15 million and up to 7 days maturity averaged 24.4%, ex-

12 hibiting a monthly increase of 3.4 p.p. (Chart 5.8).

9 The temporary nature of the factors that generated the increase

Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15 is evident when observing the daily evolution of
Source: BCRA
this interest rate, which shows a decline of approximately 8
p.p. during the last week of the month.

In contrast, the interest rates applied to financings
implemented through documents decreased 0.4 p.p.
throughout May. Thus, while the monthly average of the
Chart 5.10 Active Interest Rates interest rates applied to document discounting was
24.1%, that corresponding to single-name
TNA, % (monthly average)
Monthly Variations documents stood at 26.1%
p.p.
54 0.0
-0.5 (see Chart 5.9).
-0.3 -0.5 Pledged Mortgages for individuals Personal
48 -1.0 Loans
-0.8
42 -1.5

-2.0 37.2

Mortgages Pledged Personal Loans For its part, among the interest rates associated with

36 longer-term loans, that of pledged loans

30 25.2 averaged 25.2%, decreasing 0.9

24 p.p. On the other hand, the monthly average of the

18 19.9 interest rate on mortgage loans to individuals

12 was 19.9%, declining 0.2 p.p. (Chart 5.10).

6 With regard to personal loans, the maximum

Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15 applicable rates decreased again in May, standing at
Source: BCRA
38% and 47.2%, for Group I and Group II entities13,
respectively. Thus, the observed monthly average
interest rate declined 0.4 p.p., remaining below the
maximum limits, standing at 37.2%.
11 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

12 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal and pledge loans for motor vehicles to natural persons, calculated based on LEBAC yields and which are published monthly by the Central Bank.

13 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and pledge loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II includes the remaining entities.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 10 Chart 6.1

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA Foreign Exchange¹
millions of U$S

**May-15** International reserves reached U$S33,283 million at the end of May, which implied a decline of U$S626 million with respect to the end of April (see Chart 6.1). The monthly decrease was explained mainly by public sector debt payments – among which those made to the Paris Club and for BONAR 2018 and 2024 stood out – ; whose effect was partially offset by net purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank.

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated with respect to the U.S. dollar (see Chart 6.2). The monthly average quotation was placed at 8.95 $/U$S, maintaining stable its monthly variation (0.9%). Meanwhile, the quotation of the real showed no changes (2.9 $/real) and that of the euro increased to 10 $/euro (4.3%). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily amount traded was placed at $3,200 million, 25% higher than that of April. Additionally, the contracts concluded during the month reflect a fall in the quotations of the future exchange rate for the coming months in relation to what was agreed in previous periods.

Chart 6.2
Monthly Variation of the Nominal Reference Exchange Rate
15%
$/US$ $/Euro $/Real

10%

5%
Depreciation

0%

Appreciation

-5%

-10%

**7. Collective Investment Instruments**

**Mutual Funds**

In May, the equity of the FCI, denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, registered a decrease of $2,600 million (1.5%), placing itself at the close of the month at $164,380 million.

Money Market funds were those that contributed most to the monthly decline, registering a fall of $1,300 million, followed by fixed income funds, which verified a decrease of $1,040 million (see Chart 7.1). In both cases, the decline was associated with mid-month tax payment deadlines, which drove the redemption of fund shares. In the same direction, but driven by the behavior of the quotation of the assets that make up the portfolio, variable income funds verified a decline of $585 million in their equity. On the other hand, mixed income funds were the only ones that showed an increase, rising $409 million.

Chart 7.1
Equity of Mutual Funds in Pesos
(monthly variation of stock at end of month) thousands of
millions of $

24 180 Money Market
160 Fixed Income
19 Mixed Income
140 Variable Income
120 Evolution of stock (right axis)
14
100
9
80
4
60
40
-1
20
-6 0
May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15

Source: BCRA based on CAFCI

With respect to profitability, during May the return of fixed income funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return around 1.1%. Within the segment, the behavior registered in
Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 11 short-term funds with a 24-hour liquidation period,
 Chart 7.2 Issues of Financial Trusts which in their majority have as benchmark the
 millions of $ (excluding FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) BADLAR units of private banks, with an average return
 2.700 35 of around 2%. For their part, Money Market
 Amount issued
 2.400 Number of operations (right axis) 30 funds achieved a return of 1.1% and mixed
 2.100 income funds of 0.5%. On the other hand, variable
 25 income funds registered an average loss of almost
 1.800
 9%.
 1.500 20
 Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the
 1.200 15 patrimony of the FCI fell by US$10 million to US$306
 900 million.
 10
 600
 5 Financial Trusts14
 300
 0 0 In May, the issues of financial trusts (FF)
 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others totaled around $1,960 million through 16
 operations. In this way, a recovery in traded volumes
 Chart 7.3 continued to be observed, registering an increase of 11%
 millions of $ Amounts Issued by type of Fiduciary with respect to the previous month and of 26%
 3.000 (excludes FF from the public sector and other infrastructure) in relation to May of the previous year (see Chart 7.2).

 2.700 Mutual societies, cooperatives and non-bank issuers of credit cards
 Financial Entities The main originators of the month were financial
 2.400 Retail Commerce entities. After issuing a low amount in April, in the last
 2.100 Agricultural sector month they placed around $620 million, the
 Others highest amount so far this year (see Chart 7.3). For
 1.800 their part, retail commerce securitized consumption-
 1.500 related loans for around $580 million,
 1.200 registering a decrease of 33% with respect to the
 900 previous month, while "Mutual societies, cooperatives,
 non-bank issuers of credit cards and other providers
 600
 of financial services" placed around $550 million,
 300
 an amount similar to that of April.
 0
 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15
 The remainder corresponded to issues from companies
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others linked to agricultural activity, which securitized
 commercial and chattel mortgage credits.

 Chart 8.1
 Finally, the cut-off interest rate (amount-weighted
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target average) of senior securities –in pesos and with
 % Eurozone duration of less than 14 months– with variable return
 6
 was located at 26.6%, registering a slight increase with
 5 respect to April. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment
 Monetary Policy Rate there was a single placement, whose cut-off rate
 4 Inflation Rate was 31%.
 Inflation Target
 3 Interest Rate Corridor

 2
 8. Main Policy Measures of Other
 1 Central Banks
 0
 In the period under analysis, the few central banks
 -1
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15
 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < that took monetary policy measures did so
 2% p.a. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. with an expansionary bias15. Although the
 monetary authorities of the main central banks did
 14 Only trusts with public offering are considered. not implement new measures, they made
 15 On June 3, the Central Bank of Brazil decided to raise the target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 13.75%. statements that had an impact on the main
 financial markets.
 Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 12
 Chart 8.2
 In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation First, a meeting of the
 300
 Employment
 400 6-month moving average

 350
# 300 Governing Council (GC) of the European Central Bank

250 (ECB) during May. In this way, its monetary policy interest rate, which it applies to Main

200 Refinancing Operations (MRO), remained at the historical minimum of 0.05%16. This occurred in a

150 context of mixed signals from economic activity indicators, and a preliminary inflation rate

100 of 0.3% y.o.y. during May, the first inflation rate greater than zero in the last five months (see Chart

50 8.1). Nevertheless, the ECB began to accelerate the pace of purchases of public and private securities

0 anticipating that markets usually have lower liquidity in July and August.

Jun-11 Oct-11 Feb-12 Jun-12 Oct-12 Feb-13 Jun-13 Oct-13 Feb-14 Jun-14 Oct-14 Feb-15

Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov

**Chart 8.3**

**% CPI by Category**

**United States.** In the case of the United States, from the minutes of the meeting at the end of April of the Federal Reserve (FED) it emerges that an increase in the federal funds rate target (FFR) is practically ruled out at the next mid-June meeting. However, in statements made in mid-May, the FED president stated that if the economy continues on the expected path, mainly regarding labor market indicators (see Chart 8.2) and inflation (see Chart 8.3), it would be prudent to increase at some point in 2015 the FFR target, and thus begin the process of normalization of monetary policy. Furthermore, she stated that increases in the FFR will be gradual.

**Chart 8.4**

**Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target**

**% Australia**

For its part, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) decided to reduce by 0.25 p.p. its reference interest rate, the Cash Rate (see Chart 8.4), which thus reached a new historical minimum of 2%. This is the second reduction of the Cash Rate in 2015. The RBA stated that inflation prospects make it necessary to provide greater monetary stimulus to the economy. In effect, the latest inflation data corresponding to the first quarter of 201517, of 1.3% y.o.y., is the lowest value since mid-2012, and is situated for the second consecutive quarter outside the target range (2-3%). According to the RBA, the measure also seeks to strengthen the recent improvement in household consumption.

**Chart 8.5**

**Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target**

**% Indonesia**

For its part, among emerging countries, the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (BCRP) decided to reduce from 7.5% to 7% the reserve requirement in domestic currency, which places this coefficient 13 p.p. below the level of June 2013, when it began to decrease gradually. Through these changes in the reserve requirement coefficient, the BCRP seeks to boost credit in domestic currency.18

Finally, Bank Indonesia (BI) maintained for the third consecutive meeting (after having reduced it in February) its reference interest rate, the BI Rate, at 7.5% and its interest rate corridor at 5.5-8% (see Chart 8.5). However, to maintain the "good moment of economic activity" according to its press release, it plans to ease part of its

---

16 At its June 3 meeting, the ECB did not take new monetary policy measures.
17 Inflation is measured quarterly.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 13

18
4 macroprudential policies, seeking to boost

2 credit. According to the latest activity data, GDP

Ene-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Abr-08 Ene-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Abr-11 Ene-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Abr-14 Ene-15 would have grown in the first quarter of 2015 by 4.7% y.o.y.,

 Source: BCRA based on BIS data
 0.3 p.p. less than in the fourth quarter of 2014.
 It adopted these measures despite the latest inflation data, of 6.8% in April, being 0.5 p.p. higher than that of March and constituting the sixth record of this variable above the target (4% ± 1 p.p.).

18 In early June the BCRP again reduced the reserve requirement ratio in domestic currency to 6.5%.

 Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 149. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables May-14 May-15 Apr-15 Monthly Last 12 Dec-14
 months

 Monetary base 468,116 458,015 442,861 353,311 2.2% 32.5%
 Monetary circulation 358,815 349,861 338,425 267,035 2.6% 34.4%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 323,459 315,111 299,390 239,957 2.6% 34.8%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 35,354 34,749 39,034 27,075 1.7% 30.6%
 Cancellatory Checks 2.3 1.4 0.9 0.0 67.6% -
 Current account at the BCRA 109,301 108,154 104,436 86,276 1.1% 26.7%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 17,237 17,865 15,333 13,493 -3.5% 27.8%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 325,443 316,148 259,788 178,142 2.9% 82.7%
 In banks 242,087 235,699 200,220 151,142 2.7% 60.2%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 323,779 314,610 259,788 162,191 2.9% 99.6%
 In dollars 1,664 1,537 0 0 8.2%

 NOBAC 0 0 0 15,951 - -

 BCRA international reserves (5) 33,796 31,908 30,233 28,386 5.9% 19.1%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 928,022 905,722 840,088 713,875 2.5% 30.0%
 Current account (2) 269,209 264,615 275,630 201,105 1.7% 33.9%
 Savings account 187,071 180,318 175,719 133,548 3.7% 40.1%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 434,843 425,940 356,310 350,908 2.1% 23.9%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 9 9 8 7 0.7% 29.5%
 Other deposits (3) 36,890 34,840 32,420 28,306 5.9% 30.3%

 Deposits of the private sector 724,302 697,961 624,731 531,995 3.8% 36.1%

 Deposits of the public sector 203,720 207,761 215,357 181,880 -1.9% 12.0%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9,621 9,444 8,788 8,337 1.9% 15.4%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 651,068 638,142 590,814 520,834 2.0% 25.0%

 Loans to the private sector 600,161 588,792 549,787 477,967 1.9% 25.6%
 Advances 74,313 74,438 66,782 64,080 -0.2% 16.0%
 Documents 140,984 138,390 133,922 107,530 1.9% 31.1%
 Mortgage loans 48,525 48,222 47,502 45,016 0.6% 7.8%
 Pledge loans 33,730 33,261 32,700 31,954 1.4% 5.6%
 Personal loans 131,023 127,466 117,247 102,778 2.8% 27.5%
 Credit cards 129,682 125,481 110,982 90,559 3.3% 43.2%
 Other 41,904 41,535 40,651 36,049 0.9% 16.2%

 Loans to the public sector 50,907 49,350 41,027 42,868 3.2% 18.8%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 4,199 3,906 3,331 4,075 7.5% 3.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 592,670 579,727 575,021 441,064 2.2% 34.4%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 779,741 760,046 750,740 574,612 2.6% 35.7%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1,251,484 1,220,835 1,139,479 953,834 2.5% 31.2%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,341,599 1,308,618 1,217,433 1,022,973 2.5% 31.1%
# Private Monetary Aggregates

| | May-15 | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Dec-14 | Monthly % | Last 12 months % |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts in pesos) | 495.283 | 483.271 | 459.757 | 368.893 | 2.5% | 34.3% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) | 667.287 | 649.284 | 621.075 | 491.459 | 2.8% | 35.8% |
| M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 1.047.763 | 1.013.073 | 924.122 | 771.954 | 3.4% | 35.7% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 1.124.648 | 1.085.486 | 988.640 | 830.777 | 3.6% | 35.4% |

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 15 Average Variations

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2015 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| Monetary base | 10.101 | 2.2% | 17.446 | 3.9% | 25.255 | 5.7% | 114.805 | 32.5% |
| Financial sector | 587 | 0.1% | 4.442 | 1.0% | -1.748 | -0.4% | -3.740 | -1.1% |
| Public sector | 1.322 | 0.3% | -235 | -0.1% | 45.344 | 10.2% | 168.811 | 47.8% |
| Private external sector | 12.781 | 2.8% | 10.838 | 2.4% | 12.066 | 2.7% | 28.433 | 8.0% |
| BCRA Securities | -3.608 | -0.8% | 4.383 | 1.0% | -27.964 | -6.3% | -70.001 | -19.8% |
| Others | -981 | -0.2% | -1.981 | -0.4% | -2.444 | -0.6% | -8.700 | -2.5% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 1.888 | 5.9% | 2.446 | 7.8% | 3.563 | 11.8% | 5.410 | 19.1% |
| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 1.436 | 4.5% | 1.218 | 3.9% | 1.373 | 4.5% | 3.397 | 12.0% |
| Payment to international organizations | -207 | -0.6% | -669 | -2.1% | -905 | -3.0% | -792 | -2.8% |
| Other public sector operations | 548 | 1.7% | 564 | 1.8% | 3.068 | 10.1% | 8.744 | 30.8% |
| Minimum cash | -84 | -0.3% | -1.142 | -3.6% | -561 | -1.9% | -1.180 | -4.2% |
| Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | 195 | 0.6% | 2.475 | 7.9% | 588 | 1.9% | -4.759 | -16.8% |

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change of valuation

Sources: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

|  | May-15 | Apr-15 | Mar-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | % of total deposits in pesos |
| Requirement | 11.4 | 11.4 | 11.6 |
| Integration | 11.7 | 11.7 | 11.9 |
| Position (2) | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 |
| **Maturity Structure of fixed-term deposits** | % used for requirement calculation (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 65.6 | 68.2 | 70.0 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.9 | 20.8 | 20.8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 6.6 | 5.5 | 5.0 |
| 90 to 179 days | 4.8 | 4.4 | 3.1 |
| more than 180 days | 1.2 | 1.1 | 1.0 |
| **Foreign Currency** | % of total deposits in foreign currency |
| Requirement | 44.7 | 40.9 | 45.3 |
| Integration (includes application of resources default) | 75.3 | 77.8 | 87.8 |
| Position (2) | 30.6 | 36.9 | 42.5 |
| **Maturity Structure of fixed-term deposits** | % used for requirement calculation (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 46.1 | 45.6 | 47.0 |
| 30 to 59 days | 22.3 | 21.6 | 22.3 |
| 60 to 89 days | 15.7 | 13.5 | 10.5 |
| 90 to 179 days | 11.3 | 15.1 | 15.6 |
| 180 to 365 days | 4.5 | 4.0 | 4.4 |
| more than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.2 | 0.2 |

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 16 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates

|  | May-15 | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Dec-14 | May-14 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (15 days)** |
| Rate | 22.51 | 17.85 | 21.13 | 21.83 | 17.14 |
| Amount traded | 3.381 | 3.174 | 2.856 | 2.176 | 2.807 |
| **Fixed-term** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30-44 days | 20.20 | 20.40 | 19.87 | 19.97 | 21.29 |
| 60 days or more | 23.25 | 23.26 | 23.57 | 23.12 | 24.45 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 18.12 | 18.43 | 17.38 | 17.81 | 20.18 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 20.25 | 20.74 | 20.80 | 19.98 | 24.66 |
# INTEREST RATES AND FINANCIAL MARKET DATA

## In dollars
 30-44 days 1.63 1.64 1.59 0.88 0.97
 60 days or more 2.37 2.50 2.48 1.67 1.64
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.26 1.24 1.19 0.85 0.81
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.26 2.17 2.15 0.99 0.99

 Active Interest Rates May-15 Apr-15 Mar-15 Dec-14 May-14

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.94 23.49 23.44 24.00 23.74
 Amount operated (total terms) 601 567 522 377 274

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.07 29.09 30.08 30.86 32.21
 Unsecured promissory notes 26.14 26.54 25.69 26.14 29.43
 Mortgage loans 22.77 22.94 23.09 22.30 17.44
 Secured loans 25.19 26.06 26.54 26.35 25.39
 Personal loans 37.23 37.64 37.58 37.70 44.58
 Credit cards n/a 39.36 40.47 42.75 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.42 20.97 23.89 24.31 24.17

 International Interest Rates May-15 Apr-15 Mar-15 Dec-14 May-14

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.42 0.40 0.40 0.34 0.32

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.60 0.53 0.64 0.61 0.37
 10 years 2.20 1.93 2.05 2.20 2.55

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 13.25 12.80 12.70 11.70 11.00

 (1) Data up to June 2010 corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards corresponds to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 17 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-15 Apr-15 Mar-15 Dec-14 May-14

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 14.00 14.00 14.00 14.00 9.50
 Assets 7 days 17.00 17.00 17.00 17.00 11.50

 Total REPO floor rates
 1 day 16.99 14.96 17.01 16.33 12.16
 7 days 16.21 16.94 17.61 15.01 12.47

 Amount operated in REPO floor repos (daily average) 15,014 15,420 12,579 12,550 12,691

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 25.96 26.16 26.24 26.84 26.80
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 n/o
 12 months n/o n/o 29.29 29.29 28.26

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.90

 LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

 Amount operated in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,962 2,821 2,350 3,518 2,287

 Foreign Exchange Market May-15 Apr-15 Mar-15 Dec-14 May-14

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.95 8.87 8.78 8.55 8.04
 Retail 8.95 8.87 8.78 8.55 8.05

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 9.07 9.00 8.95 8.76 8.20
 ROFEX 1 month 9.07 9.01 8.95 8.73 8.20
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 3,207 2,543 2,911 2,413 2,621

 Real (Pesos per Real) 2.93 2.92 2.79 3.24 3.62

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.00 9.59 9.49 10.54 11.04

 Capital Market May-15 Apr-15 Mar-15 Dec-14 May-14

 MERVAL
 Index 11,825 11,789 10,442 8,563 7,166
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 155 253 265 174 141

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 130.7 132.2 134.3 130.6 125.4
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 127.2 132.4 134.2 111.7 105.1
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 128.6 130.6 132.6 126.6 119.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 83.5 92.3 88.3 72.3 78.5

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,121 1,031 813 1,146 921
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 480 492 532 502 361

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Money supply, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
SDP: Short-term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | May 2015 | BCRA | 19
