# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 7

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 10

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 16

10. Glossary | Page 20

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on August 13, 2015. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 2

1. Summary
• The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) registered growth of 4.5% in July, with a year-over-year variation of 34.9%. Although all its components showed an increase, the monthly rise was mostly explained by currency in circulation held by the public and savings account deposits from the private sector, which were driven by seasonal factors associated with the collection of the mid-year complementary salary and winter vacations.

• Time deposits from the private sector continued to accelerate their year-over-year expansion rate, reaching 42% in July. During the month, the performance of retail placements (of less than $1 million) continued to stand out, presenting a monthly increase of 5.1%, maintaining steady growth throughout 2015, favored by the minimum interest rate scheme established by the BCRA in October of last year.

• Effective as of July 27, the BCRA expanded the coverage of the minimum interest rate scheme for fixed-term deposits. The amount of deposits covered by the measure increased from $350 thousand to $999,999, and includes both those made by natural persons and legal entities. Additionally, it established an increase in minimum interest rates, which are the same for natural and legal persons, and which implies an increase in returns of between 1 p.p. and 2.1 p.p., and between 4.7 p.p. and 7.6 p.p. for those holders, respectively. The new structure of minimum interest rates favors longer-term deposits, by setting the 120-day LEBAC interest rate as a reference for placements of 90 days or more, while maintaining the corresponding 90-day LEBAC rate for deposits of up to 89 days.

• The interest rates on fixed-term deposits in pesos in the amount brackets covered by the minimum interest rate scheme aligned with the new set values, registering an increase compared to the previous month. Thus, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days in term was located at 23.6% at the end of July.

• Toward the end of July, the Central Bank increased the interest rates of its repo corridor by between 5 p.p. and 7 p.p. The measure seeks to limit the volatility of interbank market interest rates in the face of changes in short-term liquidity levels in entities, by aligning the interest rate corridor and adapting it to the structure of other market rates. Thus, as of July 27, the passive repo interest rates for the Central Bank for terms of 1 and 7 days moved to 18% and 20%, respectively. Meanwhile, for active repos and for the same terms, interest rates are at 23% and 24%.

• In July, loans in pesos to the private sector showed an increase of 3.2% ($19,440 million), the highest of the year and markedly higher than observed in July 2014. Thus, they continued to increase their year-over-year variation rate, which went from 27.4% in June to 30.1%. The month's growth was driven fundamentally by financing implemented through documents and personal loans. In this context, the growth of deposits allowed the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of cash in banks, the entities' current account at the Central Bank, net repos with that entity and LEBAC holdings; in terms of deposits in pesos) to remain at elevated levels, positioning itself at 39.1%.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1
2. Monetary Aggregates¹
Monetary Aggregates - M3
% %
6 (variation of monthly averages) 60
Monthly variation of M3 The broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3²) re-
5 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 50 registered growth of 4.5% in July, with a year-on-year variation that stood at 34.9% (see Graph 2.1).
4 40
 Although all its components showed an increase, the monthly growth was mostly explained by currency in circulation and savings account deposits of the private sector, which increased driven by seasonal factors associated with the collection of the mid-year supplementary salary and winter vacations, which increase the demand for transactional money.

1 10

 0 0

-1 -10
 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 Jul-15

 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA

The total of deposits in pesos showed growth of 3.4% in the month, with advances verified in both those corresponding to the public sector (2.7%) and those of the private sector (3.6%).

Graph 2.2

thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
 millions of $ % Among the deposits of the private sector, sight deposits were those that showed the greatest dynamism, on average monthly balance by the stimulus coming from savings account deposits which, as mentioned, show seasonal behavior associated with the collection of the mid-year supplementary salary and winter vacations.

 300 40 For their part, fixed-term deposits showed a monthly increase of 1.2% and continued to accelerate their year-on-year expansion rate, which reached 42% (see Graph 2.2). When distinguished by amount bracket, an increase was verified in deposits of less than $1 million, partially offset by a decline in wholesale placements. The latter were affected by seasonal factors that increase the liquidity needs of companies at the end of June and beginning of July; specifically, the payment of the mid-year supplementary salary and tax obligations specific to this period of the year. In contrast, fixed-term deposits of less than $1 million showed a monthly increase of 5.1%, maintaining steady growth throughout 2015 favored by the minimum interest rate scheme for individuals established by the BCRA since October 2014. In this regard, it should be mentioned that, effective as of July 27, the BCRA decided to deepen its measures to encourage savings in pesos, expanding the amount of deposits covered by the minimum interest rate scheme (from $350,000 to placements of less than $1 million), covering both deposits of individuals and legal entities and favoring longer-term deposits. This new scheme contributes to a lengthening of terms, which promotes financial stability and encourages long-term credit.

Graph 2.3

thousands of
 millions of US$ Fixed-Term Deposits of the Private Sector in Foreign Currency
 4.30 18-Feb (daily balance)

4.25

4.20

4.15

4.10

4.05

4.00

3.95

 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15

 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

 Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 4

 Deposits in foreign currency grew 5.2% in July, with increases in placements of the public sector and stability in those of the private sector. Within the deposits of the private sector, fixed-term placements continued showing an upward trend (see Graph 2.3)³. Consequently, the monetary aggregate

Graph 3.1
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % %
 6 60
 5.5
 Monthly variation
 5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50
 4.2
 3.8
 4 40
 3.0 3.2
 3 30
 2.8
 2 20
 1.2 1.1
 1.0
 1 10
0 0 broader monetary aggregate, M3*4, grew 4.6%, reaching a
 year-on-year variation of 35%.
 -1 -10

 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 Jul-15
 Source: BCRA The monetary base reached an average monthly
 balance of $517,033 million, increasing 5.9% in July and
 presenting a year-on-year variation of 34.7%. The
 monthly increase was composed of both currency in
 circulation held by the public and banking reserves (which
 include cash in financial entities and the balances of
 current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA).

 3. Loans 1 5

 Chart 3.2 In July, loans in pesos to the private sector pre-

millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (average monthly variation) % sented an increase of 3.2% ($19,400 million), the
20.000 51,8 56

 Jul-15. vs. Jun-15. 49 highest of the year and markedly higher than that
 16.000 Year-on-year var. (right axis) observed in July 2014. Thus, they continued increasing
 42
 35,3 their year-on-year rate of variation, which went from
 31,6 35
12.000 30,1 27.4% in June to 30.1% (see Chart 3.1). The month's
 28 growth was driven by financing instruments arranged
 20,5
 8.000 20,3 21 through documents, advances, and personal loans
 8,7 14 (see Chart 3.2).
 4.000
 10,1 7

 0 0 Loans intended mainly to finance commercial activi-
 ties showed significant increases. Indeed, documents
 reflected an increase of 4.7% ($6,820 million), the
 Source: BCRA largest in the last nine months and higher than that of
 July of last year. In year-on-year terms, these financings
 accumulated growth of 35.3%, 2.9 percentage points
 more than in June. Both documents signed alone and
 those discounted grew throughout the month; the latter
 received the boost from credits granted under the
 Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP), in a month
 in which financial entities could apply up to 25% of
 their quota established for the second half of the year
 for discount of deferred payment checks to SMEs. In this
 sense, in July there was an increase in the volume
 operated in discounted documents, which was explained
 mainly by financing arranged at interest rates close to
 those of the LCIP (range of 17.75% to 18.25%; see
 Chart 3.3). For its part, advances registered an increase
 of 6.9% ($5,400 million), with a year-on-year variation
 of 20.5% (see Chart 3.4). In this case, the average
 increase observed in July is explained fundamentally
 by the positive "statistical carryover" from the previous
 month.

 Chart 3.3
 Discounted Documents in Pesos from the Private Sector
 thousands of Daily Balance Amounts Granted
 millions $ (by type of rate and by range of TNA fixed and renegotiable rate)
48 thousands of
 millions $
46
 30
44

 For its part, financing more associated with house-
 hold consumption softened its expansion pace

---

**Footnotes:**

3 It should be noted that when relaunching LEBAC in dollars, the margin between the interest rate paid to depositors and the rate corresponding to LEBAC subscribed by financial entities was adjusted. See Communications A 5527 and A 5711.

4 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

5 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 5
42 25
 monthly, although they continue to show good perfor-
40 20 Variable mance. The policy of maximum interest rates continued
 19.75 and above to favor the dynamism of personal loans,
38 15 19.25 and 19.75 which in July grew 2.3% ($3,060 million), markedly
 18.25 to 19.25
36 17.75 to 18.25 above the increase observed in the same month of last
 10 17.51 to 17.75 year and sustaining a growth rate of over 2% monthly
34 Less than 17.5 throughout the year.
32 5

30 0 Consequently, the year-on-year variation continued to
 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 increase and stood at 31.6%. For its part, financing
Source: BCRA with credit cards showed an increase of 1% ($1,310 million),
 despite the concentration of strong maturities associated
 with certain credit cards, intended especially to finance
 producers in the agricultural and livestock sector. Thus,
 Graphic 3.4 the month's increase contrasted with the decline recorded
 in July of other years, which resulted in an increase in
 % Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector the year-on-year growth rate, which reached 51.8%, in-
 % creasing more than 7.5 p.p. compared to June.
14 (average monthly variation) 70

12 Monthly average var. 60 Loans with real guarantee accelerated their monthly
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) growth rate, exhibiting the largest increases since early
10 50 2014. Both mortgage and chattel loans registered strong
 8 6.9 6.9 40 increases in the last week of the month. Likewise, the
 6.1 6.3 6.3 positive "statistical carryover" left by operations carried
 6 4.6 30 out at the end of June, under the LCIP framework, contrib-
 4 20 uted to the greater average increase observed in these
 1.5 2.1 1.4 financings.
 2 10

 0 0 Chattel-secured loans recorded an increase of 2% in July
-2 -10 ($680 million), with a year-on-year variation of around
-4 -20 10%. Mortgages also showed a monthly increase of 2%
-6 -30 ($990 million) and in the last twelve months accumulated
 Jul-07 Jul-08 Jul-09 Jul-10 Jul-11 Jul-12 Jul-13 Jul-14 Jul-15 growth close to 9%. It is worth recalling that a portion of
Source: BCRA the demand for mortgage loans for housing (physical per-
 sons) is not reflected in the statistics of bank loans, as it
 has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Pro-
 gram of the Bicentennial for Single Family Housing (Pro.
 Cre.Ar).

 Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 6 Graphic 4.1 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 showed an increase of 0.4% (US$17 million). In this way,
 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities they maintained their average monthly balance relatively
 deposits C BCRA Cash Net Repurchase LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity stable at around US$4,400 million.
45
40 39.4
 36.5 37.2 37.1 37.7 38.8 38.5 39.2 39.4 40.1 40.9 40.6 39.6 39.6 39.1
 35.6
35 32.4 33.6 4. Liquidity of Financial Enti-
 31.4 31.7 31.9 31.7 31.8 30.9 30.9 ties¹
30 4.6 22.7 22.7
25
 20 In the context of acceleration in the growth of loans to
 1.1 1.1 the private sector, the liquidity ratio of financial entities
15 3.8 3.7
 in the peso segment (sum of cash in banks, the current
10
 11.7 11.6 account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchases
 5
 with such entity and the holding of LEBAC; in terms of
 0
 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 deposits in pesos) decreased 0.3 p.p. compared to June.
* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value. Nevertheless, this ratio continued to be at elevated levels,
Source: BCRA reaching 39.1% (see Graphic 4.1).

 Graphic 4.2 In relation to the Minimum Cash regime, financial entities
 would have completed the month with an estimated
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos excess equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos
 % of deposits (see Graphic 4.2).
 2.6

 2.0
Chart 5.3 stable following the performance observed in the primary
 LEBAC market. The average amount traded of LEBAC and
**Balance of Passive Repurchase Agreements with the BCRA** NOBAC in the secondary market was placed at nearly
**thousands $2,800 million daily.
of millions of $**
45 Regarding the foreign currency segment, the LEBAC
 Daily Balance
40 balance grew about US$80 million and was placed at
 Monthly Average the end of July at US$1,771 million.
35

30 ## Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1

25 Towards the end of July, the Central Bank increased the
20 interest rates of its repurchase agreement corridor by 5
15 p.p and 7 p.p. The measure seeks to limit the volatility
10 of interfinancial market interest rates in the face of
5 changes in short-term liquidity levels in entities, by
0 aligning the interest rate corridor and adapting it to the
 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15
Source: BCRA structure of the rest of the market rates. In this way, it
 seeks to deepen financial stability while preserving the
 balance between the supply and demand factors of
 money.
Thus, since July 27, the interest rates for passive repo operations for the Central Bank for terms of 1 and 7 days (daily data) moved to 18% and 20%, respectively. For both active repo operations and for the same terms, the interest rates are located at 23% and 24%.

The monthly average balance of passive repo operations for all modalities in which the Central Bank participates was reduced by approximately $1,000 million in July, standing at $19,600 million (see Graph 5.3).

**Interfinancial Markets¹**

In July, the average interest rates in the interfinancial market increased compared to June, in a context where specific liquidity needs were observed in financial entities and, towards the end of the month, the BCRA implemented increases in the interest rates of its repo operations. In the unsecured market (call), the interest rate of operations at 1 business day averaged 24%, 6 percentage points above the value recorded in June. Likewise, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the secured market (REPO auction) stood at 25%, verifying an increase of 7.6 percentage points (see Graph 5.4). The average daily amount traded increased by approximately $400 million in July, totaling around $8,300 million.

**Passive Interest Rates¹**

The interest rates paid by financial entities for their fixed-term deposits in pesos registered a slight increase in July. Part of this increase was associated with the modifications introduced as of July 27 in the minimum interest rates scheme⁸.

In particular, with the objective of deepening the stimulus to savings in pesos, the BCRA implemented an increase in minimum interest rates, which implied increases of between 1 and 2.1 percentage points for those that families would receive for their deposits, while the amount of fixed-term deposits covered by the same was expanded from $350 thousand to $999,999. Furthermore, until that moment minimum interest rates were applied only to individuals, while from that date onwards, fixed-term deposits of less than $1 million made by legal entities were incorporated into this scheme, which would now be subject to the same interest rates as natural persons, which resulted in an increase in their returns of between 4.7 and 7.6 percentage points.

Also, with the objective of benefiting longer-term deposits, the interest rate of the LEBAC closest to 120 days was incorporated as a reference rate for deposits exceeding 90 days (see Table 5.1).
12
 28 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-1526.2

In this way, the monthly average of the interest rate
 24 paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to
 $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity was
 20
 located at 22.7%, increasing 0.1 p.p. compared to the
 16 average of June. However, if interest rate levels are
 compared between the end of each month, the increase
 12 is almost 1 p.p., since in this segment of deposits
 8 the daily average interest rate from July 27 was 23.6%
 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15(see graph 5.5).
 Source: BCRA

8 See Communication 5781

 Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 9 In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private
 banks –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1
 million or more, 30-35 days maturity – averaged 20.7%,
 registering an increase of 0.3 p.p. during the month.

 Graph 5.7 Active Interest Rates1 9
 Interest Rates on Financings through Documents
 (monthly average)

 TNA, % In July, the interest rates applied to loans to the
32 Documents at Sole Signature private sector registered heterogeneous movements.
 Discounted Documents
28 26.2
 Among commercial lines, the monthly average interest
24 21.8 rate on account advances was located at 30.4%,
 recording a monthly increase of 2.2 p.p.. Within
 20
 Participation in amounts granted of DSF to SMEs this line, the interest rate on advances to companies
 Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 years More than 3 years of more than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity
 16 100%
 replied a trajectory similar to that of interbank market
80%
 interest rates. Its average monthly level was 26.2%,
60% when increasing 6 p.p. compared to June (Graph 5.6).
40%
12
 20%
 0% With respect to financings implemented through
 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 documents, the evolution of interest rates was related
 to the LCIP. In the case of documents at sole signature,
8 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 the interest rate averaged 26.2%, exhibiting a monthly
 Source: BCRA increase of 1 p.p.. This increase reflects the start of
 the second phase of the LCIP, when the participation
 of these loans decreases, generating an increase in the
 average value of the interest rate of the total line and a
Graph 5.8 lower participation of operations in the longer maturity
 Active Interest Rates strata. On the other hand, the interest rate on discounted
TNA, % (monthly average) documents averaged 21.8%, declining 2.2 p.p. during
 p.p. Monthly variations the month, because in July the Central Bank allowed
54 3 financial entities to apply up to 25% of the quota for
 2 1.5 1.1 the second half of 2015 of the LCIP to the discount of
 Pledged Mortgages Personal post-dated checks from Micro, Small and Medium
48 1 Enterprises (SMEs) –at an interest rate that cannot
 0 exceed 18% (Graph 5.7).
42 -1 -0.4
 -2 36.4
 Mortgages Pledged Personal For its part, the interest rates on loans with real
36 guarantees increased in July, also reflecting the impact
 of a month in which the second phase of the LCIP
30 25.1
 begins. The monthly average interest rate on pledged
24 25.0 loans was located at 25%, while that on mortgages
 was 25.1%, with monthly increases of 1.1 and 1.5 p.p.,
18 respectively (see Graph 5.8).

12

 6
 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15
Source: BCRA

9 The interest rates referenced in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and origination fees or other 
expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.
Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 10 With respect to the interest rate on personal loans, the maximum rates¹⁰ in effect in July decreased again (approximately 0.3 p.p.), placing themselves at 37.6%

Graph 6.1 and 46.7% for entities in Group I and Group II¹¹,
thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA and in respectively. This decrease was reflected in the
millions of U$S level of the average monthly interest rate on personal
45 loans actually disbursed, which was
Jul-15 36.4%, showing a decrease of 0.4 p.p.. In August,
40 the maximum interest rates will remain virtually
unchanged at 37.7% and 46.7% for Group I and Group
35 II, respectively.

30
 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 Exchange Market¹
25

Jul-13 Oct-13 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15
Source: BCRA International reserves reached a balance of US$33.943 billion at the end of July, presenting throughout the month an increase of US$92 million (see Graph 6.1).
The increase was explained mainly by the growth of the current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank, favored by the growth of deposits in foreign currency.
This effect was partially offset by the
Graph 6.2 sale of foreign currency in the foreign exchange market by the Central Bank.

Foreign Exchange Market
(average quotations)

$/Euro $/Real$/US$
11.5 7 10 In the foreign exchange market, the peso registered a depreciation with respect to the US dollar, while it
$/US$ (Reference)
10.5 6 9 presented an appreciation in relation to the euro and the real (see Graph 6.2). The average monthly quotations
9.5 $/Euro 5 8 were placed at 9.14 $/US$, with a monthly variation similar to that of the previous month (1.1%), 10.06 $/euro
$/Real, right axis
8.5 4 7 (-1%) and 2.82 $/real (-2.8%), respectively. On the other hand, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily trading volume was around $1.500 billion, approximately 38% below the previous month. Meanwhile, the
7.5 3 6 contracts entered into during the month reflected expected quotations until December similar to that observed
6.5 2 5 in June, although lower for those expiring during the first five months of the coming year.

Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15
Source: BCRA

 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Mutual Investment Funds

 In July the equity of the FCI, denominated in pesos and in foreign currency registered an increase of

¹⁰ In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal loans and secured loans for vehicles for individuals, calculated based on LEBAC returns and which are published monthly by the Central Bank.
¹¹ For the establishment of the maximum levels for the interest rates of personal loans and secured loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.

 Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 11 $3.800 million (2.2%), placing themselves at the close of the month at
 $174.113 million.

 Fixed income funds in pesos were those that contributed to the greatest extent to the monthly increase after
Graph 7.1 registering a growth of $3.350 million (3.6%). This
Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
thousands of thousands of behavior was explained fundamentally by the increase in the quantity of fund shares subscribed in the
millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
24 180 second half of the month. In second place were the mixed income funds that verified an increase

Money Market 160
19  Fixed Income
 140
  Mixed Income
14  Variable Income 120
# Evolution of stock (right axis) of $570 million in the month (1.8%), driven both
by the increase in the quantity of fund shares as well as
by the increase in the prices of the assets that make up
the portfolio (see Graph 7.1). For its part, the equity
of variable income funds decreased $70 million
(1.2%), while money market funds recorded a decline of $140 million, fundamentally due to the fall in the quantity of fund shares
towards the beginning of July.

Regarding estimated profitability, during July the return of mixed income and fixed income funds stood out,
which yielded a monthly return of
around 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively. Money market
funds achieved a return of 1.3%.
For their part, variable income funds registered an
average loss of 2.1%, in line with the behavior recorded in the local stock market.

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the
equity of the FCI increased US$10 million to US$322
million.

## Financial Trusts

In July, the issuances of financial trusts (FF)
totaled around $3,120 million, which implied
an increase of 28% with respect to the previous month. Thus, a new record was reached in the volume traded, while
the quantity of placements turned out to be similar to that of
previous months, with 19 operations being carried out in the
month (see Graph 7.2).

The high amount issued in the month is explained, in part,
by the larger placements of companies linked to the
agricultural sector, backed by commercial
credits, which totaled $720 million, the highest
amount since September 2014. Among these
placements, an operation was recorded under the
dollar-linked modality. Retail commerce also increased its
securitizations and
"Mutual associations, cooperatives and non-bank issuers of
credit cards and other service providers," which placed slightly more than $1,000 million and $825 million, respectively. For their part, financial
entities securitized personal loans
for around $560 million, 26% less than the
previous month (see Graph 7.3).

Finally, the cut-off interest rate (amount-weighted average) of senior securities –in pesos and with
duration of less than 14 months– with variable yield was
located at 26.9%, registering an increase of 1.1 p.p. with respect to June. Meanwhile, no operations were recorded at fixed rate.

## 8. Main Policy Measures of
Other Central Banks
Like in June, during July almost all banks that modified the bias of their monetary policy did so in an expansive direction (China, Canada, Sweden, and New Zealand). The exception were Brazil and South Africa, which took measures with a contractionary bias. Furthermore, although the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the U.S. did not modify the target of its benchmark interest rate, it continued to signal that it would increase the federal funds rate (FFR) before year-end if improvements in the labor market continue. A separate case is that of the European Central Bank (ECB) which, although it did not take specific measures through its traditional monetary policy instruments, played a central role in stabilizing the Greek financial system.

Regarding the situation in Greece, it should be recalled that at the end of June, faced with the prospects of a country default, the ECB had decided not to grant new funding to the Greek financial system through the Emergency Liquidity Assistance to Greece Emergency Liquidity Assistence (ELA). This had led the Bank of Greece, in a context of deposit outflows (see Chart 8.1), to establish a bank holiday for several days and impose limits on cash withdrawals. Furthermore, capital controls were instituted. Later, in mid-July and after the approval by the Greek parliament of the laws that were required by the Eurogroup as a first step to continue negotiations aimed at a third assistance program for Greece, the ECB increased the ELA (see Chart 8.2). This made it possible for Greek banks to reopen in the third week of July.

On the other hand, at its July 16 meeting, the Governing Council of the ECB decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, which applies to Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the historical minimum of 0.05% and, in turn, maintained the interest rate corridor. It made this decision in a context where, after four months with deflation, the rate of change of the CPI would be stabilizing around 0.25% due, in part, to a lower impact of the fall in oil prices in the transportation sector (see Chart 8.3).

For its part, the FOMC of the Federal Reserve decided
Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 maintain the FFR in the 0-0.25% range. It made this
Source: BCRA based on Eurostat decision in a context of labor market strength,
with the unemployment rate at 5.3%, the lowest
value since April 2008. Along with this, the inflation13
data from June show that the decline in headline
inflation slowed, which stands at 0.3% y.o.y.; and that
Graph 8.4 core inflation continues to be unaffected by the decline in
Real GDP disaggregated by component oil price by placing itself at 1.3% y.o.y., indicating
p.p. so far the absence of second-round effects. Finally,
8 United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter over previous quarter and annualized regarding the level of economic activity in the U.S., GDP
grew in the second quarter 2.3% (without seasonality
6 and annualized). The main driver of growth was private
4.6 4.6 4.3
3.9 3.8 consumption, which contributed 2 p.p. to the quarter's
4 2.9 3.0
2.8 2.5 2.7 growth. In addition, inventory accumulation was
2 1.9 1.9 2.1 2.3 practically neutral with respect to the growth rate, unlike
1.6
0.8 1.1 the first quarter where it had contributed 0.9 p.p. to
0.5 0.1 0.6
0 that period's variation (see Graph 8.4).
-0.9
-1.5
-2 Inventory Accumulation
Private Consumption
Gross Investment
-4 Net Exports of Goods and Services For its part, the People's Bank of China (PBoC)
Public Consumption and Investment was very active with expansionary measures, although
-6 Real GDP (y.o.y. change) it kept the reserve requirement ratio and its policy
interest rate unchanged, which it had reduced in
-8 last June by 0.25 p.p. to 2%. Following a 47% fall in
Mar-10 Dec-10 Sep-11 Jun-12 Mar-13 Dec-13 Sep-14 Jun-15 the main Chinese stock index, the Shanghai
Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov Composite, in just under a month (between June 12
and July 8), the PBoC came out to provide funding to
China Securities Finance Corp, which had implemented
Graph 8.5 a stock purchase program aimed at mitigating the
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil % fall in the stock index. Additionally, the Bank
% recapitalized three state banks for a total of
30 Industrial Production (y.o.y. change) 18 US$109 billion.
25 BCB Economic Activity Index (y.o.y. change)
Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16 Among the regional central banks, the Monetary
Inflation Rate (right axis)
20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14 Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of
Brazil (BCB) increased the target for the Selic rate by
15 12
0.5 p.p. to 14.25% (see Graph 8.5), the sixteenth
10 10 increase since the tightening cycle began in April
5 8 2013 (for a total of 7 p.p.). The COPOM made this
0 6
-5 decision in a context of increasingly declining activity
4
-10 levels, currency depreciation (32% in Brazil so far in
-15 2 2015), and with June inflation at 8.9% y.o.y., moving
-20 0 away from the target range (4.5% ± 2 p.p.). In part,
Jan-08 Oct-08 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14 Jul-15 the increase in the inflation rate is due to a reduction
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br in energy subsidies, with impact on the transportation
and housing categories (public services for housing,
13 Measured by the deflator of household spending. see Graph 8.6). Finally, according to the market
expectations survey conducted by the BCB and
Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 14 Graph 8.6 published on July 31, no new increases in the Selic
% CPI by Category target would be expected for the next Bank meeting,
9.5 Food and Beverages Housing Household Articles Clothing 8.89 in early September.
8.47
Transportation Medical Expenses Personal Expenses Education 8.13 8.17
Communications Total CPI 7.70
7.5 7.14
6.28 6.37 6.52 6.56 6.41 6.50 6.59 6.51 6.75
6.15
5.5
3.5
1.5
-0.5
Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15

Source: BCRA based on IBGE

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 159. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system Jul-14 Jul-15 Jun-15 Monthly Last 12 Dec-14
months

Monetary base 517.033 488.049 442.861 383.944 5.9% 34.7%
Monetary circulation 401.687 375.416 338.425 295.134 7.0% 36.1%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 364.554 338.546 299.390 266.763 7.7% 36.7%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 37.132 36.865 39.034 28.371 0.7% 30.9%
Cancellation Checks 1.3 4.1 0.9 0.0 -67.8% -
Current account at the BCRA 115.347 112.633 104.436 88.810 2.4% 29.9%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 19.643 20.676 15.333 11.918 -5.0% 64.8%
Assets 0000

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 338.624 330.019 259.788 196.413 2.6% 72.4%
In banks 248.374 240.702 200.220 152.762 3.2% 62.6%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 336.885 328.337 259.788 186.305 2.6% 80.8%
In dollars 1.739 1.682 0 0 3.4%

NOBAC 0 0 0 10.108 - -

International reserves of the BCRA (5) 33.872 33.680 30.233 29.519 0.6% 14.7%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 989.252 956.907 840.058 736.645 3.4% 34.3%
Current account (2) 276.879 277.983 275.630 210.258 -0.4% 31.7%
Savings account 219.392 199.290 175.719 163.026 10.1% 34.6%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 455.141 442.617 356.281 334.348 2.8% 36.1%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 10 10 8 7 0.0% 42.9%
Other deposits (3) 37.830 37.007 32.420 29.007 2.2% 30.4%

Deposits of the private sector 777.556 750.748 624.701 561.489 3.6% 38.5%

Deposits of the public sector 211.696 206.159 215.357 175.157 2.7% 20.9%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 10.398 9.889 8.788 8.581 5.2% 21.2%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 684.330 665.200 590.814 530.790 2.9% 28.9%

Loans to the private sector 634.747 615.408 549.787 487.954 3.1% 30.1%
Advances 83.759 78.355 66.782 69.506 6.9% 20.5%
Documents 150.514 143.692 133.922 111.225 4.7% 35.3%
Mortgage loans 50.041 49.054 47.502 46.053 2.0% 8.7%
Pledge loans 34.933 34.252 32.700 31.719 2.0% 10.1%
Personal loans 137.060 134.113 117.247 104.121 2.2% 31.6%
Credit cards 133.292 131.979 110.982 87.791 1.0% 51.8%
Others 45.148 43.963 40.651 37.540 2.7% 20.3%

Loans to the public sector 49.584 49.791 41.027 42.836 -0.4% 15.8%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 4.447 4.431 3.331 4.219 0.4% 5.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 641.434 616.533 575.021 477.021 4.0% 34.5%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 860.827 815.823 750.740 640.047 5.5% 34.5%
M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 1.353.807 1.295.458 1.139.449 1.003.409 4.5% 34.9%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.453.876 1.389.281 1.217.403 1.075.945 4.6% 35.1%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 541.310 515.063 459.757 399.442 5.1% 35.5%
pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 744.279 696.287 621.075 547.317 6.9% 36.0%
M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.142.111 1.089.298 924.092 828.253 4.8% 37.9%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.221.112 1.167.133 988.611 888.107 4.6% 37.5%

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 16 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2015 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary base 28,984 5.9% 59.018 12.9% 74.172 16.7% 133.089 34.7%
 Financial sector 1.045 0.2% -1.839 -0.4% -4.174 -0.9% -7.788 -2.0%
 Public sector 23.437 4.8% 40.919 8.9% 84.941 19.2% 183.019 47.7%
 Private external sector 5.000 1.0% 23.847 5.2% 23.133 5.2% 25.454 6.6%
 BCRA Securities -1.854 -0.4% -4.588 -1.0% -28.943 -6.5% -61.913 -16.1%
 Others 1.356 0.3% 679 0.1% -784 -0.2% -5.684 -1.5%

 BCRA International Reserves 192 0.6% 1.963 6.2% 3.639 12.0% 4.353 14.7%
 Foreign exchange market intervention 555 1.6% 2.667 8.4% 2.605 8.6% 2.897 9.8%
 Payment to international organizations -70 -0.2% -411 -1.3% -1.109 -3.7% -1.098 -3.7%
 Other public sector operations 1.030 3.1% 1.061 3.3% 3.582 11.8% 9.821 33.3%
 Minimum cash 148 0.4% -81 -0.3% -558 -1.8% -1.051 -3.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1.471 -4.4% -1.273 -4.0% -881 -2.9% -6.216 -21.1%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to change of valuation

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.4 11.5 11.5
 Integration 11.6 11.7 11.7
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 66.7 65.8 65.6
 30 to 59 days 21.4 22.6 21.9
 60 to 89 days 6.5 6.0 6.6
 90 to 179 days 4.2 4.4 4.8
 More than 180 days 1.3 1.3 1.2

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 43.9 41.5 40.6
 Integration (includes resource application default) 70.4 72.5 75.7
 Position (2) 26.5 30.9 35.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 52.2 48.5 46.1
 30 to 59 days 20.3 24.7 22.3
 60 to 89 days 12.6 11.7 15.7
 90 to 179 days 9.9 10.2 11.3
 180 to 365 days 4.9 4.8 4.5
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 23.86 17.93 22.51 21.83 15.61
 Amount traded 3.455 3.144 3.381 2.176 2.084

Fixed-term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.17 20.28 20.21 19.97 20.17
 60 days or more 22.94 22.97 23.25 23.12 22.02
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 17.71 18.27 18.13 17.81 19.57
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.69 20.37 20.25 19.98 21.98

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.70 1.65 1.63 0.88 0.91
 60 days or more 2.56 2.56 2.37 1.67 1.40
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.38 1.29 1.32 0.85 0.89
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.38 2.14 2.28 1.02 1.28

 Active Interest Rates Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.64 22.95 23.94 24.00 21.14
 Amount traded (total terms) 593 568 601 377 279

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account overdrafts 30.41 28.30 30.10 30.86 30.74
 Documents at sole signature 26.23 25.22 26.15 26.14 28.29
 Mortgages 25.09 23.56 22.78 22.30 22.60
 Secured loans 24.97 23.87 25.19 26.35 23.83
 Personal loans 36.43 36.84 37.30 37.70 37.40
 Credit cards n/a 40.18 39.85 42.74 39.39

 Current account overdrafts -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 26.19 20.16 24.42 24.31 21.57
# INTERNATIONAL INTEREST RATES Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

LIBOR
 1 month 0.19 0.19 0.18 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.46 0.44 0.42 0.34 0.33

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.66 0.68 0.60 0.61 0.49
 10 years 2.32 2.36 2.20 2.20 2.53

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.82 13.70 13.25 11.70 11.00

(1) Data up to June 2010 corresponds to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards corresponds to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 18 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 13.81 13.00 13.00 13.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 14.97 14.00 14.00 14.00 9.50
 Assets 7 days 18.13 17.00 17.00 17.00 11.50

Total REPO Trading Floor Rates
 1 day 17.19 14.52 16.99 16.33 11.95
 7 days 21.20 14.91 16.21 15.01 12.79

Amount Traded in REPO Trading Floor (daily average) 19,639 18,057 15,014 12,550 11,298

LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 26.00 25.97 25.96 26.84 26.80
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 29.29 28.25

NOBAC Spread in Pesos with Floating Rate Coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

LEBAC Rates in Dollars Segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

Amount Traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in Secondary Market (daily average) 2,773 3,000 2,962 3,518 2,563

# FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 9.14 9.04 8.95 8.55 8.16
 Retail 9.15 9.05 8.95 8.55 8.16

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 9.26 9.16 9.07 8.76 8.39
 ROFEX 1 month 9.27 9.17 9.07 8.73 8.34
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,335 2,411 3,207 2,413 1,768

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.82 2.90 2.93 3.24 3.67

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.06 10.16 10.00 10.54 11.04

# CAPITAL MARKET Jul-15 Jun-15 May-15 Dec-14 Jul-14

MERVAL
 Index 11,678 11,343 11,825 8,563 8,359
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 149 151 155 174 172

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 144.4 133.5 130.7 130.6 117.7
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 135.2 125.6 127.2 111.7 108.0
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 140.4 129.6 128.6 126.6 113.9
 DISCOUNT ($) 74.9 80.6 83.5 72.3 73.5

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 880 854 1,159 1,146 1,048
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 536 514 480 502 327

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 19

## Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | July 2015 | BCRA | 20
