# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interbank Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clearly stated: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was July 16, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 2 1. Summary
• In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) showed growth of 3.5% and accumulated an increase of 32.5% over the last year. All its components showed increases, with time deposits and means of payment standing out, both from the private sector.

• Time deposits from the private sector increased 3.4% and maintained high dynamism, which led to a new acceleration in its year-on-year variation that exceeded 40%. The balance of operations of more than $1 million grew 2% and reached an increase of 41% y.o.y. In the case of deposits of less than $1 million, they continued growing firmly, registering an increase of 5% in the month and accumulating a rise of 39% in the last twelve months; this segment continued to be favored by the minimum interest rate scheme for individuals established by the BCRA.

• The liquidity ratio of financial entities in the peso segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings) remained at elevated levels (39.4% in terms of peso deposits).

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their monthly growth rate, exhibiting an increase of 2.6% ($15,760 million). Its year-on-year variation continued to increase and was placed at 27.4%, 1.8 p.p. more than in May. Among the different credit lines, the growth of loans implemented through advances stood out, driven by seasonal factors. Other lines that showed better performance than previous months were single-signature documents and loans with real guarantees, favored by greater placements within the framework of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP).

• The Central Bank renewed the LCIP in the second half of 2015, expanding its financing volume and reducing interest rates for financing granted under this line. Thus, a policy is deepened that will result in an increase in the supply of credit for the productive sector, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MiPyMEs). In this new tranche, financial entities covered by the regulation must allocate to this line an amount equivalent to 7.5% of their peso deposits from the private sector. Thus, the financing volume expands to around $52,000 million in the second half. Furthermore, the maximum rate at which credits must be granted was reduced from 19% to 18% p.a.; meanwhile, the minimum financing term was maintained at 36 months.

• Interest rates paid by financial entities for their time deposits in pesos remained relatively stable. In the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of private banks averaged 20.4%; in the retail segment, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for time deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of term was placed at 22.6%.

• Most interest rates applied to loans in pesos decreased, with decreases in those corresponding to commercial lines standing out. The monthly average of the interest rate on overdrafts in current account was placed at 28.3%, declining by approximately 2 p.p., and in the segment covering those advances to companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days of term the interest rate averaged 20.2%, more than 4 p.p. below its level in May. On the other hand, the monthly average of the interest rate applied to single-signature documents was 25.2%, decreasing 0.9 p.p., while that applied to document discounting averaged 24%, registering a decline of 0.2 p.p.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
# Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 3 Graph 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Monetary Aggregates - M3
 (variation of monthly averages)
 % % In June, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
 6 60 June - Monthly Variation

 Monthly variation of M3 (M32) presented a growth of 3.5% and accumulated in the
 5 Interannual variation of M3 (right axis) 50 Total last year an increase of 32.5% (see Graph 2.1). All
 Dep. S.
 4 40 Public of its components showed increases, highlighting
 Dep.
 3 30 fixed-term deposits from the private sector and private
 Fixed-term and
 2 20 Others S. means of payment (Private M2). Regarding these latter,
 Private they registered high growth, typical of the
 1 10 M2
 0 0 period (see Graph 2.2).
 Private

 -1 -10 Within the placements of the private sector, increases

 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-150 5 10 15 20 25 30were recorded both in sight deposits and in
 thousands of
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total deposits in pesos. Source: BCRAmillions of $fixed-term pacts. The latter increased 3.4% and
 maintained high dynamism, which prompted a
 new acceleration in their interannual variation, which exceeded
 Graph 2.2 40% (see Graph 2.3). In this way, fixed-term placements
 Private M2 continued gaining participation in private M3,
 % (variation of monthly averages) % reaching a weight close to 34%, which is
 8 40 3.6 percentage points higher than it had two years earlier. The increase
 6 30 in June was verified both in retail placements
 as well as in larger amounts. The balance of operations
 4 20 of more than $1 million grew 2% and reached an
 increase of 41% y.o.y. Deposits of amounts less than
 2 10 $1 million continued growing firmly, recording
 an increase of 5% in the month and accumulating a
 0 0 rise of 39% in the last twelve months. This segment
 continued being favored by the minimum interest rate
 -2 Monthly variation -10 scheme established by the BCRA for deposits
 Interannual variation (right axis) of up to $350 thousand from individuals, who concen-
 -4 -20 trate more than 60% of fixed-term operations of up to
 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15
 Source: BCRA $1 million of the private sector.

 Foreign currency deposits grew 2.8%, with
 Graph 2.3 increases in placements of the public sector and sta-
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector bility in those of the private sector. Within the deposits
 % Monthly variation (variations of monthly averages) June - Var. Monthly Average
 Interannual variation (right axis) % of the private sector, fixed-term deposits
 8 55 % More than $1 million
 Participation Fixed-Term in Private M3 (right axis) 6 continued showing an upward trend 3. As a
 7 50
 4 result, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 4,
 6 45 2
 grew 3.5%, reaching an interannual variation
 5 40 0
 2010 close to 32%.
 4 35-2 2011

 -4 2012
 3 30 Less than $1 million The monetary base increased 4.3% in June, reaching
 % 2013
 2 25 6 2014 an average monthly balance of $488,049 million and an
 1 20 4 2015 interannual variation close to 33%. The increase was
 2 composed of both currency in circulation and
 0 15 0 banking reserves (which include cash
 -1 10-2
 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15-4
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits from private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
3 It should be noted that when relaunching LEBACs in dollars, the margin between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the rate corresponding to the LEBAC subscribed by financial entities was adjusted. See Communications A 5527 and A 5711.
4 Includes M3 and deposits from non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.
# MONETARY REPORT | JUNE 2015 | BCRA | 4

**Chart 3.1** in financial entities and the balances of current accounts of financial entities in the BCRA).

% of deposits | **Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities**
45 | CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity
40 | 39.6
35.6 36.5 37.2 37.1 37.7 38.8 38.5 39.2 39.4 40.1 40.9 40.6 39.6 39.4
35 | 32.5 31.4 31.7 31.9 31.7 31.8 30.9 30.9 32.4 33.6
30 |
25 | 23.1 22.7 | **3. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹**
20 |
15 | | The liquidity ratio in pesos of financial entities
10 | 3.8 3.8 | (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC) remained at elevated levels (39.4% in terms of deposits in pesos), without significant changes in the proportions maintained by its components with respect to the total (see Chart 3.1).

5 | 11.7 11.7 |
0 | |
| Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15 Jun-15 |

* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA

**Chart 3.2** | Regarding the Minimum Cash regime, it is estimated that financial entities completed the month with a surplus equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in pesos (see Chart 3.2).

**Minimum Cash Position in Pesos** |
% of deposits |
2.6 |
2.0 | Meanwhile, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity continued elevated and represented 98.2% of the total deposits in dollars. Compared to May, it was 4.7 percentage points lower, registering mainly a decrease in the proportion maintained of repos with the BCRA and in the current account of entities at the Central Bank.

1.4 |
0.8 |
0.2 0.2 | **4. Loans¹⁵**
-0.4 |
-1.0 | Surplus | In June, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their monthly growth rate, exhibiting an increase of 2.6% ($15,760 million), which turned out to be markedly superior to that observed in the same month of the previous year. In this way, the year-on-year variation continued to increase and stood at 27.4% (1.8 percentage points more than in May; see Chart 4.1). Among the different credit lines, the growth of advances stood out, driven by seasonal factors. Other lines that showed better performance than previous months were documents with sole signature and loans with real guarantees, favored by greater placements within the framework of the Productive Investment Credit Line (LCIP).

-1.6 | Accumulated Position |
-2.2 | Daily Position |
-2.8 |
| Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 |
Source: BCRA |

**Chart 4.1** | It should be noted that the BCRA will continue promoting productive credit destined mainly to MSMEs. In effect, it decided to extend the LCIP during the second half of the year (Communication "A" 5771),

**Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector** |
% % |
6 | 60 | Monthly Variation
5 | 50 | Year-on-year Variation (right axis)
4.1 4.0 |
4 | 40 |
3.2 |
3 | 30 | 2.8
2.6 2.6 |
2 | 20 |
1.3 1.3 1.2 |
1 | 10 |
0 | 0 |
-1 | -10 |
| Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 |
Source: BCRA |

---

⁵ The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

# MONETARY REPORT | JUNE 2015 | BCRA | 5

expanding the volume of financing and reducing the interest rates of this instrument. In this new tranche, the financial entities covered by the regulation must allocate to this line an amount equivalent to 7.5% of their deposits in pesos from the private sector. Thus,

**Chart 4.2** |
**Productive Investment Credit Line** |
(quotas established for the first and second tranche of 2015) |
thousands of millions of $ |
60 |
7.5% |
50 the financing volume expands to around

40 $52,000 million (see Chart 4.2). Additionally, the maximum interest rate at which credits
 should be granted
30 was reduced from 19% to 18% a.r.; while the minimum
 +39% financing term was maintained at 36 months.
20

10 Likewise, financing will continue to be promoted for smaller-sized companies within MSMEs
 0 and that intended to carry out projects in regions with lower
 Source: BCRA I quarter 2015 II quarter 2015 economic development, through an incentive mechanism that contemplates greater allocation to the quota
 for this type of loans. Regarding the permitted uses of the LCIP, in addition to classic mortgage credits, credits to individuals were added that apply those funds directly to the
 acquisition of a single family home
 Chart 4.3 by means of the assignment in guarantee of rights over trust-

 % Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector ees for the construction of those properties. Also, part of the quota could be applied to the financing of
 % microbusiness owners, either directly or through
14 (monthly average variation) 70 Microfinance institutions.

12 Monthly avg. variation 60 Regarding lines with essentially commercial purposes, advances recorded a significant increase
10 50 throughout the month, in a context of specific liquidity needs by companies to
 7.4 8.1 face the payment of the mid-year supplementary salary
8 40 (SAC). In fact, the line showed an increase of 5.5%
 6 4.8 5.5 30 ($4,110 million), the largest in the last five months
 43.0 3.6 20 and year-over-year variation increased by 4 p.p. to
 2.0 reach 19.9% (see Chart 4.3). For its part, financings
2 10 instrumented through documents continued with the
 0 0 upward trend they have shown since March. In the last month they increased
-2 -0.9 -10 1.9% ($2,685 million), an increase similar to that of the
 -1.6 -20 previous months and greater than that of June 2014. Thus, the year-over-year
-4 -30 growth rate increased 1.3 p.p. to 32.4%.

 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Distinguishing by type of documents, it is verified that the
 Source: BCRA month's increase was explained by documents on
 sole signature (see Chart 4.4). As mentioned, this latter line was favored by the greater
 placements granted under the LCIP framework, which
 Chart 4.4 was reflected in greater participation of new loans with interest rates close to those of the LCIP
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector (see Chart 4.5).
 5 (contribution to monthly growth)
 For its part, financings more associated with family
4 consumption showed a moderation in their growth, influenced by the proximity of the receipt
3 of the mid-year supplementary salary, the gradual

2 closure of wage negotiations and, associated with that, the collection of
 retroactive payments. Personal loans registered a monthly
1 increase of 2.6% ($3,430 million), slightly lower than
 that of the previous two-month period; while in year-over-year
0 terms they continued accelerating their expansion rate,
 Purchased recording a variation of 29.1%. In this regard, as of
-1 Discounted August 2014 the line began to show greater dynamism,
 Sole signature promoted by the maximum interest rate policy established for this type of
-2 loans. For its part, credit card financings grew 1.9% ($2,430 million), while

 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June
 June 2015
Source: BCRA Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.5
 Documents on Sole Signature in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % (amounts granted by type of rate and range of fixed, repayable and combined TNA)
 100
 90 Variable
 80 19.75 and above
 70
 60 19.25 and 19.75
 50 18.75 to 19.25
 40 17.75 to 18.75
 30 17.51 to 17.75
 20 17.25 to 17.50
10 Less than 17.25 that the year-on-year variation increased 1.3 p.p. and was positioned

 0 above 44%.
 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15 Jun-15
 Source: BCRA
 Loans with real guarantee increased their monthly growth rate, in part due to the increase in operations carried out under the framework of the LCIP. Mortgage loans registered growth of 1.1% ($530 million) in the month, and in the last twelve months of around 8%. It should be recalled that, although mortgage loans have been showing limited dynamism, a portion of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not reflected in the statistics of bank loans, as it has been channeled through the Argentine Credit Program for the Centenary for Sole Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For their part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee grew 1.6% ($530 million), the largest increase since March 2014, registering a year-on-year variation of 7.3%.
 
 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued with the upward trend they have been showing since mid-December. In particular, in June they registered an increase of 5.6%
 (US$230 million; see Graph 4.6). As in previous months, the growth of the month was mainly explained by the behavior of documents payable to sole signature in foreign currency, financing that is strongly associated with foreign trade operations.

 Graph 5.1
 TNA % Interest Rate of LEBACs in the Primary Market
 32 (last auction of the month)
 5. Interest Rates 6
 31

 30
 29 Securities Issued by the Central Bank7

 28

 27 In June the interest rates of the Notes that the Central

 Jun-15 Bank places each week in the primary market
 26
 May-15 remained stable. Thus, at the end of the month the interest
 25
 Apr-15 rates of the LEBACs at predetermined rate –at terms of
 24 100 days and 120 days– were positioned at 26% and
 23 26.4%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species
 22 adjudicated with greater maturity, at 255 days term,
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 was positioned at 28.25% (see Graph 5.1).
 Source: BCRA
6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 7 Graph 5.2
 Amount Adjudicated of LEBACs in the Primary Market
 (as a percentage of total)
 % Up to 90 days From 91 to 180 days From 181 to 270 days From 271 to 360 days More than 360 days
100 The adjudicated amount of LEBACs was positioned at VN$53,667
90 million, again highlighting what was placed at terms between
80 91 and 270 days (see Graph 5.2). The adjudicated amount
70 of June exceeded the maturities (VN$35,594 million) so at
60 the end of the month the nominal balance in circulation of
50 LEBACs grew $16,104 million with respect to the end of May,
40 positioning itself at $339,440 million. In relation to peso
30 deposits the balance of securities was positioned at
20 approximately 34% (see Graph 5.3). For the interpretation
10 of this last ratio it is important to take into account that in the
 0 last two years the holding of LEBACs by non-financial
 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15 Jun-15 entities increased. Finally, regarding the holding of LEBACs
Source: BCRA in June, financial entities led the increase, followed by mutual
 investment funds and insurance companies. In the secondary
 market, the average amount traded of LEBACs was positioned at

Graph 5.3
LEBACs and NOBACs and Peso Deposits almost $3,000 million daily.

%
60 (monthly average balances)

LyN / Total Deposits With respect to the foreign currency segment, the

LyN / Private Sector Deposits LEBAC balance grew US$36 million and was positioned at
50 the end of June at US$1,691 million. Of the operations
44 for the month, 40% corresponded to the "N" segment.
40

34
Central Bank Repo Operations1
30

20 In June, the interest rates on passive repos for the

10 Central Bank for the terms of 1 and 7 days remained
at 13% and 14%, respectively. Meanwhile, for active
0
Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 repos and for the same terms, the interest rates were
Source: BCRA maintained at 16% and 17%.

The balance of passive repos for all modalities in which
the Central Bank participates increased $3,400 million
in June, averaging the month at $20,700 million. The
increase was explained mainly by the behavior of finan-
Chart 5.4 cial entities, since the rest of the actors in this market
thousands of Passive Repos Balance with the BCRA practically presented no variations compared to the previous
millions of $ month (see Chart 5.4).

45

40 Daily balance
Average monthly Interfinancial Markets1

35

30
In June, the average interest rates of the interfinancial
25 market decreased compared to May, in a context of
20 elevated liquidity levels. In the unsecured market (call)
15 the interest rate of 1 business day operations averaged
10 17.9%, 4.6 p.p. below the May value. Likewise, the
5 average interest rate of 1 business day operations
0 between financial entities in the secured market (REPO
Jun-14 Ago-14 Oct-14 Dic-14 Feb-15 Abr-15 Jun-15 session) was located at 17.4%, verifying a decrease of
Source: BCRA 5.8 p.p. (see Chart 5.5). The average daily amount traded
Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 8 decreased by approximately $400 million in June, totaling
around $7,800 million. The decline was explained both
by the behavior recorded in the REPO session as well as
in the call market.

Chart 5.5
thousands of Interbank Market
(1 business day operations) Passive Interest Rates1
millions of $ TNA %
10 Amount traded REPO session excluding BCRA (daily average) 25
Amount traded Call (daily average)
9 Interest rate REPO session excluding BCRA (right axis) In June, the interest rates paid by financial entities for
Interest rate Call (right axis)
8 20 their fixed-term deposits in pesos remained relatively
7 stable.
6 15

5 On one hand, in the wholesale segment, the BADLAR of
4 10 private banks –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of
3 $1 million and more, for 30-35 day terms – averaged
2 5 20.4%, registering an increase of 0.1 p.p. in the month,
1 after having decreased in the two previous months.
0 0
Jun-13 Dic-13 Jun-14 Dic-14 Jun-15

Source: BCRA On the other hand, in the retail segment, the monthly
average of the interest rate paid by private entities for
fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to
35 days of term, decreased again (0.1 p.p. in June), by
being located at 22.6% (see Chart 5.6). In this regard, it
is worth recalling that since October 2014 minimum in-
terest rates have been in effect in this segment, and that
these are associated with the rates of LEBACs closest to
90 days of the second month immediately prior to the
Chart 5.6 capture of deposits 8. In this way, the decreases in in-
terest rates in recent months reflect the evolution in the
Fixed-Term Deposits Interest Rates in Pesos for 30-35 days interest rates of LEBACs.
(daily data and monthly averages)
%; TNA

30
28 BADLAR - private banks
 26 Active Interest Rates 1 9
 Fixed-Term Deposits of up to $100 thousand - private banks
 24 LEBAC 3 months Jun-15
 22.6
 22 In general, the interest rates applied to loans to the private
 sector decreased in June.
 20

 18 Jun-15
 16 20.4
 Among commercial lines, the declines in interest rates
 associated with financing granted through advances
 14 stood out. In effect, the monthly average of the interest
 12 rate on advances in current account was placed at 28.3%,
 10 declining about 2 percentage points and reaching its
 8 lowest level since December 2013. Likewise, after the
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 period of concentration of tax payment deadlines, the
 Source: BCRA interest rate on those advances to companies for more
 than $10 million and up to 7 days maturity decreased
 by more than 4 percentage points, more than offsetting
 the increase from the previous month, averaging 20.2%
 in June (Chart 5.7).

8 See Communication "A" 5640.
9 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and origination expenses
or other disbursements (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 9 Chart 5.7 The interest rates applied to financing
 Interest Rates on Loans to Commercial Activities Monthly Variations instrumentalized through documents also decreased
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % in June. In particular, the monthly average of the
 Advances in current account for more than $10 M - up to 7 days percentage points interest rate applied to single-signature
 Total Advances in CC 1 documents was 25.2%, decreasing 0.9 percentage points,
 30 Discounted Documents 0 while that applied to document discounting averaged
 Single-signature Documents
 26 -0.2 24%, noting a decline of 0.2 percentage points. In the
 -1 -0.9 case of financing granted through single-signature
 24 documents, part of the decline in the interest rate is
 22 -2 -1.8 explained by the increase in the participation of credits
 granted under the LCIP framework within the line, given
 18 -3 that June marked the end of the first stage of the year.
 14 -4 -4.3 In addition to the decline in the interest rate, it was
 observed that there was a greater disbursement of loans
 10 -5 in the stratum of longer maturities.
 6 SSF DD Advances Advances
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 CC (more $10 M -
 Source: BCRA 7 days)

 For their part, the interest rates on loans with real
 Chart 5.8 guarantee presented mixed behaviors. Thus, while the
 Active Interest Rates monthly average of the interest rate on pledge loans
 TNA, % (monthly average) percentage points Monthly Variations was placed at 23.9%, decreasing 1.3 percentage points,
 54 1 0.8 the average of the interest rate applied to mortgage
 Pledge Mortgage Personal loans 1.3 loans was 23.6%, with a monthly increase of 0.8
 48 0 percentage points (see Chart 5.8).
 -1 -0.4
 42 -1.3
 -2 36.9
 Mortgage Pledge Personal
 36 With regard to the interest rate on personal loans, the
 maximum rates10 in effect in June decreased again
 30 23.9 (0.1 percentage points), placing themselves at 37.9%
 24 and 47.1% for Group I and Group II11 entities,
 23.6 respectively. This decline was, in part, reflected in the
 18 monthly average of the interest rate on personal loans,
 12 which was 36.9%, exhibiting a decline of 0.4 percentage
 6 points. Likewise, reflecting the impact of the cut in the
 Jul-09 Feb-10 Sep-10 Apr-11 Nov-11 Jun-12 Jan-13 Aug-13 Mar-14 Oct-14 May-15 interest rates of LEBAC from April, the maximum interest
 Source: BCRA rates in effect in July are placed at 37.6% and 46.7%
 for Group I and Group II, respectively.

 Chart 6.1
 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of USD
 45

 Jun-15 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 40 Exchange Market1
Investment Funds

In June the equity of the FCI (Investment Funds), denominated in pesos and in foreign currency registered an increase of $5,930 million (3.6%), positioning itself at the close of the month at $170,320 million.

Fixed income funds in pesos contributed in greater measure to the monthly increase, after registering a growth of $5,230 million (6%). This behavior was explained fundamentally by the increase in the quantity of share units subscribed. In second place were the mixed income funds, which verified an increase of $2,390 million in the month (8.3%), driven both by the increase in the quantity of share units and by the increase in the prices of the assets that make up the portfolio. Likewise the equity of variable income funds grew by $90 million (1.7%). The performance of these funds was offset by the performance recorded in money market funds which verified a decline of $1,910 million, fundamentally due to the fall in the quantity of share units towards the end of June, a period in which the payment of the semi-annual supplementary salary (SAC) accelerates the use of excess liquidity by companies (see Chart 7.1).

---

**Footnotes:**

10 In June 2014 Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal loans and secured loans for automobiles to individuals, calculated based on LEBAC returns and which are published monthly by the Central Bank.

11 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and secured loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.
Regarding estimated profitability, during June the return of variable income funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return of around 3%, thanks to the good performance registered by the local stock market. For their part, mixed income funds achieved a return of 2.3% and fixed income funds of 2%. Meanwhile, money market funds registered an average gain of 1.3%.

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the assets of the FCI increased by US$10 million to US$316 million.

## Financial Trusts12

In June, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $2,433 million through 20 operations, 4 more than in May. Thus, the traded volume increased again, registering an increase of 23.3% compared to the previous month and of 27.6% in relation to June of the previous year (see Chart 7.2).

Distinguishing the issued amount by type of fiduciary, retail businesses securitized assets linked to consumption for $870 million, which represented an increase of 50% compared to May. For their part, financial entities placed slightly more than $754 million, associated mainly with personal loans that represented almost 90% of the issued amount. Meanwhile, the total assets securitized by private banks, mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and other providers of financial services (composed of consumer credit, pledge credit and commercial credit) reached $513 million, showing a slight decrease compared to the previous month. Likewise, several issuances were registered from companies associated with the agricultural, industrial sector and machinery suppliers for a total of $296 million.

Finally, the cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior securities—in pesos and with duration less than 14 months—with variable return was positioned at 25.7%, registering a decrease of 0.9 p.p. compared to May. Meanwhile, in the fixed rate segment three placements were registered, whose rate was positioned at 26.9% (see Chart 7.3).

## 8. Main Measures of Policy

During the month under analysis, the Greek debt situation stood out among events at the international level for the impact it could have on monetary policy decisions in the coming months, beyond the Eurozone itself. Specifically, the application of contractionary measures by the monetary authorities of the U.S. and England could be postponed. On the other hand, during June there were meetings of policy
In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment in the main central banks, which
of jobs
 500 maintained their monetary policy stance unchanged.
 Among the region's central banks, those of Brazil and
 300
 Peru stand out for having taken contractionary and
 100 expansionary measures, respectively.

-100
 First, at its meeting on June 16 and 17, the Federal
-300 Reserve's (FED) Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the
 Recessions U.S. decided to maintain the target range of its
-500 Employment Creation benchmark interest rate, the federal funds rate (FFR)
 6-Month Moving Average at 0-0.25%. Additionally, the FED published updated
-700 projections regarding the evolution of the FFR and the
-900 performance of the U.S. economy. From the first ones it
 follows that the pace of FFR increases would be more
 Jan-70 Jan-74 Jan-78 Jan-82 Jan-86 Jan-90 Jan-94 Jan-98 Jan-02 Jan-06 Jan-10 Jan-14gradual than what was foreseen in the March meeting
 Source: Own elaboration based on BLS.gov (see Chart 8.1). At the press conference following the meeting, the
 FED chair emphasized that FFR increases would be
 gradual and closely linked to economic indicators in the
 Chart 8.3 coming months. Among these, she specifically referred to
 % Interest Rates and Inflation Target in the United States the fact that the FOMC would be attentive to a
 7 Personal Consumption Expenditures consolidation in the improvement in employment creation in
 6 Inflation Target * recent months (see Chart 8.2). Finally, the most recent
 5 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures
 Dallas FED Trimmed Mean U.S. inflation data show that the decline in headline
 4 CPI inflation has slowed and that core inflation would not be
 3 CPI Core affected by the fall in oil prices, indicating the absence of
 second-round effects thus far (see Chart 8.3).
 2
 1
 * The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum"
 0 employment, moderate long-term interest rates, and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting of January 25, 2012,
 -1 a target of 2% annual change for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term was set.
 -2
 Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15
 Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).

For its part, on June 3, the Governing Council (GC)
 of the European Central Bank (ECB) decided to maintain
 its monetary policy interest rate, which applies to Main
 Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the historic minimum
 of 0.05%, without also modifying its interest rate
 corridor, which stands at 0.3% for the deposit facility
 and -0.2% for the credit facility. The GC made this
 decision in a context of mixed signals from economic
 activity indicators, and an inflation rate of 0.3% y-o-y
 during May, the first inflation rate in positive territory
 Chart 8.4 in the last five months (April inflation had been
 % CPI by Category practically zero, see Chart 8.4).
 1.0 Eurozone
 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.5
 Regarding Greece, events accelerated at the end of
 0.5 0.4 0.3
 0.0 0.3 June, when the ECB decided not to grant additional
 -0.2 funding to the Central Bank of Greece under the
 0.0 -0.3 -0.1
 Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) line due to the
 -0.6 stalemate in negotiations on Greek debt, and the risk of
 -0.5 default, since that debt is used as collateral for the
 financing granted.
 -1.0 Food and Non-alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco
 Clothing Housing
 Furniture and Other household expenses Medical expenses
 Transport Telecommunications
 Recreation and Culture Education
 Restaurants and Hotels Others
 -1.5 All Items (Harmonized)
May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15
 Source: BCRA based on Eurostat through the ELA. In this framework and faced with the
 widespread withdrawal of deposits, the Greek monetary authority

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 13 had to impose a prolonged banking holiday,
 Chart 8.5
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil %
 30 Industrial Production (Year-on-year Var.) 18 together with capital controls. Until the close of this
 Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-on-year Var.)
 25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16 report, Greek debt was not considered in default.13
 Inflation Rate (right axis)
 20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14 Should this situation occur, other central banks, such
 as those of the U.S. and England, could postpone the
 15 12
 application of contractionary measures given the
 10 10
 impact that this event could have on the markets.
 5 8

 0 6
 -5 With regard to the monetary authorities of
 -10 4
 Latin America, at their June 3rd meeting, the
 -15 2 Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central
 -20 0 Bank of Brazil decided, in a unanimous vote, to increase the
 Jan-08 Oct-08 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14
 target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 13.75%. This
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br
 measure constitutes the fifteenth increase since the
 rate hike cycle began in April 2013 (for a total of
 6.5 p.p.). The COPOM made this decision in a context
 in which inflation is above the target range (4.5% ± 
 2 p.p.) with a decline in the level of activity and fiscal
 Chart 8.6 adjustment. In the former case, inflation increased in
 CPI by Category May to 8.5% year-on-year (0.3 p.p. more than the
 % previous month), and has been above target for almost
 Brazil a year. Furthermore, from the minutes of the COPOM
 8.47 meeting, released in mid-June, it emerges that high
 8.13 8.17
 Food and Beverages | Housing | Household Items | Clothing | 7.70 inflation was one of the main reasons that drove the
 Transportation | Medical Expenses | Personal Expenses | Education increase in the Selic target.
 7.5 7.14
 Communications | Total CPI According to the latest market expectations survey
 6.52 6.75 6.50 6.51
 6.15 6.28 6.37 6.59 6.56 6.41 conducted by the BCB, an additional increase of 0.5 p.p.
 5.59 5.68
 5.5 of the Selic objective is expected for the Bank's next
 meeting, at the end of July.
 3.5

 1.5 Another bank in the region that took measures was
 -0.5 the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (BCRP) which,
 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 although it did not modify its objective for the
 Source: BCRA based on IBGE interbank market interest rate (keeping it at 3.25%),
 reduced once again the reserve requirement coefficient for
 deposits in national currency, from 7% to 6.5%. Since
 July 2013 the BCRP has reduced said coefficient by
 13.5 p.p.

13 On July 16th the ECB increased the funding it grants to the Greek financial system through the Emergency Liquidity
Assistance (ELA) line by €900 million, reaching a stock of almost €90,000 million. The decision came after the approval by the
Greek parliament of the laws that were required by the Eurogroup as a first step to continue negotiations aimed at a third assistance
program for Greece. This funding by the ECB allows Greek banks to improve their liquidity position and, eventually, would contribute
to their reopening after almost two weeks of banking holiday.

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary variables and of the financial system Jun-14 Jun-15 May-15 Monthly Last 12 Dec-14
 months
# MONETARY REPORT | June 2015 | BCRA | 15

## Monetary Base and Components

| Item | Current Period | Previous Period | Earlier Period | Base Period | Monthly Variation | 12-Month Variation |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 488.049 | 468.116 | 442.861 | 366.004 | 4.3% | 33.3% |
| Monetary circulation | 375.416 | 358.815 | 338.425 | 277.800 | 4.6% | 35.1% |
| Bills and coins held by the public | 338.545 | 323.427 | 299.390 | 249.583 | 4.7% | 35.6% |
| Bills and coins in financial entities | 36.867 | 35.386 | 39.034 | 28.216 | 4.2% | 30.7% |
| Cancellatory checks | 4.1 | 2.3 | 0.9 | 0.0 | 80.6% | - |
| Current account at BCRA | 112.633 | 109.301 | 104.436 | 88.205 | 3.0% | 27.7% |

## Stock of Repurchase Agreements (Pases)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities | 20.676 | 17.237 | 15.333 | 11.123 | 19.9% | 85.9% |
| Assets | 0000 | | | | | |

## Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Stock of BCRA Titles | 330.019 | 325.443 | 259.788 | 189.616 | 1.4% | 74.0% |
| In banks | 239.671 | 238.783 | 200.220 | 47.027 | 0.4% | 409.6% |

## LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| In pesos | 328.337 | 323.779 | 259.788 | 175.616 | 1.4% | 87.0% |
| In dollars | 1.682 | 1.664 | 0 | 0 | 1.1% | - |

## NOBAC

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 14.000 | - | - |

## BCRA International Reserves (5)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| International reserves of BCRA | 33.680 | 33.796 | 30.233 | 28.863 | -0.3% | 16.7% |

## Deposits of Private and Public Sector in Pesos (1)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Deposits of private and public sector in pesos | 956.618 | 928.034 | 840.058 | 727.660 | 3.1% | 31.5% |
| Current account (2) | 277.951 | 269.200 | 275.630 | 215.101 | 3.3% | 29.2% |
| Savings account | 199.290 | 187.016 | 175.719 | 147.236 | 6.6% | 35.4% |
| Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER | 442.612 | 434.831 | 356.281 | 336.504 | 1.8% | 31.5% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 10 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 10.3% | 42.9% |
| Other deposits (3) | 36.755 | 36.978 | 32.420 | 28.812 | -0.6% | 27.6% |

## Private Sector Deposits

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Deposits of private sector | 750.477 | 724.294 | 624.701 | 546.237 | 3.6% | 37.4% |

## Public Sector Deposits

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Deposits of public sector | 206.141 | 203.740 | 215.357 | 181.423 | 1.2% | 13.6% |

## Deposits of Private and Public Sector in Dollars (1)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Deposits in dollars | 9.889 | 9.618 | 8.788 | 8.615 | 2.8% | 14.8% |

## Loans to Private and Public Sector in Pesos (1)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Loans to private and public sector in pesos | 665.225 | 650.846 | 590.814 | 524.771 | 2.2% | 26.8% |

## Loans to Private Sector

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Loans to private sector | 615.442 | 600.037 | 549.787 | 483.205 | 2.6% | 27.4% |
| Advances | 78.374 | 74.264 | 66.782 | 65.388 | 5.5% | 19.9% |
| Documents | 143.677 | 140.992 | 133.922 | 108.519 | 1.9% | 32.4% |
| Mortgage loans | 49.054 | 48.527 | 47.502 | 45.482 | 1.1% | 7.9% |
| Pledge loans | 34.251 | 33.720 | 32.700 | 31.909 | 1.6% | 7.3% |
| Personal loans | 134.113 | 131.042 | 117.247 | 103.855 | 2.3% | 29.1% |
| Credit cards | 132.011 | 129.581 | 110.982 | 91.425 | 1.9% | 44.4% |
| Others | 43.963 | 41.912 | 40.651 | 36.626 | 4.9% | 20.0% |

## Loans to Public Sector

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Loans to public sector | 49.783 | 50.809 | 41.027 | 41.566 | -2.0% | 19.8% |

## Loans to Private and Public Sector in Dollars (1)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Loans in dollars | 4.431 | 4.196 | 3.331 | 4.159 | 5.6% | 6.5% |

## Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| M1 (Bills and coins held by public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 616.500 | 592.629 | 575.021 | 464.684 | 4.0% | 32.7% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 815.789 | 779.645 | 750.740 | 611.920 | 4.6% | 33.3% |
| M3 (Bills and coins held by public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 1.295.167 | 1.251.463 | 1.139.449 | 977.243 | 3.5% | 32.5% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 1.388.989 | 1.341.556 | 1.217.403 | 1.049.531 | 3.5% | 32.3% |

## Private Monetary Aggregates

| Item | Current | Previous | Earlier | Base | Monthly | 12-Month |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| M1 (Bills and coins held by public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) | 515.048 | 495.272 | 459.757 | 383.094 | 4.0% | 34.4% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 696.270 | 667.221 | 621.075 | 514.370 | 4.4% | 35.4% |
| M3 (Bills and coins held by public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 1.089.026 | 1.047.723 | 924.092 | 795.821 | 3.9% | 36.8% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 1.166.860 | 1.124.584 | 988.611 | 855.769 | 3.8% | 36.4% |

## Variation Factors – Average Variations

| Item | Monthly | Contribution (4) | Quarterly | Contribution (4) | Accumulated 2015 | Contribution (4) | Last 12 Months | Contribution (4) |
|------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 19.933 | 4.3% | 34.984 | 7.7% | 45.188 | 10.2% | 122.045 | 33.3% |
| Financial sector | -20.929 | -4.5% | -42.430 | -9.4% | -43.848 | -9.9% | -131.252 | -35.9% |
| Public sector | 16.327 | 3.5% | 9.762 | 2.2% | 61.487 | 13.9% | 154.080 | 42.1% |
| External private sector | 5.939 | 1.3% | 20.436 | 4.5% | 17.160 | 3.9% | 27.274 | 7.5% |
| BCRA Securities | 824 | 0.2% | 4.881 | 1.1% | -30.674 | -6.9% | -65.286 | -17.8% |
| Others | 17.772 | 3.8% | 42.334 | 9.3% | 41.062 | 9.3% | 137.229 | 37.5% |
International Reserves of the BCRA -116 -0.3% 2.248 7.2% 3.447 11.4% 4.817 16.7%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 676 2.0% 2.404 7.6% 2.050 6.8% 3.311 11.5%
 Payment to international organizations -134 -0.4% -615 -2.0% -1.039 -3.4% -953 -3.3%
 Other public sector operations -516 -1.5% 164 0.5% 2.552 8.4% 8.582 29.7%
 Minimum cash -145 -0.4% -1.375 -4.4% -705 -2.3% -1.348 -4.7%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 3 0.0% 1.669 5.3% 590 2.0% -4.775 -16.5%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.5 11.5 11.6
 Integration 11.7 11.7 11.9
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2 0.3
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 65.8 65.6 68.2
 30 to 59 days 22.6 21.9 20.8
 60 to 89 days 6.0 6.6 5.5
 90 to 179 days 4.4 4.8 4.4
 more than 180 days 1.3 1.2 1.1
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 39.6 40.6 40.9
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 71.8 75.7 77.8
 Position (2) 32.2 35.2 36.9
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for calculating the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 48.5 46.1 45.6
 30 to 59 days 24.7 22.3 21.6
 60 to 89 days 11.7 15.7 13.5
 90 to 179 days 10.2 11.3 15.1
 180 to 365 days 4.8 4.5 4.0
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.2
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 16 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 17.93 22.51 17.85 21.83 22.51
 Amount traded 3.144 3.381 3.174 2.176 2.846

 Fixed-term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.28 20.21 20.40 19.97 20.92
 60 days or more 22.97 23.25 23.26 23.12 23.42
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.27 18.13 18.43 17.81 20.25
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.37 20.25 20.74 19.98 23.02

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.65 1.63 1.63 0.88 0.93
 60 days or more 2.56 2.37 2.50 1.67 1.67
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.29 1.32 1.24 0.85 0.88
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.14 2.26 2.17 0.99 1.02

 Active Interest Rates Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 22.95 23.94 23.49 24.00 23.33
 Amount traded (total terms) 568 601 567 377 299

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 28.30 30.10 29.11 30.86 32.21
 Documents on sole signature 25.22 26.15 26.59 26.14 26.81
 Mortgage loans 23.56 22.78 22.93 22.30 21.06
 Pledge loans 23.87 25.19 26.06 26.35 22.97
 Personal loans 36.84 37.30 37.64 37.70 40.51
 Credit cards n/a 39.85 39.83 42.74 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million 20.16 24.42 20.97 24.31 26.05

 International Interest Rates Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.19 0.18 0.18 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.44 0.42 0.40 0.34 0.32

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.68 0.60 0.53 0.61 0.44
 10 years 2.36 2.20 1.93 2.20 2.59

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 13.70 13.25 12.80 11.70 11.00
(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 17 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 13.00 13.00 13.00 13.00 9.00
 Liabilities 7 days 14.00 14.00 14.00 14.00 9.50
 Assets 7 days 17.00 17.00 17.00 17.00 11.50

 Total REPO round repo rates
 1 day 14.52 16.99 14.96 16.33 13.89
 7 days 14.91 16.21 16.94 15.01 13.73

 Amount traded in REPO round repos (daily average) 18,057 15,014 15,420 12,550 10,271

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 25.97 25.96 26.16 26.84 26.83
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 27.90
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 29.29 28.26

 NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

 LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

 Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 3,000 2,962 2,821 3,518 1,918

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 9.04 8.95 8.87 8.55 8.12
 Retail 9.05 8.95 8.87 8.55 8.13

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 9.16 9.07 9.00 8.76 8.34
 ROFEX 1 month 9.17 9.07 9.01 8.73 8.31
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,411 3,207 2,543 2,413 1,992

 Real (Pesos per Real) 2.90 2.93 2.92 3.24 3.63

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.16 10.00 9.59 10.54 11.05

 Capital Market Jun-15 May-15 Apr-15 Dec-14 Jun-14

 MERVAL
 Index 11,343 11,825 11,789 8,563 7,839
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 151 155 253 174 193

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 133.5 130.7 132.2 130.6 122.8
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 125.6 127.2 132.4 111.7 105.0
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 129.6 128.6 130.6 126.6 117.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 80.6 83.5 92.3 72.3 76.6

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 854 1,159 1,031 1,146 1,080
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 514 480 492 502 344

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LCIP:** Credit Line for Productive Investment.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3\*:** Broad bi-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non Deliverable Forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Term-Based Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**b.p.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**STP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**VRD:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | June 2015 | BCRA | 19
