# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 5

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 9

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 11

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 12

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 15

10. Glossary | Page 19

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gov.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was May 14, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 2
1. Summary
• In April, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) presented growth of 1.1%, accumulating an expansion of 29.6% over the last year. In the month, the main factor of expansion of monetary aggregates was the growth of loans to the private sector.

• Time deposits in pesos from the private sector were the M3 component that showed the greatest dynamism, registering an increase of 5.5% and reaching a year-over-year variation of 32.7%. Both wholesale and retail time deposits showed significant increases, highlighting the one corresponding to operations of more than $1 million (7.1%), which was among the highest in recent years. In the case of deposits of less than $1 million, they continued to grow firmly (3.6%), favored by the scheme of minimum interest rates for individuals established by the BCRA and by the stability of the foreign exchange market.

• The liquidity ratio of the domestic currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and LEBAC holdings, in terms of total deposits in pesos) remained at elevated levels, at 39.7%, 1 p.p. below March.

• In April, loans in pesos to the private sector registered growth of 2% ($11,700 million), similar to that observed in March and markedly above that of April of the previous year. The latter motivated a new acceleration in year-over-year variation, which increased 2.8 p.p. to reach 24.3%. Although all financing lines registered increases, the growth for the month was explained mainly by operations carried out through documents, by personal loans and by credit card financing. It should be recalled that the latter two lines continue to be favored by the maximum interest rates established by the Central Bank and by the "AHORA 12" program.

• The Central Bank expanded the implementation of the "Credit Line for Productive Investment" to generate greater benefits and deepen the promotion of credit to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Entities will be able to apply part of the financing to the discounting of public works certificates and invoices confirmed by MSMEs. Also, under certain conditions, they may incorporate financing disbursed as pre-financing of exports to companies that are not large exporters and new financing for imports of inputs or capital goods.

• Passive interest rates registered slight decreases, while those corresponding to financing in pesos showed mixed movements and, in most cases, limited ones, not exceeding 1 p.p. The exception was the case of the interest rate on overdrafts granted to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days term, which averaged 21%, declining about 3 p.p. in the month.

• International reserves increased by US$2,419 million in April and were located at the end of the month at US$33,909 million. The increase was associated not only with the purchase of foreign currency by the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market, but also with the inflow of currency from a public debt auction in foreign currency and the increase in foreign currency deposits from the private sector.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

**Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates¹**

**Graph 2.1**
**Monetary Aggregates - M3**
% % In April, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos
6 (variation of monthly averages) 50 (M3²) presented growth of 1.1%, accumulating over

5 40 the last year an expansion of 29.6% (see Graph 2.1).

4 30 As for its components, both time deposits of the private

sector and the means of payment...
3 private sector (private M2) registered increases, which
 20
 2 were partially offset by the decrease in

 10 public sector placements. On the other hand, from
 1
 the point of view of the factors that drove the in-
 0 0 crease in M3, the growth of loans in pesos to the
 Monthly Variation of M3
 -1 Year-on-year Variation of M3 (right axis) -10 private sector stood out and, in second place, the

 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 foreign currency purchases by the BCRA, while the

 Note: M3 includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA operations of the public sector had a practically
 neutral effect (see Chart 2.2).

 Chart 2.2 The total of deposits in pesos from the private sector registered

 thousands of Factors Explaining the Variation of M3 a growth of 3.8% in April, with increases recorded

 millions of $ (April 2015, on average)
 16 both in demand deposits and in fixed-term
 14 deposits. The latter increased 5.5% and maintained

 12 the high dynamism of recent months (see Chart

 10 2.3). Both wholesale and retail fixed-term deposits

 8 showed significant increases, with the one

 6 corresponding to operations of more than $1 million

 4 (7.1%) standing out, which was among the highest in

 2 recent years. In the case of deposits of less than $1

 0 million, they continued to grow firmly (3.6%), favored

 -2 by the scheme of minimum interest rates for natural
 Foreign Currency Purchases Public Sector* Loans to Private S. Other M3 persons established by the BCRA, and by stability

 *Includes public sector operations with an effect on the monetary base and loans from the public sector. in the foreign exchange market. Consequently, fixed-
 Source: BCRA term deposits from the private sector continued to

 Chart 2.3 accelerate their expansion rate and reached a year-on-
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector year variation of 32.7%.

 % (variations of monthly averages) Foreign currency deposits presented a reduction of
 % April - Avg. Monthly Variation
 8 Monthly variation 55 % More than $ 1 million 2.8%, which was explained both by the decrease in

 7 Year-on-year Variation (right axis) 50 public sector placements and by those of the private

 8 6 45 6 sector. It is worth noting that the decline in private

 5 40 4 deposits was influenced by the pesification of demand

 4 35 2 2010 deposits by energy sector companies, within the
 2011
 3 30 0 2012 framework of their investment plans. Although foreign
 Less than $ 1 million %
 2 25 10 2013 currency deposits fell on a monthly average basis, they
 8 2014
 1 20 2015 increased between the end of March and April and,
 6
 0 15 4 among private sector placements, fixed-term deposits

 -1 10 2 in foreign currency continued to increase (see Chart
 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-150 2.4)3. Consequently, the broader monetary aggregate,

 Source: BCRA

2 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total deposits in pesos of non-financial public and private sectors.
3 It should be noted that when relaunching LEBACs in dollars, the margin between the interest rate paid to the depositor and the rate corresponding to the LEBAC subscribed by financial entities was adjusted. See Communications A 5527 and A 5711.

 Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 4 M3*4, grew 1%, reaching a year-on-year variation
 Chart 2.4 of 29.5%.

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits from the Private Sector in Foreign Currency

 millions of US$ (daily balance)
 4.15 The monetary base presented a monthly increase of
 1.1%, reaching its monthly average balance at
 $458,015 million. The increase was observed in
 4.10 bank reserves (comprised of cash in financial entities
 and the balances of the current accounts of the
4.05 financial entities in the BCRA) and, mostly, in
 cash in the hands of the public. In year-over-year terms,
 4.00 its variation continued around 29%.

 3.95 3. Liquidity of Financial Entities1

 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15
 Note: includes immobilized balances. Source: BCRA

 The liquidity of financial entities in the peso segment
 (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities
 Chart 3.1 at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and
 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
 deposits Cash in Effective Pases Net LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity holdings of LEBACs) decreased in
 45 CCBCRA 40.6 April, although it remains at elevated levels (39.7% in
 40 terms of peso deposits, see Chart 3.1). The
 35.6 36.5 37.2 37.1 37.7 38.8 38.5 39.2 39.4 40.1 40.9 39.7
 35 33.4 33.2 32.5 31.4 31.7 31.9 31.7 31.8 30.9 32.4 33.6 decline represented 1% of deposits and was expli-
 30.9 cated by the decrease in liquidity of public entities
 30 24.2 23.0 –due to the lower proportion of LEBAC holdings
 25 in relation to peso deposits–, while the liquidity
 20 ratio of private financial entities increased relative
 15 0.7 0.9 to March. Nevertheless, public entities continue to
 3.8 3.8 maintain an elevated liquidity ratio, and higher than
 10 that of private ones.
 11.9 11.9
 5
 0 The balance maintained on average in the current
 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15
 account at the Central Bank was higher than the required
 * LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
 Source: BCRA reserve requirement by the equivalent of 0.3% of the total
 of peso deposits (see Chart 3.2).

 Chart 3.2
 Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos For its part, in the foreign currency segment, liquidity
 % of remained elevated, although it decreased 3 p.p., placing
 deposits itself on average at 104.8% of the total of dollar
 2.6 deposits. In particular, an increase was recorded in
 2.0 the balance of LEBAC in dollars, which was more than
 1.4 offset by the reduction in the balance of deposits in
 0.8 the current account of entities at the Central Bank.

 0.2
 -0.4 4. Loans1 5

 -1.0 Surplus
 Accumulated Position In April, loans in pesos to the private sector regis-
 -1.6 Daily Position tered growth of 2% ($11,700 million), similar to that

 -2.2 observed in March and markedly above April of the
 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15
 Source: BCRA previous year. The latter motivated a new acceleration

 in year-over-year variation, which increased 2.8 p.p.
4 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" is understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 5 until reaching 24.3% (see Chart 4.1). Although all
 Chart 4.1 financing lines registered advances, the growth of
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector the month was explained mainly by operations
 % % implemented through documents, by personal loans
 6 60 and by financing with credit cards.
 Monthly Variation 2.8 Year-over-year Variation (right axis) 50
 5
 4 40 Within the lines aimed at financing mostly

 3 30

 2 20

 1 10

 [Text continues but is cut off in the original]
0 0 commercial activity, advances exhibited an increase of
 0.4% ($270 million), which led to an acceleration of
 -1 -10
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-151.1 p.p. in its year-on-year variation, which reached
 Source: BCRA 20.3%. For its part, financings arranged through documents
 continued growing (2.1%; $2,890 million), which contrasted
 with the decline recorded in April of the previous year.
 Chart 4.2 This motivated a new acceleration in the pace of year-on-
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector % year growth, which went from 22.6% to 26.7% (see Chart
 14 70 4.2).

 12 Monthly avg. var. 60 Regarding the "Productive Investment Credit Line"
 Y.o.y. var. (right axis)
 (LCIP), the BCRA expanded its implementation to
 10 50
 generate greater benefits and deepen the promotion of
 8 40
 credit to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
 6 30 (MSMEs). Going forward, entities will be able to apply
 4 20 part of the financing to the discounting of public works
 2 10 certificates and invoices confirmed by MSMEs. Additionally,
 0 0 they will be able to incorporate financings disbursed as
 -2 -10 export pre-financing to companies that are not large
 -4 -20 exporters, provided they are funded with foreign credit
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 lines, new external loans or negotiable securities placed
 Source: BCRA
 abroad. They will also be able to consider new import
 financings of inputs or capital goods that come from
 credit lines from foreign banks.6

 Chart 4.3
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % Financings aimed mainly at household consumption
 8 90
 continued growing at a good pace. Personal loans
 Monthly avg. var.
 7 80 increased 2.7% ($3,370 million), the largest increase of
 Y.o.y. var. (right axis)
 6 70 the year, and accelerated their year-on-year growth rate
 60 by 2.3 p.p. to reach 25% (see Chart 4.3). Favored by the
 5 50
 policy of maximum interest rates established for this type
 4 40
 of loan, the line continues to show, since the second half
 3 30
 of 2014, growth rates higher than those observed in the
 2 20
 first part of that year. Meanwhile, credit card financings
 1 10
 0 0 presented a monthly increase of 3.3% ($3,990 million),
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 exceeding the variations of the previous quarter and
 Source: BCRA
 accumulating a year-on-year increase of 42.4% (5 p.p.
6 See Communication "A" 5747.
 Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 6 above that observed in March; see Chart 4.4). This line
 Chart 4.4 continued to be favored by the official "NOW 12" program,
 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector % for the promotion of domestic consumption through this
 9 90
 8 Monthly avg. var. 80 financial instrument.
 7 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) 70
 6 60 Loans with real guarantees increased their dynamism
 5 50
 compared to the previous months. Mortgage loans
 4 40
 3 30 increased (0.5%, $230 million), accumulating in the last
 2 20 twelve months a growth close to 8%. It should be noted
 1 10
 0 0 that, although mortgage loans have been showing scarce
 -1 -10 dynamism, part of the demand for mortgage credit for
 -2 -20 housing (individuals) is not reflected in the statistics of
 -3 -30
 -4 -40 bank loans, as it has been channeled through the
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for Single-Family
 Source: BCRA
 Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with pledge
 guarantee registered an increase of 1.3% ($410 million),
 the largest since October 2014.

 Chart 5.1
**Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market**

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued growing. In the last month they registered an increase of 8.9% (US$320 million), which was the largest since mid-2011. Said increase was mainly explained by the behavior of documents on single signature in foreign currency, financing that is strongly associated with foreign trade operations.

**5. Interest Rates 7**

**Central Bank Issued Securities**

The interest rates of the Letters that the Central Bank places each week in the primary market declined in April. The decrease concentrated on terms between 120 and 255 days, where decreases of around 0.4 p.p. were recorded; while decreases of 0.1 p.p. were observed in the shortest species and of 0.2 p.p. in the LEBAC auctioned at a longer term, around 300 days. In this way, at the end of the month the interest rates of LEBAC at predetermined rate – at terms of 95 and 120 days – were located at 26% and 26.6%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species adjudicated with greater maturity, at 305 days term, was located at 28.9% (see Chart 5.1).

The adjudicated amount of LEBAC, at nominal value, reached $63,201 million, being all of it LEBAC in pesos, given that there were no adjudications registered in the month of LEBAC in pesos that adjust to the reference exchange rate. An increase in the adjudicated amount was observed for terms between 91 and 180 days, which concentrated 59% of the total (see Chart 5.2).

At the end of the month the outstanding balance of LEBAC and NOBAC, at nominal value, was located at $323,404 million, registering an increase of 3% compared to the end of March. In relation to deposits in pesos, the balance of securities was located at approximately 35% (see Chart 5.3). The proportion of the total LEBAC stock held by non-financial entities continued increasing. In particular, throughout April the increase in balance was mainly explained by the behavior registered by private financial entities, mutual investment funds, and insurance companies.

In the secondary market, the interest rates of LEBAC exhibited stability throughout the month, with the exception of those with the shortest terms (less than 15 days) which showed decreases toward the second half of April, in line with the behavior registered in the interbank market. The average amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market was located at $2,800 million daily. Operations with LEBAC in the species at less than 15 days term stood out.

---

**Footnotes:**

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where another specification is indicated.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 7
0.4
 With respect to the foreign currency segment, in
0.2
 the context of growth in time deposits in
0.0
 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 dollars from the private sector (see Monetary Aggregates section),
 the balance of LEBAC grew by US$300 million –
 including securities from the "N" and "V" segments – and
 was positioned at the end of April at US$1,641 million (see Chart
 5.4).

 Chart 5.5 Central Bank Repo Operations1

 thousands of Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA
 millions of $
 45 In April, the interest rates on passive repos for the
 40 Daily Balance Central Bank for terms of 1 and 7 days remained
 Monthly Average at 13% and 14%, respectively. Meanwhile, for
 35 active repos and for the same terms, the interest
 30 rates remained at 16% and 17%.

 25

 20
 In a context of high liquidity levels, the balance
 15
 of passive repos for all modalities in which
 10 the Central Bank participates increased by $900 million,
 5 averaging $17,900 million in April. The increase was
 0 explained mainly by the behavior observed

 Source: BCRAAbr-14 Jun-14 Ago-14 Oct-14 Dic-14 Feb-15 Abr-15 in private financial entities (see Chart 5.5).

 Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 8 Interbank Markets1
 Chart 5.6
 thousands of Interbank Market
 millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA % The average interest rates of the interfinancial market
 10 Amount traded REPO round excluding BCRA (daily average) 25 declined with respect to March, in a context where
 9 Amount traded Call (daily average) the liquidity of private financial entities
 8 Interest rate REPO round excluding BCRA (right axis) 20 increased. In the unsecured market (call) the interest
 Tasa de interés Call (right axis) rate for operations at 1 business day averaged 17.8%,
 7
 6 15 3.4 p.p. less than in March. Likewise, the average interest
 5 rate for operations at 1 business day among financial
 4 10 entities in the secured market (REPO round) was
 3 positioned at 18%, verifying a decrease of
 2 5 3.1 p.p. (see Chart 5.6). The daily average amount
 1 traded grew by approximately $300 million, totaling around
 0 0 $7,300 million.
 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Source: BCRA
 
 Passive Interest Rates1

 In April, the interest rates paid by financial entities for their
 Chart 5.7 fixed-term time deposits in pesos decreased slightly. In the
 Wholesale segment the BADLAR of private banks –interest
 Fixed-Term Time Deposit Interest Rates in Pesos of 30-35 days rate for fixed-term time deposits of $1 million and more,
 (daily data and monthly averages) for 30-35 days – averaged 20.7%, declining 0.1 p.p. in
 %; TNA the month, interrupting the slight upward trend that
 30 it had been exhibiting since December.
 28 BADLAR - private banks
 26 Fixed-Term Time Deposits up to $100 thousand - private banks
 24 Apr-15 Meanwhile, the monthly average of the interest rate
 LEBAC 3 months 22.9 paid by private entities for fixed-term time deposits
 22 up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of term
 20 Apr-15 was positioned at 22.9%, noting a reduction of 0.2 p.p. in
 20.7 the month (Chart 5.7). In this regard, it is worth recalling
 18 that since October 2014, minimum interest rates have been
 16 in effect for retail depositors, associated
 14 with the interest rates of LEBAC closest to 90
 12 days observed in the second month immediately prior
 10 to the deposit capture9. Given that in February
 8 the LEBAC interest rates were cut, the reference
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15 interest rate for April was reduced by 0.3 p.p., from
 Source: BCRA
 Chart 5.8

 Interest Rates on Current Account Overdrafts
 (monthly average)
 TNA, %, TNA Daily Data
 % 36 Total Current Account Overdrafts
 40
 32
28 Current Account Advances so that the minimum rate in effect for placements
 36 of more than $10 M - up to 7 days
 24
 of up to 44 days10 was located at 23.1%.
 20 29.1
 32
 16

 12
 28 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 Active Interest Rates1 11

 24 21.0

 20 The interest rates applied to loans to the private sec-
 tor showed mixed behaviors in April, fundamentally
 16
 associated with the characteristics specific to each line.
 12

 8
 Jul-09 Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15
 Source: BCRA

9 See Communication "A" 5640.
10 See Communication "B" 10974.
11 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

 Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 9 Chart 5.9 Among commercial lines, the interest rates on current
 Interest Rates for Financing through Documents account advances decreased 1 p.p., averaging 29.1%.
 (monthly average)
 TNA, % Participation in amounts granted by DSF to SMEs In particular, the rate applied to operations for more
 
 Up to 90 days From 91 to 365 days From 1 to 3 yearsMore than 3 years
 32 100% Documents at Sole Signature than $10 million and up to 7 days of term averaged
 80%
 60%
 21%, declining approximately 3 p.p. during the month.
 40% Discounted Documents
 28 20% 26.8

 0% In this way, it accumulated a reduction of almost 5 p.p.
 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15
 24 24.5 since January, the month in which it began a marked
 downward trend, in line with a context of adequate li-
 20 quidity levels (Chart 5.8).
 
 Monthly Variations

 1.2

 1.0 0.9
 16 Among financing instruments through documents, the
 0.8
 interest rate on check discounts was located at 24.5%,
 0.6
 0.4 increasing 0.1 p.p. during the month.
 12 0.2 0.1

 0.0 Likewise, the interest rate on documents at sole signa-
 8 DSF DD ture averaged 26.8%, 0.9 p.p. above the average for
 
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
 Source: BCRA March. This increase was explained, in part, by the lower
 participation of loans granted under the LCIP frame-
 Chart 5.10 work, which are agreed at relatively low rates (up to
 Active Interest Rates
 TNA, % (monthly average) 19%) and longer terms (not less than 36 months). It
 p.p. Monthly Variations is worth noting that in March entities were required to
 54 1.5 1.0
 1.0 agree to financing of at least 30% of the total amount
 Secured Mortgages to natural persons of the first installment of the 2015 quota, so it was
 Personal
 48 0.5 0.1
 expected that in April there would be less negotiation
 0.0
 -0.5 of these credits (Chart 5.9).
 42 -1.0 -0.5 37.7
 Mortgages Secured Personal
 
 36
 For its part, the interest rates associated with longer-
 30 26.1 term loans also presented heterogeneous behaviors.
 Among the lines with real guarantees, the monthly
 24
 average interest rate for mortgage loans to natural per-
 18 sons increased 1 p.p. while that for secured loans de-
 20.1
 creased 0.5 p.p., standing at 20.1% and 26.1%, respec-
 12
 tively (Chart 5.10).
 6
 Jul-09 Jun-10 May-11 Apr-12 Mar-13 Feb-14 Jan-15
 Source: BCRA With respect to the interest rate for personal loans,
 the maximum rates12 in effect decreased again in April,
 Chart 6.1 standing at 38.4% and 47.7% for Group I and Group
 II13 entities. The average monthly interest rate observed
 thousands of BCRA International Reserves continued to be below the maximum, remaining at
 millions of U$S
 45 37.7%, virtually unchanged since February.
 Apr-15
 
 40

 35

 30

 25
 Apr-13 Jun-13 Aug-13 Oct-13 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15
 Source: BCRA
12 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 entered into force, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal loans and chattel mortgage loans for motor vehicles to natural persons, calculated based on LEBAC yields and which are monthly published by the Central Bank.

13 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and chattel mortgage loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 10 Graph 6.2 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

Monthly Variation of the Reference Nominal Exchange Rate for Foreign Currency¹

15%

$/US$ $/Euro $/Real

International reserves increased by US$2,419 million in April and stood at the end of the month at US$33,909 million (see Graph 6.1). The increase was associated not only with foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market, but also with the inflow of foreign currency from a public debt auction in foreign currency (Argentine Nation Bonds in US dollars - "BONAR 2024") and the increase in foreign currency deposits of the private sector.

10% Depreciation

5% 0% -5% Appreciation -10%
Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15

Source: BCRA

In the foreign exchange market, the peso depreciated against the US dollar (see Graph 6.2). The average monthly quotation stood at 8.9 $/US$ (1% higher than the previous month). Similarly, the peso depreciated against the real and the euro, although after several months of recording appreciation against these currencies. The quotations were 2.9 $/Real (4.6%) and 9.6 $/Euro (1%). For its part, in the futures market (ROFEX), the average daily trading amount was around $2,500 million, which turned out to be 13% lower than March. Likewise, according to what is observed in the contracts entered into during the month, the expected quotations for the coming months were lower than what was observed in previous months.

Graph 7.1

Equity of Mutual Funds in Pesos

thousands of millions of $ Monthly Variation (April 2015)

thousands of

16 180 Money Market 12 lower to March. Likewise, according to what is observed in the con-

14 10 Renta Fija 8 tracts entered into during the month, the expected quotations for

160 Renta Mixta the coming months were lower than what was observed in previous

6 months.
140 Renta Variable 4
2
120
0
100 Renta Renta Renta Fija Money Total
Variable Mixta Market

80

60 7. Collective Investment Instruments

40

20 Mutual Funds (FCI)

0
Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15

Source: CAFCI and BCRA In April, the equity of the FCI, denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, registered a growth of $13,650 million (8.9%), standing at the end of the month at $166,950 million.

The monthly increase was driven by funds in pesos, highlighting fixed income funds that verified a growth of about $12,000 million in the month, driven fundamentally by the subscription of fund shares (see Graph 7.1). Within these funds, the short-term ones explain practically all of the increase. The increase is usual in this part of the year, and is explained in good measure by the liquidity surpluses of companies prior to the payment of May and June tax maturities.

Graph 7.2 Financial Trust Emissions

millions $ (excluding those aimed at financing infrastructure works) units For its part, the equity of mixed income funds grew by $860 million, Money Market funds by about $580 million, and variable income funds verified an increase of $160 million.

2,500 45 Amount issued
Quantity of emissions (right axis) 40
2,000 35
30
1,500
25
20
1,000
15
10
500
5
0 0
Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others
# Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 11

## Graph 7.3
With respect to profitability, during April all funds in pesos presented positive returns. Par-
ticularly, the estimated return of fixed income funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return of
around 1.6%. Within the segment, the performance registered in medium-term funds stood out
with average returns of 3.8%. Money Market funds achieved a return of 1.2%. Meanwhile, the
monthly return of mixed income and variable income funds was located at around 1%.

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the assets of the FCIs fell by US$1 million, to US$313 mil-
lion.

**Cut-off Rates of Senior Titles in Pesos**
**TIR; % (duration less than 14 months - average monthly weighted by amount)**

[Graph showing rates from Apr-07 to Apr-15, with:
- Fixed rate
- Variable rate
- BADLAR private banks
- Value shown: 26.3]

Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

## Financial Trusts¹⁴

In April, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $1,770 million, an amount that
turned out to be the highest so far this year (see Graph 7.2). Regarding the number of placements,
19 operations were carried out in the last month, 8 more than in March, in line with the 2014 average.

Regarding settlors, retail businesses issued around $860 million, showing a participation close to
50% of the total. "Mutual societies, cooperatives, non-banking credit card issuers and other provi-
ders of financial services" issued close to $535 million, 30% more than in March. Meanwhile, finan-
cial entities securitized assets for almost $70 million. As for the assets placed in trust, they correspon-
ded almost entirely to financing related to consumption (personal loans and credit card coupons)
and, to a lesser extent, to commercial, pledged and leasing credits.

Finally, the cut-off interest rate (average weighted by amount) of senior titles – in pesos and with
duration less than 14 months – with variable yield was located at 26.3%, 1.35 percentage points
below the previous month (see Graph 7.3). Meanwhile, no operations were registered at a fixed rate.

## Graph 8.1
**% CPI by Category**

[Graph showing various categories: Food and Non-alcoholic Beverages, Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco, Clothing, Housing, Furniture and Other household expenses, Medical expenses, Transportation, Telecommunications, Recreation and Culture, Education, Restaurants and Hotels, Others, All Items (Harmonized)]

Values range from -1.0 to 1.0, with data from Mar-14, Jun-14, Sep-14, Dec-14, Mar-15

Source: BCRA based on Eurostat

## Graph 8.2
**Non-Agricultural Employment Creation**
**In thousands of jobs**

[Graph showing Employment and 6-month moving average from Jun-11 to Feb-15]

Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov

## 8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks

During the period under analysis, the few concrete monetary policy measures adopted were of an
expansionary nature, with the exception of the one taken by the Central Bank of Brazil.

Among the main central banks of developed countries, none announced changes in the bias of
their monetary policy. The European Central Bank (ECB) decided to maintain its monetary policy
interest rate, which applies to the Main Refinancing

---

¹⁴ Only financial trusts with public offering are considered.

---

**Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 12**

## Graph 8.3

[Text appears to be cut off at the end of the document]
# Translation to English

% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States Operations (MRO), at the historical minimum of 0.05%.
7 Personal Consumption Expenditures
Inflation Target * In turn, it maintained the interest rate corridor. This
6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures
Dallas FED Trimmed Mean decision was made in a context of better indicators
5 CPI
4 CPI Core of the level of activity, and an inflation rate slightly

3 less negative (see Chart 8.1).

2

1 The Federal Reserve of the U.S. (FED), in its meeting at

0 the end of April decided to maintain the target on the

-1 federal funds interest rate (TFF) in the range 0-

-2 0.25%15. The FED made this decision in a context in

Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15which employment creation in March was much

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level lower than expected16 (see Chart 8.2), and also to the
employment, long-term moderate interest rates and stable prices. On the latter, in the FOMC meeting of January 25,
2012 an annual target was set of 2% variation for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.of the previous months. Along with this, the most
recent data on the level of activity show that the
economy would have decelerated significantly in
the first quarter. Furthermore, the latest available
inflation data show that the decline in inflation
general level slowed and that underlying inflation
would not be affected by the fall in the price of
Gráfico 8.4 oil, indicating so far the absence of

Interest Rate and Reserve Requirements Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target
% %
10 China 22 second-round effects (see Chart 8.3).

20
8
18 For its part, the Central Bank of Sweden (Riksbank),

6 although it maintained its monetary policy interest 16
rate at -0.25%, increased its quantitative expansion
4 14 program (QE)17. In effect, after just over two

12 months of having announced said program, it decided at
2
Monetary Policy Interest Rate 10 its meeting at the end of April18 to more than double it to between

0 Inflation Rate 80,000 – 90,000 billion Swedish kronor (just over
Inflation Target 8
2% of Swedish GDP and the equivalent to
-2 Reserve Requirement - Large Banks (right axis)6
Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15approximately US$10,000 million)19. The Riksbank

Source: BCRA based on PBoC. The PBoC does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, the Chinese government has an objective stated that it seeks to ensure that improvement in
currently of 3.5%. economic activity continues, and that inflation keeps increasing.

In the case of emerging countries, the monetary authorities of Peru took expansive measures (reduced
15 It should be recalled that in the previous meeting on March 18, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) had decided to modify the text of its press release, seeking to signal that during 2015 it would raise its Federal Funds Rate (FFR) target, which has been at its current level since December 2008.

16 The April data published on May 8 showed a recovery in non-agricultural job creation during April to 223,000 jobs, slightly below what the market expected.

17 Furthermore, the Riksbank authorities reaffirmed (as they had done in previous meetings) that in the face of any evidence that made it necessary, they were going to act with promptness in taking new expansionary measures, among which they mentioned a new reduction of the Repo Rate, an increase in the QE program, a program to purchase private securities, a credit program for the non-financial private sector (excluding families and mortgage loans) and direct intervention in the foreign exchange market to prevent excessive appreciation of the Swedish crown.

18 In its mid-March meeting it had quadrupled it.

19 The Riksbank has been purchasing public securities with a maturity of up to 5 years. It plans to complete the purchases before September 2015, and would have in its portfolio at the end of September 15% of Swedish public debt.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 13 reserve requirements in local currency), of Thailand (it reduced its monetary policy interest rate), and of China. The latter decided to reduce by 1 p.p. the reserve requirement rate applicable to large banks (see Chart 8.4) in a context of deceleration in the level of activity, in the inflation rate, and in the rate of change of monetary aggregates and credit. Regarding this Chart 8.5 measure, it should be noted that a reduction of this magnitude in the reserve requirement coefficient of large banks had not been recorded since November 2008.

Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil

30 Industrial Production (Year-on-year Var.) | 18
25 Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-on-year Var.) | 16
Reference Interest Rate (right axis) | 
20 Inflation Rate (right axis) | 14
Inflation Target Limits (right axis) |
15 | 12
10 | 10
5 | 8
0 | 6
-5 | 4
-10 | 2
-15 | 0
-20 |
Jan-08  Oct-08  Jul-09  Apr-10  Jan-11  Oct-11  Jul-12  Apr-13  Jan-14  Oct-14

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

Finally, the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) decided to increase the target for the Selic rate by 0.5 p.p. to 13.25%. The BCB made this decision given the rising inflation rate, which for the third consecutive month is above the upper limit of the target range (4.5% ± 2 p.p.) and is the highest inflation since the end of 2003; despite a context with a markedly weak level of activity (see Chart 8.5). The latest available activity data, which the BCB had at the time of making the decision, indicated that industrial production fell in February 9.1% year-on-year, a decrease 4 p.p. greater than in January. Along with this, the IBC-Br (monthly indicator of BCB activity) decreased 3.2% year-on-year, double what was observed in January. In both cases these are the largest declines in these indicators since mid-2009.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 14

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages and Percentage Changes

Principal monetary variables and financial system | Apr-14 | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Monthly | Last 12 months | Dec-14
Monetary Base | 458,015 | 453,065 | 442,861 | 354,170 | 1.1% | 29.3%
Monetary Circulation | 349,861 | 346,137 | 338,425 | 269,313 | 1.1% | 29.9%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public | 315,108 | 311,788 | 299,390 | 239,784 | 1.1% | 31.4%
Bills and Coins in financial entities | 34,752 | 34,348 | 39,034 | 29,527 | 1.2% | 17.7%
Cancellatory Checks | 1.4 | 0.9 | 0.9 | 0.0 | 58.7% | -
Current account at the BCRA | 108,154 | 106,929 | 104,436 | 84,857 | 1.1% | 27.5%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 17,865 | 16,987 | 15,333 | 18,426 | 5.2% | -3.0%
Assets | 0000 | | | | |
Loans to the public sector
| | 49.345 | 41.903 | 41.027 | 42.777 | 17.8% | 15.4% |

## Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1)
| | 3.906 | 3.594 | 3.331 | 3.829 | 8.7% | 2.0% |

## Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

| M1 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 579.717 | 563.492 | 575.021 | 430.907 | 2.9% | 34.5% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 760.044 | 742.845 | 750.740 | 562.709 | 2.3% | 35.1% |
| M3 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 1.220.833 | 1.207.475 | 1.139.479 | 942.004 | 1.1% | 29.6% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 1.308.617 | 1.296.292 | 1.217.433 | 1.010.547 | 1.0% | 29.5% |

## Private Monetary Aggregates

| M1 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) | 483.268 | 476.346 | 459.757 | 363.740 | 1.5% | 32.9% |
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 649.287 | 639.348 | 621.075 | 483.862 | 1.6% | 34.2% |
| M3 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 1.013.074 | 984.361 | 924.122 | 758.975 | 2.9% | 33.5% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 1.085.487 | 1.056.925 | 988.640 | 814.217 | 2.7% | 33.3% |

---

**Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 15**

## Variation Factors - Average Variations

| | **Monthly** | | **Quarterly** | | **Accumulated 2015** | | **Last 12 months** | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary base** | 4.950 | 1.1% | 4.039 | 0.9% | 15.154 | 3.4% | 103.845 | 29.3% |
| Financial sector | -917 | -0.2% | 8.177 | 1.8% | -2.335 | -0.5% | 617 | 0.2% |
| Public sector | -7.704 | -1.7% | 13.391 | 2.9% | 44.021 | 9.9% | 163.437 | 46.1% |
| Private external sector | 2.562 | 0.6% | -4.132 | -0.9% | -714 | -0.2% | 28.896 | 8.2% |
| BCRA Securities | 11.199 | 2.5% | -11.953 | -2.6% | -24.355 | -5.5% | -80.610 | -22.8% |
| Others | -191 | 0.0% | -1.444 | -0.3% | -1.463 | -0.3% | -8.496 | -2.4% |

## BCRA International Reserves

| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 477 | 1.5% | 634 | 2.0% | 1.676 | 5.5% | 4.228 | 15.3% |
| | 292 | 0.9% | -464 | -1.5% | -62 | -0.2% | 3.616 | 13.1% |
| Payments to international organizations | -274 | -0.9% | -616 | -2.0% | -698 | -2.3% | -672 | -2.4% |
| Other public sector operations | 133 | 0.4% | -64 | -0.2% | 2.521 | 8.3% | 8.352 | 30.2% |
| Minimum cash | -1.147 | -3.6% | -847 | -2.7% | -477 | -1.6% | -2.187 | -7.9% |
| Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) | 1.471 | 4.7% | 2.625 | 8.4% | 392 | 1.3% | -4.880 | -17.6% |
# FOOTNOTES AND SOURCES

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

---

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Feb-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | % of total deposits in pesos |
| Requirement | 11.6 | 11.6 | 11.8 |
| Integration | 11.8 | 11.9 | 12.0 |
| Position (2) | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.2 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits** | % |
| **used for requirement calculation** (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 68.2 | 70.0 | 69.0 |
| 30 to 59 days | 20.8 | 20.8 | 21.4 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.5 | 5.0 | 5.3 |
| 90 to 179 days | 4.4 | 3.1 | 3.4 |
| more than 180 days | 1.1 | 1.0 | 1.0 |
| **Foreign Currency** | % of total deposits in foreign currency |
| Requirement | 41.9 | 45.3 | 45.5 |
| Integration (includes resource application default) | 77.4 | 87.8 | 90.6 |
| Position (2) | 35.5 | 42.5 | 45.2 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits** | % |
| **used for requirement calculation** (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 45.6 | 47.0 | 45.5 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.6 | 22.3 | 22.7 |
| 60 to 89 days | 13.5 | 10.5 | 11.6 |
| 90 to 179 days | 15.1 | 15.6 | 15.7 |
| 180 to 365 days | 4.0 | 4.4 | 4.3 |
| more than 365 days | 0.2 | 0.2 | 0.2 |

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

---

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 16 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Feb-15 | Dec-14 | Apr-14 |

**Call in pesos (at 15 days)**
| Rate | 17.85 | 21.13 | 20.52 | 21.83 | 14.80 |
| Operated amount | 3,174 | 2,856 | 3,218 | 2,176 | 2,036 |

**Fixed Term**
**In pesos**
| 30-44 days | 20.40 | 19.87 | 19.84 | 19.97 | 21.67 |
| 60 days or more | 23.26 | 23.57 | 23.00 | 23.12 | 25.70 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 18.45 | 17.38 | 17.43 | 17.81 | 20.00 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 20.74 | 20.80 | 20.62 | 19.98 | 26.28 |

**In dollars**
| 30-44 days | 1.64 | 1.59 | 0.98 | 0.88 | 0.99 |
| 60 days or more | 2.50 | 2.48 | 1.52 | 1.67 | 1.62 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.22 | 1.19 | 0.81 | 0.85 | 0.98 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 2.17 | 2.15 | 1.60 | 0.99 | 1.30 |

---

# Active Interest Rates | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Feb-15 | Dec-14 | Apr-14 |

**Cauciones in pesos**
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 23.49 | 23.44 | 24.27 | 24.00 | 25.01 |
| Operated amount (total terms) | 567 | 522 | 477 | 377 | 288 |

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
| Overdrafts on current account | 29.10 | 30.09 | 30.50 | 30.87 | 32.85 |
| Demand promissory notes | 26.77 | 25.67 | 26.57 | 26.01 | 30.52 |
| Mortgages | 22.70 | 23.09 | 25.74 | 22.30 | 17.19 |
| Pledge loans | 26.06 | 26.54 | 27.25 | 26.36 | 27.50 |
| Personal loans | 37.65 | 37.58 | 37.58 | 37.69 | 46.11 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 40.48 | 40.92 | 42.76 | 39.39 |
| Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 20.97 | 23.89 | 24.26 | 24.31 | 24.62 |

---

# International Interest Rates | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Feb-15 | Dec-14 | Apr-14 |

**LIBOR**
| 1 month | 0.18 | 0.18 | 0.17 | 0.16 | 0.15 |
| 6 months | 0.40 | 0.40 | 0.38 | 0.34 | 0.32 |

**US Treasury Bond**
| 2 years | 0.53 | 0.64 | 0.60 | 0.61 | 0.40 |
| 10 years | 1.93 | 2.05 | 1.96 | 2.20 | 2.69 |

| FED Funds Rate | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 |
| SELIC (at 1 year) | 12.80 | 12.70 | 12.25 | 11.70 | 10.99 |

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

---

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 17 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Reference Interest Rates | Apr-15 | Mar-15 | Feb-15 | Dec-14 | Apr-14 |

**BCRA repo rates**
| Passive 1 day | 13.00 | 13.00 | 13.00 | 13.00 | 9.00 |
| Passive 7 days | 14.00 | 14.00 | 14.00 | 14.00 | 9.50 |
| Active 7 days | 17.00 | 17.00 | 17.00 | 17.00 | 11.50 |
Total REPO round rates
 1 day 14.96 17.01 15.64 16.33 10.29
 7 days 16.94 17.61 15.71 15.01 13.63

Amount traded in REPO round (daily average) 15,420 12,579 15,221 12,550 17,279

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months 26.16 26.24 26.50 26.84 28.25
 9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 29.85
 12 months n/o 29.29 28.94 29.29 29.66

NOBAC margin in pesos with floating coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.98

LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 2.88 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.45 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 3.75 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.10 4.00 4.00

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,821 2,350 3,550 3,518 2,168

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-15 Mar-15 Feb-15 Dec-14 Apr-14

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 8.87 8.78 8.68 8.55 8.00
 Retail 8.87 8.78 8.69 8.55 8.01

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 9.00 8.95 8.85 8.76 8.13
 ROFEX 1 month 9.01 8.95 8.83 8.73 8.12
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 2,543 2,911 1,986 2,413 2,134

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.92 2.79 3.08 3.24 3.59

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 9.59 9.49 9.86 10.54 11.05

 Capital Market Apr-15 Mar-15 Feb-15 Dec-14 Apr-14

MERVAL
 Index 11,789 10,442 9,270 8,563 6,543
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 253 265 164 174 110

Government Bonds (at par)
 BODEN 2015 (US$) 132.2 134.3 138.3 130.6 117.6
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 132.4 134.2 128.3 111.7 99.1
 BONAR 2017 (US$) 130.6 132.6 135.1 126.6 110.8
 DISCOUNT ($) 92.3 88.3 78.2 72.3 81.6

Country Risk (basis points)
 BODEN 2015 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 1,031 813 787 1,146 921
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 492 532 516 502 366

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 1810. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts greater than one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | April 2015 | BCRA | 19
