# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 6

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 8

5. Interest Rates | Page 9

Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 9

Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 10

Interbank Markets | Page 11

Passive Interest Rates | Page 11

Active Interest Rates | Page 12

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 12

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 14

Mutual Investment Funds | Page 14

Financial Trusts | Page 14

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 15

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 18

10. Glossary | Page 22

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analysis.monetary@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on January 11, 2016. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• Following the change of authorities on December 10, 2015, the Central Bank prioritized among its objectives that of achieving price stability in the Argentine economy. In that sense, it initiated a path of monetary and exchange rate normalization, implementing a series of measures to achieve the unification of the foreign exchange market, the normalization of its open market operations, and the recomposition of its balance sheet.

• The normalization of the foreign exchange market implied the establishment of a single exchange rate for all types of operations and the liberalization of current account flows (only some restrictions remained for capital transactions and external operations carried out prior to unification). The obligation to liquidate exports in the foreign exchange market was maintained, and the purchase of foreign currency for the formation of external assets was liberalized up to US$2 million monthly for individuals and legal entities. Additionally, with the objective of generating a position of greater strength to exercise managed floating policy in the foreign exchange market, the partial conversion of yuan corresponding to the currency swap agreed between the BCRA and the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was agreed upon.

• Following the exchange rate unification, the Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish the parity at which foreign currency transactions were operated in the country, remaining on the sidelines of market operations. In this context, international reserves began to experience a renewed upward trend; a change in the trend of private sector dollar deposits was also recorded.

• Other initiatives implemented were the elimination of limits governing active and passive interest rates and the modification of open market operations. Changes were implemented in the bidding processes for LEBAC in pesos and dollars, the variety of available instruments was expanded, and LEBAC in pesos adjustable by exchange rate were relaunched.

• These measures had a correlation in the evolution of monetary aggregates, although seasonal factors prevailed when considering monthly average balances. The seasonal increase in demand for transactional money in December meant that most of the monthly increase in private M3 was composed of the increase in means of payment, while time deposits showed more limited growth. Nevertheless, private sector time deposits in pesos, although they showed a declining trend until the foreign exchange market was unified, showed a trajectory of sustained growth from that point on.

• The change in trend of time deposits took place in a context in which passive interest rates increased compared to what was observed until the first half of December. This increase was driven by the Central Bank, which in the December 15 bidding increased LEBAC interest rates by between 4 percentage points for longer terms and 8.5 percentage points for shorter ones. In subsequent biddings, following the normalization of the foreign exchange market, part of these increases were reversed.

• As stated in the document that establishes the "Objectives and plans regarding the development of monetary, exchange rate, financial and credit policy for the year 2016," the Central Bank proposes to reduce the rate of expansion of the money supply significantly and quickly, given that the high emission rates of recent months are incompatible with the objectives set by this Institution for the years to come.

• The average monetary base recorded in December an year-on-year growth rate of 40.5%. Although part of the acceleration that occurred in December was due to a higher Minimum Cash integration than that observed in the
same month of 2014 (within the framework of the quarterly computation period for reserve requirements), even if said effect were excluded, it would have ended the year with significant acceleration. To reduce this dynamic, focusing on its priority objective, in the auctions carried out during the second half of December, the Central Bank absorbed nearly $44,500 million. M3 ended 2015 with year-on-year growth of 36.9%, which exceeded by 12.4 p.p. that recorded in the same month of 2014.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector ended the year with growth on the order of 39%, accumulating an increase close to 19 p.p. in the last 12 months. According to the objectives and plans regarding the development of credit policy for 2016, the BCRA will seek to give greater solidity to the credit system, the channel through which productive development will be enhanced, and will seek to expand the supply of mortgage loans. In that direction, with the objective of providing access to credit to SMEs at reasonable rates and for different terms, the "Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion" was established. In the first semester of 2016, the entities covered by this regulation must grant loans for investment projects until reaching a balance equivalent to 14% of their private sector deposits. At least 75% of the quota must be agreed to SMEs, at a maximum fixed interest rate of 22% n.a., with a minimum term of 36 months.
1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 3
 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates 1

 Monetary Base After the change of authorities, on December 10,
 %
50 (year-on-year variation) 2015, the Central Bank prioritized among its objectives
45 that of achieving price stability in the Argentine econ-
40 omy2. In that sense, it initiated a path of monetary
35 and exchange rate normalization, implementing a series
30 of measures to achieve the unification of the foreign
25 exchange market, the normalization of the open market
20 operations of the monetary authority and the recompo-
15 sition of the Central Bank's balance sheet.
10
 5 As stated in the document that establishes the
 0 "Objectives and plans regarding the development of
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 monetary, exchange rate, financial and credit policy
 Source: BCRA for the year 2016", the Central Bank proposes to reduce the
 expansion rate of the money supply significantly and
 Chart 2.2 rapidly, given that the high issuance rates of recent
 Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base thousands months are incompatible with the objectives set by
 millions of $ (January-December, on average) this Institution for the coming years.

 250

 200 2014
 2015 The monetary base recorded in December a year-on-
 150 year growth rate of 40.5%, one of the highest levels in
 100 recent years (see Chart 2.1). However, it should be
 50 noted that the acceleration of monetary base growth
 0 in December 2015 was driven by the increase in bank
 -50 reserves above what occurred in 2014. It should be
-100 recalled that between December and February a three-
-150 month period rules for the integration of Minimum
 Foreign Sector LEBAC and Public Circulation in Bank
 Exchange Purchases Public NOBAC Sector Reserves Cash requirement, which allows financial entities to
 Source: BCRA compensate for surpluses/deficits in the first weeks of
 the period with lower/higher current account bal-
 ances in the following weeks. Excluding said effect, the
 Chart 2.3 monetary base would have ended 2015 with an accel-

 Monetary Aggregates eration greater than 12 percentage points compared to
 % % the prior year. Regarding the factors of variation of the
 6 (variation of monthly averages) 60 monetary base throughout 2015, they reflected the
 5 50 increasing fiscal deficit and deterioration in external
 4 40 accounts. Thus, in the year ending, the Central Bank
 3 30 was a net seller of foreign currency and public sector
 2 20 operations bolstered its expansive effect, being the
 1 10 main factor of monetary base growth (Chart 2.2). As
 0 0 for the month of December in particular, and already
 Monthly variation of M3 focusing on its priority objective, during the second half
-1 Year-on-year variation M3 private (right axis) -10 of December the Central Bank absorbed almost $44,500
 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) million in auctions of its securities.
-2 -20
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15

Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. The monetary aggregates ended 2015 showing high
Source: BCRA year-on-year expansion rates and marked acceleration
 throughout the period. In particular, the broader mon-
2 See http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/Politicas/ObjetivosBCRA_2016.pdf etary aggregate in pesos (M3 3) presented in December

 4 a year-on-year variation of 36.9%, which exceeded by
 12.4 percentage points the level of the same month in
 Chart 2.4 2014 (see Chart 2.3). The factors that explained this
 growth were public sector operations (both financing
 obtained from the Central Bank and from financial enti-
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector non-financial institutions) and loans to the private sector.
 millions of $
235 (daily balance evolution)

 Less than $1 million Regarding specifically December, M3
225 More than $1 million
 presented a growth of 5.8%, with increases verified in all
215 its components but mainly in means of payment. This
 strong increase was driven by factors of a seasonal
205 character associated with high demand for transaction-
 al money (payment of half the annual complementary
195 salary, higher expenses by families during the holiday
 period and the beginning of the summer recess).
185

175 The total deposits in pesos presented in December an
 increase of 5.8%, registering increases in those of the
165
 public sector (9.3%) and in those of the private sector
 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 (4.8%). The growth of the latter concentrated in sight
 Source: BCRA deposits (8.9%), partly due to the aforementioned seasonal
 factors, which also generate a deceleration in the
 monthly growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the
 private sector (0.7%). Nevertheless, it should be noted
 that, beyond seasonal factors, the fixed-term place-
 ments of the private sector had a well-differentiated
 Chart 2.5 behavior before and after the exchange rate unifica-
 thousands of Foreign Currency Deposits from the Private Sector tion occurred. After showing a decrease in the first half
 millions of US$ of December, they presented strong growth during the
 (daily balance)
 15 second fortnight, in a context where passive interest
 rates increased following the increase in LEBAC inter-
 13 est rates with respect to the values in force until mid-
 31-Dec-15 December. This change in behavior was recorded both
 11 10.6 in placements of less than $1 million and in those of
 the wholesale segment (see Chart 2.4 and Securities
 9 issued by the Central Bank).

 7 For its part, the monthly average balance of deposits
 5 in foreign currency increased 3.5%, with reductions
 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 in placements from the public sector that were more
 Source: BCRA than offset by the increase in those from the private
 sector. The exchange rate unification and the higher
 returns observed encouraged during the second fort-
 night of the month strong growth in foreign currency
 deposits from the private sector. Thus, the balance of
 these placements reached US$10,600 million, the high-
 est level since mid-2012 (see Chart 2.5).

3 Includes cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and deposits from non-financial private and public sectors
in pesos.

 5
 Chart 4.1 Finally, the broader monetary aggregate, M3* 4,
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector presented monthly growth of 6.9%, reaching
 % % an year-on-year variation of 38.6%.
 6 Monthly variation 60 

 5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 4,850
 4.6 4.3
 4.1
 4 40
 3.4 3.2 3. Loans 15
 3.0
 3 2.5 30

 2 20 Throughout 2015, loans in pesos to the private sector
 accelerated their pace of year-on-year expansion, in
 1 0.6 10 part, favored by a low comparison base.

 0 0 Thus, they ended the year with growth on the order of
 39%, accumulating an increase close to 19 p.p. in the
 -1 -10 last 12 months (see Chart 4.1). In particular, in De-
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 cember they exhibited growth of 4.8% ($34,820
 Source: BCRA million), which was the highest of the year and mark-
 edly higher than observed in December 2014. The
 month's increase was driven mainly by those granted
 Chart 4.3 through documents and financing with credit cards (see
 Chart 4.2).
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
14 70
 Avg. monthly var. The loans destined mainly to finance commercial acti-
 12 60
 Y-o-y var. (right axis) vities increased their growth rate month-on-month, in
 10 50
 response to the greater liquidity needs of companies

 8 40 typical of year-end. This was reflected in the greater

 6 30 dynamism shown by short-term financings. In effect,

 4 20 advances showed an increase of 5.2% ($4,650 million).

 2 10 Consequently, their year-on-year variation continued to

 0 0 increase and was placed above 40% (see Graph 4.2).

 -2 -10 For its part, financings instrumented through docu-

 -4 -20 ments presented in the month an increase of 6.2%
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15
 Source: BCRA ($11,290 million) and in the last twelve months accumulat-
 ed a growth of 43.7% (see Graph 4.3).

 Distinguishing the contribution to monthly growth by
 type of document, it is verified that discounted doc-
 Graph 4.4
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector uments made a greater contribution than documents
 9 (contribution to monthly growth) on sole signature (3 p.p. and 2.4 p.p., respectively),

 8 unlike what had been happening in previous months

 7 Purchased (see Graph 4.4).

 Discounted
 6 Sole signature 0.8

 5 Among the lines oriented essentially toward household

 4 3.0 consumption, credit card financings stood out, driven

 3 by the greater spending typical of year-end. The growth

 2 registered in the month was 6.9% ($10,220 million),
 2.4
 1 higher than that of December 2014. Thus, the year-on-
 0 year variation continued to be placed at historically el-
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec evated levels, reaching 57.3% (see Graph 4.5). Bank

 December 2015 promotions during the days prior to Christmas and the
 Source: BCRA
 official "NOW 12" program would also have contributed
 to the dynamism of the line, which provides the possi-
 4 Includes M3 and deposits from public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
 5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, less amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 6 bility of obtaining financing in 12 installments without

 Graph 4.5 interest for the purchase of goods and services. On the
 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector % other hand, personal loans reduced their monthly

 9 90 growth rate by registering an increase of 2.5% ($3,850
 8 Avg. monthly var. 80 million), while the year-on-year variation remained
 7 Y-o-y var. (right axis) 70
 6 60 around 37%. It is worth noting that this type of loans
 5 50 usually shows a deceleration in December, in response
 4 40 to the greater disposable income generated by the col-
 3 30 lection of the mid-year bonus and other gratuities.

 2 20
 1 10

 0 0 With respect to loans with real guarantees, credits

 -1 -10 with chattel mortgage guarantee registered an increase
 -2 -20
 of 2.1% ($820 million), which was lower than that of
 -3 -30
 the three previous months, although it was above the
 -4 -40
 growth observed in the same period of 2014. Thus, they
 -5 -50
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 ended 2015 with a growth of 22.3%. For its part,
 Source: BCRA
 mortgage loans continued showing scant dynamism.
 In the last month they registered a growth of 3%
 ($1,600 million), with a year-on-year variation on the
 Graph 4.6 order of 14%. Likewise, mortgage loans...
 Loans to the Private Sector
% of GDP present less than 1% in terms of GDP.
 15 Foreign Currency Loans
 Peso Loans Dec-15
 13.1 Finally, foreign currency loans to the private sector
 Peso Loans and Foreign Currency Loans
 12 began to reverse the downward trend
 that they had been showing since mid-August. Thus,

 9 since the implementation of measures aimed at
 normalizing the functioning of the foreign exchange market,

 6 they registered an increase of US$226 million, which was
 explained mostly by the lines associated with foreign
 trade.

 3 Thus, the total of loans in pesos and in foreign curren-
 0 cy ended the year with a participation of around
 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 13% with respect to GDP (see Graph 4.6). The low level of
 financial depth in the economy shows the significant
 potential for development of the credit system.

 In accordance with the objectives and plans regarding
 the development of credit policy for 2016, the BCRA will
 Graph 4.2 seek to give greater solidity to the credit system, a chan-
 % Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % nel through which productive development will be po-
 14 (monthly average var.) 70 tential, and it will seek to expand the supply of mort-
 12 Monthly avg. var. 60 gage credit at rates and terms more accessible for the
 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) entire population. In this sense, it will take concrete
 10 50 measures with the objective of channeling savings
 8 40 toward a greater and more accessible supply of pro-
 6 30 ductive and mortgage credit.
 4 20

 2 10 In that direction, the BCRA decided to renew the Pro-
 0 0 ductive Investment Credit Line, promoting financial
 -2 -10 inclusion. In this way, it seeks to provide access to
 -4 -20 credit to MSMEs at reasonable rates and for different
 -6 -30 terms. Thus, through Communication "A" 5874, the
 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 "Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion"
 Source: BCRA was established. In the first semester of 2016, the enti-
 ties covered by this regulation must grant loans for in-
 Graph 4.1 vestment projects – and other financing included – until
 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities reaching a balance equivalent to 14% of their private
 deposits sector deposits.
 45 BCRA Cash Net Repurchase Agreements LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity
 39.2 40.2 41.0 40.7 39.7 39.7 39.5
 40 38.9 38.6 39.5 39.2 38.8 At least 75% of the quota must be agreed to MSMEs,
 36.6 37.4 37.3 37.8 38.1 36.9 36.8 36.7
 35.7 at a maximum fixed interest rate of 22% p.a., with a
 35 32.5 33.7 minimum term of 36 months.
 31.0 31.0
 30
 19.4 17.0
 25 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities
 20 1.2
 1.4 4.3
 15 3.8 Similarly to the previous month, in a context of signifi-
 10 cant growth in loans and deposits, the liquidity ratio of
 financial entities in the segment in local currency (sum
 12.1 14.1 4.3 of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the
 5 Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with that entity
 0 and the holding of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in
 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 Jun-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15 Jun-15 Aug-15 Oct-15 Dec-15 pesos) remained relatively stable at 36.7% (see Graph
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value. 4.1). However, there was a change in the composition of
 Source: BCRA the liquidity of financial entities, with a decline in the
 holding of LEBAC and repurchase agreements, compen-
 sated by an increase in the current account balance of
 Graph 4.2 entities at the BCRA and the seasonal increase in cash
 Minimum Cash Position in Pesos in banks.
 % of
 deposits
 4.4 With respect to this composition change, it should be
 3.8 considered that, as already noted, between December
 3.2 and February the quarterly computation of reserve
 2.6 2.4 requirements is permitted. Within this framework, finan-
 2.0 cial entities were able to

 1.4
 0.8

 0.2

 -0.4

 -1.0

 -1.6 Surplus
Accumulated position in accumulating surpluses/deficits during December and
 -2.2 Daily position
 -2.8 then offsetting them with deficits/surpluses in January and/or

 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 February. In particular, in December 2015 the surplus
Source: BCRA observed was higher than that of the same month in pre-
 vious years, which could have been associated with a more conservative attitude in light of the changes in authorities
 that took place during this period. It is estimated that all financial entities ended December
 with a surplus equivalent to 2.4% of total deposits
 in pesos (see Chart 4.2).

 Chart 5.1
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
 TNA % (by auction) Meanwhile, foreign currency liquidity grew again for a
 40 fifth consecutive month during December, reaching
 38 38.0 37.5 37.8 the highest value since the maximum recorded in
 37.1 37.0
 34 33.0 January 2014. In effect, liquidity averaged the equiva-
 32.0
 32 31.0 31.3 lent of 120.8% of total deposits in dollars, 3.9
 30.5 29.9 30.5
 30 30.0 p.p. above November, driven by the change in the
 29.8 29.2
 29.0 29.4 trend of deposits in dollars from the private sector
 28 (see Monetary Aggregates Section)

 26 29-Dec-15
 15-Dec-15 It should be noted that as of January 2016, a
 24 Term
 24-Nov-15 decrease in reserve requirement coefficients in foreign
 22 currency will take effect, whose levels will return to
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 those in effect in January 2014 (see Communication
 "A" 5873).

 Chart 5.2 5. Interest Rates 6

 billions of pesos Balance of Central Bank Securities in Pesos
 (nominal value) Securities Issued by the Central Bank7
 360

 Daily balance
 345
 340 Average One of the areas of action in the process of monetary
 and exchange rate normalization was the modification
 320 of the Central Bank's open market operations.

 300

 280 In the days prior to the exchange rate unification, increases in interest rates were consolidated, which came to
 reflect the conditions of the money market. The in-
 260
 crease in the cut-off interest rates in the auctions of
 Central Bank securities was accompanied by the
 240
 offering of a greater variety of terms, which included
 securities maturing from 35 days onward, while the
 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15universe of holders was expanded to include once again
 Source: BCRA the possibility that non-residents could subscribe to
 LEBAC. Changes were also made to the auction
 mechanisms, eliminating the segment with predetermined
 Chart 5.3 interest rates. The cut-off rates on December 15 were
 located at 38%, 37.1%, 37.5%, 37% and 35% for terms
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Secondary Market of 35, 56, 98, 147 and 252 days, so the yield curve
 T.N.A % shifted upward and remained inverted (see Chart 5.1).
 40 (Operations up to 160 days; monthly average data)

 38 37% Dec-15 During the period following the exchange rate unification,
 36 Nov-15 the Central Bank began to make its monetary policy
 34 decisions focusing on its objective of reducing the
 32 inflation rate. Because the Central Bank considers that
 30 the rate of expansion of the monetary base in recent
 28 months is greater than that compatible with a
 26 downward trend in inflation, in the last two auctions of
 24 December, and as noted above, it absorbed nearly
 22 $44,500 million through the placement of securities.
 Days Although financial entities were the main demanders
 20 of LEBAC, in relative terms the increase in holdings by
 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 companies stood out.
Source: BCRA

Chart 5.4
billions of dollars Balance of Central Bank Securities in Dollars companies and individuals.
of US$ (nominal value)
3.0
Consistent with lower inflation expectations following

2.5 2.4 foreign exchange normalization, the Central Bank con-

1.9 firmed reductions of between 5 p.p and 7 p.p in interest
2.0
rates compared to the levels reached in the auction

1.6
1.5 of December 15. In this way, at the end of December
the interest rates of LEBAC were located at 33% for the
1.0 shortest term (35 days) and 29.2% in the security

0.7
0.5 awarded with greater maturity, at 256 days term
(see Graph 5.1).

0.0
Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15
Source: BCRA In the secondary market, the interest rate curve of
LEBAC showed increases in December, fundamentally

6 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
7 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

9
Graph 5.5 in the securities between 30 and 60 days term, in line
with the behavior recorded in the primary market
millions of Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA
$ millions (see Graph 5.3). The average amount traded of LEBAC
80 in the secondary market was located at approximately

70 Daily balance $ 2,800 million daily.

60 Monthly average
For its part, during December the LEBAC in pesos
50 adjustable by the reference exchange rate were also
relaunched, seeking in this way to diversify the supply
40 of investment instruments in pesos 8. In December
$1,440 million was collected through this means.
30

20 With respect to the foreign currency segment, modifications
were announced in the procedure for auctioning LEBAC
10 in dollars: predetermined interest rates were eliminated,
their relationship with the availability of dollar deposits,
0 and the universe of potential participants was expanded.
Dec-14 Feb-15 Apr-15 Jun-15 Aug-15 Oct-15 Dec-15 Added to this was the possibility of subscribing NOBAC
Source: BCRA in dollars for up to 3 years 9, although they have not yet
been auctioned. In this way, the balance of LEBAC
grew US$600 million and was located at the end of
Graph 5.6 Interfinancial Markets December at US$2,417 million (see Graph 5.4).
TNA %
40 (daily data) Central Bank Repo Operations 1

Repo interest rate excluding operations with BCRA
35 Call interest rate at 1 day
Passive Repo interest rate at 1 business day Following the foreign exchange normalization and conse-

30 quent decrease in LEBAC interest rates compared to the
25 values reached in mid-December, the Central Bank
decreased the interest rates of its passive repo operations.
20 In this way, the interest rates of passive repos for the
terms of 1 and 7 days moved to 18% and 20%, respectively.
15

10 Meanwhile, the interest rates of active repos, which are
located at 26% and 27% for the aforementioned terms,
5 remained unchanged.

30-Jun-15 30-Jul-15 30-Aug-15 30-Sep-15 30-Oct-15 30-Nov-15 30-Dec-15 The balance of passive repos in all modalities in which
the Central Bank participates increased again ($4,000
Graph 5.7 million in December), located at $33,000 million
%; p.p. Short-Term Passive Interest Rates (see Graph 5.5).
(daily data)
40
Interfinancial Markets 1

Deposits up to $ 100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks
35 BADLAR private banks

LEBAC 35 days In December, the interest rates of the interfinancial

30 markets presented greater volatility, with increases during
the first fortnight and decreases in the second part of
25 the month. Mid-month they reached a maximum, following
20 the initial increase in LEBAC interest rates. Subsequently,
they recorded a downward trend
15
01-Oct 16-Oct 31-Oct 15-Nov 30-Nov 15-Dec 30-Dec declining, more marked than that observed in the primary LEBAC market, in a context of abundant liquidity (in this period the expansive effect associated with the open position of dollar futures contracts was recorded). Ultimately, they ended the month at values similar to those observed during the second half of November. (see Graph 5.6).

The average daily amount traded in the call and repo markets increased by almost $2,000 million, totaling around $9,600 million.

Passive Interest Rates¹

In December, and within the framework of the set of measures aimed at normalizing the functioning of the foreign exchange and monetary market, the Central Bank eliminated the minimums that were in effect for passive interest rates. Thus, as of December 17, operations are agreed at interest rates freely agreed upon between financial entities and their clients.

Graph 5.9
Interest Rates for Fixed-Term Deposits in Dollars
% (deposits of up to US$100 thousand of the private sector)

In this context, passive interest rates followed a trajectory similar to that of LEBAC interest rates, with an increase in the third week of the month that was then gradually reversed: almost completely in the case of the retail segment and partially for deposits greater than $1 million. Thus, the increases in monthly average values were higher than those observed when comparing levels at the end of November and December, both for the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and for the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, of 30-35 days maturity – of private banks (see Graph 5.7).

At the end of the year, the interest rate for fixed-term deposits up to $100 thousand stood at 26.6%, while the BADLAR of private banks reached 27.3%. In this way, the BADLAR of private banks once again showed a positive spread with respect to the interest rates paid by retail deposits, as was the case in the period prior to the imposition of minimum rates (see Graph 5.8).

In the foreign currency segment, increases in interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits were also observed. The rate for placements of up to $100 thousand stood at the end of December at 2.6% for deposits of 30 to 44 days and at 3.4% for those of 60 days and more, 0.7 p.p. and 1 p.p. above the value observed at the end of November (see Graph 5.9).

Active Interest Rates¹

Active interest rates also exhibited increases in December. Those that were subject to regulation, basically those corresponding to personal and chattel mortgage loans, began to be agreed freely from mid-month¹¹. The monthly average of the rate...

---

**Source References:**
- Source: BCRA
- Communication A 5854
- Communication A 5855
# Interest Rates on Commercial Loans
(daily data)

| TNA; % | TNA; % |
|--------|--------|
| 40 | 40 |
| Doc. a Sola Firma | Advances on current account |
| 38 | 38 |
| Doc. Discounted | Advances on current account for more than $10 M - 1 to 7 days |
| 36 | 36 |
| 34 | 34 |
| 32 | 32 |
| 30 | 30 |
| 28 | 28 |
| 26 | 26 |
| 24 | 24 |
| 22 | 22 |
| 20 | 20 |
| 01-Oct | 31-Oct | 30-Nov | 30-Dec | 01-Oct | 31-Oct | 30-Nov | 30-Dec |

Source: BCRA

The interest rate on personal loans stood at 39% and the corresponding rate on pledged loans at 26%, reflecting, respectively, an increase of 2.1 p.p. and 0.8 p.p. with respect to the previous month. However, the interest rates of both lines showed dissimilar trajectories during the course of December. While the rate on personal loans maintained a growing evolution following the elimination of maximum limits; the monthly average increase in the corresponding rate on pledged loans was due to it presenting greater volatility, and ended the year at a level even lower than that recorded at the end of November. (see Chart 5.10).

Among the interest rates on commercial lines, those applied on advances evidenced an evolution similar to that observed in interfinancial markets, with increases in the first fortnight, which were partially reversed during the last weeks of the month. In contrast, the interest rates associated with financing granted through documents maintained an increasing trend during almost the entire month, influenced by the greater liquidity needs typical of the period and the increase in LEBAC interest rates (see Chart 5.11).

Finally, the average interest rate on mortgage loans was 22.9%, increasing 0.7 p.p. with respect to November.

---

# Chart 6.1
## International Reserves of the BCRA
(thousands of millions of US$)

60
50
40
30
28
27 17-Dec-15 6. International Reserves and
20 Unified Exchange Market
26
10 25
24
01-Nov 16-Nov 01-Dec 16-Dec 31-Dec
0
Jan-01 Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09 Jan-11 Jan-13 Jan-15

Source: BCRA

The normalization and unification of the exchange market involved the establishment of a single exchange rate for all classes of operations, and the liberalization of the flow of current operations (only some restrictions remained for capital transactions and external operations carried out prior to unification).12 The obligation to settle exports in the exchange market was maintained and the purchase of foreign currency for the formation of external assets was liberalized

10 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses or other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.
11 Communication "A" 5853.
12 Communication A 5850.

---

# Chart 7.1
## Patrimony of Investment Mutual Funds in Pesos
(thousands of millions of $ - monthly variation of stock at end of month)

| | thousands of millions of $ | thousands of millions of $ |
|---|---|---|
| 20 | 250 | |
| Money Market | | |
| 15 | | Fixed Income |
| | | Mixed Income |
| | 200 | Variable Income |
| 10 | | Stock evolution (right axis) |
| 5 | 150 | |
| 0 | 100 | |
| -5 | 50 | |
| -10 | 0 | |
| Dec-11 | Dec-12 | Dec-13 | Dec-14 | Dec-15 |

Source: BCRA based on CAFCI

up to US$2 million monthly for individuals and legal entities. Likewise, a schedule was established to regularize pending import payments already shipped and, as an alternative, the Treasury auctioned a fixed-income bond that will pay principal starting in May of next year.13

Complementarily, with the objective of generating a stronger position to exercise managed floating policy in the exchange market, the partial conversion of the yuan corresponding to the currency swap agreed between the BCRA and the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China was agreed upon. Thus, on December 22, US$3,086 million entered an account in US dollars in the name of the BCRA, equivalent to 20,000 million yuan.14
Investment Funds

Following the sharp increase recorded in the two previous months, in December the assets of Investment Funds (FCI), denominated in pesos and in foreign currency, decreased by $5,670 million (2.7%), ending the month at $212,320 million.

The decline was fundamentally explained by the behavior recorded in Fixed Income fund assets that fell by $9,300 million (7.9%). The decrease was explained by fixed income funds with share redemption at 24 hours, used to a greater extent by legal entities for their liquidity management, and is compatible with the greater seasonal demand for liquid resources that companies face at the end of each year. For their part, Money Market funds verified growth of $1,390 million in the month (2.8%). Mixed Income funds verified an increase of $2,880 million (7.4%), and variable income funds registered declines of $640 (8.9%; see Graph 7.1).

Regarding estimated returns, during December the return of funds stood out again
Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

mixed-income funds that yielded a monthly return of around 6.5%. Likewise, fixed-income funds registered a gain of 5% and Money Market funds, which are those with greater liquidity, registered a positive return of 1.2%. Finally, although they constituted the segment with the highest return throughout 2015, with an accumulated gain of 45%, variable-income funds lost 7.4% in December (see Chart 7.2).

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the patrimony of the FCIs was reduced by US$100 million until reaching US$323 million. The decline was explained in large measure by the behavior registered in fixed-income funds.

**Financial Trusts¹⁵**

In December, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled $2,520 million, reflecting a slight decrease compared to November (9%, excluding the Pro.Cre.Ar placement of that month). This amount was achieved through a total of 20 operations, a number similar to that of the previous month, these being the months with the highest number of issuances of the year (see Chart 7.3).

Thus, in 2015, the placements of FF accumulated around $30,500 million, of which somewhat more than $5,000 million corresponded to public sector issuances. If these are excluded, the volume traded in the year ($25,340 million) turns out to be slightly higher than that of the same period in 2014 (+12%; see Chart 7.4).

¹⁵ Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Of the amount issued in the month, the main originators were retail commerce and financial entities, with around $830 million each. In the latter case, the volume traded in December represented almost double what was issued the previous month. In addition to loans associated with consumption, among the securitizations of financial entities leasing contracts were found. Meanwhile, retail commerce registered a decrease of 26% compared to November. However, it should be noted that throughout the year, retail commerce has had a preponderant role as fiduciaries. For their part, "Mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers" placed somewhat more than $580 million in the month, registering a decline of almost 50% compared to the elevated amount of November. The remainder corresponded to placements of companies belonging to the gas industry and the textile sector.

The cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior securities – in pesos and with duration less than 14 months – with variable return was positioned at 34.2%, exhibiting an increase of 3.7 p.p., accompanying the behavior of the BADLAR of private banks.

Finally, it should be noted that no fixed-rate operations were registered.

## 8. Principal Policy Measures of Other Central Banks

Finally, in December, the Federal Reserve of the U.S. (FED) increased its reference interest rate. Other central banks that also took monetary policy measures in December were those of the Eurozone, Colombia, Chile, Mexico and Peru.

On December 16, the Open Market Committee
350 (FOMC) of the FED decided to increase the objective of its

300 reference interest rate (first increase since

250 June 2006), the federal funds interest rate

200 (FFR) by 0.25 p.p., to the new range 0.25-0.5% (see Chart 8.1). In order for the decision to
 
150 increase the FFR objective to be implemented, the Board

100 of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board)

50 decided to increase the interest rate paid on

0 required and excess reserves to 0.5%. Along with

Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov this, the Board began to remunerate at an interest rate of 0.25% for overnight reverse repurchase agreements at 1 business day (ON RRPs by its English acronym). Furthermore, except for some exceptions and in an extraordinary and temporary manner, the Board eliminated all limits on the amount that financial entities can deposit in ON RRPs. This

15 Chart 8.4 decision was made in a context where most

% Interest Rates and Inflation Objective of the United States indicators show sustained levels of

7 Personal Consumption Expenditures activity (see Chart 8.2), continuous improvements in the

6 Inflation Objective* labor market (see Chart 8.3), along with signals

5 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures of slight increases in core inflation, without observing

Dallas FED Trimmed Mean significant second-round effects

4 CPI related to the worldwide fall in oil prices

3 CPI Core (see Chart 8.4). Following the FOMC meeting, new

2 projections regarding the FFR were released, from

1 which it emerges that the FED's objective would be to

0 bring said rate to 1.375% at the end of 2016, and to 2.375% in

-1 2017 (see Chart 8.5).

-2

Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, On the other hand, on December 3rd, the Governing Council
an objective was set of an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. of the European Central Bank decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, which it applies on the Main Refinancing Operations, at the historic minimum of 0.05%. However, it modified asymmetrically the interest rate corridor by reducing the interest rate of the deposit facility by 0.1 p.p. to -0.3%, while Chart 8.5 it kept unchanged the interest rate of the

% Projections and Median Objective of the Federal Funds Rate lending facility at 0.3%. Additionally, the extension

5.00 Projection of each FOMC member until March 2017 of the Bank's quantitative expansion program

4.50 Median of the latest meeting (QE) was announced. This

4.00 Median of the September 17th meeting decision was made in a context in which inflation

3.50 Median of the June 17th meeting remains at reduced levels (see Chart 8.6).

3.00

2.50 In the region, four central banks increased their

2.00 interest rates by 0.25 p.p. and made reference to

1.50 the rate increase implemented by the FED. The Bank of the

1.00 Republic of Colombia (BRC) brought its interest rate

0.50

0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 Long Term
Source: BCRA based on federalreserve.gov
Note: the diamonds with white background correspond to projection values made in previous meetings that did not exist in December 2015. of monetary policy to 5.75%, taking into account the increase in the exchange rate above expectations (reaching historical highs), the increase in prices and economic activity.
Chart 8.6 For its part, the Central Bank of Chile (BCCh) set its reference interest rate at 3.5%. In its press release it highlighted the framework of deterioration of
INTEREST RATE AND INFLATION RATE AND TARGET emerging economies, affected by the fall in commodity
% prices and global financial conditions. The Bank of
7 EUROZONE Mexico took the objective regarding the one-day
6 Monetary Policy Rate interbank interest rate to 3.25%. Finally, the Central
Inflation Rate Bank of Peru raised the target for the interbank market
5 Inflation Target interest rate to 3.75%, in a context in which it
4 Rate Corridor foresees a convergence of inflation to its target
(2% ± 1 p.p.) towards 2016 (despite the fact that
3 expectations are above it), in a framework of gradual
2 recovery of local economic activity.
1

0

-1
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16

The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, it pursues price stability which is defined by an inflation rate < 2% y.o.y.

 16

## 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Dec-15 | Nov-15 | Dec-14 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
| Monetary base | 622,263 | 559,688 | 442,861 | 11.2% | 40.5% |
| Monetary circulation | 458,844 | 427,554 | 338,425 | 7.3% | 35.6% |
| Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public | 408,830 | 386,309 | 299,390 | 5.8% | 36.6% |
| Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 50,014 | 41,244 | 39,034 | 21.3% | 28.1% |
| Cancellation Checks | 0.4 | 1.1 | 0.0 | -65.3% | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 163,418 | 132,134 | 104,436 | 23.7% | 56.5% |
| Stock of Repos | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 33,067 | 29,086 | 15,333 | 13.7% | 115.7% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | | |
| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 328,128 | 341,986 | 265,505 | -4.1% | 23.6% |
| In banks | 239,338 | 249,650 | 200,644 | -4.1% | 19.3% |
| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos) | | | | | |
| In pesos | 305,323 | 323,540 | 259,788 | -5.6% | 17.5% |
| In dollars | 1,754 | 1,904 | 668 | -7.9% | 162.3% |
| NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | - |
| BCRA international reserves (5) | 24,816 | 26,193 | 30,233 | -5.3% | -17.9% |
| Private and public sector deposits in pesos (1) | 1,151,557 | 1,088,089 | 840,058 | 5.8% | 37.1% |
| Current account (2) | 374,901 | 324,005 | 275,630 | 15.7% | 36.0% |
| Savings account | 244,714 | 222,504 | 175,719 | 10.0% | 39.3% |
| Fixed term non-adjustable by CER | 487,949 | 500,744 | 356,281 | -2.6% | 37.0% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER | 12 | 10 | 8 | 20.0% | 56.0% |
| Other deposits (3) | 43,980 | 40,825 | 32,420 | 7.7% | 35.7% |
| Private sector deposits | 887,517 | 846,480 | 624,701 | 4.8% | 42.1% |
| Public sector deposits | 264,040 | 241,609 | 215,357 | 9.3% | 22.6% |
| Private and public sector deposits in dollars (1) | 10,579 | 10,226 | 8,788 | 3.5% | 20.4% |
| Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) | 821,484 | 783,439 | 590,814 | 4.9% | 39.0% |
| Loans to private sector | 763,780 | 729,022 | 549,787 | 4.8% | 38.9% |
| Advances | 93,784 | 89,130 | 66,782 | 5.2% | 40.4% |
| Documents | 192,462 | 181,170 | 133,922 | 6.2% | 43.7% |
| Mortgage loans | 54,270 | 52,670 | 47,502 | 3.0% | 14.2% |
| Pawn loans | 39,995 | 39,173 | 32,700 | 2.1% | 22.3% |
| Personal loans | 160,798 | 157,013 | 117,247 | 2.4% | 37.1% |
| Credit cards | 174,569 | 163,352 | 110,982 | 6.9% | 57.3% |
| Others | 47,902 | 46,514 | 40,651 | 3.0% | 17.8% |
| Loans to public sector | 57,704 | 54,418 | 41,027 | 6.0% | 40.6% |
| Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) | 2,933 | 3,371 | 3,331 | -13.0% | -11.9% |
| Total monetary aggregates (1) | | | | | |
| M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 783,732 | 710,315 | 575,021 | 10.3% | 36.3% |
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 1,028,446 932,819 750,740 10.3% 37.0%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1,560,387 1,474,399 1,139,449 5.8% 36.9%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,686,714 1,577,793 1,217,403 6.9% 38.6%

Private Monetary Aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts 622,284 586,497 459,757 6.1% 35.4%
in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 849,374 790,759 621,075 7.4% 36.8%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1,296,347 1,232,790 924,092 5.2% 40.3%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,408,172 1,323,947 988,611 6.4% 42.4%

17
Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Cumulative 2015 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 62,574 11.2% 88,910 16.7% 179,402 39.5% 179,402 40.5%
Financial Sector -3,772 -0.7% -15,652 -2.9% -17,309 -3.8% -17,309 -3.9%
Public Sector 49,844 8.9% 82,277 15.4% 199,365 43.9% 199,365 45.0%
Private External Sector -18,709 -3.3% -63,297 -11.9% -65,366 -14.4% -65,366 -14.8%
BCRA Securities 22,816 4.1% 49,978 9.4% 27,635 6.1% 27,635 6.2%
Others 12,396 2.2% 35,603 6.7% 35,077 7.7% 35,077 7.9%

BCRA International Reserves -1,378 -5.3% -8,608 -25.8% -5,417 -17.3% -5,417 -17.9%
Foreign Exchange Market Intervention -1,979 -7.6% -6,674 -20.0% -6,779 -21.7% -6,779 -22.4%
Payment to International Organizations -113 -0.4% -571 -1.7% -1,943 -6.2% -1,943 -6.4%
Other Public Sector Operations 287 1.1% 3,068 9.2% 6,995 22.4% 6,995 23.1%
Minimum Cash 661 2.5% 2,114 6.3% 1,705 5.5% 1,705 5.6%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -233 -0.9% -6,545 -19.6% -5,395 -17.3% -5,395 -17.8%

1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15
(1)

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 11.7 11.4 11.3
Integration 14.1 11.7 11.5
Position (2) 2.4 0.3 0.3

Residual Maturity Structure of Fixed-Term Deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 67.6 64.1 65.8
30 to 59 days 21.2 23.4 21.2
60 to 89 days 6.2 7.0 7.1
90 to 179 days 4.1 4.4 4.7
More than 180 days 0.9 1.0 1.1

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 43.9 41.1 40.5
Integration (includes default in resource application) 86.1 85.1 78.7
Position (2) 42.2 44.1 38.1

Residual Maturity Structure of Fixed-Term Deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 51.9 49.4 51.4
30 to 59 days 21.4 21.6 20.0
60 to 89 days 10.9 12.3 11.8
90 to 179 days 11.5 12.0 11.7
180 to 365 days 4.2 4.6 5.1
More than 365 days 0.0 0.1 0.0

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.
(2) Position = Requirement - Integration
(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

18
Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
Rate 25.88 21.75 25.12 21.83
Amount Operated 2,797 2,258 3,573 2,176
**Fixed Term Deposits**

**In pesos**
- 30-44 days: 26.50 23.22 21.42 19.97
- 60 days or more: 28.47 26.62 24.05 23.12
- BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 21.54 20.39 19.06 17.81
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 27.54 23.39 21.56 19.98

**In dollars**
- 30-44 days: 2.10 1.76 1.77 0.88
- 60 days or more: 3.21 2.42 2.49 1.67
- BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 1.15 1.46 1.51 0.85
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days): 2.49 2.15 2.18 1.02

**Active Interest Rates** Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

**Repo Operations in pesos**
- Gross interest rate at 30 days: 27.96 25.91 23.79 24.00
- Amount traded (total terms): 816 757 688 377

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
- Current account advances: 34.51 31.63 32.11 30.86
- Single signature documents: 30.62 27.60 26.42 26.15
- Mortgages: 22.91 22.25 21.65 22.30
- Secured loans: 25.99 25.19 23.52 26.35
- Personal loans: 38.98 36.91 36.97 37.70
- Credit cards: s/d 41.09 40.41 42.74

- Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million: 30.33 25.61 27.87 24.31

**International Interest Rates** Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

**LIBOR**
- 1 month: 0.36 0.21 0.19 0.16
- 6 months: 0.77 0.61 0.53 0.34

**US Treasury Bond**
- 2 years: 0.97 0.87 0.63 0.61
- 10 years: 2.24 2.26 2.06 2.20

**FED Funds Rate:** 0.39 0.25 0.25 0.25

**SELIC (at 1 year):** 14.25 14.25 14.25 11.70

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

19
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

**Reference Interest Rates** Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

**BCRA repo rates**
- Liabilities 1 day: 20.81 21.00 18.48 13.00
- Liabilities 7 days: 22.81 23.00 20.48 14.00
- Assets 7 days: 27.00 27.00 24.48 17.00

**Total REPO trading floor repo rates**
- 1 day: 22.65 21.60 21.67 16.33
- 7 days: 22.78 23.08 24.70 15.01

**Amount traded in REPO trading floor repos (daily average):** 22,708 21,642 16,418 12,550

**LEBAC rates in pesos (1)**
- 1 month: 35.67 n/o n/o n/o
- 2 months: 34.73 n/o n/o n/o
- 3 months: 32.31 29.04 26.71 26.84
- 9 months: n/o n/o n/o 29.08
- 12 months: n/o n/o n/o 29.29

**NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)**
- 200 days BADLAR Private Banks: n/o n/o n/o n/o

**LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)**
- 1 month: 3.22 3.25 3.25 2.50
- 3 months: 3.69 3.90 3.90 3.00
- 6 months: 3.75 4.00 4.00 3.50
- 12 months: 3.96 4.20 4.20 4.00

**Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average):** 2,813 2,996 2,902 3,518

**Foreign Exchange Market** Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

**Spot Dollar**
- Wholesale: 11.39 9.63 9.48 8.55
- Retail: 11.51 9.64 9.51 8.55

**Forward Dollar**
- NDF 1 month: 13.48 11.52 10.05 8.76
- ROFEX 1 month: 11.32 9.81 9.63 8.73
- Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos): 2,865 2,106 6,116 2,413

**Real (Pesos x Real):** 2.93 2.55 2.44 3.24

**Euro (Pesos x Euro):** 12.43 10.33 10.64 10.54

**Capital Markets** Dec-15 Nov-15 Oct-15 Dec-14

**MERVAL**
- Index: 12,235 13,238 11,154 8,563
- Amount traded (millions of pesos): 196 347 273 174

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law): 140.5 161.7 146.0 111.7
- BONAR X (US$): 130.5 146.7 142.8 126.6
- DISCOUNT ($): 120.6 111.1 90.0 72.3

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- BONAR X spread vs. US Treasury Bond: 639 747 794 975
- EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina): 580 543 563 502

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
# 10. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: Year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBACs: Central Bank Bills.

LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.

NOBACs: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

RVD: Debt Representative Value.
