# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repo Operations | Page 7

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 10

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 10

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Regulatory Changes and Recent Measures | Page 13

10. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 17

11. Glossary | Page 21

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA
The statistical closing of this report was December 17, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

21. Summary¹
• In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) maintained its relatively stable year-on-year expansion rate around 36%. This behavior was explained by an acceleration in the year-on-year variation of the broad aggregate in pesos from the private sector (private M3), offset by the moderation in year-on-year growth of public sector deposits. Particularly, the monthly growth of private M3 was 2.4%, with increases in all its components. From the supply side, among the factors that contributed to M3 expansion, private sector loans in pesos stood out, which once again showed high growth.

• Private sector time deposits increased 2.7% in November, driven by wholesale segment deposits, although retail deposits also grew. In year-on-year terms, private sector time deposit placements accumulated growth of 49%.

• In November, loans in pesos to the private sector maintained a high expansion rate, with monthly growth of 4.4% ($30,830 million), which was similar to October and exceeded that of the same period in other years. Thus, the year-on-year growth rate registered an increase of 3.1 p.p. and stood at 36.7%. The monthly increase was composed of both lines mostly associated with financing commercial activities (advances, documents and other loans) and those essentially aimed at household consumption (personal loans and credit cards).

• The growth in deposits allowed the liquidity ratio of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) to remain relatively stable even in the context of the mentioned loan growth. Thus, liquidity remained at 36.8% of deposits in pesos, although with a change in its composition, with lower LEBAC holdings offset by an increase in its other components.

• In order to continue promoting savings in national currency, on October 27 the Central Bank decided to increase by 300 basis points the remuneration of LEBAC in pesos at a predetermined interest rate, which generated an increase in the minimum remuneration that savers receive for their time deposits of up to $1 million as of November. Thus, the monthly average of the interest rate paid by private entities for time deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity stood at 26.2%, showing an increase of 2.7 p.p. On the other hand, in the wholesale segment, the average BADLAR –interest rate for time deposits of $1 million or more, with 30-35 days maturity – of private banks increased 1.8 p.p. compared to October.

• The interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed heterogeneous movements. While the interest rates on current account advances decreased, those applied to financing via documents increased; and those corresponding to personal loans remained relatively stable.

• In the days prior to the publication of this report, the BCRA adopted a set of measures that will take effect from that moment on. These provisions include the normalization of foreign exchange market operations, the modification of procedures for auctioning LEBAC in pesos and dollars, the relaunch of LEBAC in pesos adjustable by the reference exchange rate, the incorporation of NOBAC offerings in dollars, and the change in the Net Global Position limits in foreign currency of financial entities. Likewise, increases in interest rates on LEBAC in pesos were validated and the limits that were in effect on passive interest rates were eliminated.
and active ones. Furthermore, the partial conversion to dollars of the yuan corresponding to the currency swap agreement between the BCRA and the People's Bank of China was agreed upon. For its part, the National Treasury agreed to transfer to the BCRA new issuances of BONAR 2022, BONAR 2025 and BONAR 2027 in replacement of the Non-Transferable Note maturing in 2016.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

3 2. Monetary Aggregates1
 Graph 2.1
 Monetary Aggregates - M3 In November, the broadest monetary aggregate in
 pesos (M3) maintained its relatively stable year-on-year
 % % expansion rate around 36% (see Graph 2.1). This
 7 (variation of monthly averages) 70
 behavior was explained by an acceleration in the year-
 Monthly variation of M3 on-year variation of the broad aggregate in pesos
 6 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 60
 Year-on-year variation of Private M3 (right axis) from the private sector (private M3), offset by the
 5 Year-on-year variation of Public Deposits (right axis) 50 moderation in the year-on-year growth of public sector
 deposits. Particularly in November, M3 presented a
 4 40
 monthly growth of 2.4%, with increases in all its
 3 30 components and predominantly in deposits, both from
 the public sector and the private sector (see Graph 2.2).
 2 20
 From the supply side, among the factors that contributed
 1 10 to the expansion of M3, private sector loans in pesos
 0 0 stood out, which again showed high growth.

 -1 -10
 The increase in private sector deposits in November
 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15 was 3.1%, composed of increases in sight deposits
 (3.5%) and those agreed at fixed term (2.7%). The
 Note: M3 includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA
 advance of these latter was driven by deposits from
 the wholesale segment (see Graph 2.3), although the
 retail segment also grew. In year-on-year terms, fixed
 Graph 2.2
 term deposits from the private sector accumulated a
 Monetary Aggregates
 growth of 49%, which was partially favored by the low
 (November 2015, average variation)
 comparison base from the previous year. Regarding
 public sector deposits, they registered a growth of
 Total Deposits
 Public Sector 3.7%. In this way, the total of deposits in pesos
 increased 3.3% in November, accumulating in the last
 Term Deposits and Others
 Private Sector twelve months an increase of 35.2%.
 M3 2.6%
 Sight Deposits Private M3
 2.4% For their part, deposits in foreign currency decreased
 Private Sector their monthly average balance (1.1%), with reductions in
 both public sector placements and those from the private
 Cash in circulation sector. Consequently, the broadest monetary aggregate,
 held by the public M3*2, presented a monthly growth of 2.5%, reaching
 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 a year-on-year variation of 36.5%.

 Note: the figures in percentage correspond to monthly variation.
 thousands of millions of $ Source: BCRA

 Graph 2.3 The monthly average balance of the monetary base
 Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector reached $559,688 million, showing a monthly increase
 % (variations of monthly averages) November - Avg. Monthly Var. of 2.8%, with advances in cash in circulation held by
 % the public and in bank reserves (which include cash in
 8 Monthly variation 55 % More than $ 1 million financial entities and the balance of current accounts
 8
 Year-on-year variation (right axis) of financial entities at the BCRA). Its year-on-year
 7 50 variation continued with the growing trend initiated in
 6 6 45 mid-2014, exhibiting a level of 37.2%, 1.5 p.p. above
 5 40 4 the previous month.
 2 2010
 4 35 2011
 3 30 0 2012
 % Less than $ 1 million
 2 25 8 2013
 2014
 1 20 6 2015
 0 15 4
 -1 10 2
 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15 0
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes M3 and deposits of non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.

 4
 Graph 3.1
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % %
 6 Monthly variation 60
Variation y.o.y. (right axis) 3. Loans 1 3
 5 50
 4.4
 4 3.9 3.9 40
 In November, loans in pesos to the private sector
 3.3 3.1
 3 2.7 30 maintained a high expansion rate, with a monthly growth of

 2.1 4.4% ($30,830 million), which was similar to that of October

 2 20 and exceeded that of the same period in other years. Thus,
 1.3
 1 10 the year-over-year growth rate recorded an increase of 3.1
 0.4
 p.p. and was located at 36.7% (see Chart 3.1). Distinguishing

 0 0 by credit line and analyzing its contribution to the month's

 -1 -10 growth, those associated mainly with the financing of com-

 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15 mercial activities (advances, documents and other loans)
 Source: BCRA
 and those oriented essentially to household consumption
 (personal loans and credit cards) made similar contribu-
 Chart 3.2
 tions to each other, around 2 p.p. each group (see Chart
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 3.2).

 % (contribution by line to growth)
 5 Real Guarantee
 The lines with mainly commercial destination accelerated

 4 Credit their growth rate. Documents showed in the month an in-
 1.4 Cards
 1.7 crease of 5.4% ($9,360 million), higher than that of the
 3 1.1
 0.9 Personal previous months and than that observed in November of
 0.7
 2 0.7 1.2 1.1 0.6 0.9 2014 (see Chart 3.3). Consequently, the year-over-year

 0.7 0.9 Other financing variation increased from 37% in October to 40.4% in the last
 1 0.7 0.6 1.3 commercial
 1.2 1.1 month. For their part, advances presented a monthly in-

 0.2 0.6 0.7 1.2 1.0 0.2 0.6 Documents crease of 4.7% ($3,990 million) and a year-over-year varia-
 0
 -0.4 -0.6 -0.1 0.1 tion in the order of 38%, more than 10 p.p. above the previ-

 -1 Advances ous month.

 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA
 F SISCEN
 Financing intended essentially for household consumption
 continued showing good performance. Personal loans pre-
 sented in November an increase of 3.3% ($4,940 million),
 in line with the growth of previous months. Its year-over-
 year variation went to 36.7% in the last month (see Chart
 Chart 3.3
 3.4). For their part, financing with credit cards grew 6.2%
 % Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 14 70 ($9,630 million) in the month, with a year-over-year varia-

 12 Avg. monthly var. 60 tion that remains at historically high levels, reaching 54.7%.
 Y.o.y. var. (right axis)
 Various factors have been contributing to the growth of
 10 50
 these financings, such as the official program "AHORA 12",
 8 40
 which provides the possibility of obtaining financing in 12
 6 5.8 5.4 30
 interest-free installments for the purchase of goods and
 4.1
 4 2.5 2.9 20
 services, and the higher spending associated with tourism
 2.0 1.9
 2 10 given the proximity of the summer season.
 0.5
 0 0

 -0.2
 -2 -10

 -4 -20
 Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA

3 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the
portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and
renewals) arranged in a period. On the other hand, the variation in the balance is composed of the loans arranged, minus the
amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 5 Chart 3.4 Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgages continued

 increasing their monthly growth rate, registering an in-
 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % crease of 2% ($1,040 million), which was among the high-
 8 90
 est since early 2014. Part of this increase is explained by
 7 Avg. monthly var. 80
 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) credits granted under the Productive Investment Credit
 6 70 Line (LCIP). Likewise, it should be noted...
 5.3 60
 5
4.2 4.3 50 to remember that a part of the demand for mortgage credit for housing (natural persons) is not reflected in banking loan statistics, since it has been channeled through the Argentinian Credit Program for the Bicentenary for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee grew 3.4% ($1,290 million), an increase similar to that of the previous month and one of the highest since the end of 2013. Since the beginning of the year, the line has been showing a gradual increase in its growth rate, accompanying the improvement shown in automobile sales.

4 3.3
3.1 3.1 40
3 2.9
2.0 30
2 1.5 20
1 10
0 0 Finally, the balance of loans in foreign currency to the private sector was located at around US$3,300 million, reflecting in the month a decrease of 9.5% (US$350 million).

Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.1
% of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity (deposits
39.5 40.2 41.0 40.7 39.7 39.7
40 38.9 38.6 39.2 39.5 39.2 38.8 38.1
36.6 37.4 37.3 37.8 36.9 36.8
35.7
35 32.5 33.7
31.9 31.0 31.0
30

20.9 19.5 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹
25

20
0.7 1.4
15 3.7 3.8

10

5 11.6 12.1 The growth of deposits allowed the liquidity ratio of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) to remain relatively stable, even in the context of the mentioned loan growth. Thus, liquidity remained at 36.8% of deposits in pesos (see Graph 4.1), although with a change in its composition, with lower LEBAC holdings compensated by an increase in the rest of its components.

0
Nov-13 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15

* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA

Graph 4.2
% Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
deposits
2.6
2.0
1.4
0.8
0.4 Regarding the Minimum Cash regime, it is estimated that financial entities ended November with a surplus equivalent to 0.4% of total deposits in pesos (see Graph 4.2).

0.2

-0.4 Meanwhile, during November, liquidity in foreign currency grew again for the fourth consecutive month, averaging the equivalent of 116.9% of total deposits in dollars, approaching the maximum levels reached at the end of 2013. The total increase of 5.6 p.p. was explained mainly by the rise in the balance of current accounts of entities at the Central Bank.

-1.0

-1.6 Surplus
Accumulated Position
-2.2 Daily Position

-2.8
Nov-14 Dic-14 Ene-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Abr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Ago-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15
Source: BCRA
6

Graph 5.1
LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
TNA % (last auction of the month)

34 24-Nov-15 29-Sep-15 30-Dec-14

32 Securities Issued by the Central Bank⁵

30 In November, the interest rates of the Letters that the Central Bank places weekly in the primary market remained unchanged, after the increase of 300 basis points made in the last October auction. Thus, at the end of the month, the interest rates of LEBAC at predetermined rate –at terms of 100 days and 120 days– were located at 29% and 29.4%, respectively; while the interest rate of the species awarded with greater maturity, at 252 days term, was located at 31.3% (see Graph 5.1).

28

26

24
Term
22
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
Source: BCRA

5. Interest Rates⁴
**Chart 5.2 The amount awarded of LEBAC in November was located
at VN$50,556 million, highlighting a recovery
Amount Awarded of LEBAC in the Primary Market of the amount awarded at terms less than 180 days (see
(as a percentage of the total)
% Up to 90 days From 91 to 180 days From 181 to 270 days From 271 to 360 days More than 360 days Chart 5.2). At the end of the month the nominal balance in cir-
100 culation of LEBAC was reduced $6,362 million with respect
90 to the end of October and was located at $322,915 million. The
80 decline in the LEBAC balance was driven by the reduction
70 in the holdings of financial entities and insurance com-
60 panies (see Chart 5.2). In relation to peso deposits the bal-
50 ance of securities was located at approximately 38%. It is worth
40 noting that at the end of November, 28% of the LEBAC balance
30 was in the hands of holders that do not constitute financial
20 entities.
10
0
Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15 Aug-15 Nov-15
Source: BCRA In the secondary market, the interest rate curve of
LEBAC became steeper in November, in a context
where increases in primary market rates were registered
Chart 5.3 and declines in interbank market interest rates (see Chart 5.3).
The average amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary mar-
Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Secondary Market ket was located at almost $2,700 million daily.
A.N.R. % (monthly average data)
32
With respect to the foreign currency segment, the
30 Sep-15 LEBAC balance decreased US$124 million and was lo-
Oct-15 cated at the end of November at US$1,824 million.
28
Nov-15

26 Central Bank Repurchase Operations¹

24
Following the increase registered at the end of October, the
22 Central Bank kept unchanged the interest rate corridor
Days for its repurchase operations. In this way, the interest rates
20 of passive repurchases for the terms of 1 and 7 days are
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 located at 21% and 23%, respectively.
Source: BCRA

⁴ The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (A.N.R.).
⁵ In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except as otherwise indicated.

Chart 5.4 Meanwhile, the active repurchases are situated at 26% and
Balance of Passive Repurchases with the BCRA thousands 27%, for the same terms.
of millions of $
80

70 Daily Balance In a context of high levels of short-term liquidity in financial
Monthly average entities, the balance of passive repurchases in all modalities
60 in which the Central Bank participates increased $10,000 mil-
50 lion in November, being located at $29,086 million (see Chart
40 5.4).

30 Interfinancial Markets¹
20
In November, an increase in the preference for shorter-term
10 liquidity was observed on the part of financial entities, which
0 was manifested in a reduction of their LEBAC holdings and
Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 an increase in repurchases with the BCRA. The high short-term
Source: BCRA liquidity recorded pressured downward the interest rates of the
interfinancial markets, fundamentally towards the end of the
month. In this way, in the unsecured market (1 business day op-
Chart 5.5 erations) A.N.R. % (call) the interest rate of 1 business day
thousands Interbank Market operations averaged 21.7% in November, 3.4 percentage points below the
of millions of $ Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (daily average) 30 value registered the previous month. Likewise, the average in-
Amount traded Call (daily average)
Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 25 terest rate of 1 business day operations among financial
Interest rate Call (right axis) entities in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) was located
8 at 21.1%, verifying a decline of
7 20

6
5 15
 5.4 p.p. (see Chart 5.5). The average daily amount
 4
 10 traded in both markets decreased by $1,200 million,
 3
 totaling around $7,600 million, as a result of the
 2 5
 behavior recorded in the call market.
 1
 0 0
 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA
 Passive Interest Rates 1

 At the end of October, the Central Bank decided to increase
 by 300 basis points the remuneration of LEBACs
 in pesos at a predetermined interest rate. As a result,
 as of November the increase in reference rates translated
 Chart 5.6 into an increase in the minimum interest rates received
 Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos for 30-35 days by savers on their fixed-
 (daily data and monthly averages) term deposits6. Thus, the monthly average of the interest
 rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits
 %; TNA of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days
 30 maturity was placed at 26.2%, showing an increase of
 28 BADLAR - private banks 26.2 2.7 p.p..
 26
 Deposits on Fixed Term up to $100 thousand - private banks
 24 On the other hand, in the wholesale segment, the average
 22 23.4 BADLAR – interest rate on fixed-term deposits
 20 of $1 million and more, 30-35 days maturity – of private
 18 banks increased 1.8 p.p. compared to October, reaching
 16 23.4% in November (see Chart 5.6). Thus, in the last
 14
 12 12 months, BADLAR showed an increase of 3.6 p.p..
 10
 8
 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA
 6 Through Communication "B" 11143, it was established that the new minimum interest rates to be paid for deposits
smaller than $1 million will range from 26.32% to 29.08%.

 Chart 5.7
 Interest Rates on Current Account Advances

 TNA, (monthly average) Active Interest Rates 1 7
 %, TNA
 % 36 Daily data Total Current Account Advances
 40 32
 28 Current account advances for
 36 24 Among the interest rates applied to commercial lines, more than $10 M - up to 7 days
 20 31.6 the rate on current account advances showed
 32 16 12 declines compared to what was recorded in October. The
 Jun-15 Jul-15 Ago-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 monthly average of the interest rate on advances was
 28
 25.6 placed at 31.6%, showing a decrease of 0.5 p.p. compared
 24 to the previous month. Within this line, the interest rate
 20 on advances to companies for more than $10 million and
 16 up to 7 days maturity fell 2.3 p.p., averaging 25.6% in
 12 November (Chart 5.7).
 8
 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA
 In the case of single-signature documents, the interest
 Chart 5.8 rate averaged 27.6%, showing a monthly increase
 Interest Rates on Financed Loans via Documents of 1.2 p.p.. This behavior was explained
 (monthly average)
 p.p Monthly Variations mainly by the lower weight of the LCIP compared to
 3.0 Discounted Documents the previous month. For its part, the interest rate on
 TNA, %
 36 1.5 Single-Signature Documents discounted documents averaged 25.2%, increasing
 33 0.0 by 1.6 p.p. in the month (Chart 5.8).
 30 -1.5
 27.6
 -3.0
 27 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15 Ago-15 Nov-15 For its part, regarding the interest rates on loans with
 25.2 real guarantees, the monthly average of the interest
 24 rate on pawn loans was placed at 25.2%, showing an
 21 increase of 1.7 p.p.8. Meanwhile, the rate on mortgage
 18 loans was 22.3%, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p. (see
 15 Chart 5.9).
 12
 9 Regarding the interest rate on personal loans, the maximum
 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15 rates9 in effect in November were placed at 37.6% and
 Source: BCRA 46.7% for entities in the

 Chart 5.9

 Interest Rates on Personal Loans and Loans with Real Guarantees
TNA, (monthly average)
 % p.p. Monthly Variations Pawn Loans Group I and Group II10 respectively, for which they
 2 1.7
 50 Mortgage Total remained practically stable with respect to October.
 1 0.6 Personal
 44 0 Thus, the interest rate on personal loans conti-

 0.0
 -1 nued to be positioned below the established maximums,
 38 Mort. Pawn Pers. 36.9
 averaging 36.9%, as it was in October.

 32

 26 25.2

 22.3
 20

 14

 8
 Nov-09 May-10 Nov-10 May-11 Nov-11 May-12 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15
 Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation
and granting expenses or other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.
8 As these are rates weighted average by amount, and being a line of scarce negotiation and disparate interest rates, the change
in their levels may respond to modifications in the participation of the participating entities.
9 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal
and pawn loans for vehicles to private individuals, calculated based on LEBAC returns and which are
published monthly by the Central Bank.
10 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and pawn loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector
deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.

 9 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange
 Chart 6.1 Market1

 thousands of BCRA International Reserves
 millions of U$S International reserves reached at the end of
 40
 November a balance of US$25,615 million,

 Nov-15 presenting a monthly decrease of US$1,355

 35 million (see Chart 6.1). The reduction was
 essentially associated with the sale of foreign currency
 by the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market.
 30
 With respect to the peso exchange rate, it registered a

 25 depreciation against the United States dollar and the real,
 while it appreciated in relation to the euro (see Chart
 6.2). The monthly average quotations were placed at
 20 9.63 $/U$S, with a monthly growth of 1.5%, 2.55
 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15
 Source: BCRA $/Real (4.2%) and 10.33 $/Euro (-3%).

 7. Collective Investment Instruments

 Investment Funds (Mutual Funds)

 Chart 6.2 In November the assets of the FCIs, denominated in
 Foreign Exchange Market
 (average quotations) pesos and in foreign currency increased $16,670

$/Euro $/Real $/US$ million (8.8%), standing at the close of the month at
11.5 7 10
 $217,850 million.

10.5 6 9
 As in October, although all segments

 9.5 $/Euro 5 8 contributed to the increase in the assets of the indus-

 $/Real, right axis try, within the peso segment, the increase in

 8.5 4 7 the assets of fixed income funds stood out,
 which reached $9,660 million (9%) and explained 55%
 7.5 3 6 of the increase. Likewise, money market funds
 grew $4,570 million in the month (10%). In both
 6.5 2 5
 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15 cases, the increase was explained by the subscription of
Source: BCRA
 quota-holders towards the second half of the month. For its part, mixed
 income funds verified an increase of $2,220
 million (6.1%), explained fundamentally by the in-
 crease recorded both in the quantity of quota-holders
 and in prices. For its part, variable income funds
 grew $430 million (6.3%; see Chart
 7.1).

 Chart 7.1

 thousands of Assets of Investment Funds in Pesos
 (monthly variation of stock at end of month) thousands of
 millions of $ millions of $
 24 250 With respect to estimated returns, during
# Money Market

In November, the return of mixed income funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return of around 3%. Likewise, fixed income and variable income funds registered a gain of 2.7% and 2.4% respectively. While money market funds, which are the most liquid funds, recorded positive returns of 1.3% (see Chart 7.2).

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the assets of the FCIs increased by US$80 million to reach US$420 million. The increase was explained to a greater extent by the performance recorded in fixed income funds.

## Financial Trusts

In November, a new auction of debt representative securities (VRD) was held within the framework of the PRO.CRE.AR trust (Argentine Bicentennial Credit Program for Unique Family Housing). In this third auction, the National State placed $5,000 million among qualified investors, which will be applied to the comprehensive development of urban and real estate projects as well as the granting of mortgage loans for the acquisition and construction of homes. The securities bear a fixed incremental TNA, ranging from 10.5% to 17.5% at maturity and have an approximate duration of 5.4 years.

Excluding this public sector placement, financial trust (FF) emissions totaled around $2,760 million in November, showing a slight decrease (-11%) compared to the previous month, although it was one of the highest in recent years.

In this regard, an increase in the number of placements was verified, with 21 operations being carried out in the month, the highest number of emissions of the year (see Chart 7.3).

Regarding the settlors, retail commerce and "Mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers" stood out. Each group of originators placed more than $1,100 million. This amount was particularly high in the case of "Mutuals, cooperatives and non-bank credit card issuers and other financial service providers", as it doubled the volume traded in October, being a historically high amount. For their part, financial entities placed around $470 million, in line with what was issued the previous month. Additionally, it should be noted that there was a placement of a company belonging to the gas and oil industry, under the dollar-linked modality. Among the securitized assets in the month, financing associated with consumption (personal loans and credit card installments) predominated.
10 The cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior securities —in pesos and with duration less than 14 months— with variable yield was located in

Nov-07 Nov-08 Nov-09 Nov-10 Nov-11 Nov-12 Nov-13 Nov-14 Nov-15

Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others

11 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

12 The public trust fund PRO.CRE.AR was created in June 2012 by DNU N°902.

13 Defined in the Regulations of the National Securities Commission in its section II of Chapter VI of Title II.

11 28.7%, registering an increase of 2 p.p., in line with the behavior of the BADLAR of private banks (see Chart 7.4). Finally, it should be noted that no fixed-rate operations were registered.

Chart 8.1
Real GDP Disaggregated by Component
p.p.
8 United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized

6
4.6 4.6 4.3
3.9 3.8 3.9 8. Main Policy Measures of
4 2.9 3.0 2.1
2.8 2.5 2.7
1.6 1.9 1.9 2.1
2 1.1 Other Central Banks
0.8 0.5 0.1 0.6

0 -0.9
-1.5 Once again in November, the major developments in

-2
terms of economic policy from other monetary

-4 Inventory Accumulation authorities were linked to the Federal Reserve (FED)
Private Consumption
Gross Investment of the U.S., which gave signals that anticipated
-6 Net Exports of Goods and Services
Public Consumption and Investment the increase in the monetary policy interest rate
-8 Real GDP (year-over-year variation) that it finally implemented at the mid-December meeting.
Mar-10 Dec-10 Sep-11 Jun-12 Mar-13 Dec-13 Sep-14 Jun-15 On the other hand, although Brazil's monetary authority
Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov did not modify the bias of its monetary policy, in its
latest statement from its Monetary Policy Committee
(COPOM) it gave signals of a possible new contractionary
Chart 8.2 measure in early 2016. In contrast, the central banks
of Indonesia and South Africa did modify the bias of
In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation their monetary policy in November14.

of jobs
Employment In the case of the FED, although the Open Market
400 6-month moving average Committee (FOMC) did not meet during the period
analyzed, there were various statements from its
350 authorities that — added to the minutes from the late
October meeting — made market consensus expect
300
an increase in the objective of the federal funds
250 rate (FFR) at the December 15-16 meeting15.
200 Furthermore, most macroeconomic indicators gave
150 clearer signals regarding the recovery of the local
economy. In this sense, the second estimate of third
100 quarter GDP registered growth of 2.1% (without
50 seasonality and annualized, see Chart 8.1), in line
0 with what was expected by private sector analysts,
Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 but 1.8 p.p. lower than the previous quarter. Additionally,
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov the most recent employment data recorded non-
agricultural employment creation of 211 thousand
jobs (see Chart 8.2), slightly above what was predicted
Chart 8.3 by the private sector (200 thousand jobs). Finally, the
latest available inflation data show that headline
% Interest Rates and Inflation Target of the United States inflation continues stable (at the margin falling slightly)
7 Personal Consumption Expenditures and that core inflation continues to be unaffected by
6 Inflation Target * the decline in oil prices, indicating until now that
Core Personal Consumption Expenditures
Dallas FED Trimmed Mean 5 211 thousand positions (see Chart 8.2), slightly above
CPI what was forecast by the private sector (200 thousand
4 CPI Core positions). Finally, the latest available inflation data
3 show that headline inflation continues stable (at the
2 margin falling slightly) and that core inflation is still
1 not being affected by the decline in oil prices,
0 indicating to date that

-1

-2

Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15
Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).

* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target was set for an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.

14 On December 3, outside the analyzed period, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to reduce the interest rate of the deposit facility by 0.1 p.p. to -0.3%, its historical minimum. Furthermore, it extended until March 2017 its quantitative easing program. It made this decision in a context where inflation continues to show signs of deceleration.

15 On December 16, the FOMC of the Federal Reserve of the U.S. decided to increase the target of its reference interest rate, the federal funds rate (FFR) by 0.25 p.p., to the new range of 0.25-0.5%.

12 moment the absence of second-round effects (see Graph 8.3).

Graph 8.4 Within the region, the meeting on November 25 of

Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil %
the COPOM of the Central Bank of Brazil
30 Industrial Production (Year-over-Year Var.)
18 (BCB) stood out, which decided to maintain the target
Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-over-Year Var.) for the Selic rate at 14.25%. The COPOM made this
25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16 decision in a context where signs of growing decline in
Inflation Rate (right axis) 20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14
the level of activity continue to be observed, where the
15 12 pace of exchange rate depreciation slowed, and where
10 10 inflation persists outside the target (4.5% ± 2 p.p.) for
5 8 the tenth consecutive month. The latest data show a
0 decline in industrial production of 11.2% year-over-year
-5 6 in October, the largest since April 2009. Along with this,
-10 4 the IBC-Br (monthly indicator of BCB activity) fell 6.2%
-15 2 year-over-year in September (see Graph 8.4). Furthermore,
-20 0 in October inflation increased to 9.9% year-over-year,
Jan-08 Oct-08 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14 Jul-15 0.4 p.p. more than in September, and the highest value
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br since November 2003 (see Graph 8.5). Along with this,
inflation expectations for 2016 recently placed themselves
Graph 8.5 outside the target. If this continues, it becomes much
IPC by Category more likely that an increase in the Selic target will occur
% Brazil 9.93 in the first quarter of 2016.
10.0 9.56 9.53 9.49 Food and Beverages Housing
Articles for the Home Clothing 8.89 For its part, among other emerging countries, the Bank
8.47 of Indonesia kept its reference interest rate unchanged
8.13 8.17 Transportation Medical Expenses 7.70
8.0 7.14 (BI Rate) at 7.5%, but reduced the reserve requirement
Personal Expenses Education
Communications Total CPI coefficient from 8% to 7.5% in a context of lower
6.37 6.50 6.51 6.75 6.52 6.59 6.56 6.41 inflation rates. Finally, the South African Reserve Bank
6.0 (SARB) decided to increase by 0.25 p.p. (to 6.25%) its
monetary policy interest rate (see Graph 8.6). The SARB
4.0 made this decision in a context of greater inflationary
risks and depreciation of the rand (South African
2.0 currency), despite worse growth prospects.

0.0
May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15 Aug-15

Source: BCRA based on IBGE

9. Regulatory Changes and Recent Measures
In the days prior to the publication of this report, and with validity from that moment onwards, the Central Bank arranged a set of measures within the framework of normalization of the foreign exchange market:

Specifically related to the functioning of the foreign exchange market16 it was decided as follows: a) natural and legal persons may freely purchase foreign currency and other external assets for up to US$ 2 million monthly; b) elimination of the requirement for validation and prior tax registration in the Foreign Exchange Operations Consultation Program of the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (AFIP) in order to carry out transactions; c) any new inflow of external funds shall have the right to free outflow for an equal amount; d) reduction of the requirement for permanence of capital entering from abroad and elimination of the obligation to constitute an unremuned deposit for a one-year term for 30% of such inflows; e) financial debts with the exterior shall have no obligation of entry or liquidation in the foreign exchange market; except if they wished to access the foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency for repayment of those debts; such debts being able to be prepaid at any time; f) income from exports and the sale of non-financial non-produced assets shall continue with the obligation of entry and liquidation in the foreign exchange market; g) liberation of payments for all imports of goods and services that are carried out or planned to be carried out from December 17 onwards, as well as payments for previous imports that are backed by letters of credit from local banks or by official credit agencies; h) establishment of a schedule to regularize pending payments for imported shipments and services rendered and/or accrued up to December 16.

With respect to the Net Global Position of Foreign Currency (PGNME), it was arranged17 that, considering its monthly average, it may not exceed 15% of the computable equity capital (RPC), while the net positive daily forward position may not exceed 7.5% of the RPC. With validity from March 1, 2016, said limits shall be expanded to 20% and 10% respectively. In turn, it was arranged18 that financial entities shall sell to the Central Bank their positive foreign currency position in effect at the close of operations on December 16, 2015, and repurchase it in full on December 17, 18 or 21 at the reference exchange rate corresponding to the repurchase day. It should be noted that this latter measure does not affect the contractual terms agreed between financial entities and their clients.

In the LEBAC auctions in pesos, instruments with predetermined interest rates were eliminated19. All auctioned instruments shall be put up for auction using the Dutch system. In the auction of December 15, increases were validated across the entire yield curve and LEBACs with shorter terms were added compared to those that had been auctioned previously. The interest rates were set between 38% (35 days) and 35% (252 days)20.
In the LEBAC segment in dollars, it was decided to nullify the placement of LEBAC with predetermined cut-off rates. LEBAC in United States dollars will begin to be offered, which may be subscribed in the same currency by residents and non-residents through a Dutch auction system. The term of the securities offered will be 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. Argentine law applies and they may be traded in local and international markets21.

Notes in United States dollars will begin to be offered22. These NOBAC may be subscribed by both residents and non-residents. Their term will be 2 and 3 years, Argentine law applies and they may be traded in local and international markets.

LEBAC in pesos settable at the reference exchange rate were relaunched. Financial entities may participate in the subscription calls on behalf and order of their clients, provided that these have settled through the MULC on the day of subscription income from advances or pre-financing of exports of goods abroad for at least the equivalent in foreign currency of the amount to be subscribed in pesos taking into consideration the Reference Exchange Rate of that day. The term of these LEBAC will be 366 days with a predetermined cut-off rate of 3.65%. The possibility of requesting redemption between day 15 and day 90 is added with a deduction of 20 p.p. of the interest rate and the option to request redemption from day 91 onwards is maintained (without any deduction).

The limits that were in force on credit interest rates and those applicable to time deposits were eliminated. Specifically, it was decided to nullify the provisions of maximum rates that mainly covered those corresponding to personal and secured loans. Furthermore, the regulation regarding minimum passive interest rates was modified, establishing that the remuneration of time deposits will be agreed freely at the interest rate that is arranged. These regulations will be in effect as of December 17, 2015 23.

20 Press Release P 50.670.
21 Communication "A" 5856.
22 Communication "A" 5855.
23 Communication "A" 5853.

Additionally, with the objective of having a position of greater solidity to exercise the policy of managed flotation of the foreign exchange market, the BCRA and the People's Bank of China agreed on the partial conversion of the yuan corresponding to the currency swap that both entities maintain in effect, for an amount of approximately US$3,100 million. The conversion will require payment of a Shibor rate plus 400 p.b., equivalent to a financing cost of less than 4% in dollars24.

Finally, it is worth mentioning that the National Treasury has agreed to transfer to the BCRA new issuances of BONAR 2022, BONAR 2025 and BONAR 2027, in replacement of the Non-Transferable Note with maturity in 2016 of VN US$9,530 million25.

24 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/Prensa_comunicacion/Nota_Prensa_I_16-12-15.pdf
25 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/Prensa_comunicacion/Nota_Prensa_III_16-12-15.pdf

## 1610. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Monthly Averages Nov-14 Nov-15 Oct-15 | Monthly Variation | Last 12 Months Dic-14 | Percentage Variations |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 559.688 | 544.588 | 442.861 | 407.830 | 2.8% | 37.2% |
| Monetary circulation | 427.554 | 422.273 | 338.425 | 309.706 | 1.3% | 38.1% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 386.307 | 382.744 | 299.390 | 277.349 | 0.9% | 39.3% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 41.246 | 39.528 | 39.034 | 32.357 | 4.3% | 27.5% |
| Settlement Checks | 1.1 | 1.4 | 0.9 | 0.0 | -19.1% | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 132.134 | 122.314 | 104.436 | 98.124 | 8.0% | 34.7% |
| Stock of Repurchase Agreements | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 29.086 | 19.082 | 15.333 | 18.374 | 52.4% | 58.3% |
| Assets | 0000 | | | | | |
| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 341.986 | 348.913 | 265.505 | 256.744 | -2.0% | 33.2% |
| In banks | 249.810 | 257.224 | 200.644 | 192.036 | -2.9% | 30.1% |
# LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 323.540 330.477 259.788 250.731 -2.1% 29.0%
 In dollars 1.904 1.931 668 692 -1.4% 175.2%

 NOBAC 0 0 0 115 - -

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 26.193 28.106 30.233 28.477 -6.8% -8.0%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1.088.125 1.053.667 840.058 804.746 3.3% 35.2%
 Current account (2) 324.033 303.606 275.630 244.887 6.7% 32.3%
 Savings account 222.501 217.969 175.719 166.088 2.1% 34.0%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 500.740 492.364 356.281 361.845 1.7% 38.4%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 10 10 8 8 4.0% 28.4%
 Other deposits (3) 40.840 39.718 32.420 31.919 2.8% 27.9%

 Deposits of the private sector 846.522 820.705 624.701 600.204 3.1% 41.0%

 Deposits of the public sector 241.602 232.962 215.357 204.542 3.7% 18.1%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 10.226 10.335 8.788 8.407 -1.1% 21.6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 783.338 751.857 590.814 573.292 4.2% 36.6%

 Loans to the private sector 728.919 698.265 549.787 533.293 4.4% 36.7%
 Advances 89.154 85.162 66.782 64.620 4.7% 38.0%
 Documents 181.117 171.757 133.922 129.040 5.4% 40.4%
 Mortgage loans 52.672 51.636 47.502 47.107 2.0% 11.8%
 Secured loans 39.136 37.849 32.700 32.818 3.4% 19.3%
 Personal loans 157.015 152.253 117.247 114.849 3.1% 36.7%
 Credit cards 163.326 153.700 110.982 105.602 6.3% 54.7%
 Others 46.498 45.906 40.651 39.257 1.3% 18.4%

 Loans to the public sector 54.419 53.592 41.027 39.999 1.5% 36.1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.372 3.720 3.331 3.535 -9.4% -4.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 710.341 686.351 575.021 522.236 3.5% 36.0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 932.843 904.320 750.740 688.324 3.2% 35.5%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.474.433 1.436.412 1.139.449 1.082.095 2.6% 36.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.577.827 1.539.940 1.217.403 1.156.044 2.5% 36.5%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current 586.528 573.233 459.757 431.964 2.3% 35.8%
 account in pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 790.787 773.570 621.075 578.652 2.2% 36.7%
 M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private 1.232.831 1.203.450 924.092 877.553 2.4% 40.5%
 deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.323.987 1.294.296 988.611 940.355 2.3% 40.8%

 17 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2015 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 15.101 2.8% 32.698 6.2% 116.827 26.4% 151.858 37.2%
 Financial sector -9.929 -1.8% -11.985 -2.3% -13.537 -3.1% -10.522 -2.6%
 Public sector 13.484 2.5% 48.738 9.2% 149.521 33.8% 179.023 43.9%
 Private external sector -20.757 -3.8% -59.475 -11.3% -46.657 -10.5% -43.025 -10.5%
 BCRA securities 12.256 2.3% 32.234 6.1% 4.819 1.1% 3.527 0.9%
 Others 20.047 3.7% 23.186 4.4% 22.682 5.1% 22.856 5.6%

 International Reserves of the BCRA -1.913 -6.8% -7.528 -22.3% -4.040 -13.4% -2.284 -8.0%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -2.172 -7.7% -6.290 -18.7% -4.800 -15.9% -4.370 -15.3%
 Payment to international organizations -197 -0.7% -630 -1.9% -1.829 -6.1% -1.791 -6.3%
 Other public sector operations -747 -2.7% 3.172 9.4% 6.709 22.2% 10.456 36.7%
 Minimum cash 537 1.9% 1.386 4.1% 1.044 3.5% 1.280 4.5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 666 2.4% -5.165 -15.3% -5.163 -17.1% -7.858 -27.6%
1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.4 11.3 11.3
 Integration 11.7 11.5 11.5
 Position (2) 0.4 0.3 0.2
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 64.1 65.8 65.6
 30 to 59 days 23.4 21.2 22.2
 60 to 89 days 7.0 7.1 6.2
 90 to 179 days 4.4 4.7 4.9
 more than 180 days 1.0 1.1 1.2
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 41.1 40.5 40.2
 Integration (includes application of resources default) 85.1 78.7 74.8
 Position (2) 44.0 38.1 34.6
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.4 51.4 50.8
 30 to 59 days 21.6 20.0 22.7
 60 to 89 days 12.3 11.8 10.5
 90 to 179 days 12.0 11.7 10.8
 180 to 365 days 4.6 5.1 5.1
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.0 0.1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position= Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 21.75 25.12 21.92 21.83 19.99
 Amount operated 2,258 3,573 3,263 2,176 2,371

Fixed-term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 23.20 21.42 21.16 19.97 19.75
 60 days or more 26.62 24.05 23.73 23.12 22.82
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.39 19.06 18.78 17.81 17.64
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 23.39 21.56 21.15 19.98 19.77

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.76 1.77 1.72 0.88 0.86
 60 days or more 2.42 2.49 2.57 1.67 1.38
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.46 1.51 1.41 0.85 0.86
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.11 2.18 2.28 1.02 1.27

 Active Interest Rates Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

Caucions in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.91 23.79 23.69 24.00 22.77
 Amount operated (total terms) 757 688 642 377 345

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 31.63 32.11 30.31 30.86 30.81
 Documents on signature only 27.59 26.42 25.24 26.15 26.22
 Mortgages 22.27 21.65 23.64 22.30 21.76
 Pledge loans 25.20 23.52 24.49 26.35 26.67
 Personal loans 36.92 36.97 36.73 37.70 37.44
 Credit cards 40.66 40.38 40.38 42.74 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 25.61 27.87 24.47 24.31 22.98

 International Interest Rates Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

LIBOR
 1 month 0.21 0.19 0.20 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.61 0.53 0.54 0.34 0.33

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.87 0.63 0.71 0.61 0.52
 10 years 2.26 2.06 2.16 2.20 2.31

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 11.70 11.25

(1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 19 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

 BCRA pass rates
 Liabilities 1 day 21.00 18.48 18.00 13.00 13.00
 Liabilities 7 days 23.00 20.48 20.00 14.00 14.00
 Assets 7 days 27.00 24.48 24.00 17.00 17.00

 Total REPO round pass rates
 1 day 22.45 21.67 20.02 16.33 16.08
 7 days 23.80 24.70 20.27 15.01 16.43
Amount operated in REPO round passes (daily average) 11.180 16.418 12.656 12.550 12.971

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
2 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
3 months 29.04 26.71 25.95 26.84 26.86
9 months n/o n/o n/o 29.08 n/o
12 months n/o n/o n/o 29.29 29.29

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
200 days BADLAR Private Banks n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2.996 2.902 3482 3518 3435

Foreign Exchange Market Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 9.63 9.48 9.36 8.55 8.51
Retail 9.64 9.51 9.38 8.55 8.52

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 11.52 10.05 9.53 8.76 8.65
ROFEX 1 month 9.81 9.63 9.50 8.73 8.60
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 2.106 6.116 3.929 2.413 2.150

Real (Pesos per Real) 2.55 2.44 2.40 3.24 3.34

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 10.33 10.64 10.52 10.54 10.63

Capital Market Nov-15 Oct-15 Sep-15 Dec-14 Nov-14

MERVAL
Index 13.238 11.154 10.433 8.563 10.165
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 347 273 183 174 168

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 161.7 146.0 148.3 111.7 125.4
BONAR X (US$) 146.7 142.8 144.1 126.6 132.1
DISCOUNT ($) 111.1 90.0 81.2 72.3 70.5

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR X spread vs. US Treasury Bond 747 794 856 975 1.058
EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 543 563 580 502 444

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
# 2011. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEGs: Special Drawing Rights.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
P.B.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

21
