# Monthly Monetary Report
October 2015

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 8

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 10

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 10

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 14

10. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report - BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was November 12, 2015. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

21. Summary¹
• Monetary aggregates maintained their relatively stable expansion pace in October. In particular, the broadest monetary aggregate in pesos (M3) registered a year-on-year variation of 35.6%, which was in line with the levels observed since July. From the supply side, the main factor in M3 expansion was the increase in peso loans to the private sector, which accelerated compared to September.

• The increase in M3 continued to be led by fixed-term deposits from the private sector, which completed a monthly growth of 2.1% and accelerated their year-on-year variation around 47%. The October increase was driven both by placements of less than $1 million as well as by the wholesale segment.

• Peso loans to the private sector accelerated their growth rate, registering a monthly increase of 4.3% ($28,500 million), which was the highest since the beginning of 2013. Consequently, the year-on-year variation registered a new increase of 1.3 percentage points and stood at 33.6%. The lines that led the month's growth were documents, credit card financing, and personal loans.

• Within the framework of the strong dynamism shown by peso loans during October, the liquidity ratio of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and the holding of LEBAC) decreased compared to September, remaining at elevated levels (36.9% in terms of peso deposits). Among its components, the reduction was associated with lower LEBAC holdings.

• In order to continue promoting savings in national currency and complementarily to the measures adopted since the end of 2014, on October 27 the Central Bank decided to increase by 300 basis points the remuneration of LEBAC in pesos at a predetermined interest rate, which will generate an increase in the minimum remuneration that savers receive for their fixed-term deposits starting in November. Thus, for example, the minimum rate for deposits of up to 44 days will be 26.32% and for deposits of 180 days or more will be 29.08%.

• In October, the interest rates paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity was located at 23.5%, in line with the minimum values established by the BCRA for this period. For its part, the BADLAR of private banks increased 0.4 percentage points compared to September, averaging 21.6%.

• Likewise, the Central Bank aligned the interest rate corridor to the LEBAC interest rate curve, adapting it to the new market rate structure. Thus, as of October 27 the rates in the repurchase agreement corridor increased 300 basis points, so that the passive repurchase agreement interest rates for terms of 1 and 7 days were located at 21% and 23%, respectively. For their part, active repurchase agreements moved to 26% and 27%, for the same terms.

• The interest rates applied to loans to the private sector showed heterogeneous movements. While the interest rates on current account overdrafts increased in line with what occurred in interbank markets, facing specific liquidity needs; those applied to financing with real guarantees decreased and those corresponding to personal loans remained relatively stable.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

3 Chart 2.1 2. Monetary Aggregates1
Monetary Aggregates % M3
% %
6 (variation of monthly averages) 60
Monthly variation of M3 Monetary aggregates maintained their relatively stable expansion
5 Year-on-year variation of M3 (right axis) 50 pace in October. In particular, the broadest monetary aggregate
in pesos (M32) registered a year-on-year variation of 35.6%,
4 40 which was in line with
3 30 aligned with the levels observed since July (see Chart

 2 20 2.1). In October, M3 presented a monthly growth
 of 2.1%, with increases verified in all of its
 1 10
 components, led by fixed-term deposits of the

 0 0 private sector (see Chart 2.2). From the supply side, the main factor of M3 expansion was the in-

 %1 %10 crease in peso loans to the private sector,

 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15 which accelerated compared to September.

 Note: M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos. Source: BCRA
 
Fixed-term placements of the private sector presen-
 ted a growth of 2.1% and maintained high
 Chart 2.2
 dynamism, which motivated a new acceleration in the
 Monetary Aggregates year-on-year variation, which was located near 47% (see
 (October 2015, average variation) Chart 2.3). The October increase was favored
 ed both by placements of less than $1 million
 Total Dep. S.
 Public as well as those in the wholesale segment. The latter depos-
 its exhibited the largest increase of the last
 Dep. Term and Others five months. It should be noted that in order to continue
 S. Private
 M3 promoting savings in national currency and as a
 2.1%
 Dep. Sight S. M3 Private complement to the measures that had been adopted
 Private 1.9% since the end of 2014, on October 27 the Central Bank
 resolved to increase by 300 basis points the interest rate
 Cash in the hands
 of the public of the LEBAC in pesos, which will generate an increase
 in the minimum remuneration that savers receive
 0 2 4 6 8 10
 Note: the figures in percentage correspond to the monthly variation. thousands of millions of $ for their fixed-term deposits as of November³.
 Source: BCRA On the other hand, sight deposits registered
 a growth of 2%. In this way, the total deposits
 Chart 2.3
 of the private sector increased 2.1% in October.
 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
 millions of $ %
 450 60 On the other hand, deposits in foreign currency in-
 Monthly average balance creased their monthly average balance, with reductions
 400 Interannual variation (right axis) 50 in placements of the public sector that resulted
 350 in more than compensated by the increase in the depos-
 40
 its of the private sector. With respect to the latter, its
 300
 250 growth was favored by the payment of government debt
 30
 services (in particular, of the BODEN 2015). Consequently,
 200
 the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*⁴, presented
 150 20 a monthly growth of 2.3%, reaching an interannual
 100 variation close to 36%.
 10
 50

 0 0
 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15
 Source: BCRA

² Includes cash in the hands of the public, canceling checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public sectors
non-financial in pesos.
³ See communications "A" 5781 and "B" 11143.
⁴ Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private sectors non-financial in foreign currency.

 4 Chart 3.1 The monthly average balance of the monetary base reached
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector $544,588 million, showing a monthly increase of
 % %
 6 Monthly variation 60 2.1% and an interannual variation around 36%. The
 5 Interannual variation (right axis) 50 monthly increase was observed both in cash in
 4.5 4.3
 4.3 the hands of the public as well as in bank reserves (which
 4 3.6 40 include cash in financial entities and the balances
 3.3
 3 2.7 2.7 30 of the current accounts of financial entities in

 2.3 the BCRA).

 2 20
 1.3

 1 10 3. Loans 1 5

 0 0
 In October, loans in pesos to the private sector
 %1 %10
 Oct%07 Oct%08 Oct%09 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15 accelerated their growth rate, registering an increase
Source: BCRA monthly increase of 4.3% ($28,500 million), which was
the highest since early 2013. Consequently, the year-over-year variation registered a new increase
of 1.3 p.p. and stood at 33.6% (see Chart 3.1). The lines

Chart 3.2 that led the month's growth were documents,
millions of $ Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector credit card financing and personal
(average monthly variation) 53.6%
30,000 56 loans (see Chart 3.2).

25,000 Oct'15 vs. Sep'15 49

Y-o-y var. (right axis) 42 Loans intended mainly to finance commercial activi-
37.0 36.0
20,000 33.6 ties continued to grow. Advances showed an increase
35
25.8 of 1.7% ($1,430 million) and their year-over-year
15,000 28
variation registered a sharp increase, going from a
20.7 value close to 20% in September to 25.8% in Octo-
10,000 16.1 21
ber. For their part, financing implemented through
10.1 14
5,000 7 documents presented an increase of 4.4% ($7,270
million), similar to the previous month, although
0 0 below the growth observed in October of the previous
year, so the year-over-year growth rate decreased
Source: BCRA slightly, standing at 37%. Within this group, docu-
ments at sight and discounted documents grew in a
similar proportion.

Loans aimed at financing household consumption
Chart 3.3 continued to show very good performance. Credit card
% Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector % financing registered an increase of 7.8% ($11,130
9 90 million), markedly higher than in the previous months
8 Avg. monthly var. 7.9 7,880
and similar to the growth in October of the previous
7 Var. y-o-y (right axis) 70
6 5.5 5.6 year. Thus, the year-over-year variation remained at
60
5 4.8 50 historically high levels, reaching 53.6% (see Chart
3.9 3.3). Among the factors that drove the growth of
4 3.2 3.3 40
this line, it is worth mentioning the greater con-
3 2.4 30
sumption associated with Mother's Day, favored in
2 20
turn by bank promotions. The official "AHORA 12"
1 10
program is also contributing to the growth of these
0 0
financings, which offers financing in twelve interest-
Oct'07 Oct'08 Oct'09 Oct'10 Oct'11 Oct'12 Oct'13 Oct'14 Oct'15
free installments for the purchase of goods and ser-
Source: BCRA vices. Since its launch, within the framework of this
program, sales of approximately $36,000 million have
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused
by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts
granted" or "new loans" means loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast,
the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations
of the period.

5 accumulated6. For their part, personal loans contin-
Chart 3.4 ued with the dynamism they have shown since mid-
% Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % last year, based on the establishment of maximum
8 90 interest rates for these financings. The increase
registered in the month was 3.8% ($5,600 million)
7 Avg. monthly var. 80
and in the last twelve months they accumulated a
Y-o-y var. (right axis)
6 5.7 70 growth of 36% (see Chart 3.4).

4.8 60
5 4.1 3.8
50
4 3.5
3.4 3.3 40
3
2.1 2.2 30
2 20
 Loans with real guarantees increased their monthly growth
 1 10
 rate. In effect, mortgages registered an increase of 1.5%
 0 0 ($790 million), higher than that of the two previous
 Oct%07 Oct%08 Oct%09 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15
 Source: BCRA months. It is worth recalling that a portion of the de-
 mand for mortgage credit for housing (individuals) is not
 reflected in the statistics of bank loans, as it has been
 channeled through the Argentine Bicentennial Credit
 Program for Single Family Housing (Pro.Cre.Ar). For its
 Chart 4.1 part, credits with chattel mortgage guarantees reflected in
 the month an increase of 3.5% ($1,230 million), which
 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities turned out to be the highest since late 2013.
 deposits
 45 CCBCRA Effective Repos Net LEBAC and NOBAC41.0Broad Liquidity
 39,2 40,2 40,739,7
 40 37,838,938,639,5 39,739,539,238,8
 36,637,437,3 38,136,9
 35,7 Lastly, the balance of loans in foreign currency to the
 35 32,533,7
 31,831,931,031,0
 private sector stood at US$3,700 million, presenting a
 30
 decrease of 7.7% in the month (US$310 million).
 22,420,9
 25
 20
 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities1
 15 0,60,7
 3,53,7

 10

 5 11,611,6
 0
 Oct%13 Dic%13 Feb%14 Abr%14 Jun%14 Ago%14 Oct%14 Dic%14 Feb%15 Abr%15 Jun%15 Ago%15Oct%15
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
 Source: BCRA

Within the framework of the great dynamism shown by
 loans in pesos during October, the liquidity ratio of fi-
 nancial entities in the local currency segment (sum of
 cash in banks, the current account of entities at the
 Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding
 Chart 4.2 of LEBAC) decreased 1.2 p.p. with respect to September,
 Position of Minimum Effective Cash in Pesos remaining at elevated levels (36.9% in terms of deposits
 % of
 deposits in pesos, see Chart 4.1). Among its components, the reduc-
 2,6 tion was associated with lower LEBAC holdings.

 2,0
 1,4 With regard to the Minimum Effective Cash regime, it is
 0,8 estimated that financial entities ended October with a
 0,25 surplus equivalent to 0.25% of total deposits in pesos
 0,2
 %0,4 (see Chart 4.2).

 %1,0
 %1,6 Surplus
 Accumulated Position Meanwhile, following the payment of services correspond-
 %2,2 Daily Position ing to the maturity of BODEN 2015, liquidity in foreign
 %2,8
 Oct%14Nov%14Dic%14 Ene%15 Feb%15Mar%15 Abr%15May%15 Jun%15 Jul%15 Ago%15 Sep%15Oct%15
 Source: BCRA

6 Information from the Ministry of Industry: http://www.industria.gob.ar/mas-de-36-000-millones-en-ventas-a-traves-de-ahora-12/

 6 currency grew considerably during October, averaging the
 Chart 4.3 equivalent of 111.3% of total deposits in dollars (see Chart
 Bank Liquidity in Dollars 4.3). The total increase of 7.7 p.p. was explained mainly by
 % of the
 deposits CCBCRA Effective Repos LEBAC Broad Liquidity the rise of 6.9 p.p. in the balance of current accounts of
 entities at the Central Bank. In a secondary way, the
 140
 remaining components of this segment also showed a
 120 111,3
 slight increase as a proportion of deposits in this
 103,6
 100 denomination.

 80

 60

 40 5. Interest Rates 7

 20 Securities Issued by the Central Bank8

 0
 Nov%11 Mar%12 Jul%12 Nov%12 Mar%13 Jul%13 Nov%13 Mar%14 Jul%14 Nov%14 Mar%15 Jul%15
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value. At the end of October, the Central Bank decided to increase
 Source: BCRA by 300 basis points the remuneration of LEBAC in pesos
 at a predetermined interest rate. The increase, which will
 Chart 5.1 result in an increase in the minimum remuneration re-
 ceived by savers for their fixed-term deposits, is aimed at
 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market stimulating savings in national currency9. In this way, at
 the end of the month the interest rates of LEBAC at pre-
 TNA % (last auction of the month) determined rates – at terms
 36
 Oct%15 Sep%15 Dec%14
34 of 95 days and 120 days– were located at 28.9% and 29.4%,

32 respectively. In the longer terms there was a similar

30 increase: the interest rate of the species adjudicated

 with greater maturity, at 255 days term, was located

 28 at 31.25% (see Graph 5.1).

 26
 The amount adjudicated of LEBAC in October was of

 24 PlazosVN$37,883 million. Unlike the two previous months

 22 a slight reduction was observed in placements at terms

 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 less than 180 days (see Graph 5.2).
 Source: BCRA
 At the end of the month the nominal balance in circulation of
 LEBAC was reduced $5,344 million with respect to the end of
 September, being located at $329,277 million. The fall
 in the balance was explained fundamentally by the reduction
 registered in private financial entities, in a
 
Gráfico 5.2 context where loans showed a strong increase.

 Amount Adjudicated of LEBAC in the Primary Market Counteracting part of this behavior,
 (as percentage of total)
 % Up to 90 daysFrom 91 to 180 daysFrom 181 to 270 daysFrom 271 to 360 daysMore than 360 days public financial entities and mutual
 100
 investment funds increased their LEBAC holdings.
 90

 80
 70 In the secondary market, the interest rates of

 60 LEBAC increased throughout the month in all sections

 50 of the yield curve. The average amount traded of

 40 LEBAC was located at almost $2,500 million

 30 daily.

 20

 10

 0
 Oct%14 Jan%15 Apr%15 Jul%15 Oct%15
 Source: BCRA

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end of month data, except that another specification is indicated.
9 See communications "A" 5781 and "B" 11143.

 7 Table 5.1 With respect to the foreign currency segment, the
 balance of LEBAC grew US$51 million and was located at
Annual Nominal Interest Rates of BCRA Repos in the Trading Session the end of October at US$1,947 million.

 REPO
 Passive Repos Active Repos Central Bank Repo Operations1
 Term From From From From From From
 Oct%14 Jul%15 Oct%15 Oct%14 Jul%15 Oct%15
 1 day 13 18 21 16 23 26 The Central Bank aligned the interest rate corridor to

 7 days 14 20 23 17 24 27 the LEBAC interest rate curve, adapting it with

 60 days 20 26 29 the new market rate structure. Thus, as of
 Source: BCRA
 October 27 the repo corridor rates increased

Gráfico 5.3 300 basis points, so that the interest rates

 thousands of of passive repos for terms of 1 and 7 days were

 millions of $ Balance of Passive Repos with the BCRA located at 21% and 23%, respectively. For their part,

 60 active repos moved to be located at 26% and 27%, for the

 50 Daily balance same terms (see Table 5.1).

 Monthly average

 40 The balance of passive repos for all modalities in

 which the Central Bank participates increased in October,
 30
 being located at $19,082 million (see Graph 5.3).

 20
 Interfinancial Markets1
 10

 0 In October, the average interest rates of the operations of

 Oct%14 Dec%14 Feb%15 Apr%15 Jun%15 Aug%15 Oct%15 the interfinancial market increased

 Source: BCRA with respect to September, in a context where transitory

 liquidity needs were observed, fundamentally in the

Gráfico 5.4 middle of the month, in private financial entities. In the

 thousands of Interbank Market unsecured market (call) the interest rate

millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA % of operations at 1 business day averaged 25.1%,

10 30 3.2 p.p. higher than the value registered the previous month.

 Amount traded REPO session excluding BCRA (daily average)
9 Amount traded Call (daily average) Likewise, the average interest rate of operations

 Interest rate REPO session excluding BCRA (right axis) 25 at 1 business day among financial entities in the

8 Interest rate Call (right axis) secured market (REPO session) was located at 26.5%, verifying
6 showing an increase of 4.6 p.p. (see Graph 5.4). The

5 15 average daily amount traded increased around
4 10 $2,000 million, totaling approximately $9,000
3 5 million.
2
1 0 0 Passive Interest Rates¹

 Oct%13 Apr%14 Oct%14 Apr%15 Oct%15
Source: BCRA

 In the segment of deposits of up to $1 million, interest
 rates remained stable in October. Thus, the average rate
 paid by private banks for deposits up to $100 thousand
 made for up to 35 days of maturity remained at 23.5%, in
 Table 5.2 line with the minimum values established by the Central
 Minimum interest rates in effect from Nov%15 Bank for this period.
 
 Deposit Term Interest Rate Minimum
 (days) (% nominal annual)
 30 to 44 26.32
 45 to 59 26.90
 60 to 89 28.05
 90 to 119 28.49
 120 to 179 28.78
 180 or more 29.08
 Source: BCRA

 However, starting in November, the interest rates that
 retail depositors will receive will increase, following the
 increase in reference rates –LEBAC– ordered by the
 Central Bank in the last October auction (see section
 Securities issued by the Central Bank). In particular,
 through Communication "B" 11143, it was established
 that the new minimum interest rates to be paid for de-
 posits less than $1 million will range from 26.32% to
 29.08%, depending on their maturity (see table 5.2)

 Graph 5.5 8

 On the other hand, in the wholesale segment, the average
 BADLAR –interest rate paid for deposits of $1 million
 and more and up to 35 days of maturity– of private
 banks increased 0.4 p.p. with respect to September, plac-
 ing itself at 21.6% in October (see Graph 5.5).

 Active Interest Rates¹ 10

 In October, interest rates applied to loans to the private
 sector showed heterogeneous behavior.

 Graph 5.6 Among the commercial lines, the interest rates associat-
 Interest Rates for Current Account Overdrafts ed to current account overdrafts showed increases with
 TNA, %, TNA (monthly average) respect to what was recorded in September, in line with
 % Daily Data Total Overdrafts in CC what occurred in interbank markets. The monthly aver-
 40 36
 32 28 Current account overdrafts age of the interest rate for overdrafts was placed at
 36 24 for more than $10 M up to 7 days 32.1%, showing an increase of 1.8 p.p. with respect to
 20 the previous month. Within this line, the interest rate
 32 16 32.1
 12 for overdrafts to companies of more than $10 million
 Jun%15 Jul%15 Aug%15 Sep%15 Oct%15 Nov%15 27.9
 28 and up to 7 days of maturity increased 3.4 p.p., averag-
 24 ing 27.9% in September (Graph 5.6).

 20

 16 In the case of promissory notes, the interest rate aver-
 12 aged 26.4%, showing a monthly increase of 1.2 p.p. For
 8 its part, the interest rate of discounted notes averaged
 Oct%09 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15 23.6%, increasing 0.3 p.p. in the month (Graph 5.7).
 Source: BCRA

 Graph 5.7 For its part, the interest rates on loans with real collateral
 Interest Rates of Financed Loans via Documents evidenced decreases. The monthly average of the interest
 (monthly average) rate for pledge loans was placed at 23.5%, showing a
 p.p. Monthly Variations decrease of 1 p.p. Meanwhile, the interest rate for
 3.0 Discounted Documents mortgage loans was 21.6%, showing a decrease of 2 p.p.
 TNA, % (see Graph 5.8).
 36 1.5 Promissory Notes
 33 0.0
 % Regarding the interest rate for personal loans, the maxi-
 30 1.5 mum rates¹¹ in effect in October were placed at 37.6%
 % 3.0 and 46.7% for Group I and Group II¹² entities respec-
 27 Oct%14 Jan%15 Apr%15 Jul%15 Oct%15 26.4 tively, remaining practically stable with respect to Sep-
 24 23.6 tember. The interest rate...
 21

 18

 15

 12

 9

 Oct%09 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15
 Source: BCRA
10 The interest rates referred to in this section are annual nominal rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenditures (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

11 In June 2014, Communication "A" 5590 came into effect, which set maximum interest rates, essentially for personal loans and secured loans for vehicles to individuals, calculated based on LEBAC yields and which are monthly published by the Central Bank.

12 For the establishment of maximum levels for interest rates on personal and secured loans, entities were divided into two groups. Group I is composed of those entities that concentrate 1% or more of private sector deposits, while Group II is made up of the remaining entities.

The interest rate effectively applied on personal loans continued to be below said maximum limits and averaged 36.9% in October, showing an increase of 0.2 p.p. in relation to September. Taking into account that the maximum interest rates for these loans are set based on the average recorded by the reference rates two months ago, in November they will remain unchanged compared to October values. However, in December they will partially capture the increase in LEBAC rates from late October and will only fully reflect it in January.

# 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

On October 5, the payment of principal and interest on BODEN 2015 was completed for a total of US$5,900 million. This operation, together with the payment of a bond from the Province of Buenos Aires, affected the balance of the Central Bank's international reserves, which ended October at US$26,970 million (see Chart 6.1).

Regarding the peso quotation, it registered a depreciation against the United States dollar, the euro and the real (see Chart 6.2). The average monthly quotations were located at 9.49 $/US$, with monthly growth of 1.3%, 10.65 $/euro (1.2%) and 2.44 $/real (1.7%).

# 7. Collective Investment Instruments

## Common Investment Funds

In October, the assets of Common Investment Funds (FCI) denominated in pesos and in foreign currency increased $16,920 million (9.2%), closing the month at $200,180 million.

Although all segments contributed to the increase in the industry's assets, within the peso segment stood out the increase recorded in funds that are used fundamentally by legal entities for the management of liquidity surpluses. The assets of fixed-income funds with a settlement period of 24 hours increased $5,200 million (7.8%) and explained 70% of the increase recorded in the total fixed-income FCI. Likewise, Money Market funds verified growth of $5,190 million in the month (12.9%). In both cases, the increase was explained by the subscription of fund shares towards the end of October.
10 Likewise, in October the mixed-income funds verified
 Graph 7.1 an increase of $2,080 million (6%), explained
 Assets of Common Investment Funds in Pesos
 thousands of thousands of both by the increase in the number of fund units as
 millions of $ (monthly variation of stock at end of month) millions of $
 24 250 well as in prices. For their part, variable-income
 Money Market funds grew $1,820 million (36.3%), fundamentally
 19 Fixed Income 200 due to the performance recorded in fund unit
 Mixed Income
 14 Variable Income prices (see Graph 7.1).

 Stock Evolution (right axis) 150

 9 Regarding estimated profitability, during

 100 October the return of variable-income funds stood
 4
 out, which yielded a monthly return of around
 % 1 50 35.6%, thanks to the good performance recorded in
 % 6 0 the local stock market. In this way they accumu-
 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15 late a return of almost 53% so far in 2015. Likewise

 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI mixed-income funds recorded a gain of
 5.7% and fixed-income funds and Money Market regis-
 tered positive returns of 2.7% and 1.2% respec-
 tively (see Graph 7.2).

 Regarding the foreign currency segment, the assets
 Graph 7.2 of the FCIs increased US$14 million to reach
 % Estimated Return of FCIs in Pesos
 60 (profitability in pesos) US$343 million. The increase was explained in
 52.9
 greater measure by the performance recorded in fixed-
 50 income funds, which represent almost 85% of the total.

 Accumulated 2015
 40 35.6 Oct15
 Financial Trusts13

 30
 In October, the issuances of financial trusts
 20 18.9 21.1
 (FF) totaled around $3,100 million, showing
 12.9
 an increase close to 42% compared to the previous
 10 5.7
 2.7 1.2 month. Thus, the amount issued in the month was
 0 among the highest of recent years. Regarding the

 Variable Income FCI $ Mixed Income FCI $ Fixed Income FCI $ Money Market $number of placements, 18 operations were carried
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI out, in line with the number of issuances of previ-
 ous months (see Graph 7.3).

 The increase in traded volume was explained by
 Graph 7.3 greater securitizations of retail commerce,
 Issuances of Financial Trusts which placed around $1,350 million, almost double
 millions of $ (excluding FF from the public sector and others from infrastructure) units
 3,300 35 compared to September (see Graph 7.4). Likewise, an
 Amount issued
 3,000 Number of operations (right axis) important placement was recorded from a company in
 30
 2,700 the agroindustrial sector, whose main activity is the
 2,400 25 production of oleaginous products (around
 2,100 $740 million). On the other hand, "Mutuals,
 1,800 20 cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers
 1,500 15 and other financial service providers"
 securitized assets for around $500 million, 34%
 1,200
 10
 more than the previous month. In addition to personal
 900
 600 5 loans and credit card coupons, they securitized
 300 pledged credits. For their part, financial entities also
 0 0 issued around $500 million, presenting a decrease
 Oct%08 Oct%09 Oct%10 Oct%11 Oct%12 Oct%13 Oct%14 Oct%15
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others
 of 40% compared to September.

 11 Graph 7.4
 millions of $ Amounts Issued by type of Trustor
 3,300 (excludes FF from the public sector and other infrastructure)

 Mutuals, coop. and non-banking credit card issuers Finally, the cut-off interest rate (weighted average
 3,000 Financial Entities
 2,700 Retail Commerce by amount) of senior securities -in pesos and with
 Agricultural Sector duration of less than 14 months- with variable yield
 2,400 Others
 remained relatively stable, positioned at 26.6%.
 2,100
1.800 Meanwhile, no operations were recorded in the fixed rate segment.

1.500

1.200

900
600 8. Main Monetary Policy Measures of Other Central Banks

300

0
Oct%14 Dec%14 Feb%15 Apr%15 Jun%15 Aug%15 Oct%15
Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others During October, the main development in economic policy from other monetary authorities was linked to the communication from the Federal Reserve (FED) of the U.S., from which emerges a greater probability of a contractionary measure at the December meeting. On the other hand,

Graph 8.1

p.p. Real GDP disaggregated by component although Brazil's monetary authority did not modify the bias of its monetary policy, it gave signals of a
8 United States seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized possible new contractionary measure before year-end.

6 Additionally, other central banks, among which are
4.6 4.6 4.3
3.9 3.8 3.9 those of Chile and China, modified the bias of their
4 2.8 2.5 2.9 3.0
2.7 1.5
1.9 1.9 2.1 monetary policy throughout the month.
2 1.6
0.8 1.1
0.50.1 0.6 In the case of the FED, at its meeting on October 26 and 27, the Open Market Committee (FOMC)

0 %0.9
%1.5

%2 decided to maintain the objective of its reference interest rate, the federal funds rate (FFR)

%4 Inventory Accumulation in the range 0-0.25%. The FOMC made this decision in a context
Private Consumption
Gross Investment where macroeconomic indicators are not entirely conclusive regarding the recovery of the local economy. However, there were significant changes in the wording of the communication that the FED disseminates after each meeting. The first of
%6 Net Exports of Goods and Services
Public Consumption and Investment these is that the FOMC noted that private sector demand, mainly private consumption, has been
%8 Real GDP (y-o-y var.)
growing at firm rates (see Graph 8.1), whereas in the previous meeting's communication it made mention of moderate growth. Additionally, the FOMC removed from the communication the phrase mentioning that global conditions, both financial and real economy, could reduce the level of activity in the U.S., contributing to a lower inflation rate in the short term. Along with this, the Committee for the first time made explicit mention of a possible increase in the FFR at the next meeting on December 16.14

In contrast, the FED indicated that lately there has been lower non-agricultural employment creation in the private sector (see Graph 8.2).

14 More details at http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm

Graph 8.2

In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation 12 Among the countries in the region, at its meeting on October 21, the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the
450 Employment
Brazil's Central Bank (BCB) decided to maintain the objective for the Selic rate at 14.25%. The COPOM made
400 6-month moving average
this decision in a context where signals continue of increasing decline in the level of activity, where the pace of depreciation of the exchange rate slowed, and where September inflation remains far from the target range
350
(4.5% ± 2 p.p.; see Graph 8.3). Finally, from the minutes of the mid-October meeting, signals would emerge of a new contractionary measure before year-end, possibly an increase of 0.25 p.p. in the Selic target (based on the futures market for
300

250

200

150

100

50

0
Jun%11 Dec%11 Jun%12 Dec%12 Jun%13 Dec%13 Jun%14 Dec%14 Jun%15
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov

Graph 8.3

Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators Brazil
% Industrial Production (y-o-y var.) 18 %
30
Activity Economic Index of the BCB (y-o-y var.)
25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16 Inflation Rate (right axis)
Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14
20
15 12

10 10

5 8

0 6

%5 4

%10 2

%15
%20 0 said interest rate).
 Jan%08 Oct%08 Jul%09 Apr%10 Jan%11 Oct%11 Jul%12 Apr%13 Jan%14 Oct%14 Jul%15

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br
 For its part, on October 15, the Central Bank of
 Chile (BCCh) decided to increase its reference interest rate by 0.25 p.p. to 3.25%, moving its corridor
 –the deposit facility rate and the liquidity facility rate– to 3%-3.5% (see Chart 8.4). In addition to
 Chart 8.4 this expected measure, according to its projections, the BCCh
 still plans additional adjustments to ensure the
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
 % Chile convergence of inflation to its target (3% ± 1 p.p.) in
11
 Reference Interest Rate the policy horizon.

9 Inflation Rate

 Inflation Target Limits
7 Rate Corridor On the other hand, on October 23 the People's Bank of
 China (PBoC) reduced both its monetary policy
5
 interest rate (the one-year deposits rate), by 0.25 p.p. to

3 1.5%, as well as the reserve requirement ratio applicable to major
 banks, by 0.5 p.p. to 17.5% (see Chart 8.5). These
1
 measures were taken in a framework of activity level deceleration. In effect, third quarter
%1 GDP grew 6.9% y.o.y., the lowest growth rate since

%3 December 2008. For its part, after a slight

Jan%06 Jan%07 Jan%08 Jan%09 Jan%10 Jan%11 Jan%12 Jan%13 Jan%14 Jan%15 recovery in August, September
 inflation
 Source: BCRA based on BCCh decreased by 0.4 p.p. to 1.6% y.o.y.

 Chart 8.5

 Interest Rate and Reserve Requirements, and Inflation Rate and Target
 % %
10 China 22

 20
8

 18

6
 16

4 14

 12
2
 Policy Interest Rate
 10
 Inflation Rate
0
 Inflation Target 8

%2 Reserve Requirement for Major Banks (right axis)6

Jan%06 Jan%07 Jan%08 Jan%09 Jan%10 Jan%11 Jan%12 Jan%13 Jan%14 Jan%15
Source: BCRA based on PBoC. The PBoC does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, the Chinese government has an annual target that
is currently 3.5%.

 139. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Oct%14 Oct%15 Sep%15 Monthly Last 12 Dec%14
 months

Monetary Base 544,588 533,353 442,861 401,131 2.1% 35.8%
 Monetary Circulation 422,273 413,949 338,425 306,366 2.0% 37.8%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 382,741 377,497 299,390 275,340 1.4% 39.0%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 39,530 36,451 39,034 31,024 8.4% 27.4%
 Cancellation Checks 1.4 1.8 0.9 0.0 -22.9% -
 Current account in the BCRA 122,314 119,404 104,436 94,765 2.4% 29.1%

Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 19,082 17,135 15,333 18,834 11.4% 1.3%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 348,913 358,810 265,505 245,012 -2.8% 42.4%
 In banks 257,224 268,196 200,644 183,398 -4.1% 40.3%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 330,477 341,031 259,788 237,971 -3.1% 38.9%
 In dollars 1,931 1,888 668 727 2.3% 165.6%

 NOBAC 0 0 0 860 - -

BCRA International Reserves (5) 28,106 33,423 30,233 27,570 -15.9% 1.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,053,658 1,028,766 840,058 783,701 2.4% 34.4%
 Current account (2) 303,614 291,902 275,630 233,689 4.0% 29.9%
 Savings account 217,958 215,699 175,719 161,027 1.0% 35.4%
 Fixed-term non-CER adjustable 492,361 482,940 356,281 358,125 2.0% 37.5%
 Fixed-term CER adjustable 10 10 8 8 0.3% 25.0%
 Other deposits (3) 39,715 38,216 32,420 30,852 3.9% 28.7%

 Private sector deposits 820,684 803,431 624,701 587,852 2.1% 39.6%

 Public sector deposits 232,973 225,335 215,357 195,849 3.4% 19.0%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 10,334 10,059 8,788 8,246 2.7% 25.3%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 751,847 720,969 590,814 565,147 4.3% 33.0%
Loans to the private sector 698.256 669.886 549.787 522.642 4.2% 33.6%
 Advances 85.190 83.758 66.782 67.704 1.7% 25.8%
 Documents 171.749 164.480 133.922 125.377 4.4% 37.0%
 Mortgages 51.637 50.851 47.502 46.904 1.5% 10.1%
 Pledges 37.852 36.583 32.700 32.592 3.5% 16.1%
 Personal 152.254 146.776 117.247 111.969 3.7% 36.0%
 Credit cards 153.672 142.545 110.982 100.062 7.8% 53.6%
 Others 45.902 44.893 40.651 38.034 2.2% 20.7%

 Loans to the public sector 53.591 51.083 41.027 42.504 4.9% 26.1%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.721 4.026 3.331 3.796 7.6% 2.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + checking accounts in pesos) 686.356 669.400 575.021 509.030 2.5% 34.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 904.314 885.099 750.740 670.057 2.2% 35.0%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.436.400 1.406.265 1.139.449 1.059.042 2.1% 35.6%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.539.920 1.505.715 1.217.403 1.131.420 2.3% 36.1%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private checking accounts in 573.231 563.750 459.757 425.340 1.7% 34.8%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 773.554 760.522 621.075 568.934 1.7% 36.0%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.203.427 1.180.930 924.092 863.193 1.9% 39.4%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.294.266 1.263.753 988.611 925.108 2.4% 39.9%

 14 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 11.235 2.1% 27.554 5.3% 101.727 23.0% 143.457 35.8%
 Financial sector -1.951 -0.4% 566 0.1% -3.608 -0.8% -148 0.0%
 Public sector 18.949 3.6% 51.097 9.9% 136.037 30.7% 177.916 44.4%
 Private external sector -23.830 -4.5% -49.033 -9.5% -25.900 -5.8% -21.305 -5.3%
 BCRA securities 14.906 2.8% 21.506 4.2% -7.437 -1.7% -13.978 -3.5%
 Others 3.160 0.6% 3.418 0.7% 2.635 0.6% 972 0.2%

International Reserves of the BCRA -5.317 -15.9% -5.765 -17.0% -2.126 -7.0% 537 1.9%
 Foreign exchange market intervention -2.523 -7.5% -5.233 -15.5% -2.628 -8.7% -2.081 -7.5%
 Payment to international organizations -261 -0.8% -523 -1.5% -1.632 -5.4% -1.548 -5.6%
 Other public sector operations 3.529 10.6% 3.874 11.4% 7.456 24.7% 11.282 40.9%
 Minimum cash 916 2.7% 1.065 3.1% 507 1.7% 694 2.5%
 Rest (including exchange rate valuation) -6.978 -20.9% -4.947 -14.6% -5.828 -19.3% -7.811 -28.3%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
# RESERVE REQUIREMENT INTEGRATION

Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15
 (1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.3 11.3 11.3
 Integration 11.5 11.5 11.5
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 65.8 65.6 65.1
 30 to 59 days 21.2 22.2 22.7
 60 to 89 days 7.1 6.2 6.8
 90 to 179 days 4.7 4.9 4.3
 more than 180 days 1.1 1.2 1.2

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 40.4 40.2 40.9
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 78.3 74.8 73.1
 Position (2) 37.9 34.6 32.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 51.4 50.8 48.7
 30 to 59 days 20.0 22.7 21.9
 60 to 89 days 11.8 10.5 14.0
 90 to 179 days 11.7 10.8 9.9
 180 to 365 days 5.1 5.1 5.4
 more than 365 days 0.0 0.1 0.1

(1) Estimated data on Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 15Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15 Dec%14 Oct%14

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 25.12 21.92 22.76 21.83 21.06
 Amount traded 3,573 3,263 3,415 2,176 2,303

Fixed-Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.40 21.16 20.70 19.97 19.46
 60 days or more 24.05 23.73 23.93 23.12 22.34
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.07 18.78 18.00 17.81 18.06
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.56 21.15 20.95 19.98 20.01

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.77 1.72 1.70 0.88 0.85
 60 days or more 2.49 2.57 2.48 1.67 1.45
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.49 1.41 1.42 0.85 0.81
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 2.23 2.28 2.25 1.02 1.21

 Active Interest Rates Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15 Dec%14 Oct%14

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.79 23.69 23.63 24.00 21.93
 Amount traded (total maturities) 688 642 616 377 316

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 32.15 30.31 30.50 30.86 31.02
 Unsecured promissory notes 26.42 25.24 26.14 26.15 27.47
 Mortgages 21.66 23.64 21.64 22.30 21.87
 Pledges 23.52 24.49 24.54 26.35 26.33
 Personal loans 36.93 36.73 36.55 37.70 37.49
 Credit cards s/d 39.50 40.09 42.74 39.39

 Overdrafts on current account - 1 to 7 days - with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 27.87 24.47 25.17 24.31 25.27

 International Interest Rates Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15 Dec%14 Oct%14

LIBOR
 1 month 0.19 0.20 0.20 0.16 0.15
 6 months 0.53 0.54 0.52 0.34 0.32

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.63 0.71 0.68 0.61 0.43
 10 years 2.06 2.16 2.16 2.20 2.29

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 11.70 11.03

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 16Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15 Dec%14 Oct%14

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 18.48 18.00 18.00 13.00 12.74
 Liabilities 7 days 20.48 20.00 20.00 14.00 13.71
 Assets 7 days 24.48 24.00 24.00 17.00 16.65

Total REPO trading round repurchase agreement rates
 1 day 21.67 20.02 20.07 16.33 17.40
 7 days 24.70 20.27 20.09 15.01 14.46

Amount traded in REPO round repurchase agreements (daily average) 16,418 12,656 15,495 12,550 14,891

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o
 2 months s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o
 3 months 26.71 25.95 25.93 26.84 26.86
 9 months s/o s/o s/o 29.08 s/o
 12 months s/o s/o s/o 29.29 29.29

NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)
 200 days BADLAR Private Banks s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o

LEBAC rates in dollars segment V (1)
 1 month 3.25 3.25 3.25 2.50 2.50
 3 months 3.90 3.90 3.90 3.00 3.00
 6 months 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.50 3.50
 12 months 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.00 4.00

Amount traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 2,902 3,482 3,418 3,518 2,525

 Foreign Exchange Market Oct%15 Sep%15 Aug%15 Dec%14 Oct%14
Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 9.48 9.36 9.24 8.55 8.48
 Retail 9.51 9.38 9.26 8.55 8.49

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 10.05 9.53 9.36 8.76 8.74
 ROFEX 1 month 9.63 9.50 9.38 8.73 8.60
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 6.116 3.929 3.851 2.413 1.815

Real (Pesos x Real) 2.44 2.40 2.63 3.24 3.46

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 10.64 10.52 10.30 10.54 10.74

 Capital Markets Oct'15 Sep'15 Aug'15 Dec'14 Oct'14

MERVAL
 Index 11.154 10.433 10.980 8.563 10.565
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 273 183 167 174 282

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ Foreign Law NY) 146.0 148.3 141.3 111.7 125.7
 BONAR X (US$) 142.8 144.1 139.9 126.6 134.7
 DISCOUNT ($) 90.0 81.2 78.3 72.3 65.3

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR X Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 794 856 904 975 1.396
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 563 580 573 502 427

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 1710. Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LCIP: Credit Line for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, negotiable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, negotiable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, negotiable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 18
