# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2016

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. Interest Rates | Page 4

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates | Page 4

 Market Interest Rates | Page 5

3. Monetary Aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on July 6, 2016. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision. 1. Synthesis¹
• The Central Bank's policy during the disinflation period consists of setting an expected real interest rate that is sufficiently positive so that inflation decreases at the desired pace. According to the Monetary Policy plan presented in April, this implies reaching the last quarter of 2016 with monthly inflation rates close to 1.5%.

• In June, the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INDEC) once again published reliable inflation data. It released a consumer price index for the City of Buenos Aires and Greater Buenos Aires. According to this indicator, in May prices increased 4.2% compared to April, as a result of a weighted average between a 2.7% reading in core inflation and increases of 8.7% and 4.3% in regulated and seasonal prices, respectively. Considering its greater coverage, the Central Bank will use the INDEC index to evaluate inflation performance and the results of its monetary policy, until a national-scope price index becomes available. In any case, it will continue monitoring other sources of price information, both public and private, with monthly and weekly frequency.

• The Central Bank considers that during June the disinflation trend continued on the path leading to its objectives for this year. The increase in core inflation in May in the City of Buenos Aires was not sufficient to alter that assessment, in the presence of other robust indicators that revealed a slowdown for June. Additionally, inflation expectations surveys from consultancies forecast for the rest of the year a disinflation similar to what the Central Bank seeks. The monetary authority will continue acting with caution, maintaining its contractionary bias and, in particular, monitoring that no significant or lasting alterations occur in the downward trend of underlying inflation or in inflation expectations.

• Taking into account all available information, in June the Central Bank reduced its main reference interest rate, corresponding to the 35-day LEBAC, on four occasions, for a total of 3.5 percentage points; bringing it to 30.75% at the end of the month. In turn, it arranged a reduction of the same magnitude for the interest rates of its repurchase operations. It should be noted that, to evaluate the bias of monetary policy, the nominal interest rate for each term must be compared with the inflation projected for the corresponding period. In particular, during a disinflation process, the 35-day LEBAC interest rate should be compared with the expected inflation trend for that same period, without considering transitory factors.

• In the money market, the shortest-term interest rates – mainly those operated in interbank markets and those applied to loans granted through advances of up to 7 days – exhibited a downward trend in line with the decrease in the policy rate throughout the month, and always within the interest rate corridor established by the Central Bank in the repurchase market. In turn, passive interest rates also followed the evolution of the 35-day LEBAC interest rate.

• In June, there was an increase in bank reserves as a consequence of the increase in reserve requirement coefficients for peso deposits. Thus, the increase in current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank to meet the higher reserve requirements explained approximately 70% of the monthly increase in the monetary base. The Central Bank's foreign exchange purchases, from both the private and public sectors, were the main source of monetary creation that allowed for supplying the greater demand for primary money. Part of the expansion associated with these operations was sterilized mainly through the placement of LEBACs.
• In a period in which loans in pesos to the private sector continued to decelerate, the increase in peso deposits allowed financial entities to meet the higher reserve requirements and also increased their liquidity held in LEBAC. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with this entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased 2.9 percentage points compared to the previous month, reaching 40.5%.

• The purchases of foreign currency carried out by the Central Bank, added to the income associated with debt placements, mainly from provincial governments, allowed international reserves to grow by US$336 million in the month, ending the period at US$30,507 million. On the other hand, this month the Central Bank finished canceling the future dollar contracts that had begun in 2015. Thus, the Central Bank's balance sheet continued to consolidate, both through the increase in liquid assets in foreign currency and through the extinction of these contracts.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 3 2. Interest Rates2

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates

 The Central Bank's policy during the disinflation period consists of setting an expected real interest rate that is sufficiently positive so that inflation is reduced at the desired pace. According to the Monetary Policy plan presented in April, this implies arriving at the last quarter of 2016 with monthly inflation rates close to 1.5%.

 To evaluate the inflation reduction process, the Central Bank uses different indicators from both public and private sources. To these indicators is added the Consumer Price Index which, as of June, began to be released by the National Institute of Statistics and Censuses (INDEC), for the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area. This index registered in May an increase of 4.2% compared to the previous month; resulting from the weighted average between a 2.7% core inflation figure and increases of 8.7% and 4.3% in regulated and seasonal prices, respectively. Regarding the rest of the indicators that had been used, the Buenos Aires City index became known, which in May showed a monthly increase of 5%, and reduces to 3.3% when excluding regulated and seasonal prices. In turn, various cost indicators showed increases slightly above 2%3.

 The Central Bank considers that during June the reduction in inflation continued to be compatible with the path leading to its objectives for this year. At the same time, surveys of inflation expectations indicate that consulting firms forecast for the rest of the year a disinflation similar to that sought by the Central Bank.

 Taking these elements into account, the Central Bank decided to reduce its monetary policy interest rate, the one corresponding to 35-day LEBACs, on four occasions throughout June, for a total of 3.5 percentage points, bringing it to 30.75% at the end of the month. It is worth mentioning that, in order to determine the monetary policy rate, the Central Bank projects the expected course of prices, focusing mainly on trend factors. To evaluate the bias of monetary policy, the nominal interest rate for each term must be compared with the inflation projected for the corresponding period. In particular, during a disinflation process, the 35-day LEBAC interest rate must be compared with the expected trend in inflation for that same period, once transitory factors are discounted; and not with inflation expected at 12 months, since it is expected that inflation and nominal interest rates will decrease over time.

 In the primary market, the interest rates of LEBACs with longer terms experienced, as in the previous month, smaller declines than those exhibited by shorter-term instruments, which generated a flatter yield curve slope. In the last auction of the

---

**FOOTNOTES:**

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annualized nominal rates (TNA).

3 The Basic Domestic Price Index at wholesale, which excludes price movements originating from tax policy, showed a monthly variation of 2.3%. The Construction Cost Index for Greater Buenos Aires increased 2.2%, following a high seasonal increase in April associated with wage negotiations in the sector.
TNA% millions $ Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market
(35-day term securities, daily data) month, the cut-off rate of the 252-day LEBAC was located at
42 18,000
27%, 2.5 p.p. below its level at the end of May (see
Amount operated by BCRA in LECE round (right axis) 16,000
40 Primary Market Rates Graph 2.1).
Secondary Market Rates
38 14,000

12,000 In the secondary market the Central Bank continued to
36
10,000 have an active presence, with the objective of inducing
34
8,000 an alignment of the rates of its securities to the level es-

32 tablished in the primary market. Operations were
6,000

30 4,000 carried out with the 35-day security, with sales made
28 in the month for a total of VN 69,500 million approxi-
2,000
mately (see Graph 2.2).
26 0
11-Dec 10-Jan 09-Feb 10-Mar 09-Apr 09-May 08-Jun

Source: BCRA In a manner consistent with what was established for the
interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC, the Central Bank deci-
ded to reduce the interest rates of its repo operations by
a total of 3.5 p.p., both for 1-day operations and for 7-day
operations. In this way, at the end of June the interest
rates for 1-day passive and active repo operations were lo-
cated at 26.50%-35.50% and those corresponding to 7-day
repos at 27.50%-36.50%, respectively.
Graph 2.3
Interest Rates of Call Operations, Advances, Interest Rates of the Market
% Repos of the BCRA and LEBAC
45 (rate weighted average by amount)
Short-term interest rates exhibited a downward trend
40
in line with the reduction of the policy rate throughout
35 the month and always within the interest rate corridor
established by the Central Bank in the repo market (see
30 Graph 2.3).

25 LEBAC Primary Market at 35 days
1-Day Active Repos In interfinancial markets, at the beginning of June in-
20 1-Day Passive Repos
terest rates registered temporary increases associated
1-Day Call
Advances up to 7D - more than $10 M - Private Banks with the start of a new computation period of the Mini-
15 mum Cash regime, which involved an increase in re-
quirements on deposits (see Banking Liquidity Section).
10
Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Subsequently, as was noted, interest rates showed a
Source: BCRA
downward trajectory. Thus, the interest rate on 1 business-
day call operations ended the month at 27.7%, accumu-
lating a decrease of 4.2 p.p. compared to the end of May.
In turn, the interest rate on 1 business-day operations
between financial entities in the guaranteed market

Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 5 Graph 2.4 (REPO round) was located at 26% at the end of June, ex-
hibiting a monthly decrease of 5.3 p.p. The average

p.p. Monthly Average Variation Personal and Chattel Mortgage Loans
0.6 daily amount negotiated in both markets increased by
TNA (daily data)
% 0.2 Personal Chattel Mortgage
approximately $600 million compared to the previous
50 -0.2 -0.3 month, totaling around $9,000 million.

-0.6
45 -1.0 -0.8 The rest of the active interest rates, intended princi-
40 pally for financing families, showed slight declines.
35 The average interest rate on personal loans was located
30 at 42.3%, decreased 0.8 p.p. compared to May. Mean-
25 while, the interest rate corresponding to chattel
20 mortgage loans averaged 25.3% in June, showing a de-
cline of 0.3 p.p. (see Graph 2.4).
15
1-Nov-15 1-Dec-15 1-Jan-16 1-Feb-16 1-Mar-16 1-Apr-16 1-May-16 1-Jun-16
For its part, passive interest rates also accompanied
the decline in the monetary policy interest rate. In partic-
ular, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term depos-
its of $1 million and more, of 30-35 days term – of pri-
Graph 2.5 vate banks, was located at 26.6% at the end of
# SHORT-TERM INTEREST RATES
(daily data)

end of June, accumulating a decline of 4.6 p.p. with respect to the end of May. Thus, after having remained stable during the past month, in June it maintained a lower spread with respect to the interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC. On the other hand, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of maturity decreased in a less pronounced manner, accumulating a monthly decline of 2.2 p.p. and positioning itself at 25% at the close of June (see Chart 2.5).

**LEBAC 35 days**
**Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks**
**BADLAR private banks**

[Chart showing data from Dec-15 through Jun-16]

Source: BCRA

## 3. Monetary Aggregates¹

In June, approximately 70% of the monthly increase in the monetary base was associated with the increase in bank reserves as a consequence of the increase in reserve requirement coefficients that began to take effect in the period⁴. This regulatory change implied an acceleration of the year-on-year growth rate of the monetary base of almost 5 p.p. Thus, if its effect were excluded, this aggregate would have decelerated around 3 p.p. with respect to May. The monthly increase in base money demand was supplied mainly through net foreign currency purchases by the Central Bank, both from the private sector and from the public sector, which in the month totaled US$1,600 million. Part of the monetary expansion associated with said operations was sterilized, fundamentally, through the placement of LEBAC and NOBAC with the National Treasury and other operations with the public (see Chart 3.1). On the other hand, it should be noted that at the end of this month the Central Bank finished canceling the dollar futures contracts that had been initiated in 2015. Between December 2015 and June 2016, the cancellation of these operations represented an accumulated loss of $53,719 million from the losing positions, the effect of which was absorbed by the Central Bank to avoid greater inflationary pressures⁵.

**Chart 3.1**
**thousands of Factors Explaining the Monetary Base**
**millions of $ (June 2016, on average)**

[Bar chart showing: Private Sector and Other, Treasury, Advances, Rest, Change, Reserves, Foreign Currency Purchases, LEBAC and NOBAC Operations with National Treasury, Other Public Circulation Operations, Bank Reserves]

Source: BCRA

The remaining monetary aggregates continued to moderate their expansion rate (see Chart 3.2). In effect, while M3⁶ reduced its year-on-year variation by 1 p.p. to 23.6%, the transactional money of the private sector (M2 Private⁷) decreased its year-on-year growth by 2 p.p., to 21%. This latter aggregate registered a monthly increase of 2.7% (0.6% in seasonally adjusted terms), with increases in currency in circulation and, mainly, in demand deposits. Fixed-term deposits of the private sector increased 2.8% in the month, with advances confirmed in both the retail and wholesale segments (see Chart 3.3). Placements of less than $1 million grew 3.9% (57% y.a.), maintaining the dynamism they have been showing since late 2015. Meanwhile, wholesale segment deposits reversed the downward trend they had shown during previous months. Thus, deposits of more than $1 million presented a

**Chart 3.2**
**% Monetary Aggregates**
**(year-on-year variation)**

[Line chart showing Monetary Base, M2 Private, and M3 from Dec-12 through Jun-16]

Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and total deposits in pesos.
Source: BCRA

**Chart 3.3**
**thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
**millions of $ (evolution of daily balance)**

Less than $1 million
More than $1 million

[Chart showing data evolution]

---

⁴ See Communication "A" 5980.

⁵ Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 6
200 growth throughout the month, in a period in which the
 reduction in the margin between the interest rates paid
180 for wholesale fixed-term deposits and that earned by
 the shortest-term LEBAC consolidated (see section
160 Market Interest Rates), and in which the migration of
 Jun-15 Aug-15 Oct-15 Dec-15 Feb-16 Apr-16 Jun-16 private sector savings from fixed-term placements to
 Source: BCRA Central Bank securities ceased. Therefore, wholesale deposits
 experienced an average monthly increase of 1.5% in
 June (accumulating a 6% y.o.y. growth).

 Chart 3.4
 thousands of Foreign Currency Deposits of the Private Sector
 millions of US$
 (daily balance)
 15 On the other hand, peso deposits of the public sector
 13 30-Jun-16 increased 1.7%, with increases in sight placements
 12.0 and those agreed at fixed terms. In this way, the total
 11 of peso deposits (including both public and private
 sector) increased 2.8% in June, exhibiting a year-on-
9 year variation of 24.5%.

 7 The average monthly balance of foreign currency de-
 posits increased 7.9%, driven by public sector place-
5 ments, which grew as a result of debt placements by
 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 several provinces. Private sector placements maintained
 Source: BCRA their balance relatively stable, around US$12,000 million
 (see Chart 3.4).
5 See Press Note at: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/Prensa_comunicacion/Nota_Prensa_30_06_16.pdf
6 Includes cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos, and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
7 Includes cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos, and sight deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 7 Chart 4.1 Finally, the broader monetary aggregate, M3*8, in-
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector creased 3.2%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
 % % 31%.
 6 Monthly Variation 60 Year-on-year variation (right axis)
 5 50
 4. Loans
4 40
 3 30 In June, and in line with what occurred throughout the
 2 20 first half of the year, loans to the private sector showed
 differentiated behaviors depending on the currency in
1 10 which they were granted, observing a partial substitu-
 0 0 tion of peso financing by foreign currency loans.
 -1 -10
 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16
 Source: BCRA In the peso segment, loans increased 0.7% ($5,640
 million), markedly below what was observed in the same
 month of 2015. Consequently, the year-on-year varia-
Chart 4.2 tion declined 2.3 p.p. and stood at 26.6% (see Chart
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 4.1). Among the different credit lines, advances, per-
thousands of $ % sonal loans, and credit card financing registered the
 (average monthly variation) main declines, partially offset by the decrease in
8,000 60 documents (see Charts 4.2).
6,000 Jun-16. vs. May-16. 50
 Year-on-year variation (right axis)
44.3 Within financing destined essentially for commercial
6,000 40 purposes, advances grew 2.3% ($2,240 million), in a
4,000 29.5 33.3 26.6 month in which companies typically increase their de-
 21.1 22.2 30 mand for short-term financing in order to cover the
2,000 20 payment of the mid-year bonus (SAC). This increase
 11.8 was smaller than that of May but was among the high-
 0 10
 0 est of this year. In year-on-year terms, advances grew
-2,000 -10 29.5%. For their part, financing arranged through
-4,000 -13.9 -20 documents continued to show
-6,000 -30

Source: BCRA

Chart 4.3
Thousands of Single-Signature Documents to the Private Sector thousands of
 millions of $ a downward trend. In the last month they decreased
 (daily balance) millions of US$
 130 4.9 by 2% ($3,570 million), while the year-over-year variation
 Pesos
 Foreign currency (right axis) fell by around 5 percentage points to reach
 120 4.2
 21.1%. This is explained essentially by the behavior
 110 3.5
 that single-signature documents have been showing. In this
 sense, it is worth mentioning that the line presents some
 100 2.8
 substitution by single-signature documents denominated in
 dollars, which have exhibited strong dynamism so far this
 90 2.1
 year (see Graphics 4.3).
 80 1.4

 70 0.7 In the second half of the year, the Central Bank will
 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16 Jun-16 continue promoting the "Financing Line for Production
 Source: BCRA and Financial Inclusion" (LFPIF). In this regard,

8 Includes M3 and deposits from the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
9 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans from entities' portfolios to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 8 Graph 4.4 it increased the financing quota to be granted under this line
 % thousands to 15.5% of private sector deposits in pesos
 Chattel Loans and Motor Vehicle Sales of units
 8 Chattel loans (monthly variation) 100 from the month of May10.
 7 Total motor vehicle sales to dealers (right axis) 90

 6 80 Regarding the lines aimed at financing household consumption,
 5 70 personal loans grew 1.8% ($3,140 million), while their
 4 60 year-over-year variation stood at around 33%. These
 3 50 financings moderated their monthly growth rate compared
 2 40 to previous months, in line with expectations due to the
 1 30 proximity of SAC collection, which generally decreases
 0 20 the demand for financing from families.
 -1 10
 On the other hand, credit card financings registered
 -2 0
 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16 moderate growth. Thus, their year-over-year growth rate
 Source: BCRA and ADEFA continued to decelerate, from 44.9% in May to 44.3%
 in June.

 Regarding loans with real collateral, chattel loans registered
 Graph 4.5 a monthly increase of 2.1% ($860 million), similar to the
 millions u$s Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector previous month and one of the highest of the year to date;
 1,000 (variation of monthly average balances) Jan-Jun while the year-over-year variation remained stable at around
 +u$s3,095 22%. In this way, the line shows some recovery, accompanying
 800 the improvement in motor vehicle market sales (see Graphics 4.4).
 600 Single-signature docs Credit cards Others For its part, the balance of mortgage loans remained stable
 400 and in the last 12 months accumulated an increase close to
 200 12%. It is worth noting that from May some banks began to
 0 grant mortgage loans denominated in Housing Units (UVIs).
 The interest rate on these loans hovered around 5% and their
 -200 average term was around 15 years.
 -400

 -600
Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16
 Source: BCRA
 As mentioned previously, loans in foreign currency to the
 private sector continue growing at a very good pace. In the
 first half of the year, the monthly average balance doubled,
 going from US$2,900 million in December 2015 to almost
 US$6,000 million in June of this year. In particular, in June
 they presented Graph 5.1 an increase of US$690 million. This increase was
 led by documents on sole signature, a line strongly
 % of Peso Liquidity of Financial Entities associated with foreign trade (see Charts
 deposits
45 4.5).
 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity
 39.5 39.2 38.8 38.0 36.9 36.7 36.9 37.9 38.640.5
40 37.3 36.8 37.6
 5. Liquidity of Financial
35 Entities
30 21.1
 20.1
25 The increase in reserve requirement coefficients ordered for
 June was equivalent, overall, to 2% of total deposits for
20 2.0
 1.7 4.2 the peso segment. Given that the monthly increase in
15 4.5
 deposits far exceeded that of loans, financial entities had
10 an increase in funding that allowed them to integrate the
 11.3 13.3 greater reserve requirement and furthermore, increase their
 5 liquidity held in LEBAC. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio in
 0
 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 local currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account
 of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity
* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA and holdings of LEBAC, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased
 2.9 p.p. with respect to the previous month, reaching 40.5%
10 Communication "A" 5975.
 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 9 (see Chart 5.1). It is estimated that financial entities ended
 June with a surplus in the Minimum Cash position equivalent
 to 0.3% of total peso deposits. It is worth recalling that as of
 July a new increase in reserve requirement coefficients will
 take effect, of the same magnitude as the one that took
 place in the month under analysis.

 For its part, the liquidity ratio in foreign currency (sum of
 cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
 Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC in
 foreign currency, as a percentage of dollar deposits) contin-
 ued decreasing (although it remains at elevated levels). This
 occurs in a context of strong growth in dollar loans. In June,
 the broad liquidity ratio averaged 84%, 6.8 p.p. below that
 observed in May. The higher reserve requirements, which also
 began to apply to deposits in foreign currency in this period,
 motivated an increase in the balance of current accounts at
 the BCRA, which was more than offset by lower holdings of
 LEBAC in dollars by financial entities.

 Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 Exchange Market1
 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of U$S
60

50 In June, international reserves showed an increase of
 US$336 million, ending the period at US$30,507 million
40 (see Chart 6.1). The monthly increase was explained
 thousands of fundamentally by purchases of foreign currency by the
 millions of U$S Central Bank in the foreign exchange market and the
30 36
 Dec-17-15 inflow of funds in foreign currency associated with debt
 34
 32 Unified placements, mainly of
 20 Exchange
 30
 28 Market
10 26 provincial governments. These movements were par-
 24
 01- 01- 01- 01- 01- 01- 01- 01- tially offset by the payment of public debt by the
 Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
0 National Government.
Ene-02 Ene-04 Ene-06 Ene-08 Ene-10 Ene-12 Ene-14 Ene-16
Source: BCRA
 
 Facing the growing volatility in international financial
 markets as a consequence of the result of the referendum
 through which the United Kingdom approved its exit from
 the European Union (Brexit), there was a greater risk
 aversion that prompted falls in the main stock indices,
 commodities and emerging currencies, including the
 Argentine peso.

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 10 Chart 7.1 Although the peso's decline against the US dollar
 
 % Expected Volatility in the Stock Market in the USA and was greater than that experienced by other emerging
 60 Eurozone
 (VIX and VStoxx Index) market currencies and countries, the Central Bank considers
 55 that the peso's depreciation in this context is desirable
 50 VIX Index (S&P 500)
 VStoxx Index 50 (Eurozone) to cushion negative effects of an external shock on the
 45 real economy. One of the essential virtues of the
 40 exchange rate regime adopted by this institution lies
 35 precisely in the flexibility it provides to the national
 30 economy to face external events. The US dollar
 25 quotation, considering the reference exchange rate,
 20 ended June at $14.92, showing an increase of 6.5%
 15 compared to the level at the end of May.

 10
 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15
Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg data 7. Main Measures of Policy
 of Other Central Banks

 The most notable event in June was Brexit. This
 generated a widespread disruption of global markets
 Chart 7.2 (see Chart 7.1) and led several central banks to
 In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation manifest their willingness to take whatever measures
 of jobs were necessary. Furthermore, prior to Brexit, during the
400 Employment month the policy committees of the US Federal
350 6-month moving average Reserve (FED), the Bank of England (BoE) and the
300 European Central Bank (ECB) met. Within the region,
 only the Central Bank of the Republic of Colombia
250 (BRC) modified its monetary policy interest rate. For
200 its part, the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) left its
150 reference interest rate unchanged.
100

 50 It should be recalled that during May there had been
 0 signs that the FED would be close to making a new
 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15increase in its reference interest rate target (the second
Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov since June 2006), but the creation of non-agricultural
 employment during that month (4 times lower than
 what the private sector projected, see Chart 7.2) along
 Chart 7.3 with growing fears about the effects of Brexit, led the
 FED's Open Market Committee (FOMC) to leave the
 Interest Rate, Unemployment Rate, Inflation Target and Policy £ Thousands
 % Millions federal funds rate (FFR) objective unchanged in its
 11 Unconventional Monetary Policy 450 June 15 meeting. Following the positive vote on
 Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis) England
 Unemployment Rate 400 Brexit (known on June 24), the chances of a new
 Inflation Target
 9 Inflation Rate 350 FFR increase in 2016 decreased markedly. Furthermore,
 Monetary Policy Rate
 7 300 the FED issued a statement where it states that after
 Brexit it is closely monitoring the situation in
 5 250 international financial markets and that, if necessary,
 200 it will provide dollar liquidity to foreign markets
 3 150 through swap agreements in force with other central
 100 banks.
 1
 50
-1 0 For its part, on June 16, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the BoE decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate (the Bank Rate) at 0.5% and
Ene-06 Ene-07 Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 Ene-15 Ene-16

Source: BCRA based on data from bankofengland.co.uk and ONS.gov.uk its asset purchase program at £375,000 million, as expected (see Chart 7.3).
Additionally, the BoE authorities continued warning about the possible negative impact that Brexit would have on the United Kingdom's economy. After the referendum result was known, the BoE stated that it was implementing contingency plans that had been appropriately prepared, and that it was monitoring the situation with the English Treasury Department and with other central banks. Furthermore, the MPC stated that all its liquidity injection tools were operational. In this regard, during June the BoE conducted 4 liquidity auctions through its Indexed Long-Term Repo operations (ILTRO - it usually conducts only one per month) and in the last auction -post-Brexit- it received the highest demand for liquidity since the new ILTRO scheme has been operational (February 2014). Additionally, various private sector analysts expect a reduction in the Bank Rate, which has been maintained at current levels since March 2009.

Chart 7.4

For its part, in its meeting on June 2, the Governing Council (GC) of the ECB decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, which applies to Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the historical minimum of 0%. In turn, it maintained the corridor, leaving the lending facility interest rate at 0.25% and the deposit facility interest rate at -0.4%. Furthermore, it launched its Corporate Sector Purchase Programme (CSPP) which will begin to be operational on June 8 and from June 22 it began to conduct new liquidity injection operations through its Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) line.

Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil %

In the region, the BRC decided to increase again the monetary policy interest rate (the base rate for one-day expansion auctions) by 0.25 p.p., to 7.5%, accumulating an increase of 4 p.p. since the tightening cycle began in April 2014 and 1.75 p.p. so far this year. It did this in a context where June inflation was at 8.6%, more than 4 p.p. above the upper limit of the target (3% ± 1 p.p.).

Finally, the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the BCB decided to maintain the target for the Selic rate at 14.25% in a recessionary context and in which inflation continues markedly above target (9.3% in May, 4.5% ± 2 p.p., see Chart 7.4).

Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 12

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages                                    Percentage variations
Main monetary variables and financial system    Jun-15  Jun-16  May-16  Dec-15  Monthly  Last 12 months
Monetary Base                                  618,259  584,173  622,263  488,049    5.8%      26.7%
Monetary Circulation                           459,233  453,005  458,844  375,416    1.4%      22.3%
Banknotes and Coins in public hands            409,029  400,746  408,627  338,547    2.1%      20.8%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities       50,204   52,258   50,217   36,864   -3.9%      36.2%
Settlement Checks                                 0.3     0.6      0.4      0.0   -47.0%        -
Current Account at BCRA                        159,027  131,168  163,418  112,633   21.2%      41.2%
Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 35.985 33.574 33.067 20.676 7,2% 74,0%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 546.313 538.568 325.511 343.554 1,4% 59,0%
 In banks 263.342 272.648 239.287 254.300 -3,4% 3,6%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 539.449 507.271 305.323 328.337 6,3% 64,3%
 In dollars 482 2.201 1.754 1.682 -78,1% -71,3%

 NOBAC 0000--

 BCRA International Reserves (5) 31.485 31.581 24.816 33.680 -0,3% -6,5%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1.191.854 1.159.176 1.151.700 956.949 2,8% 24,5%
 Current account (2) 322.745 320.650 374.962 278.000 0,7% 16,1%
 Savings account 241.432 229.448 244.736 199.290 5,2% 21,1%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER 578.801 562.861 487.974 442.619 2,8% 30,8%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER 21 21 12 10 2,7% 111,7%
 Other deposits (3) 48.854 46.197 44.015 37.029 5,8% 31,9%

 Deposits of the private sector 942.818 914.320 887.580 750.783 3,1% 25,6%

 Deposits of the public sector 249.036 244.855 264.120 206.166 1,7% 20,8%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15.336 14.210 10.579 9.889 7,9% 55,1%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 842.911 837.097 821.536 665.303 0,7% 26,7%

 Loans to the private sector 779.346 773.710 763.673 615.475 0,7% 26,6%
 Advances 101.458 99.215 93.780 78.358 2,3% 29,5%
 Documents 173.985 177.549 192.445 143.684 -2,0% 21,1%
 Mortgage 54.866 54.757 54.270 49.054 0,2% 11,8%
 Pledged 41.899 41.037 39.996 34.278 2,1% 22,2%
 Personal 178.758 175.615 160.780 134.108 1,8% 33,3%
 Credit cards 190.519 187.855 174.753 132.030 1,4% 44,3%
 Others 37.861 37.681 47.650 43.963 0,5% -13,9%

 Loans to the public sector 63.565 63.388 57.863 49.828 0,3% 27,6%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 6.129 5.362 2.935 4.431 14,3% 38,3%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 731.774 721.396 783.590 616.551 1,4% 18,7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 973.207 950.844 1.028.325 815.842 2,4% 19,3%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.600.883 1.559.922 1.560.327 1.295.500 2,6% 23,6%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.820.565 1.764.540 1.686.655 1.389.330 3,2% 31,0%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current account in 617.641 606.725 622.087 515.065 1,8% 19,9%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 842.393 820.546 849.199 696.289 2,7% 21,0%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.315.067 1.296.208 1.089.334 2,8% 24,1%
 in pesos) 1.351.847
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.522.391 1.485.172 1.408.034 1.167.176 2,5% 30,4%

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 13 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 34.087 5,8% 31.380 5,3% -4.003 -0,7% 130.210 26,7%
 Purchase of currency from the private sector and others 18.343 3,1% 33.458 5,7% 28.009 4,8% -59.248 -12,1%
 Purchase of currency from the National Treasury 25.458 4,4% 43.648 7,4% 36.667 6,3% 57.657 11,8%
 Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 11.272 1,9% 55.368 9,4% 68.288 11,7% 181.444 37,2%
 Other public sector operations -1.525 -0,3% -5.736 -1,0% -3.216 -0,6% 4.357 0,9%
 Sterilization (Repos and Securities) -18.438 -3,2% -85.688 -14,6% -166.464 -28,5% -124.030 -25,4%
 Others -1.022 -0,2% -9.670 -1,6% 32.712 5,6% 70.031 14,3%
# INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE BCRA -96 -0.3% 2.623 9.1% 6.669 21.1% -2.195 -6.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.319 4.2% 2.400 8.3% 2.034 6.4% -7.187 -21.3%
 Payment to international organizations -126 -0.4% -600 -2.1% -1.058 -3.4% -1.962 -5.8%
 Other public sector operations -1.094 -3.5% 2.692 9.3% 1.770 5.6% 6.218 18.5%
 Minimum cash 1.670 5.3% 3.838 13.3% 1.709 5.4% 4.120 12.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1.866 -5.9% -5.708 -19.8% 2.214 7.0% -3.383 -10.0%

 1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 13.0 11.0 11.0
 Integration 13.3 11.3 11.3
 Position (2) 0.3 0.2 0.3
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.1 66.6 66.8
 30 to 59 days 21.6 22.1 21.2
 60 to 89 days 5.9 6.3 6.6
 90 to 179 days 3.3 3.2 3.7
 more than 180 days 2.2 1.8 1.7
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 20.2 20.2
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 73.6 66.8 59.9
 Position (2) 49.6 46.6 39.7
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 53.7 55.2 57.3
 30 to 59 days 22.6 19.3 20.4
 60 to 89 days 10.0 12.4 8.9
 90 to 179 days 9.8 9.2 9.7
 180 to 365 days 3.8 3.9 3.7
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.0
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 14 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 31.53 34.45 36.88 25.89 17.93
 Amount traded 3.156 3.280 3.636 2.798 3.144

Fixed-term deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 26.99 28.49 27.90 26.50 20.28
 60 days or more 27.72 29.20 28.63 28.47 22.97
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 27.61 29.31 28.32 25.27 18.27
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 28.95 30.92 30.58 27.54 20.37

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.74 0.69 0.71 2.10 1.63
 60 days or more 1.36 1.22 1.15 3.21 2.59
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.61 0.60 0.63 1.70 1.29
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.79 1.00 0.97 2.57 2.14

 Active Interest Rates Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 30.83 34.74 35.71 30.90 22.95
 Amount traded (total terms) 679 641 594 956 568

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 38.62 40.31 41.09 34.50 28.28
 Documents on signature only 32.06 33.28 33.06 30.61 25.22
 Mortgage loans 26.75 24.21 26.94 22.86 23.58
 Pledge loans 25.34 25.67 26.62 26.00 23.87
 Personal loans 42.31 43.13 42.88 39.00 36.87
 Credit cards n/d 46.14 45.52 40.12 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 34.37 37.17 38.73 30.33 20.16

 International Interest Rates Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

LIBOR
 1 month 0.45 0.44 0.44 0.36 0.19
 6 months 0.94 0.93 0.90 0.77 0.44

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.73 0.81 0.76 0.97 0.68
 10 years 1.64 1.80 1.80 2.35 2.36

FED Funds Rate 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.39 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25 13.70
(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 15 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 28.43 30.00 30.00 20.81 13.00
 Liabilities 7 days 29.43 31.00 31.00 22.81 14.00
 Assets 7 days 38.43 40.00 40.00 27.00 17.00

 Total Repo Floor Rates
 1 day 29.29 31.02 32.24 22.65 14.52
 7 days 28.96 n/a 35.64 22.78 14.91

 Amount Traded in Repo Floor (daily average) 34,268 32,073 22,526 22,708 18,057

 LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month 31.94 36.3 38.0 35.7 n/a
 2 months 30.93 34.7 35.7 34.7 n/a
 3 months 29.78 33.10 34.00 32.31 25.97

 LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/a n/a 0.90 3.22 3.25
 3 months n/a n/a 0.90 3.69 3.90
 6 months n/a n/a n/a 3.75 4.00
 12 months n/a n/a n/a 3.96 4.20

 Amount Traded in LEBAC and NOBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 13,202 12,352 9,293 2,813 3,000

 Foreign Exchange Market Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 14.18 14.12 14.39 11.39 9.04
 Retail 14.23 14.22 14.48 11.51 9.05

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 14.31 14.51 14.72 13.48 9.16
 ROFEX 1 month 14.51 14.45 14.71 12.80 9.17
 Amount Traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 6,662 5,214 6,164 3,856 2,411

 Real (Pesos per Real) 4.16 3.99 4.05 2.93 2.90

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 15.94 15.98 16.34 12.43 10.16

 Capital Market Jun-16 May-16 Apr-16 Dec-15 Jun-15

 MERVAL
 Index 13,497 13,027 13,162 12,849 11,343
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 304 193 220 204 151

 Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 111.1 106.4 117.5 140.5 125.6
 BONAR X (US$) 102.5 101.7 101.8 130.5 129.6
 DISCOUNT ($) 112.2 100.8 101.9 120.6 80.6

 Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR X Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 364 377 456 639 852
 EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina) 541 556 556 580 514

 (1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
 (2) As of 12/22/2015, Dollar-denominated Letters payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for the 1 and 3-month terms, and External segment for the 6 and 12-month terms.
# Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 169. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**MIF:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Index of Stock Prices.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LFPIP:** Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3\*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Agreed Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | June 2016 | BCRA | 17
