# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 10

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 10

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 14

10. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on April 6, 2016. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• During January and February, the Central Bank focused its actions on absorbing excess liquidity, seeking to reconcile the evolution of monetary aggregates with a downward trajectory of the inflation rate. Subsequently, it undertook a gradual migration towards the use of the interest rate as the main instrument of its monetary policy; as countries with inflation targets do, a regime towards which the Central Bank is transitioning. The interest rate that the Central Bank currently sets as a reference is that of the shortest-term LEBAC, through its intervention in both the primary and secondary market. Furthermore, consistent with such rate, this Institution establishes a corridor of interest rates for repurchase agreements.

• Once the interest rate is defined, the monetary base and monetary aggregates increase or decrease in line with market liquidity needs. Therefore, if an expansion of the money supply occurs that is not validated by greater money demand, the additional liquidity will be automatically absorbed via securities or passive repurchase agreements.

• During March, facing the persistence of a high inflation rate, the Central Bank increased by 6.9 percentage points the interest rates of the shortest-term LEBAC cutoff (35 days). The rest of the LEBAC interest rate curve, which resulted from monetary equilibrium, increased between 5.5 percentage points and 3.7 percentage points, according to maturity. This Institution concentrated its participation in the LEBAC secondary market in the shortest-term segment, aligning interest rates with those of the primary market.

• The Central Bank increased by 5 percentage points the interest rates of its repurchase agreement operations during the month. In this way, the interest rates of passive repurchase agreements for 1 and 7-day terms were located at the end of March at 30% and 31%; while those of active repurchase agreements reached 39% and 40% for the same terms. In this period, the interest rate in the call money market was within the repurchase agreement corridor established by the Central Bank.

• The interest rates of the money market partially reproduced the increase in reference interest rates. The BADLAR of private banks showed an increase of 3.6 percentage points compared to the previous month and was located at 29.7%. Among active interest rates, increases were observed in financing implemented through account overdrafts, while the rest of the lines showed heterogeneous behavior.

• Monetary aggregates continued to decelerate their growth rate. The broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) reduced its year-on-year variation by 1.8 percentage points to reach 29.1% and private M2 achieved year-on-year growth of 27.6%, 0.6 percentage points lower than the previous month. For its part, the M3 balance was reduced compared to February, with differentiated behavior among its components. Private sector deposits increased encouraged by term deposits from the private sector which, in turn, grew driven by placements of up to $1 million; in contrast, sight deposits of the private sector remained stable and public sector placements decreased.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector increased 0.7% ($5,680 million), which implied that its year-on-year growth rate moved to 33.3%, 1.7 percentage points below that observed in February. Distinguishing among the different credit lines, those destined to finance essentially household consumption presented increases, while lines with mostly commercial purposes decreased.

• In a period in which total deposits in pesos decreased (due to the fall in public sector placements) and loans, despite their deceleration, increased; the ratio of average March liquidity in pesos of financial entities (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) fell
0.7 percentage points with respect to February, placing it at 37.9%.

• On April 7th, the Central Bank implemented a new modality of savings and loans with the potential to radically change access to housing for Argentine families. With this initiative, it aims to promote development with social equity, one of the mandates of its Charter. The instruments under this new modality will be denominated in Housing Units (UVIs), whose initial value as of March 31, 2016 is $14,053, equivalent to one thousandth of the average construction cost of a benchmark square meter. The value of the UVI will be updated daily by the Reference Stabilization Coefficient (CER). The enabling of savings in UVIs will place within the reach of families a savings instrument protected from inflation. Meanwhile, the launch of the credit market in UVIs has the potential to multiply access to mortgage credits (see Press Release P 50727).
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 3 2. Monetary Aggregates 1

 Chart 2.1 During January and February, the Central Bank focused its ac-
 % Monetary Aggregates
 45 (year-on-year variation) tions on absorbing excess liquidity, seeking to make
 compatible the evolution of monetary aggregates

 40 with a downward trajectory of the inflation rate.
 Subsequently, it undertook a gradual migration towards
 35
 the use of the interest rate as the main instrument

 30 of its monetary policy; as countries with inflation targets
 do, a regime towards which the Central Bank is transition-

 25 ing.

 Monetary Base
 20 M2 private
 M3
 Beyond this change in focus, in March the monetary

 15 aggregates continued to show a reduction in their

 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 growth rate. In effect, the broadest aggregate in pesos
 Note: M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos.
 Source: BCRA (M32) reduced 1.8 percentage points its year-on-year variation
 reaching 29.1%, while the transactional money of the private sector (M2 Private 3) moderated its
 
 Chart 2.2 year-on-year expansion velocity by 0.6 percentage points, placing itself at 27.6% (see Chart 2.1). This latter
 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector aggregate registered a monthly reduction of 0.4%, with
 millions of $
 245 (evolution of daily balance) heterogeneous behaviors among its components: decline in
 cash in the hands of the public and stability in sight
 235 Less than $1 million
 deposits.
 More than $1 million
 225
 Private sector fixed-term deposits showed a monthly
 215 growth of 1.8% and accumulated a year-on-year increase
 205 close to 43.9%. The monthly increase was explained by
 placements of less than $1 million, whose average bal-
 195 ance grew 4.7% compared to the February average, main-
 185 taining the dynamism of recent months (see Chart 2.2).
 For its part, wholesale segment deposits showed a reduc-
 175
 tion of 1.1%, partially influenced by sustained demand
 165
 for LEBACs by investors that are not financial entities.
 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16
 Source: BCRA
 With respect to public sector deposits, they presented
 a reduction of 6.4%, with declines in sight deposits that
 were partially offset by the increase in fixed-term place-
 Chart 2.3 ments. In this way, the total of deposits in pesos (includ-
 thousands of Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base ing those of the public sector as well as those of the
 millions of $ private sector) decreased 0.8% in March, exhibiting a
 30 (March 2016, on average) year-on-year variation of 29.1%.

 25 The monetary base presented a transitory acceleration
 20 in its expansion rate in March, reaching a year-on-year
 15 variation of 29.5% (see Chart 2.1), originating funda-
 10 mentally from regulatory reasons. Once concluded the
 5
 0
 -5
 -10
 Purchases of Public LEBAC and Passes Other Circulation Reserve
 Foreign Sector NO LEBAC Public in Banking
 Currency Sector Sector
 Source: BCRA

2 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.
3 Includes cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.4 the quarterly position of Minimum Cash (in effect between
thousands of Foreign Currency Deposits of the Private Sector (December and February) and with the start of the new
millions of US$ computation period in March, financial entities recom-
(daily balance) posed their bank reserves through the reduction
15
of their positions in LEBAC and in repos with the Central
13 31-Mar-16 Bank (see Chart 2.3).

11.8
11 For its part, the monthly average balance of foreign

9 currency deposits increased 6.5%, with increases in
placements of the public sector and those of the private

7 sector. The former were driven by the inflow of funds
from the debt placement of the Province of Buenos Aires.

5 Regarding private sector deposits, they reached at the
end of March a balance of US$11,840 million, which is the

Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16highest level since May 2012 (see Chart 2.4).

Source: BCRA
Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*4, remained
stable, presenting a year-on-year variation of 36.4%.

Chart 3.1

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 3. Loans
% %
6 Monthly Variation 60

Year-on-year Variation (right axis) In March, loans in pesos to the private sector continued
5 50
to show limited variations. In the last month they grew
4 40 0.7% ($5,680 million), an increase that was moderate in
3 30 relation to that observed in the same month of previous
2 20 years. Consequently, the year-on-year growth rate con-
1 10 tinued to decelerate (-1.7 p.p.) and stood at around 33%
0 0 (see Chart 3.1). Distinguishing between the different
-1 -10 credit lines, those aimed essentially at financing con-

Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16sumption by families were those that explained the growth
Source: BCRA of loans (see Chart 3.2).

Among the lines aimed at financing family consumption,
Chart 3.2 credit card financings showed an increase of 2% ($3,600
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector million), lower than that verified in March 2015. Never-
(contribution by line to growth in the months of March) theless, the year-on-year variation was around 50%, re-
% maining at a historically high level (see Chart 3.3). On
2.5
the other hand, personal loans grew 2.2% ($3,650 mil-
2.0 lion), somewhat more than the previous month, although
1.5 said increase was lower than that recorded in the same
1.0 period of last year, whereby the year-on-year variation
0.5 decreased 0.3 p.p. and stood at 35.5%.
0.0 Personal and Credit Cards
Mortgages and Pledge Loans
-0.5 Advances, Documents and Other Loans Financings aimed mostly at enterprises showed little
-1.0 dynamism. Those instruments implemented through

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016documents stopped falling, although they have yet to
Source: BCRA
resume the growth path (see Chart 3.4). In year-on-year

4 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency. terms, they registered a variation of 33%, which implied
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio of entities a decrease of 2.7 p.p. compared to the previous month.
to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. Regarding the discount of documents to micro, small and
In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of the loans arranged, less the amortizations and cancellations of the period. medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), it should be noted that
the percentage increased

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 5

Chart 3.3

% Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
9 90
8 Monthly Average Var. 80 Var. i.a. (right axis)
7 70
6 60
5 50
4 40
3 30 can be attributed to the Financing Line for
 2 20 Production and Financial Inclusion (LFPIF), from
 1 10
 0 0 15% to 30% of the quota⁶. Distinguishing the amounts

 -1 -10 granted by range of interest rates, it is verified that
 -2 -20
 -3 -30 approximately 20% of the volume operated in March was

 -4 -40 agreed at interest rates close to those contemplated
 -5 -50 by the LFPIF, which would be assimilable to it.
 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16
 Source: BCRA
 For its part, "Advances" presented a decrease of 0.7%
 ($670 million) in the month, and in the last 12 months
 accumulated growth of 30.6%, reflecting a decline of 5.8
 percentage points in their year-on-year growth rate.
 Chart 3.4 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector
 billions of
 $ (daily balance - average base index 7 days as of 30-Nov-15) Regarding loans with real guarantees, both
 220 mortgage and pledge loans registered
 2015-2016
 215 2014-2015 insignificant variations, and in the last 12 months

 210 2013-2014 accumulated increases of 14.4% and 21.9%,

 205 2012-2013 respectively.

 200

 195 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private
 sector continued to grow. Since mid-December they
 190
 accumulated an increase close to US$1,300 million,
 185
 explained fundamentally by the growth of documents
 180
 on demand alone, a line associated with foreign trade.
 175
 Thus, the balance reached US$4,000 million by the
 170
 end of March. It is worth mentioning that the increase
 30-Nov 30-Dec 30-Jan 29-Feb 30-Mar
 in these financings occurred in a context in which
 Source: BCRA
 the interest rates charged for loans instruments
 through documents on demand alone in foreign
 currency maintained the downward trend that began
 to show at the end of 2015.

 Chart 4.1 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities
 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
 deposits
 45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity

 40 38.9 38.6 37.9 37.9 39.2 39.5 40.2 41.0 40.7 39.7 39.7 39.5 39.2 38.8 38.0 36.9 36.7 36.9 38.6 In a period in which, as was noted, total
 35.7 36.6 37.4 37.3 37.8
 35 32.5 33.7 deposits in pesos decreased (due to the fall in
 30 public sector placements), and loans, despite
 23.7 21.3
 25 their deceleration, increased; the average liquidity
 ratio of March of financial entities in the
 20
 0.5 local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the
 15 1.5 4.6
 4.5 current account of entities at the Central Bank,
 10
 5 8.9 11.4 net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC,
 as a percentage of deposits in pesos) fell to 37.9%
 0
 (see Chart 4.1). The monthly reduction was concen-
 Feb-14 May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15 Aug-15 Nov-15 Feb-16
 trated in public entities. On the other hand, after
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
 Source: BCRA completing the quarterly position of minimum cash
 for the December-February period, during March a
 change in the composition of the liquidity of
 financial entities was again observed, returning to a
 Chart 4.2 more typical configuration, with greater participa-
 tion of balances in current accounts compared to
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos what had been observed in February.
 deposits
 4.4
 3.6
 In fact, in March the fall in excess liquidity
 2.8
 (LEBAC and net repos) stood out, which, in part,
 2.0
 was channeled towards the increase in the balance
 1.2
 of the current accounts of entities at the Central
 0.4 0.1
 Bank, intended for compliance with the monthly
 -0.4
 reserve requirement. Thus, it is estimated that
 -1.2
 financial entities ended March with an accumulated
 -2.0
 surplus equivalent to 0.1% of the total deposits in
 Surplus
 -2.8 pesos (see Chart 4.2).
 Accumulated Position
 Daily Position
Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16
 Source: BCRA
 Meanwhile, liquidity in foreign currency averaged in
 March the equivalent of 96.4% of the total deposits in
 dollars. Thus, it decreased 6 p.p. with respect to February, in a
 context of sustained growth of financing
 in foreign currency (see Loans Section).
 5. Interest Rates7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank8

 Chart 5.1 As mentioned, the Central Bank is gradually migrating

 TNA % Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market
 (by auction) to a policy in which the main instrument
 40
 is the interest rate, seeking to position it at levels
 38
 29-Mar-16 that quickly promote price disinflation.

 36 23-Feb-16 The interest rate that the Central Bank currently uses

 34 as a reference for its policy is that of the shortest-
 term LEBAC. In turn, it determines a corridor between the
 32
 interest rates of active and passive repo operations, consistent with that
 one.
 30

 28 In this direction, given the persistence of a high inflation rate,

 Term the Central Bank increased by 6.9 p.p. the cut-off interest
 24
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360rate of the 35-day LEBAC. The rest of the
 Source: BCRA LEBAC interest rates increased between 5.5 p.p. and 3.7
 p.p., according to term. At the end of the month the interest
 rates of LEBACs were positioned at 38% for the shortest term
 (35 days) and 32.3% for the species awarded with
 greater maturity (252 days; see Chart 5.1).

 Additionally, the BCRA actively operated in the secondary
 LEBAC market with an average daily amount of $1,500 million, seeking
 to ensure that interest rates are consistent with those of the primary market and

7 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
8 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, except where otherwise specified.

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 7 its repo corridor (see Chart 5.2). At the end of March
 interest rates recorded increases, fundamentally
 in the short end of the yield curve. The average amount
 of LEBAC operated in the secondary market totaled around $7,000 million daily.

 Chart 5.2 Going forward, the monetary authority will continue seeking
 Interest Rates of Call Operations, BCRA Repos and LEBAC to ensure that the shortest-term LEBAC rate and the "interest
 % (weighted average rate by amount) rate corridor" are consistent with declining inflation,
50 Upper Area 7-day Repo Corridor which implies that the real interest rate must

 Middle Area 1 and 7-day Repo Corridor
45 Lower Area 1-day Repo Corridor remain at positive and comparatively high values.
 Active Repos at 7 days
 Passive Repos at 1 day In this sense, the relaxation of interest rates will take
40 Call at 1 day
 LEBAC Secondary Market 15 days place only when the Central Bank perceives that the inflation
35 LEBAC Primary Market 35 days
 LEBAC Primary Market 90 days rate is on a clearly downward path.

30 In the foreign currency segment, the interest rates
 of LEBAC remained unchanged. Thus,
25 both the 30-day LEBAC rate and that of the
20 90-day species were positioned at 0.9%. The balance was reduced by
15 US$358 million and ended March at US$4,610 million.

10 
 Central Bank Repo Operations1
Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16
Source: BCRA
The Central Bank also increased the interest rates of its repo operations. In this manner, the interest rates of passive repos for periods of 1 and 7 days were located toward the end of March at 30% and 31%. In the same sense, the interest rates of active repos reached 39% and 40% for the same periods. In all Graph 5.3 cases, said levels were 5 percentage points higher than those Interbank Market in force at the end of February. It is worth recalling that on the thousands of Millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA % last day of the previous month increases of between 6

10 Amount traded REPO floor excluding BCRA (daily average) 40 percentage points and 8 percentage points had been arranged for the interest rates of this market. In

9 Amount traded Call (daily average) 35 March, the call interest rate evolved within the repo corridor established by the Central Bank (see Graph

8 REPO floor interest rate excluding BCRA (right axis) 30 5.2)
Tasa de interés Call (right axis)

7 30
6 25 The balance of passive repos in all modalities in which

5 20 the Central Bank participates was reduced by $11,000 mil-

4 15 lion throughout March, being located at $19,950 million on average. Likewise, active repos were arranged in the month,

3 10
2 5 registering an average balance of $1,900 million.

1 5
0 0
Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16 **Interfinancial Markets¹**

Source: BCRA 
In March, the average interest rates of interfinancial market operations increased, in line with the increases in interest rates induced by the Central Bank in its repo and LEBAC operations (see Graph 5.2). In this manner, in the unsecured market (call) the interest rate of operations at 1 business day averaged 35.4% in March, 10.6 percentage points above the value registered the previous month. Likewise, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the secured market (REPO floor) was located at 35.9%, showing an increase of 10.4 percentage points (see Graph 5.3).

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.4
The daily average amount traded in both markets increased almost $650 million, totaling around $9,550 million.

%; p.p. Short-Term Interest Rates
40 daily data
BADLAR Spread - Retail **Passive Interest Rates¹**
35 LEBAC 90 days
BADLAR private banks The passive interest rates showed increases in March,
30 Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks partially reproducing the increase in the Central Bank's reference interest rates.

25

20 Thus, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to

15 35 days of maturity averaged 26.4%, registering an increase of 2.4 percentage points with respect to February.

10 For its part, the BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term

5 deposits of $1 million or more, 30-35 days of maturity– of private banks showed an increase of 3.6 percentage points

0 with respect to the previous month and was located at 29.7%. In both cases the increase was concentrated in the

-5 first week of March, when the largest increase of LEBAC rates was arranged (see Graph 5.4).

Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16
Source: BCRA In the foreign currency segment the interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits remained relatively stable, at levels lower than the averages.

Graph 5.5
Interest Rates of Fixed-Term Deposits in Dollars
% (deposits of up to US$100 thousand from the private sector)

4.0

3.5 30-44 days
45-59 days

3.0 60 days and more

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0
0.5 days of February. Thus, in the deposit bracket of up to US$100 thousand, the interest rate corresponding to co-locations between 30 and 44 days of maturity was located at 0.9%, while the corresponding rate for placements between 45 and 59 days reached 1%, and the rate paid for deposits of 60 days or more averaged 1.2% (see Chart 5.5).

**Active Interest Rates 1 9**

**Chart 5.6 Interest Rates for Personal and Chattel Mortgage Loans**

(monthly average)
TNA, %

Active interest rates showed similar movements in March. With respect to the lines intended to finance families, the monthly average of the interest rate for personal loans was located at 42%, remaining at the level observed in February.

Meanwhile, the interest rate corresponding to chattel mortgage credit averaged 27.1% in March, reflecting a decline of 3.4 p.p., in a context of slight recovery of the amounts operated with respect to the first two-month period of the year (see Chart 5.6).

With respect to commercial lines, the interest rates for shorter-term loans were the ones that reacted most clearly to the increases in interest rates of the Central Bank. The interest rate applied to overdrafts increased 6 p.p. and was located at 39.6%. Within this line, the rate applied to overdrafts to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days of maturity reached 38.2%, showing an increase of 10.6 p.p., compared to February, in line with what was observed in interbank markets (see Chart 5.7).

**Chart 5.7**
**Interest Rates for Current Account Overdrafts**
TNA, %, TNA (monthly average)

For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents remained practically stable and was located at 27.8%. Said stability could be explained, at least partially, by an increase in the participation of financing implemented through the LFPIF. In the case of documents with sole signature, the interest rate averaged 32.3%, placing itself 0.6 p.p. above the one observed in the previous month.

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 1**

**Chart 6.1**
**International Reserves of the BCRA**
thousands of millions of U$S

International reserves ended March at US$29,572 million (see Chart 6.1), completing an increase of US$1,173 million throughout the month. The increase was a consequence mainly of the increase in the minimum cash accounts of financial entities that grew driven by placements of debt in foreign currency carried out both by the public sector and by the private sector.

The reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar
23 dense closed March at 14.58, decreasing 6.4% with
 01-Nov 01-Dec 01-Jan 01-Feb 01-Mar
 0 respect to the February close. As in previous months,
Ene-02 Ene-04 Ene-06 Ene-08 Ene-10 Ene-12 Ene-14 Ene-16
Source: BCRA the Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish
 the parity of foreign currency buying and selling opera-
 tions in the country, conducting specific participations
 within the framework of its managed floating exchange
 rate scheme.

 Graph 7.1

 thousands of Equity of Mutual Investment Funds in Pesos
 (monthly variation of stock at end of month) thousands of 7. Collective Investment Instruments
 millions of $ millions of $
 20 250
 Money Market
 15  Fixed Income Mutual Investment Funds

  Mixed Income 200
 10  Variable Income
 Evolution of stock (right axis) In March the equity of Mutual Investment Funds
 5 150
 (FCI), denominated in pesos and in foreign currency
 0 decreased $8,770 million (-4%), standing at the end
 100
 of the month at $208,300 million. Part of this perfor-
 -5
 50 mance would be the counterpart of the greater demand
 for LEBACs by companies.
 -10

 -15 0
 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16In effect, the funds used for managing excess
 Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
 liquidity by legal entities contributed the bulk of the

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 10 decline. In particular, Fixed Income funds in pesos fell
 $6,280 million (-5.1%) which, driven by redemptions
 of fund shares, contributed 72% of the decrease in the
 FCI industry's equity. In the same direction, Money
 Market funds registered declines for the third consecu-
 tive month. In March they fell $2,190 million (-5.6%)
 also as a consequence of the redemption of fund
 shares. Likewise, Variable Income funds verified de-
 clines of $730 million (-9.4%) fundamentally due to
 Graph 7.2 the performance recorded in the local stock market.
 Financial Trust Emissions Offsetting part of this behavior, Mixed Income
 million $ (accumulated amounts)
 8.000 funds verified growth of $690 million in the month
 7.000 (1.6%; see Graph 7.1).

 FF of the public sector and others intended for
 6.000 infrastructure financing
 Other Regarding estimated profitability, during March the
 5.000
 loss recorded in most of the FCIs stood out, driven
 4.000
 mainly by the fall in the peso/dollar exchange rate
 3.818
 both in the spot market and in futures markets. Varia-
 3.000
 ble income funds verified a negative monthly return of
 2.000
 around 9.7%, followed by mixed income funds with
 1.000 losses of 1%. While fixed income funds gained only
 0.6% in the month, and Money Market funds, which
 0
 are the most liquid, registered a positive return of 1.2%.
 Jan-Mar 2015 Jan-Mar 2016
 Source: BCRA based on CNV data and others.
 Regarding the foreign currency segment, the equity
 of the FCIs was reduced by US$1 million to reach
 US$251 million.

 Graph 7.3 Financial Trusts10
 millions of $ Amounts Issued by Type of Fiduciary
 1.200 (12-month moving average)
 1.100 millions of $
 1.200 In March, the emissions of financial trusts (FF)
 1.000 1.000
 900 totaled around $2,470 million, an amount slightly
 800
 800 higher than that of the previous month. In this way, in
 600
 700 400 the first quarter of the year, they accumulated some-
 600 200 thing over $7,400 million, which represented almost
 500 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16
 double the volume traded in the same period of last
 400
 300 year (see Graph 7.2).
200 Financial entities
100 Retail stores The main trustors of the month were
Mutual associations, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers
0 "Mutual associations, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers and other financial services providers". Said originators securitized consumption-linked assets for $1,175 million, somewhat less than the previous month. For their part, retail stores issued around $1,050 million, showing an increase of 33% compared to February. In the case of financial entities, two placements were recorded, which totaled approximately $250 million.

Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16

Source: BCRA based on data from CNV and others

10 Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 11 From a longer-term perspective, analyzing the evolution of amounts issued (12-month moving average) by type of originator, it is verified that, since the end of last year, "Mutual associations, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers and other financial services providers" began to show an upward trend and that, together with retail stores, have been driving placements (see Chart 7.3).

Chart 8.1
Interest Rates, Rate and Inflation Target
%
United States
6.5
Reference Interest Rate
5.5
Personal Consumption Expenditures
4.5 Inflation Target
3.5

2.5

1.5

0.5

-0.5

-1.5 8. Principal Policy Measures

Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 of Other Central Banks

The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime. It has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" employment level, moderate long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a target of an annual change of 2% was set for the Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. Source: BCRA based on the Federal Reserve, BEA.gov and BLS.gov

During March, the main developments from other monetary authorities occurred in the U.S. and in the euro zone. Indeed, the Federal Reserve (FED) of the U.S. gave signals that the bias of its monetary policy in 2016 would be less contractionary than expected at the end of the previous year. Furthermore, the European Central Bank (ECB) took measures with a more expansive bias than originally expected by market analysts.

Chart 8.2
Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target
% euro zone decided to keep unchanged the objective regarding the
6
reference interest rate, the federal funds interest rate (FFR), in the
5 Monetary Policy Rate range 0.25-0.5% (see Chart 8.1). Along with this, the FOMC released
4 Inflation Rate
projections indicating that for the rest of 2016 it would only
Inflation Target
3 Rate Corridor increase the FFR on two occasions (previously four increases were expected). In this way, the FFR would end the year in the range 0.75-1%. The FOMC highlighted in its press release that economic and financial developments at the global level continue to be a risk for the U.S. economy. Furthermore, it noted that domestic economic activity continues

2

1

0

-1

Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16

The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. However, it pursues price stability which is defined by an inflation rate
inflation < 2% y.o.y. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. growing at a moderate pace, driven by
limited growth in household spending, an improvement in the construction sector and throughout the labor market, but with a weakening in the performance of Gross Fixed Internal Investment and net exports.

In the case of the ECB, on March 10, the Governing Council (GC) decided to reduce its monetary policy interest rate, which it applies to its active repo operations –Main Refinancing Operations–, to 0%.

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 12 It also moved its interest rate corridor downward, reducing to 0.25% the interest rate of the credit facility and to -0.4% the interest rate of the deposit facility (see Chart 8.2). Along with this, it increased its asset purchase program by €20,000 million to €80,000 million per month; a program that will be in effect until March 2017.

Chart 8.3
Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil %
% Industrial Production (Var. y.o.y.) 30
Reference Interest Rate (right axis)
Inflation Rate (right axis) 25
Inflation Target Limits (right axis)

Finally, the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) kept the target for the Selic rate unchanged at 14.25% (see Chart 8.3). Furthermore, according to the market expectations survey conducted by the BCB, no changes are expected for the remainder of 2016, partly because a reduction in inflation to 7.3% is projected for year-end, below the 10.4% y.o.y. of February.

Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br
The latest activity data show a reduction in the IBC-Br (monthly activity indicator of the BCB) of 7.6% y.o.y. for January 2016.

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 13

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Mar-15 Mar-16 Feb-16 | Monthly | Last 12 Months | Dec-15
Monetary Base 586,879 563,460 622,263 | 453,065 | 4.2% | 29.5%
Monetary Circulation 455,314 458,865 458,844 | 346,137 | -0.8% | 31.5%
Bills and Coins in public hands 401,838 405,634 408,627 | 311,766 | -0.9% | 28.9%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 53,476 53,230 50,217 | 34,370 | 0.5% | 55.6%
Canceling Checks 0.3 0.3 0.4 | 0.0 | 19.5% | -
Current Account at BCRA 131,565 104,595 163,418 | 106,929 | 25.8% | 23.0%

Stock of Repos
Passive 19,950 31,032 33,067 | 16,987 | -35.7% | 17.4%
Active 1,934 0 0 | 0 | - | -

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 500,613 497,556 325,511 | 330,158 | 0.6% | 51.6%
In banks 324,780 357,870 238,847 | 251,017 | -9.2% | 29.4%

LEBAC (does not include repo portfolio)
In pesos 426,762 429,371 305,323 | 321,020 | -0.6% | 32.9%
In dollars 4,921 4,594 1,754 | 1,040 | 7.1% | 373.0%

NOBAC 0 0 0 0 | - | -

BCRA International Reserves (5) 28,862 29,359 24,816 | 31,432 | -1.7% | -8.2%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,157,128 1,166,960 1,151,654 | 895,991 | -0.8% | 29.1%
Current Account (2) 330,051 344,483 374,917 | 251,708 | -4.2% | 31.1%
Savings Account 222,820 231,924 244,737 | 179,352 | -3.9% | 24.2%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 561,353 545,510 487,974 | 431,587 | 2.9% | 30.1%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 16 15 12 | 10 | 8.9% | 73.2%
Other deposits (3) 42,888 45,027 44,014 | 33,334 | -4.8% | 28.7%

Private sector deposits 907,047 899,710 887,582 | 672,873 | 0.8% | 34.8%

Public sector deposits 250,081 267,251 264,073 | 223,118 | -6.4% | 12.1%

Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) 13,790 12,943 10,579 | 9,713 | 6.5% | 42.0%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 828,207 823,023 821,675 | 619,366 | 0.6% | 33.7%
Loans to private sector 769.743 764.217 763.957 577.458 0.7% 33.3%
 Advances 96.887 97.554 93.780 74.170 -0.7% 30.6%
 Documents 180.200 180.453 192.464 135.501 -0.1% 33.0%
 Mortgage 54.909 55.060 54.270 47.993 -0.3% 14.4%
 Pawn 40.018 40.064 39.996 32.829 -0.1% 21.9%
 Personal 168.493 165.003 160.780 124.381 2.1% 35.5%
 Credit cards 183.892 180.290 174.753 121.575 2.0% 51.3%
 Others 45.343 45.793 47.914 41.008 -1.0% 10.6%

 Loans to public sector 58.464 58.806 57.718 41.908 -0.6% 39.5%

 Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 3.932 3.531 2.935 3.595 11.3% 9.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 731.889 750.118 783.544 563.474 -2.4% 29.9%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 954.709 982.042 1.028.281 742.826 -2.8% 28.5%
 M3 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.558.966 1.572.595 1.560.282 1.207.757 -0.9% 29.1%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.769.169 1.769.487 1.686.610 1.296.573 0.0% 36.4%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 605.052 605.204 622.087 476.322 0.0% 27.0%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 815.670 819.339 849.200 639.323 -0.4% 27.6%
 M3 (Bills and coins held by the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.305.344 1.296.209 984.639 0.3% 32.9%
 in pesos) 1.308.886
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.489.330 1.477.911 1.408.035 1.057.204 0.8% 40.9%

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 14 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

 Monetary base 23.419 4.2% -35.384 -5.7% -35.384 -6.3% 133.814 29.5%
 Financial sector 13.113 2.3% 15.414 2.5% 15.414 2.7% -477 -0.1%
 Public sector 1.680 0.3% 8.162 1.3% 8.162 1.4% 155.802 34.4%
 Private external sector -5.157 -0.9% -5.152 -0.8% -5.152 -0.9% -67.242 -14.8%
 BCRA Titles 11.180 2.0% -96.190 -15.5% -96.190 -17.1% -33.202 -7.3%
 Others 2.604 0.5% 42.382 6.8% 42.382 7.5% 78.932 17.4%

 BCRA International Reserves -497 -1.7% 4.046 16.3% 4.046 13.8% -2.570 -8.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -296 -1.0% -335 -1.3% -335 -1.1% -6.759 -21.5%
 Payment to international organizations -217 -0.7% -459 -1.8% -459 -1.6% -1.977 -6.3%
 Other public sector operations -88 -0.3% -922 -3.7% -922 -3.1% 3.686 11.7%
 Minimum cash -259 -0.9% -2.129 -8.6% -2.129 -7.3% -1.094 -3.5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 362 1.2% 7.891 31.8% 7.891 26.9% 3.575 11.4%

 1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted by financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified fund utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
 5 Provisional figures subject to valuation changes

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.2 11.4 11.4
 Integration 11.3 11.6 12.8
 Position (2) 0.1 0.2 1.4
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 66.1 66.4 66.8
 30 to 59 days 21.8 21.3 21.5
 60 to 89 days 6.4 6.7 6.5
 90 to 179 days 4.1 4.1 4.0
 more than 180 days 1.6 1.5 1.2
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 14.1 16.7 24.6
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 53.9 60.0 77.6
 Position (2) 39.8 43.3 53.1
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 49.7 48.3 50.2
 30 to 59 days 27.0 21.1 20.4
 60 to 89 days 11.1 18.5 14.1
 90 to 179 days 8.7 8.7 10.8
 180 to 365 days 3.4 3.3 4.4
 more than 365 days 0.0 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position= Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes fixed-term deposits under judicial proceedings.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 15 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 35.44 24.78 25.83 25.88 21.13
 Amount traded 3,910 3,439 3,332 2,797 2,856

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 26.04 24.73 25.31 26.50 19.87
 60 days or more 26.21 26.34 27.24 28.47 23.56
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 27.75 23.75 23.94 25.27 17.38
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 29.72 26.11 26.31 27.54 20.80

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.81 1.37 2.01 2.10 1.59
 60 days or more 1.29 1.96 3.03 3.21 2.48
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.68 1.11 1.64 1.70 1.19
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.10 1.34 2.42 2.57 2.12

 Active Interest Rates Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 34.86 27.87 28.68 30.90 23.53
 Amount traded (total terms) 643 591 626 956 510

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 39.62 33.58 34.51 34.50 30.08
 Signature documents 32.27 31.71 33.49 30.61 25.69
 Mortgage loans 25.44 24.63 22.62 22.86 23.17
 Chattel mortgage loans 27.09 30.53 29.10 26.00 26.54
 Personal loans 42.08 42.05 43.18 39.00 37.58
 Credit cards n/a 43.84 42.12 39.97 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 38.17 27.60 29.25 30.33 23.89

 International Interest Rates Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.44 0.43 0.43 0.36 0.18
 6 months 0.90 0.87 0.86 0.77 0.40

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.87 0.73 0.89 0.97 0.64
 10 years 1.88 1.77 2.07 2.35 2.05

 FED Funds Rate 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.39 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25 12.70

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
 the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 16 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15

BCRA Repo Rates
 Passive 1 day 28.68 18.24 18.00 20.81 13.00
 Passive 7 days 29.68 20.21 20.00 22.81 14.00
 Active 7 days 39.71 27.28 27.00 27.00 17.00

Total REPO Session Repo Rates
 1 day 31.50 19.77 20.85 22.65 17.01
 7 days 38.50 20.84 20.01 22.78 17.61

Amount traded of REPO session repos (daily average) 20,343 28,323 18,464 22,708 12,579

LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 37.80 30.6 31.2 35.7 n/o
 2 months 35.00 29.6 30.5 34.7 n/o
 3 months 33.80 28.75 29.89 32.31 26.24
 9 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 29.29

LEBAC Rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month 0.90 1.16 2.57 3.22 3.25
 3 months 0.90 1.10 2.72 3.69 3.90
 6 months n/o n/o 3.13 3.75 4.00
 12 months n/o n/o 3.13 3.96 4.20

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 7,811 5,154 3,893 2,813 2,350

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15
## Spot Dollar
Wholesale 14.94 14.84 13.64 11.39 8.78
Retail 15.01 14.84 13.71 11.51 8.78

## Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 15.24 14.83 13.83 13.48 8.95
ROFEX 1 month 15.20 14.99 13.82 12.80 8.95
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 9,210 8,328 6,570 3,856 2,911

Real (Pesos per Real) 4.05 3.74 3.37 2.93 2.79

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 16.68 16.48 14.84 12.43 9.49

Capital Markets Mar-16 Feb-16 Jan-16 Dec-15 Mar-15

MERVAL
Index 12,964 11,866 10,637 12,849 10,442
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 260 285 175 204 265

Government Bonds (at par value)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 116.5 118.4 114.6 140.5 134.2
BONAR X (US$) 100.9 101.7 102.1 130.5 132.6
DISCOUNT ($) 109.0 114.7 117.7 120.6 88.3

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR X Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 533 595 635 639 752
EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 572 654 639 580 532

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 the Dollar Bills payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 17

## GLOSSARY

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LCIP: Line of Credit for Productive Investment.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
PM: Monetary Program.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.
VRD: Representative Value of Debt.

Monetary Report | March 2016 | BCRA | 18
