# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Main policy measures of other central banks | Page 10

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 12

9. Glossary | Page 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on October 6, 2016. All figures are provisional and
are subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• In September, the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) officially launched the Inflation Targeting Regime, which will begin operating fully from January 2017. To evaluate compliance with the targets, the year-over-year variation in December of the general level of the consumer price index with the broadest geographic coverage published by the National Institute of Statistics and Censuses (INDEC) will be considered. For 2017, the BCRA's target is to bring inflation between 12% and 17%. In turn, it is proposed that inflation continue to decelerate in the following years, reaching 5% in 2019.

• Starting in 2017, the monetary policy interest rate will be that of the center of the corridor of operations carried out at 7 days and will be defined weekly by the Monetary Policy Council on Tuesdays. On the other hand, LEBACs will be auctioned once a month and their maturities will be concentrated on the third Wednesday of each month.

• With the objective of eliminating fiscal dominance and maximizing the degrees of freedom of monetary policy to meet its targets, transfers from the BCRA to the National Treasury will continue to be reduced next year. Thus, consistently with what is included in the 2017 National Budget Project, the annual limit for transfers will be $150,000 million, moving from representing 2.1% of GDP in 2016 to approximately 1.5% in 2017.

• Until the end of 2016, the current operational framework of monetary policy will be maintained. The BCRA's reference interest rate will continue to be that of the 35-day LEBAC. In September, it was reduced by a total of 1.5 p.p. to 26.75% through decreases of 0.5 p.p. in the first 3 auctions of the month. The interest rates on repo operations decreased by the same amount, and the corridor was positioned at 22.5%-31.5% for 1-day operations and 23.5%-32.5% for 7-day operations.

• Although price indices published during the course of the month indicated that the disinflation process continued its course during recent months, considering both general levels and core inflation measures, inflation expectations for 2017 observed in September in the REM are still above the BCRA's target range.

• The BCRA will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective for this year of monthly inflation of 1.5% or less in the last quarter and that inflation expectations for 2017 continue to decline.

• Practically all money market interest rates declined in September, following a similar trajectory to the BCRA's reference rates. While those in interbank markets continued to be positioned within the repo corridor, both passive interest rates and those applied to loans granted in the form of documents accumulated declines of around 1.5 p.p.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their monthly growth rate to 2%, driven by financing intended for consumption. Among mortgage loans, the amounts granted denominated in Acquisition Value Units (UVA) continued to increase. In September, approximately $280 million was disbursed, which represented about 30% of the total mortgage loans granted to individuals. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April and through the end of September, more than $450 million was granted. Meanwhile, loans in foreign currency continued to show strong dynamism, concentrated in the single-signature document line. Thus, they accumulated an increase of US$4,950 million (170%) in what has elapsed so far this year.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 3
2. Interest rates 2
Chart 2.1 Monetary policy interest rates
TNA % LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market (by auction)
 29.0

 28.5 30-Aug-16 6-Sept-16 27-Sept-16
 During the month of September (as had been stipulated
 28.0
 in the schedule presented on April 28 by the
 27.5
 BCRA) the details of the implementation of the
 27.0
 26.5 Inflation Targeting Regime were announced, which will

 26.0 begin to be executed in January 2017 3. The compliance with

 25.5 the BCRA's inflation targets will be evaluated considering

 25.0 the variation in the general level of the consumer price

 24.5 index with the broadest coverage of INDEC, which

 24.0 at this time is the CPI-GBA. The target established
 Maturity
 23.5 for 2017 is annual inflation between 12% and 17% (in the
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330
 Source: BCRA comparison between Decembers); maintaining the objective

 of a reduction in the following years, until reaching
 5% in 2019.

 Starting in 2017 the monetary policy interest rate
 Chart 2.2

 Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market will be the one at the center of the range of rates from
 TNA% thousands of (35-day term species, daily data) millions $ operations to be implemented at 7 days and its level will be
42 Amount operated by the BCRA in the Secondary Market (right axis)20 defined monthly by the Monetary Policy Council, on
 Monetary policy rate
40 Secondary Market Rates 18 Tuesdays at 5 p.m. Meanwhile, LEBACs will be auc-
 Monetary policy rate +/- 0.5 p.p. 16 tioned once a month and their maturities will be

 14 concentrated on the third Wednesday of each month.
38

 12
34 For the remainder of the year, the current operational
 10
32 framework of monetary policy will be maintained. The
 8
30 interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC will continue to be

 6 the main reference rate. In September, the BCRA decided
28 4
 to reduce it by 1.5 p.p. to 26.75%, with decreases of
 2
26 0.5 p.p. in each of the first 3 auctions.
24 0
 01-Mar 31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sept
Source: BCRA The interest rates of LEBACs with maturities longer
 than 35 days decreased by a similar magnitude. In
 the last auction of the month, the cut-off rate of the
 Chart 2.3 252-day LEBAC was located at 24%, 1.6 p.p. below its

 % Core Inflation Monthly level at the end of August (see Chart 2.1).

 5 Meanwhile, as in previous months, the Central Bank

 IPCBA Rest continued to operate in the secondary market with the
 4 INDEC Core objective of inducing a convergence of the yields

 Córdoba - Core observed within a corridor of +/- 0.5 p.p. with respect to

 3 the monetary policy rate. Operations were carried out
 with the 35-day species, with sales in the month totaling
 2 approximately VN$46,300 million (see Chart 2.2).

 1 The interest rates of the BCRA's repurchase agreement
 operations decreased in line with the corresponding rate
 0
 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 of the 35-day LEBAC. Thus, at the end of September, the
 Sources: General Statistics and Census Bureau of the GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Statistics and Census Bureau repurchase agreement corridor was positioned at 22.5%-31.5% for
 of Córdoba.
 1-day operations and 23.5%-32.5% for those agreed upon
 2 The interest rates referenced in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
 for 7 days.
 3 See http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Noticias/Regimen_de_Metas_de_Inflacion_en_Argentina.asp

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 4
 Chart 2.4

 var. % y.o.y. Inflation Targets and Expectations All the price indices published during the course of the
 25 month showed that the disinflation process continued
 REM CPI GBA. Median Sep-16 its course (see Chart 2.3). The general level of the CPI-
 20.0
 20 GBA of INDEC showed a monthly variation of 0.2%
 17 in August, partially affected by the reversal of gas
 15 prices. If this effect is discounted, the monthly variation
 12 12
 of the general level of prices was 0.9% in [text continues]
 10
 8 6.5
 5 5
 3.5
0 August, and 1.7% core inflation. According to the Market Expectations Survey (REM) of September, inflation expectations for 2017 still remain above the BCRA's target band (see Chart 2.4). The BCRA will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective for this year of a monthly inflation of 1.5% or less in the last quarter, and that inflation expectations for 2017 show convergence toward the Institution's target band.

## Interest rates in the market

The majority of interest rates in the monetary market showed downward trajectories in September, aligning their evolution with those of the BCRA's reference interest rates.

Those with shorter terms continued to remain within the interest rate corridor established by the Central Bank in the repurchase market. In turn, since the current monetary policy instrument was implemented in March, they have substantially reduced their volatility (see Chart 2.5). In September, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations averaged 26.85%, a level 1.5 p.p. lower than the value registered the previous month.

## Document rates and LEBAC

Similarly, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO session) stood at 26.4%, showing a decline of 1.3 p.p..

With respect to interest rates associated with financing of operations linked to commercial activity, the rate applied to loans granted through single-signature documents averaged 28.1%, showing a decrease of 1.8 p.p. compared to the previous month.

For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents showed a downward trend throughout the month and stood at an average of 24.5%, 0.9 p.p. below the level observed in August (see Chart 2.6).

Active interest rates intended mainly for financing families showed dissimilar behaviors. The interest rate on personal loans remained relatively stable, averaging 42.6%, a level similar to that it presented since the beginning of 2016. However, it should be mentioned that as of September the BCRA provided that financial entities cannot charge commissions for life insurance on new financing they grant⁴; consequently, the stability of the interest rate implied a decrease in the total financing cost of personal loans. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to collateral loans averaged 22.8% in September, showing a decline of 1 p.p. compared to August.

With respect to passive interest rates, the BADLAR – the interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks stood at 23.04%, accumulating a decline of 1.8 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity accumulated a monthly decline of 1.8 p.p. and went on to average 20.3% in August (see Chart 2.7).

## 3. Monetary aggregates ¹
-5 The monetary base grew 0.9% in September, with increases

-10 in both currency in circulation and bank reserves. Primary

-15 expansion was associated with the statistical carryover left by operations

-20 between the Central Bank and the National Treasury during
 S. Private and Treasury Advances and Other
 Foreign Exchange Purchases Other Operations with LEBAC and Repos Circulation Reserves
 National Treasury NOBAC Public Bancarias August, which were consistent with the annual limit
 Source: BCRA
 of $160,000 million established for 2016 for this type

 of operations. Much of this monetary expansion resulted

 in compensation for the contraction from foreign currency

 sales to the National Treasury and by sterilization through

 the placement of LEBAC (see Chart 3.1). In year-over-year

 Chart 3.2 terms, the monetary base showed a variation of 27.7%,

 % Monetary Aggregates 0.4 p.p. lower than the previous month (see Chart 3.2).

 (year-over-year variation)
 45 It is worth noting that, in line with what is provided for in the

 40 National Budget Project for 2017, next year the Central Bank

 transfers to the National Treasury will decrease to $150,000

 35 million. Thus, they will go from representing 2.1% of GDP

 30 in 2016 to approximately 1.5% in 2017. In turn, it is estimated

 25 that the increase in demand for monetary base will exceed the

 Monetary Base monetary expansion associated with these operations; with
 20 M2 Private
 M3 which, if the Central Bank were not to make foreign currency

 15 purchases, the stock of LEBAC in relation to the monetary

 Sept-11 Mar-12 Sept-12 Mar-13 Sept-13 Mar-14 Sept-14 Mar-15 Sept-15 Mar-16 Sept-16 base would diminish throughout the next year.

 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos.
 Source: BCRA

4 See Communication "A" 5928.

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 6
 Chart 3.3 Fixed-term deposits of the private sector increased

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
 millions of $ % year-over-year 1.2% in September, maintaining its rate of change relatively

 550 60 stable around 29% (see Chart 3.3). By distinguishing by

 Balance Year-over-year var. (right axis)
 500 50 amount bracket, placements of less than $1 million showed

 450 40 growth of 1.2% in the month (49% year-over-year) and deposits

 in the wholesale segment registered an increase of 1.1%
 400 30
 (8% year-over-year). In parallel, holdings of LEBAC by the

 350 20 non-financial private sector continued showing an upward

 300 10 trajectory during the month.

 250 0
 The increase in fixed-term deposits and the one observed in

 200 -10
 sight deposits led the total of deposits in pesos of the private

 150Mar-13 Sept-13 Mar-14 Sept-14 Mar-15 Sept-15 Mar-16 Sept-16-20 sector to show monthly growth of 1.6%, while those

 Source: BCRA corresponding to the public sector rose 1.1%. In this way,

 Chart 3.4 the total of deposits in pesos (including those of the public

 thousands of sector as well as those of the private sector) increased 1.5%,

 millions of US$ Deposits in Foreign Currency of the Private Sector
 16 exhibiting a year-over-year variation of 21.3%.

 14 Total Private

 Less than US$1 million (right axis) In this way, the broad monetary aggregate continued

 12 decreasing its expansion rate. The year-over-year variation

 of M35 decreased 0.6 p.p. to 20.1%, while that of private

 10 means of payment (M2 Private6) remained at 19.4%.

 8

 6 The average monthly balance of foreign currency deposits

 increased 1%, driven by placements
4 of the private sector, which grew US$500 million throughout
 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 Ene-13 Jul-13 Ene-14 Jul-14 Ene-15 Jul -15 Ene-16 Jul-16
 Source: BCRA September, reaching a balance of US$13,220
 million, the highest level since the end of 2011 (see Graphic
 3.4). The increase was observed especially in import
 positions of less than US$1 million, which maintained
 their growing trend. On the other hand, a slight
 Graphic 4.1 decline was observed in public sector deposits.
 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 6 70
 Monthly Variation 5.1
 5 Year-on-year Var. (right axis) 60 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 7 ,
 4 3.6
 increased 1.5%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
 3 50
 3.1 3.1 28.3%.
 3 2.7
 2.2 2.0 40
 2 1.9

 1.1 30 4. Loans 1 8
 1

 0 20
 In September, loans in pesos to the private sector
 -1 10 exhibited an increase of 2% ($16,000 million), driven

 -2 0 by lines associated with consumption. Thus, they accel-
 Sept-07 Sept-08 Sept-09 Sept-10 Sept-11 Sept-12 Sept-13 Sept-14 Sept-15 Sept-16 erated their monthly expansion rate, although the year-on-

 Source: BCRA

5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public
non-financial sectors in pesos.
6 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.
7 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
8 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans in portfolio
from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals)
arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations
for the period.

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 7
 Graphic 4.2 year variation continued showing a decline, placing it

 Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector at 20.8% (see Graphic 4.1).
 millions $ (daily average of amounts granted, average term and APR) APR %; months

 700 Amounts 52
 650 Interest rate (right axis)
 600 Average term (in months - right axis) 48 The lines intended mainly to finance household con-
 550 sumption, which led the month's growth, increased their
 500
 450 44 monthly growth rate. Personal loans grew 3.7% ($6,890

 400 million), representing the largest increase since November
 350 40
 300 2015. Nevertheless, their year-on-year variation remained

 250 36 relatively stable at around 32%. Analyzing the evolution
 200 of new loans, the daily average amount once again presented
 150 an increase in September, reaching $670 million, granted
 100 32 with an average term close to 42 months (see Graphic 4.2).
 50 For its part, credit card financing recorded an increase
 0 28 in the month of 3.5% ($6,730 million), after several
 Sept-13 Mar-14 Sept-14 Mar-15 Sept-15 Mar-16 Sept-16
 Source: BCRA months of little dynamism. In the last twelve months,
 this financing accumulated growth of 39.1%, 0.7 percentage
 points less than in August (see Graphic 4.3).
 Graphic 4.3
 % Credit Cards in Pesos to the Private Sector %
 9 90
 8 Average monthly Var. 80
 Year-on-year Var. (right axis) As for loans with real guarantee, pledged loans
 7 70
 6 60 continued showing improvement. In the month, they

 5 50 recorded monthly growth of 3.6% ($1,590 million),

 4 40 which exceeded that observed in the same month of the
 3 30
 2 20 previous year. Thus, the variation with respect to the
 1 10 same month of the previous year reached 24.2%, increasing
 0 0 by 1.1 percentage points. For its part, loans with mortgage
 -1 -10 guarantee presented an increase of 0.7% ($400 million),
 -2 -20 higher
-3 -30 to that of the previous month and similar to July. Likewise, they
-4 -40 maintained their year-over-year growth rate at around
-5 -50
Sept-07 Sept-08 Sept-09 Sept-10 Sept-11 Sept-12 Sept-13 Sept-14 Sept-15 Sept-1610%. In particular, with respect to mortgage loans

Source: BCRA denominated in Acquisition Value Units
(UVA), continued growth was observed in the
amounts granted. In September, approximately $280 million
were disbursed, which represented about
30% of the total mortgage loans granted to
individuals (see Chart 4.4). Thus, since the launch
Chart 4.4 of this instrument in April and through the end of Sep-

Mortgage Loans to Individuals tember, more than $450 million were granted 9.
millions $ (monthly accumulated amount and participation in personal loans)
%
1000 UVAS 35
Rest UVAS / Individuals (%; right axis) 29.7
900 30
Loans with essentially commercial destination
800
25 showed very small variations. Advances
700
maintained a stable monthly average balance, with a
600 20
16.1 year-over-year growth of around 23%, which implied
500
a decrease of approximately 1.5 p.p. In the same
400 15
direction, financings implemented through
300
documents grew 0.1% ($230 million), markedly
10
200 below the increase observed in the same
6.1 5
100 period of 2015. Consequently, the year-over-year variation
0 0.3 2.2 0 decreased 4.4 p.p. compared to August, reaching
May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-167.8%. Distinguishing by type of operation, document
Source: BCRA

9 At the date of publication of this report (with data as of October 5), UVA loans totaling approximately $530 million had been granted.

Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 8

discount continued growing, while
documents with sole signature continued showing a
downward trend. It should be noted that this latter line
has been showing strong growth in the
dollar segment. In fact, the monthly growth of the
total documents with sole signature (in pesos and in foreign currency) was around 3%, accumulating in the last twelve
months an increase of 47%. Thus, there would
be a substitution of commercial financing in pesos
Chart 4.5 for loans in foreign currency, implemented

Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector through documents with sole signature.
thousands of millions of US$
8.5 million u$s Variation of monthly average balances

1,000

Indeed, foreign currency loans to the private
600
7.5 sector registered in September an increase of 8.9%

200
(US$640 million) and in what has occurred so far this year
6.5 -200 Documents with sole signature
accumulated growth of 170% (US$4,950 million). Thus, dollar
Cards
financing continues showing very
-600
Rest 5.5
-1,000
Sept-15 Dec-15 Mar-16 Jun-16 Sept-16good performance, which as mentioned, has been

4.5 promoted by documents with sole signature, a line
strongly associated with foreign trade (see Chart 4.5).

3.5 Daily balance

Monthly average balance
5. Liquidity of Financial Enti-
2.5
30-Sept-12 30-Sept-13 30-Sept-14 30-Sept-15 30-Sept-16ties 1
Source: BCRA

During September, the increase in total deposits
in pesos at financial entities was allocated in part to
the increase in loans to the private sector and in part to
the increase in their more liquid assets. This context implied that the
broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of cash
in banks, the current account of entities in the
Chart 5.1 Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and the holding
Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities of LEBACs, as a percentage of deposits in pe-
% of
deposits
50 CCBCRA Cash Net Transfers LEBACs and NOBACs Broad Liquidity sos) reached 43.4% (see Chart 5.1), 1.3 p.p. above
45 42.1 42.1 43.4 the maximum recorded in the previous month. The increase
40,2
40 38,0 36,9 36,7 36,9 37,9 38,6 37,5 36,8 37,6 of the mentioned ratio was mostly explained by

35 an increase in LEBAC holdings by public financial

30 21,8 22,8 entities. In this framework, financial entities ended

25 the month with a surplus in the Minimum Cash position

20 1,1 1,5 equivalent to 0.3% of total deposits in pesos.
4,2 4,0
15

10
15,0 15,1
5 For its part, in the foreign currency segment, strong

0 growth in dollar loans continued, which once again
Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 exceeded the increase in total deposits. In this way,
* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value. the liquidity ratio in foreign currency (sum of cash
Source: BCRA in banks, the current account of entities in the Central
Bank, net repos with that entity and LEBAC holdings in
foreign currency, as a percentage of dollar deposits)
continued declining to 70.2%, 5.6 percentage points
below that observed the previous month.

Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign
Graph 6.1 Exchange Market

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of U$S International reserves ended September with a balance
60 of US$29,902 million, decreasing US$1,248 million
50 throughout the month (see Graph 6.1). The reduction
40 was mainly associated with the decrease in Minimum
Cash accounts of financial entities and the net
thousands of payment of foreign currency debt by the national
30 millions of U$S public sector.
36
34
20 32 Dec-17-15
30 Exchange The reference exchange rate of peso/US dollar ended
Unification September at 15.26, increasing 2.5% compared to the
10 28 August close. As in previous months, the Central Bank
26 allowed the market to freely establish the parity of
01-Dec 01-Mar 01-Jun 01-Sept foreign currency buying and selling operations, only
0
Jan-02 Jan-04 Jan-06 Jan-08 Jan-10 Jan-12 Jan-14 Jan-16 conducting occasional operations with the National
Source: BCRA Treasury. This exchange rate regime provides an indis-
pensable degree of flexibility to the national economy
to face external fluctuations.
Graph 7.1
7. Main Monetary Policy Measures
% Inflation Rate Japan from Other Central Banks
4

3
2 During September, the main developments in mone-
tary policy matters came from central banks of
1 advanced countries. Mainly, the cases of Japan
0 –which announced a new monetary stimulus pro-
-1 gram– and the U.S.
-2

-3 In effect, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) decided to
Jan-06 Oct-06 Jul-07 Apr-08 Jan-09 Oct-09 Jul-10 Apr-11 Jan-12 Oct-12 Jul-13 Apr-14 Jan-15 Oct-15 Jul-16 implement a set of new expansionary measures. First,
Source: BCRA based on Bank of Japan it modified its inflation target: it will continue "expand-
ing the monetary base until the inflation rate is above
the 2% price stability target (see Graph 7.1) and re-
mains above it in a stable manner". Along with this,
Graph 7.2 the BoJ stated that it will do everything within its reach
% Interest Rates and Inflation Target for the United States so that the target is met as "soon as possible". Additionally,
7 Personal Consumption Expenditures Inflation Target* it maintained its commitment to expand the monetary
6 Core Personal Consumption Expenditures Dallas FED Trimmed Mean base at a rate equivalent to US$800,000 million per
5 CPI CPI Core year. It also did not modify the interest rate at which
4 it remunerated bank reserves (-0.1%). On the other
3 hand, it decided to set a 0% target for the 10-year
2 Treasury bond yield.
1

0 For its part, in its September 21 meeting, the Federal
-1 Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the Federal
-2

Reserve
1/1/2006 1/2/2007 1/3/2008 1/4/2009 1/5/2010 1/6/2011 1/7/2012 1/8/2013 1/9/2014 1/10/2015 Federal Reserve (FED) of the U.S. decided to maintain the objective

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve of the United States (FED).

of its reference interest rate, the federal funds rate (FFR) in the range 0.25-0.5%. However,

* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, long-term moderate interest rates and stable prices. On the latter point, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, an objective of an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term was set.

10 This is a value similar to the current one.

Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 10

new signals emerged that possibly the FOMC might decide a new increase in the FFR before the end of the year, probably in its December 14 meeting. Specifically, the signals refer to the fact that three FOMC members voted in dissent, expressing that they preferred an increase of 0.25 p.p. in the FFR range; in a context where the different measures of inflation would be approaching the 2% objective (see Chart 7.2).

Finally, although the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) did not meet in September, the minutes of the last meeting on August 31 were published, from which it emerges that the possibilities of a reduction in the Selic target in 2016 would be less than what was believed up to that moment. Nevertheless, according to the projections of the latest Focus survey conducted by the BCB, a reduction of 0.5 p.p. in the Selic target is expected before the end of the year.

Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 11

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system Sep-15 Sep-16 Aug-16 Monthly Last 12 Dec-15
months

Monetary base 681,289 675,460 622,263 533,353 0.9% 27.7%
Monetary circulation 492,556 489,898 458,844 413,949 0.5% 19.0%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 442,120 438,160 408,595 377,556 0.9% 17.1%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 50,436 51,738 50,248 36,391 -2.5% 38.6%
Cancelled Checks 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.0 39.0% -
Current account at the BCRA 188,732 185,562 163,418 119,404 1.7% 58.1%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 32,842 29,044 33,067 17,135 13.1% 91.7%
Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 638,536 609,014 325,511 358,739 4.8% 78.0%
In banks 295,284 277,840 239,287 268,196 6.3% 10.1%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 637,921 608,269 305,323 341,031 4.9% 87.1%
In dollars 41 50 1,754 1,888 -18.7% -97.8%

NOBAC 0 0 0 0 - -

BCRA International Reserves (5) 30,886 32,141 24,816 33,423 -3.9% -7.6%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,247,549 1,228,993 1,151,991 1,028,767 1.5% 21.3%
Current account (2) 326,195 321,491 375,164 291,903 1.5% 11.7%
Savings account 266,456 261,264 244,807 215,700 2.0% 23.5%
Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 604,242 596,919 487,987 482,943 1.2% 25.1%
Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 139 93 12 10 50.0% 1,297.7%
Other deposits (3) 50,517 49,226 44,021 38,212 2.6% 32.2%

Deposits of the private sector 1,007,889 991,850 887,829 803,438 1.6% 25.4%

Deposits of the public sector 239,660 237,143 264,162 225,329 1.1% 6.4%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 15,834 15,679 10,573 10,061 1.0% 57.4%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 857,270 856,542 817,634 721,053 0.1% 18.9%
Loans to the private sector 809.249 793.308 755.425 669.955 2.0% 20.8%
 Advances 102.804 102.892 94.068 83.761 -0.1% 22.7%
 Documents 177.388 177.155 191.751 164.517 0.1% 7.8%
 Mortgage 55.782 55.383 54.270 50.849 0.7% 9.7%
 Collateral 45.476 43.886 39.996 36.605 3.6% 24.2%
 Personal 194.176 187.348 160.768 146.768 3.6% 32.3%
 Credit cards 198.276 191.549 174.758 142.535 3.5% 39.1%
 Others 35.347 35.095 39.815 44.919 0.7% -21.3%

 Loans to the public sector 48.021 63.234 62.209 51.098 -24.1% -6.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 7.948 7.287 2.933 4.026 9.1% 97.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 7 68.315 759.651 783.759 669.461 1.1% 14.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1.034.771 1.020.915 1.028.566 885.161 1.4% 16.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.689.670 1.667.153 1.560.587 1.406.325 1.4% 20.1%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.931.672 1.903.107 1.686.845 1.505.791 1.5% 28.3%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account priv. in 660.003 652.263 622.266 563.810 1.2% 17.1%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 907.850 895.117 849.449 760.583 1.4% 19.4%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.450.010 1.430.010 1.296.425 1.180.996 1.4% 22.8%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.648.739 1.619.481 1.408.180 1.263.817 1.8% 30.5%

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 12
 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Year-to-Date Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 5.829 0.9% 63.030 10.2% 59.026 8.7% 147.936 27.7%
Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector and others 6 0.0% 7.143 1.2% 35.152 5.2% -30.983 -5.8%
Purchase of foreign exchange from the National Treasury -4.919 -0.7% 47.275 7.6% 83.942 12.4% 103.143 19.3%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 20.521 3.0% 59.347 9.6% 127.634 18.9% 191.901 36.0%
Other public sector operations 8.115 1.2% -3.394 -0.5% -6.610 -1.0% -4.934 -0.9%
Sterilization (Repurchase Agreements and Securities) -18.114 -2.7% -52.012 -8.4% -219.895 -32.6% -186.051 -34.9%
Others 220 0.0% 4.671 0.8% 38.803 5.7% 74.861 14.0%

BCRA International Reserves -1.255 -3.9% -599 -1.9% 6.071 18.9% -2.537 -7.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1 0.0% 524 1.7% 2.558 8.0% -4.412 -13.2%
 Payment to international organizations -190 -0.6% -443 -1.4% -1.501 -4.7% -2.072 -6.2%
 Other public sector operations -294 -0.9% 2.242 7.1% 4.013 12.5% 7.081 21.2%
 Minimum Cash -769 -2.4% -1.281 -4.1% 428 1.3% 2.542 7.6%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -3 0.0% -1.640 -5.2% 573 1.8% -5.676 -17.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 14.8 14.8 14.9
 Integration 15.0 15.0 15.2
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 67.7 66.9 66.2
 30 to 59 days 20.7 21.3 21.8
 60 to 89 days 5.8 5.9 6.1
 90 to 179 days 4.0 3.9 3.5
 more than 180 days 1.8 1.9 2.4
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 25.1 23.7 24.1
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 63.3 69.0 72.3
 Position (2) 38.2 45.3 48.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 54.5 53.9 55.7
 30 to 59 days 21.4 20.7 20.4
 60 to 89 days 10.4 11.5 10.4
 90 to 179 days 10.7 10.5 9.7
 180 to 365 days 3.0 3.3 3.7
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 13
 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15

 Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 26.92 28.36 29.05 25.89 21.92
 Amount traded 4,403 4,267 4,108 2,798 3,259

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.53 23.32 24.66 26.50 21.16
 60 days or more 21.89 23.60 25.14 28.47 23.73
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.31 24.09 25.38 25.27 18.78
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 23.05 24.84 26.02 27.54 21.15

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.57 0.61 0.67 2.10 1.72
 60 days or more 0.98 1.09 1.19 3.21 2.57
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.55 0.62 1.70 1.41
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.11 1.10 1.06 2.57 2.28

 Active Interest Rates Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15

 Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.81 27.77 27.43 30.90 23.69
 Amount traded (total terms) 655 660 619 956 642

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances on current account 33.62 35.09 35.90 34.50 30.31
 Documents on signature only 28.10 29.88 31.47 30.61 25.24
 Mortgage 23.45 24.03 24.59 22.86 23.64
 Pledge 22.82 23.88 24.83 26.00 24.49
 Personal 42.63 42.39 42.50 39.00 36.73
 Credit cards n/d 45.24 45.79 40.12 39.39

 Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 28.53 30.05 30.75 30.33 24.47

 International Interest Rates Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.53 0.51 0.48 0.36 0.20
 6 months 1.25 1.20 1.00 0.77 0.54

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.76 0.74 0.67 0.97 0.71
 10 years 1.63 1.56 1.50 2.35 2.16

 FED Funds Rate 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.39 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25

 (1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 they correspond to
 the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 14
 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15

 BCRA repurchase rates
 Liabilities 1 day 23.15 25.20 26.08 20.81 18.00
 Liabilities 7 days 24.15 26.20 27.08 22.81 20.00
 Assets 7 days 33.15 35.20 36.08 27.00 24.00

 Interest rates on repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round
 1 day 26.44 27.72 28.18 24.81 22.28

 Amount traded on repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 8,796 6,668 7,340 5,651 3,911
 LEBAC interest rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 27.13 29.2 30.2 35.7 n/o
 2 months 26.28 28.3 29.4 34.7 n/o
 3 months 25.65 27.71 28.64 32.31 25.95

 LEBAC interest rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 3.22 3.25
 3 months n/o n/o n/o 3.69 3.90
 6 months n/o n/o n/o 3.75 4.00
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 3.96 4.20

 Amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 12,068 13,618 11,282 2,813 3,482

 Foreign Exchange Market Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15
## Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 15.12 14.84 14.90 11.39 9.36
 Retail 15.15 14.91 14.97 11.51 9.38

 ## Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 15.36 15.21 15.15 13.48 9.53
 ROFEX 1 month 15.41 15.18 15.27 12.80 9.50
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 7,608 6,265 6,124 3,856 3,929

 Real (Pesos per Real) 4.65 4.62 4.56 2.93 2.40

 Euro (Pesos per Euro) 16.95 16.63 16.54 12.43 10.52

 ## Capital Markets Sep-16 Aug-16 Jul-16 Dec-15 Sep-15

 MERVAL
 Index 16,173 15,532 15,434 12,849 10,433
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 286 240 340 204 183

 Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 114.9 115.1 114.0 140.5 148.3
 BONAR X (US$) 102.6 102.6 102.9 130.5 144.1
 DISCOUNT ($) 116.8 116.8 118.8 120.6 81.2

 Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond 240 268 312 639 856
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 447 490 511 476 561
 EMBI+ Latin America 469 480 497 576 579

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
 (2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for maturities of 1 and 3 months, and
 External segment for maturities of 6 and 12 months.
 (3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 basis points due to technical factors (correction of prices
 from the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 15

## 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MF: Mutual Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
STP: Short-Term Debt Value.
FV: Face Value.
DRV: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | September 2016 | BCRA | 16
