# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest Rates | Page 4

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates | Page 4

 Market Interest Rates | Page 5

3. Monetary Aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on June 6, 2016. All figures are provisional and
 are subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• During the course of May, the different price indices that were published corroborated the Central Bank's vision regarding inflation dynamics: the temporary increase that has occurred since the end of 2015 was related mainly to a readjustment of relative prices, with greater incidence in the metropolitan area. After these changes, the Central Bank expects inflation to decrease rapidly to the levels observed before they occurred, and then adopt a gradually downward trend.

• In the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (C.A.B.A), as was expected, there was an acceleration of inflation in April due to the increase in public services. In contrast, the "rest" inflation of the same month, which attempts to capture the underlying trend of the general price level, by excluding seasonal and regulated components, showed the lowest monthly growth since last November. Similarly, the April price index for San Luis showed a monthly increase higher than the previous month, but more than half of its increase was due to the impact of the "Housing and basic services" item. The wholesale price index from INDEC was also published, which showed sustained deceleration over the course of the first four months. In turn, inflation expectations have shown a slight decline as the effects of relative price changes are being overcome.

• Considering these indicators and different price surveys and inflation expectations surveys, in order to limit the increase in the contractionary bias of monetary policy, the Central Bank decided to reduce its reference interest rate, that of the 35-day LEBAC, on four occasions during May, for a total of 3.75 p.p. Thus, the cut-off interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC was placed at 34.25% in the last auction of the month. Additionally, it maintained unchanged the corridor established through the interest rates of repurchase agreement operations.

• The Central Bank will continue to act cautiously, maintaining its contractionary bias and, in particular, monitoring that there are no significant or lasting alterations in the downward trend of underlying inflation or in inflation expectations.

• Short-term interest rates –mainly those operated in interbank markets and those applied to loans granted through advances of up to 7 days– remained within the corridor of interest rates established by the Central Bank.

• In the month of May the BCRA carried out a series of operations in the foreign exchange market aimed at strengthening its balance sheet, increasing its international reserves. Net purchases of foreign currency were made from both the private sector and the public sector, for a total of approximately US$4,200 million. The expansion generated through these operations was sterilized mainly through the placement of LEBAC. It should be noted that foreign currency purchases from the National Treasury do not constitute transfers. They do not have a net equity effect on the BCRA's balance sheet, but only on the composition of its assets and liabilities. In the same way that when the BCRA buys foreign currency from other official entities, provinces, or the private sector, these are not transfers to those agents, but rather foreign exchange operations.

• In the monetary policy scheme of interest rate fixing, the money supply is regulated endogenously, according to the demand for liquidity existing at that interest rate level. In May the year-on-year growth of the monetary base continued to decline and reached 24.8%, 2.3 p.p. below that of April. The broader monetary aggregates also continued to decelerate. The means of payment of the private sector (private M2) reached growth of 23% y.o.y., 2.5 p.p. lower than the previous month, while M3 reduced its year-on-year increase by 1.2 p.p., to 24.6%.
• Bank liquidity in pesos (includes LEBAC holdings, repos with the BCRA, current accounts at the BCRA and cash) remained at adequate levels. In terms of local currency deposits, it increased by 1 percentage point compared to the previous month, reaching 37.8%. The monthly increase occurred in a context in which financial institutions allocated the increase in deposits mainly to increase repo balances at the Central Bank.

• Effective from June, the Central Bank implemented an increase in reserve requirement coefficients. For peso deposits, the increase will be 2.5 percentage points for sight deposits and 1.5 percentage points for fixed-term deposits with shorter remaining maturity. Starting in July, additional increases of the same magnitude will take effect. This measure seeks to ensure that the effort of the monetary contraction that the Central Bank has been implementing since the beginning of the year is shared by all actors in the financial sector.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 3
2. Interest Rates2

Monetary Policy Interest Rates

During the course of May, the various price indices that were published corroborated the Central Bank's vision regarding inflation dynamics: the temporary increase that has occurred since the end of 2015 was related mainly to a readjustment of relative prices, with greater incidence in the metropolitan area (see Graph 2.1). Following these changes, the Central Bank expects inflation to decline rapidly to the levels observed before these changes occurred and that, subsequently, it will adopt a gradually downward trend.

As expected, monthly inflation in the City of Buenos Aires (C.A.B.A.) accelerated in April compared to March, reflecting the incidence of the increase in tariffs for various public services in this district. However, the "remaining" inflation in that jurisdiction, which attempts to capture the underlying trend of inflation by excluding seasonal and regulated components, showed the smallest monthly growth since last November.

For its part, the San Luis price index corresponding to April reflected a monthly increase higher than that of March, although more than half of this increase was explained by the incidence of the Housing and Basic Services item, in which the increase in gas tariffs had a direct impact. This is another one of the indicators that confirms underlying inflation in decline.

Graph 2.1
% Prices
(monthly variations)
10 - IPCBA General Level
9 - IPCBA Rest
8 - Domestic Wholesale Price Index San Luis
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16

Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Censuses - Ministry of Finance GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorate of Statistics and Censuses of San Luis.

During the month, the Domestic Wholesale Price Index (IPIM, elaborated by INDEC) was also released, which in April showed a monthly increase of 1.5%, exhibiting sustained deceleration during the course of the first four months.

In turn, the inflation expectations that the Central Bank monitors have shown a slight decline, as the effects of changes in relative prices are overcome.

Taking into account these indicators and various price and inflation expectation assessments, the Central Bank decided to reduce its monetary policy interest rate, the one corresponding to the 35-day LEBAC, on four occasions during May, for a total of 3.75 p.p., bringing it to 34.25% at the end of the month.

Graph 2.2
TNA% millions $
42 (securities with 35-day maturity, daily data) 18,000
40 - BCRA Operation Amount in LECE Session (right axis) 16,000
- Primary Market Rates
- Secondary Market Rates
38 14,000
36 12,000
34 10,000
32 8,000
30 6,000
28 4,000
26 2,000
 0
11-Dec 10-Jan 09-Feb 10-Mar 09-Apr 09-May

Source: BCRA

On the other hand, the Central Bank continued to participate actively in the secondary market of its securities, promoting a convergence of the yields of this market to those established in primary auctions. Thus, it focused exclusively on the segment of the yield curve around 35 days, where it carried out sales throughout the month for approximately VN $53,600 million (see Graph 2.2).

In this way, the Central Bank continues to conduct its monetary policy to induce a process of disin-

Graph 2.3
TNA % Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market
(by auction)
38 - 31-May-16  26-Apr-16  29-Mar-16
37
36
35
34
33
32
31

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 4
30 inflation, while limiting the increase in the contractionary bias

29 Term that would occur if the reduction in inflation were not accompanied by a decrease in its monetary policy
rate.
28
0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330
Source: BCRA

The monetary authority will proceed with caution, maintaining its contractionary bias and, in particular, monitoring that there are no significant or lasting alterations in the downward trend of underlying inflation or in inflation expectations.

**Graph 2.4**

% Interest Rates on Call Operations, BCRA Repos and LEBACs
(weighted average rate by amount) In the primary market, the interest rates on LEBACs
with longer terms experienced smaller declines
than those exhibited by shorter-term securities, which generated a flattening of the yield curve. In the last auction of the month, the cut-off rate of the LEBAC of
252 days was located at 29.5%, 2 p.p. below its level at
end of April (see Graph 2.3).

Repos Active at 7 days
Repos Passive at 1 day
Call at 1 day
Advances Up to 7 days - More than $10 M - Private Banks. In turn, the Central Bank decided to maintain unchanged the corridor established by the interest rates of
LEBAC M. Secondary market 15 days
LEBAC M. Primary market 35 days repos, both for 1-day operations and for 7-day operations.

Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 In this way, the corridor was maintained at 30%-39% and
Source: BCRA 31%-40%, respectively.

**Interest Rates in the Market**

Short-term interest rates exhibited a downward trend within the corridor of interest rates established by the Central Bank in the repo market, in line with the decrease in the policy rate throughout the month (see Graph 2.4).

**Graph 2.5**

thousands Interbank Market
millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA %
10 40 
Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (daily average)
9 Amount traded Call (daily average)
Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 35
8 Interest rate Call (right axis)
30
7
In interfinancial markets, the interest rate on
6 25
call operations at 1 business day averaged 34.4% in
5 20 May, a level 2.5 p.p. lower than the value registered the
4 15 previous month. The average interest rate of operations
3 10 at 1 business day between financial entities in the
2 5 guaranteed market (REPO wheel) was located at 34.1%, showing a decline of 2.7 p.p. The average daily amount
1 0
0 traded in both markets decreased almost $1,300
May-14 Aug-14 Nov-14 Feb-15 May-15 Aug-15 Nov-15 Feb-16 May-16
Source: BCRA million, totaling around $8,400 million (see Graph 2.5).

**Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 5** For its part, the interest rates on financing of
**Graph 2.6** operations linked to commercial activity showed a
Interest Rates on Personal and Secured Loans trajectory similar to those of the interfinancial market.
(daily data)
TNA Monthly Average Variations The interest rate on advances to companies in the
% 6 p.p.
50 4 Personal Secured most traded segment (for more than $10 million and up
2 0.1
0 to 7 days) averaged 37.2%, showing a decline of 1.6 p.p.
-2 -0.9
45 -4 with respect to the previous month, while the interest rate
-6 Secured Personal on discounted documents was reduced by 0.5 p.p. and
40 was located at 27.3%. For its part, the interest rate on
35 documents at sole signature averaged 33.3%, remaining practically stable with respect to the previous month.

30

25 The remaining active interest rates, destined mainly to

20 financing families, showed

15
1-Oct-15 1-Nov-15 1-Dec-15 1-Jan-16 1-Feb-16 1-Mar-16 1-Apr-16 1-May-16 heterogeneous behaviors. The average interest rate for
Source: BCRA personal loans was located at 43%, remaining relatively
stable in the month. Meanwhile, the interest rate corres-
ponding to pawn loans averaged 25.7% in May, showing a
decline of 0.8 p.p. (see Graph 2.6).

Graph 2.7
%; p.p. Short-Term Interest Rates On the other hand, passive interest rates remained
40 daily data
Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks relatively stable, in a period in which the growth of
BADLAR private banks time deposits continued to decelerate.
LEBAC 35 days
In particular, the interest rate paid by private entities
35 for time deposits fixed up to $100 thousand and up to
35 days of term averaged 27.3% (+0.2 p.p. with respect
30 to the previous month). Meanwhile, the BADLAR –
interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and
25 more, of 30-35 days of term– of private banks was
located at 30.9% (+0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous
20 month; see Graph 2.7).

15
Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16

Source: BCRA 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

During May, the placements of LEBAC and the repo
operations generated a monetary absorption that almost
completely offset the expansion generated by the tran-
sactions of the public sector and the operations of the
monetary authority in the foreign exchange market. In
Graph 3.1 effect, the Central Bank carried out net purchases of
thousands of Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base foreign currency for a total of approximately US$4,200
millions of $ (May 2016, on average) million, coming from both the private sector and the
50 public sector (see Graph 3.1). In this way, part of the
40 increase in the stock of LEBAC had as its counterpart
30 Purchase of foreign currency from operations that favored the strengthening of the
20 National Public Sector Central Bank's balance sheet, as it constituted a factor
10 for growth of international reserves. It should be
0 noted that purchases of foreign currency from the
-10 National Treasury are not transfers. They do not have
-20 a net patrimonial effect on the Central Bank's balance
-30 sheet, but only on the composition of its assets and
-40 liabilities. In the same way that when the Central Bank
Purchases of Public LEBAC and Pases Other Circulating in Reserves buys foreign currency from other official entities,
foreign currency NOBAC Public Bancarias provinces, or from the private sector, these are not
in MULC
Source: BCRA transfers to said agents, but rather foreign exchange
Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 6 Graph 3.2 operations.

% Monetary Aggregates
45 (year-on-year variation) During the month, the monetary base presented a
monthly increase of 0.3% and continued moderating its
40 year-on-year variation (2.3 p.p.), which moved to
35.8%.
35

30 The broader monetary aggregates also showed a
deceleration. While M33 reduced 1.2 p.p. its year-on-
25 year variation to 24.6%, the transactional money of the
Base Monetaria private sector (Private M24) decreased its year-on-year
20 M2 private growth 2.5 p.p., to 23% (see Graph 3.2). This latter
M3 aggregate registered a monthly increase of 0.7%, with
15 rises in circulating currency in the hands of the public
Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15 May-16 and demand deposits.

Note: M3 includes circulating currency in the hands of the public and the total of peso deposits.
Source: BCRA Regarding fixed-term deposits of the private sector,
they maintained their balance relatively stable and
continued reducing their year-on-year increase, to
Graph 3.3 around 30%. It should be noted that they continued to be evident
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector showing markedly different behaviors according to
 millions of $ %
 500 Observed Balance 70 the deposit amount stratum (see Graph 3.3).

 Var. y.o.y. observed (right axis) While placements of less than $1 million
 450 Var. y.o.y. with BCRA Securities not ent. Fin. (right axis) 60
 grew 4.9% in May (59% y.o.y.), maintaining the dynamism of previous months, deposits in the wholesale segment
 400 50 presented a reduction of 6.1% (accumulating
 40 a growth of 6.4% y.o.y.). As in previous months, the
 350
 30 moderation of wholesale time deposits is found
 associated with the growing participation of investors
 300
 20 that are not financial entities in the acquisition of
 250 10 LEBAC. Likewise, specifically in May, the high demand for
 200 0 liquidity of companies to face the tax payment deadlines
 of the period would also have had an influence.
 150 -10
 Nov-12 May-13 Nov-13 May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15 May-16
 Source: BCRA

 On the other hand, public sector deposits increased
 8.3%, with increases in sight deposits and those
 Graph 3.4 agreed upon at fixed term. In this way, the total of deposits in pesos (including those of the public sector as
 thousands of Foreign Currency Deposits of the Private Sector
 well as those of the private sector) increased 1.8% in May, exhibiting
 millions of US$
 (daily balance) a year-over-year variation of 24.9%.
 15

 13 31-May-16 The monthly average balance of foreign currency
 11.7 deposits increased 1%, with increases in placements of
 11 the public sector and stability in those of the private
 sector. The deposits of the private sector maintained
 9 their balance around US$11,700 million, one of
 7 the highest levels since May 2012 (see Graph
 3.4), verifying stability both in placements of less than
 5 US$1 million as in those of more than US$1 million.
 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 Ene-13 Jul-13 Ene-14 Jul-14 Ene-15 Jul-15 Ene-16
 Source: BCRA

3 Includes currency in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of private and public
non-financial sectors in pesos.
4 Includes currency in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 7 Graph 4.1 Finally, the broader monetary aggregate, M3* 5,
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector increased 1.2%, presenting a year-over-year variation of
 % %
 6 Monthly Variation 60 31.5%.

 5 Y.o.y. Variation (right axis)50
 4. Loans 1 6
 4 40

 3 30 In May, loans in pesos to the private sector presented
 a growth of 1.3% ($9,680 million), driven fundamentally
 2 20 by advances in current account and personal loans. The
 year-over-year variation decreased 0.9 p.p. until it was
 1 10 placed at 29.7% (see Graphs 4.1 and 4.2).
 0 0
 -1 -10 With respect to financing with essentially commercial
 May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 May-16 destination, advances in current account showed
 Source: BCRA
 greater dynamism than in previous months, favored
 by the liquidity needs of companies on the occasion of
 the tax payment deadlines of the period.

 Graph 4.2 After two months of presenting declines, they grew 3.8%

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector (monthly average variation) ($3,600 million), which allowed the growth rate to
 millions of $ %
 12,000 60
44.9 year-on-year increase will register an increase of around 10,000 May-16. vs. Apr-16. 50
33.6 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 5 p.p. up to 33.6% (see Chart 4.3). For its
8,000 34.0 40
29.7 26.3 part, financings arranged through documents
6,000 21.6 30
showed a decrease of 0.9% ($1,580 20
4,000 million), observing differentiated behaviors
12.8 10
2,000 by type of line. While loans granted
0 0 -0.8 as documents on signature alone continued
-10
-2,000 exhibiting a downward trend, those granted
-20
through document discounting, which are agreed
-4,000 -30
at a shorter term, continued showing increases.

Source: BCRA It should be noted that the BCRA will continue promoting the
"Financing Line for Production and Financial
Inclusion" (LFPIF) in the second half of the
Chart 4.3 year. In that regard, it raised the financing quota
% Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector % included to 15.5% of peso deposits of the
14 (average monthly variation) 70
private sector in May. Among the new measures,
12 Average monthly var. 60
Year-on-year var. (right axis) the percentage of postdated checks and other
10 50 documents discounted to SMEs was increased
8 40 that can be attributed to this line, from 30% of
6 30 the quota in the first half of the year to 50% in
4 20 the second half (Communication "A" 5975).

2 10

0 0 Regarding lines aimed at financing household
-2 -10 consumption, personal loans grew 2.3%
-4 -20 ($3,940 million), an increase similar to that of
-6 -30 March and April, although lower than that of
May-07 May-08 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 May-16
Source: BCRA the same month last year. Consequently, the
5 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
6 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of loans in the portfolio year-on-year variation stood at 34%,
of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" refers to loans (new and 0.8 p.p. below that observed the previous month.
renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans agreed, minus amortizations For its part, credit card financings increased
and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 8 1.5%, which led to a deceleration in its year-on-
Chart 4.4 year growth rate. After reaching 57.5% in
Pledged Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector December 2015, the year-on-year variation
(amounts granted by type of rate and by TNR range fixed and renegotiable rate)
%
100 began decelerating until reaching 44.9% in May,
90 which implied a decrease of 2.7 p.p. in relation
80 Variable to April.
70 22.25 and more
60 21.75 to 22.25 Regarding loans with real guarantees, pledged
19.25 to 21.75
50 18.75 to 19.25 loans accelerated their growth rate, registering
40 18.25 to 18.75 an increase of 1.9% ($780 million), the highest
17.75 to 18.25 of this year. Part of this increase would be
30 Less than 17.5 explained by greater placements within the LFPIF
20 framework. In this sense, financings agreed at
10 interest rates
0 close to those of the LFPIF (range of 21.75% to 22.25%)
 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16
 Source: BCRA increased and came to represent 27.8% of
 the volume traded in May, compared to a participation of
 25% the previous month (see Charts 4.4). In year-on-year
 terms, loans with pledge guarantee grew 21.6%, 0.6 p.p.
 more than in April. Meanwhile, mortgage loans main-
 tained their stable balance and in the last 12
 Chart 4.5 months accumulated an increase close to 13%.
 Documents at Sight in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector
 thousands of
 billions of US$
 TNA; % For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private
 5 10
 Daily Balance
 Interest Rate (right axis) 9 sector continue with the growing trend that they have
 4
 8 shown since mid-December. The growth recorded
 4 7 in May was US$900 million, accumulating an
 3 6 increase of US$2,400 million in the first five
 5 months of the year (82% compared to December 2015). This
 3 4
 increase was led by documents at sight, a line strongly
 2 3 associated with foreign trade, in a context of a decrease
 2 in the interest rate charged for these financings (see
 2
 1 0 Charts 4.5). It should be noted that the greater dynamism
 1 of this line could be related to some substitution for
 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 loans denominated in pesos, since, as was mentioned,
 Source: BCRA the line of documents at sight in pesos has been showing
 a downward trend during recent months.

 5. Liquidity of Financial
 Chart 5.1 Entities

 % of Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
 deposits

45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repurchase LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity In the context of the evolution of deposits and loans
 Agreements analyzed, during May, the ratio of average liquidity of
40 39.7 39.7 39.5 39.2 38.8 38.0 36.9 36.7 36.9
 37.9 38.6 37.3 36.8 37.8 financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of
35 cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
30 Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and the
25 holding of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos)
20 increased to 37.8% (see Chart 5.1). Among its components,
15 the increase in the balance of repurchase agreements with
10 the Central Bank stood out, since the monetary contraction
 associated with the placement of LEBAC had as its
 5 counterpart mainly investors from the non-financial
 0 sector.
 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16
* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA On the other hand, regarding the position of minimum cash
 in pesos, it is estimated that financial entities ended May
 with a surplus equivalent to 0.2% of the total deposits in
 pesos.

 With effect from next month, the Central Bank
 Table 5.1 arranged the increase of reserve coefficients. For
 placements in pesos the increase established for June
 Reserve Coefficients May June July amounts, on average, to 2% of deposits (see Table
 for Deposits in Pesos Zone I Zone II-VI Zone I Zone II-VI Zone I Zone II-VI 5.1). In turn, from July an additional increase of the same
Demand Deposits 17 15 19.5 17.5 22 20 magnitude will take effect. This measure aims at ensuring
FCI Placements 19 19 20.5 20.5 22 22 that the monetary contraction effort that is underway
1) up to 29 days 13 12 14.5 13.5 16 15 implementing the Central Bank since the beginning of
2) from 30 to 59 days 10 9 11 10 12 11 year be shared by all actors in the financial
3) from 60 to 89 days 6 5 6.5 5.5 7 6
4) from 90 to 179 days 1 0 1 0 1 0 sector.
5) from 180 to 365 days 0 0 0 0 0 0
5) from 365 days or more 0 0 0 0 0 0
Increases in reserve requirement coefficients were also
Negotiable Obligations 14 a 0 14 a 0 15 a 0 15 a 0 16 a 0 16 a 0 arranged for deposits in foreign currency for the next
(according to residual term) two months, which total 5 percentage points for those
corresponding to placements on demand and up to 3 p.p.
Deposits on demand and fixed-term for those applied to fixed-term deposits of shorter residual
judicial (including immobilized balances) 10 10 12.5 12.5 15 15 term. This modification took place in a context in which
Investments at term in pesos, by 15 14 16.5 15.5 18 17 liquidity in foreign currency continues at elevated levels:
holders of the public sector, with it averaged during the last month the equivalent of 90.7% of
option of early cancellation at total deposits in dollars. It fell by almost 7 percentage points
a residual term of less than 30 days. compared to April, in a period in which, as was mentioned,
loans in foreign currency continued to show sustained growth.

6. International Reserves and Foreign
Exchange Market1

Chart 6.1 International reserves decreased by US$4,208 million
in May, ending the month at US$30,171 million. The
millions of U$S Central Bank Operations in the Foreign Exchange Market monthly decline was explained fundamentally by the net payment of
600 foreign currency debt by the national public sector (mainly
to the Paris Club and those associated with the regularization of
400 payments following the agreement with holders of public debt in
litigation), which more than offset the increase linked to foreign
200
exchange purchases by the Central Bank.
0
Indeed, within the flexibility provided by the floating
-200 exchange rate regime, in a period characterized by the
increase in the supply of foreign exchange associated with
-400 the liquidation of the bulk harvest, the Central Bank made
-600 net purchases of foreign exchange in the Single and Free
01-Jan-16 01-Feb-16 01-Mar-16 01-Apr-16 01-May-16 Exchange Market (see Chart 6.1). As a result of these
operations and the purchases made from the National
Source: BCRA Treasury, the BCRA incorporated approximately US$4,200 million
into its stock of international reserves. In this context, the
quotation of the U.S. dollar, considering the reference
exchange rate, ended the month at $14.01, 1.7% below
Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 10 Chart 7.1 the level it registered at the end of April.

On the other hand, in May the Central Bank continued
taking measures to facilitate conditions for carrying out
operations with the exterior and exchange transactions.
Among these, the increase in the monthly limit to purchase
foreign exchange for the formation of external assets stood out,
which went from US$2 million to US$5 million 7.

7. Main Policy Measures of Other
Central Banks

During the month of May, within the group of the main
central banks, the monetary policy committees of the Bank
of England (BoE) and those of some central banks in the
region8 met. Among the latter, only the Bank of the Republic
of Colombia Chart 7.2 (BRC) modified its monetary policy interest rate. However,
during the month signs emerged that the Federal Reserve
% Unemployment Rate (FED) would be close to carrying out a new increase in the
12 Without seasonality objective of its reference interest rate.
11
The dissemination, in mid-May, of the minutes of the
10 last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee
9 (FOMC) of the FED, the public statements of several
8 members of the FOMC, and the strength of most

7

6

5

4
3 of the US economic indicators,

2 led to an increase in the chances of an increase

Feb-48 Dec-53 Oct-59 Aug-65 Jun-71 Apr-77 Feb-83 Dec-88 Oct-94 Aug-00 Jun-06 Apr-12in the federal funds rate target

Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov
(FFR)9. This is in line with the median of the
forecasts of FOMC members (see Chart
Chart 7.3 7.1). If this increase materializes in the meetings of
June 14 and 15, the FFR range would be 0.5-
0.75%. This would occur in a context of an unemployment
rate of 5% (see Chart 7.2), close to the
long-term forecast of FOMC members.

In the case of the BoE, at the meeting of May 12 of the
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), it decided to maintain
its monetary policy interest rate (the Bank Rate)
at 0.5% and its asset purchase program at
£375,000 million, as expected. Furthermore, the
BoE authorities continued warning about the
possible impact that an eventual exit from the European Union
("Brexit"), which will be decided in a referendum in June, would have on the United Kingdom economy.

7 See Communications "A" 5963, "A" 5964 and "P" 50745.
8 On June 2, the European Central Bank took new expansionary measures, expanding the eligible securities for its asset
purchase program.
9 However, in early June, after learning that in May the non-agricultural sector of the US economy created only 38,000
jobs (private analysts projected the creation of 160,000 jobs), the chances of an FFR increase in the June and July meetings
decreased significantly.

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 11 Finally, already within the region, the BRC decided
to increase its monetary policy interest rate (the
base rate for one-day expansion auctions) by 0.25
p.p., to 7.25%, accumulating an increase of 3.75 p.p. since
the rate hike cycle began in April 2014, and of 1.5
p.p. so far this year. It did this in a context where
inflation is at almost 8%, 4 p.p. above
the upper limit of the target (3% ± 1 p.p.). However,
the increase in prices is
considerably below the depreciation rate of the
Colombian peso (which in the last
twelve months exceeds 20%).

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 128. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables May-15 May-16 Apr-16 Monthly Last 12 Dec-15
months

Monetary base 584,173 582,322 622,263 468,116 0.3% 24.8%
Monetary circulation 453,005 453,763 458,844 358,815 -0.2% 26.3%
Bills and Coins held by the public 400,736 398,539 408,627 323,409 0.6% 23.9%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 52,269 55,224 50,217 35,404 -5.4% 47.6%
Cancellation Checks 0.6 0.3 0.4 0.0 135.1% -
Current account at BCRA 131,168 128,559 163,418 109,301 2.0% 20.0%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 33,574 22,139 33,067 17,237 51.7% 94.8%
Assets 01.96100

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 538,568 526,693 325,511 338,671 2.3% 59.0%
In banks 295,285 302,060 239,287 252,130 -2.2% 17.1%

LEBAC (does not include repo portfolio)
In pesos 507,271 463,273 305,323 323,779 9.5% 56.7%
In dollars 2,201 4,380 1,754 1,664 -49.7% 32.3%

NOBAC 0000--

BCRA international reserves (5) 31,581 31,016 24,816 33,796 1.8% -6.6%

Private and public sector deposits in pesos (1) 1,159,089 1,138,400 1,151,700 928,332 1.8% 24.9%
Current account (2) 320,609 306,138 374,962 269,174 4.7% 19.1%
Savings account 229,450 226,356 244,736 187,007 1.4% 22.7%
Fixed-term deposits not adjusted by CER 562,791 560,907 487,974 434,788 0.3% 29.4%
Fixed-term deposits adjusted by CER 20 18 12 9 12.4% 119.6%
Other deposits (3) 46,219 44,980 44,015 37,354 2.8% 23.7%

Private sector deposits 914,232 912,221 887,580 724,590 0.2% 26.2%

Public sector deposits 244,857 226,179 264,120 203,742 8.3% 20.2%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 14.211 14.073 10.579 9.618 1.0% 47.8%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 837.128 827.797 821.536 650.930 1.1% 28.6%

Loans to the private sector 778.169 768.651 763.818 600.114 1.2% 29.7%
Advances 99.230 95.623 93.780 74.274 3.8% 33.6%
Documents 178.101 179.685 192.463 141.017 -0.9% 26.3%
Mortgage loans 54.754 54.777 54.270 48.527 0.0% 12.8%
Pledged loans 41.029 40.249 39.996 33.735 1.9% 21.6%
Personal loans 175.613 171.839 160.780 131.043 2.2% 34.0%
Credit cards 187.879 185.131 174.753 129.621 1.5% 44.9%
Others 41.563 41.346 47.777 41.897 0.5% -0.8%

Loans to the public sector 58.959 59.147 57.718 50.816 -0.3% 16.0%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5.362 4.457 2.935 4.209 20.3% 27.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + checking accounts in pesos) 721.345 704.677 783.590 592.586 2.4% 21.7%

M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 950.795 931.033 1.028.325 779.593 2.1% 22.0%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.559.825 1.536.939 1.560.327 1.251.744 1.5% 24.6%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.764.453 1.744.105 1.686.655 1.341.834 1.2% 31.5%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private checking 606.700 601.092 622.087 495.250 0.9% 22.5%
accounts in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 820.524 814.847 849.199 667.198 0.7% 23.0%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private 1.310.760 1.296.208 1.314.968 1.048.002 0.3% 25.5%
deposits in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.485.082 1.485.294 1.408.034 1.124.860 0.0% 32.0%

Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 13 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 1.850 0.3% 20.713 3.7% -38.090 -6.5% 116.057 24.8%
Financial sector -13.042 -2.2% -1.901 -0.3% 400 0.1% -15.161 -3.2%
Public sector 36.926 6.3% 59.756 10.6% 66.238 11.4% 220.259 47.1%
Private external sector 9.106 1.6% 9.958 1.8% 9.963 1.7% -67.470 -14.4%
BCRA Securities -27.828 -4.8% -41.056 -7.3% -148.426 -25.5% -93.029 -19.9%
Others -3.312 -0.6% -6.044 -1.1% 33.735 5.8% 71.457 15.3%

BCRA International Reserves 566 1.8% 2.222 7.6% 6.766 21.8% -2.215 -6.6%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 652 2.1% 785 2.7% 746 2.4% -7.407 -21.9%
Payment to international organizations -214 -0.7% -691 -2.4% -932 -3.0% -1.970 -5.8%
Other operations of the public sector 1.952 6.3% 3.698 12.6% 2.864 9.2% 6.791 20.1%
Minimum cash requirement 1.202 3.9% 1.909 6.5% 39 0.1% 2.305 6.8%
Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -3.027 -9.8% -3.480 -11.9% 4.049 13.1% -1.934 -5.7%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation changes

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 11.0 11.0 11.1
 Integration 11.2 11.2 11.3
 Position (2) 0.2 0.3 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 66.6 66.8 66.1
 30 to 59 days 22.1 21.2 21.8
 60 to 89 days 6.3 6.6 6.4
 90 to 179 days 3.2 3.7 4.1
 more than 180 days 1.8 1.7 1.6
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.4 20.2 18.1
 Integration (includes resource application default) 67.5 59.9 54.3
 Position (2) 43.1 39.7 36.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.2 57.3 49.7
 30 to 59 days 19.3 20.4 27.0
 60 to 89 days 12.4 8.9 11.1
 90 to 179 days 9.2 9.7 8.7
 180 to 365 days 3.9 3.7 3.4
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.0 0.0
 (1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 14 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15

 Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 34.45 36.88 35.43 25.89 22.51
 Amount traded 3,280 3,636 3,916 2,798 3,381

 Fixed-term deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 28.48 27.91 27.40 26.50 20.21
 60 days or more 29.19 28.64 28.55 28.47 23.25
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 29.31 28.32 27.76 25.27 18.13
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 30.92 30.58 29.72 27.54 20.25

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.69 0.71 0.81 2.10 1.63
 60 days or more 1.22 1.15 1.30 3.21 2.37
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.60 0.63 0.68 1.70 1.32
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.11 0.97 1.17 2.57 2.28

 Active Interest Rates May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15

 Repos in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 34.74 35.71 34.86 30.90 23.94
 Amount traded (total terms) 641 594 643 956 601

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 40.31 41.09 39.61 34.50 30.10
 Documents on sole signature 33.27 33.06 32.27 30.61 26.15
 Mortgages 24.21 26.94 25.44 22.86 22.78
 Secured loans 25.67 26.62 26.94 26.00 25.19
 Personal loans 43.01 42.88 42.10 39.00 37.30
 Credit cards s/d 45.52 44.22 40.12 39.39

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 37.17 38.74 37.78 30.33 24.42

 International Interest Rates May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.44 0.44 0.44 0.36 0.18
 6 months 0.93 0.90 0.90 0.77 0.42

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.81 0.76 0.87 0.97 0.60
 10 years 1.80 1.80 1.88 2.35 2.20

 FED Funds Rate 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.39 0.25

 SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25 13.25

 (1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onward they correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 15 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 30.00 30.00 28.68 20.81 13.00
 Liabilities 7 days 31.00 31.00 29.68 22.81 14.00
 Assets 7 days 40.00 40.00 39.71 27.00 17.00

 REPO total session repo rates
 1 day 31.02 32.24 31.50 22.65 16.99
 7 days s/o 35.64 38.50 22.78 16.21

 Amount traded of REPO session repos (daily average) 32,073 22,526 20,343 22,708 15,014

 LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 36.25 38.0 37.8 35.7 s/o
 2 months 34.70 35.7 35.0 34.7 s/o
 3 months 33.10 34.00 33.80 32.31 25.96
 9 months s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o
 12 months s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o

 LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month s/o 0.90 0.90 3.22 3.25
 3 months s/o 0.90 0.90 3.69 3.90
 6 months s/o s/o s/o 3.75 4.00
 12 months s/o s/o s/o 3.96 4.20

 Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 12,352 9,293 7,811 2,813 2,962

 Foreign Exchange Market May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15
## Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 14.12 14.39 14.94 11.39 8.95
 Retail 14.22 14.48 15.01 11.51 8.95

## Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 14.51 14.72 15.24 13.48 9.07
 ROFEX 1 month 14.45 14.71 15.20 12.80 9.07
 Operating amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 5,214 6,164 9,210 3,856 3,207

## Real (Pesos x Real) 3.99 4.05 4.05 2.93 2.93

## Euro (Pesos x Euro) 15.98 16.34 16.68 12.43 10.00

## Capital Markets May-16 Apr-16 Mar-16 Dec-15 May-15

## MERVAL
 Index 13,027 13,162 12,964 12,849 11,825
 Operating amount (millions of pesos) 193 220 260 204 155

## Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 106.4 117.5 116.5 140.5 127.2
 BONAR X (US$) 101.7 101.8 100.9 130.5 128.6
 DISCOUNT ($) 100.8 101.9 109.0 120.6 83.5

## Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 377 456 533 639 841
 EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) 556 556 572 580 480

 (1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
 (2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.

 Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 169. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for time deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, canceling checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, canceling checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, canceling checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poors.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
STV: Short-Term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.
VRD: Debt Representative Value.

 Monetary Report | May 2016 | BCRA | 17
