# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Main policy measures of other central banks | Page 10

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was August 4, 2016. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
# Translation to English

• Price indices published during the month showed a generalized deceleration of inflation in June compared to May, and core inflation records with mixed behavior between the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area and the interior of the country. In particular, according to the GBA CPI published by INDEC, used as a parameter by the Central Bank to evaluate compliance with its inflation objectives while a national scope index is not available, monthly inflation decreased from 4.2% in May to 3.1% in June. Meanwhile, core inflation increased slightly, rising from 2.7% in May to 3% in June.

• The BCRA Market Expectations Survey (REM) published in early August showed an increase of approximately 0.1 p.p. in inflation expectations for the fourth quarter. Thus, according to the REM, for the last months of 2016 the expected monthly inflation is 1.7%, placing it above the monetary authority's objective for the period (of 1.5% or less). Nevertheless, all information sources followed by the Central Bank showed that in July there would have been a significant decline in monthly inflation compared to June records, which implies that the disinflation process is continuing its course.

• Considering all the factors mentioned, in July the Central Bank reduced 0.5 p.p. its main reference interest rate –the one corresponding to the 35-day LEBAC– in the first auction of the month, bringing it to 30.25%, a level at which it decided to maintain it until the end of the month. Subsequently, in the first August auction, it decided to reduce it 0.25 p.p., to 30%. The interest rates on repos were reduced by the same magnitude and at the end of July those for 1-day active and passive repo operations were located at 26%-35% and those corresponding to 7-day repos at 27%-36%, respectively. In early August these interest rates also decreased 0.25 p.p. The BCRA will continue to proceed with caution, so as to consolidate a disinflation trajectory compatible with its objective of monthly inflation of 1.5% or less for the last quarter of this year.

• In the monetary market, the shortest-term interest rates –mainly those traded in interbank markets and those applied to loans granted through advances of up to 7 days– exhibited heterogeneous trajectories, although they averaged values lower than those of the previous month and remained within the interest rate corridor established by the Central Bank in the repo market. On the other hand, passive interest rates maintained a downward trend during the course of the month, in a period in which financial entities continued to maintain ample levels of liquidity.

• The monthly increase in the monetary base was driven by the seasonal increase in currency in circulation by the public –associated with the collection of the half-year complementary salary and winter vacations– and the entry into force of the increase in reserve requirement coefficients announced in May. The Central Bank's purchases of foreign currency, from both the private and public sector, were again the main source of monetary creation that allowed meeting the greater demand for primary money. Part of the expansion associated with these operations was sterilized mainly through the placement of LEBACs. Meanwhile, broader monetary aggregates continued to decelerate in year-on-year terms.

• As had occurred in June, the increase in peso deposits allowed financial entities to meet the higher reserve requirements and also increase their liquidity held in LEBACs. Thus, the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with this entity and the holding of LEBACs, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased 2.1 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching 42.3%.
• Following the improvement in the Central Bank of Argentina's balance sheet that occurred in recent months, at the end of July this Institution early repaid reverse repo operations for US$5,000 million that had been arranged at the end of January of the current year, and agreed new operations with two international banks for US$1,000 million. In addition to the reduction of its reverse repos by US$4,000 million, it achieved a substantially lower interest rate (1-month US$ LIBOR + 2.25%).
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates2

 Graph 2.1
 Monetary Policy Interest Rates
 % Monthly Inflation - General Levels
 6
 City of Buenos Aires
 San Luis The price indices published during the month showed a
 5 generalized slowdown in inflation in June compared to
 INDEC
 4 Córdoba May and core inflation records with heterogeneous beha-

 Mendoza viors between the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area and
 3
 the interior of the country (see Graphs 2.1 and 2.2).

 2
 In particular, according to the GBA CPI published by IN-
 1 DEC, used as a parameter by the BCRA to evaluate the
 0 fulfillment of its inflation objectives while a national-
 may-16 jun-16 scope index is not available, monthly inflation decreased
 Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of the GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorates of from 4.2% in May to 3.1% in June. Meanwhile, core infla-
 Statistics and Census of San Luis, Córdoba and Mendoza. tion increased slightly, rising from 2.7% in May to 3% in
 June.

 According to the Market Expectations Survey of July, pu-
 Graph 2.2 blished in early August, the monthly inflation expected for
 % Monthly Core Inflation the last quarter of the year increased by around 0.1 p.p.,
 6
 IPCBA Rest standing at 1.7%, above the BCRA's objectives for that
 5 INDEC Core period (1.5% monthly or less; see Graph 2.3). However, all
 Córdoba - Core sources of information monitored by the BCRA indicated
 4
 that in July there would have been a significant decline in
 3 monthly inflation compared to June records, which means
 2 that the disinflation process continues its course.

 1

 0 Considering all the factors mentioned, in July the BCRA
 may-16 jun-16 reduced 0.5 p.p. its main reference interest rate – the one
 Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of the GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorate of corresponding to the 35-day LEBAC – in the first auction of
 Statistics and Census of Córdoba. the month, bringing it to 30.25%, a level at which it decided
 to maintain it until the end of the month. Subsequently, in
 the first auction of August, said interest rate was reduced
 0.25 p.p., down to 30%.

 Graph 2.3 In the primary market, the interest rates of LEBAC with
 Inflation Expectation according to REM longer terms remained unchanged compared to the end of
 % median variation of retail prices monthly June, which is why the yield curve continued to flatten
 3.0 (see Graph 2.4).

 2.5 Survey of Jun-16 Survey of Jul-16
 2.2
 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.5 1.6 2.0 Meanwhile, the Central Bank continued to operate actively
 2.0 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.8 in the secondary market in order to induce a convergence
 1.5 of the yields observed within a corridor of +/- 0.5 p.p.
 1.0 with respect to the monetary policy rate. The operations
 were carried out with the 35-day species, with sales during
 0.5 the month for a total of approximately VN$43,300 million
 0.0 (see Graph 2.5).
 jul-16 ago-16 sep-16 oct-16 nov-16 dic-16

 Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 4
 Graph 2.4 In a manner consistent with what was established for the
 TNA % LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market (by auction) 35-day LEBAC interest rate, in July the Central Bank deci-
 35 31-May-16 28-Jun-16 26-Jul-16 ded to reduce the interest rates of its repo operations by a
 34 total of 0.5 p.p., both for 1-day operations and for 7-day
 33 operations. In this way, at the end of July the interest rates
 32 for passive and active repo operations of 1 day were loca-
 31 ted at 26%-35% and those corresponding to 7-day repos
 30 at 27%-36%, respec-
28 tively. Before the publication of this report, at the

27 beginning of August, a reduction of 0.25 p.p. was

Maturity arranged for all Central Bank repo interest
26
0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 rates.

Source: BCRA

Thus, the BCRA will continue to proceed with caution, so
as to consolidate a disinflation trajectory compatible
with its inflation target of 1.5% or less per month
for the last quarter of this year.

Chart 2.5
Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market
TNA% millions $ (35-day term securities, daily data) Interest rates in the market
42 Amount traded by the BCRA in the Secondary Market (right axis) 30
Monetary policy rate
40 Secondary Market Rates Short-term interest rates exhibited heterogeneous
Monetary policy rate +/- 0.5 p.p. 25
trajectories, although they averaged values lower
38
than those of the previous month and remained within
20 the interest rate corridor established by the Central
36 Bank in the repo market (see Chart 2.6).
34 15
32 In interbank markets, the interest rate on one-day
10
30 business day call operations averaged 29% in July, a
level 2.5 p.p. lower than the value registered in the
5 previous month. The average interest rate for one-day
28 business day operations between financial entities in
26 0 the guaranteed market (REPO round) was 28.3%, ex-
15-Dec 14-Jan 13-Feb 14-Mar 13-Apr 13-May 12-Jun 12-Jul hibiting a decline of 2.9 p.p.. The average daily amount
Source: BCRA traded in both markets increased by $2,000 million,
totaling approximately $11,100 million.

The active interest rates intended mainly for financing
Chart 2.6 families showed mixed behavior. The average interest
rate for personal loans stood at 42.5%, showing a slight
increase of 0.2 p.p. with respect to June. Meanwhile, the
interest rate corresponding to secured loans averaged
25.8% in July, showing a decline of 1 p.p. (see Chart 2.7).

The passive interest rates declined during the course of
the month, which generated an increase in the spread
with respect to the 35-day LEBAC rate, behavior influ-
enced by adequate liquidity conditions of financial enti-
ties. In particular, the monthly average of the BADLAR
–interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and
more, with 35-day term–

Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 5

Chart 2.7 of private banks, stood at 26%, accumulating a decline
Personal and Secured Loans of 2.9 p.p. with respect to the previous month. On the
p.p. Monthly Average Variation (daily data) other hand, the interest rate paid by private entities for
TNA 0.6 fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to
% 0.2 0.2
Personal Secured 35 days accumulated a monthly decline of 2.4 p.p.
50 -0.2
-0.6 and moved to 23.8% monthly average (see Chart 2.8).
45 -1.0
-1.4 -1.0
40 3. Monetary Aggregates¹

35 In July, the monthly increase in the demand for base
30 money was prompted by a series of specific factors. On
25 one hand, currency in the hands of the public increased
20 driven by seasonal factors associated with the collection
15 of the semi-annual bonus payment and winter vaca-
Nov-15 Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16 tions. On the other hand, bank reserves grew as a result
of the new increase in reserve requirement coefficients
that began to take effect in the period³. The increase in
Chart 2.8 Short-Term Interest Rates base money demand was supplied through net purchases
%; p.p. of foreign exchange by the monetary authority, both from
(daily data) the private and public sectors, which in the month totaled
42 LEBAC 35 days US$2,600 million, and transfers from the Bank

Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks
BADLAR private banks
38

34
30 Central to the Treasury, consistent with the annual amount of
 $160,000 million coordinated between this Institution and the

26 Ministry of Finance and Public Finance. Part of the monetary
 expansion associated with said operations was

22 sterilized through the placement of LEBACs (see
Dic-15 Dic-15 Ene-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Abr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16
 Chart 3.1). As a consequence of the aforementioned increase
 in reserve requirement coefficients, the monetary base
Fuente: BCRA
 again showed an acceleration in its year-on-year growth rate,
 which reached 29.9%. If the effect of the regulatory change
 were excluded, which also impacted in June, the Monetary
 Base would have shown a deceleration, with a year-on-year
 variation on the order of 20%

 (Chart 3.2).
Chart 3.1
 thousands of Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base (July 2016, on average)
 millions of $ 35

 30 Change The remaining monetary aggregates continued to moderate
 Reserve
 25 Requirements their expansion rate (see Chart 3.2). M3⁴ reduced 0.6 p.p.
 20 its year-on-year variation to 23%, while transactional
 15 money of the private sector (M2 Private⁵) decreased its
 10 year-on-year growth by 0.3 p.p., to 20.7%. However, this
 5 latter aggregate registered a monthly increase of 6.6%,
 0 driven by the aforementioned seasonal increase in demand,
 -5 with increases in the National Circulating Currency and in
 -10 demand deposits.
 Private and Other Advances Other
 Sales of Foreign Currency Sector Other Operations LEBAC and Passes Other Public Banking National Circulating Currency Reserves
 Exchange with the Treasury NOBAC
 Fuente: BCRA

3 See Communication "A" 5980.
4 Includes circulating currency in public hands, check payment instruments in pesos and deposits of private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
5 Includes circulating currency in public hands, check payment instruments in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 6
 Time deposits of the private sector presented
 Chart 3.2
 a monthly increase of 2.7%, with advances in the retail
 % Monetary Aggregates
 (year-on-year variation) and wholesale segments. Placements of
 45
 less than $1 million grew 3.8% (55.5% y.o.y.), maintaining
 40 the dynamism they have been showing since late 2015 (see
 35 Chart 3.3). Meanwhile, deposits in the wholesale segment
 30 registered an increase of 1.3%, which was explained by the
 25 positive statistical carryover from June, given that
 Monetary Base throughout the month its balance remained essentially stable.
 20 Monetary Base - without reserve requirement increase This behavior would be associated with the widening that the
 M2 Private margin experienced between the interest rates earned by
 15 M3 shorter-term LEBACs and those paid for wholesale time
 Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 Ene-13 Jul-13 Ene-14 Jul-14 Ene-15 Jul-15 Ene-16 Jul-16 deposits (see Market Interest Rates section).

 Note: M3 includes circulating currency in public hands and total deposits in pesos.
 Fuente: BCRA
 On the other hand, peso deposits of the public sector
 decreased 2.1%, with reductions in time deposit placements
 Chart 3.3
 thousands of Time Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector and, mainly, in sight deposit placements. Thus, the total of
 millions of $ (evolution of daily balance) peso deposits (including both public and private sector
 300 deposits) increased 3.5% in July, exhibiting a year-on-year
 280 More than $1 million variation of 24.7%.
 Less than $1 million
 260 The average monthly balance of foreign currency deposits
 240 remained practically unchanged compared to June, with
 220 reductions in public sector placements that were offset by
 the increase in private sector deposits. These latter increased
 200 US$360 million throughout July, reaching
160 showing a balance of US$12,300 million, driven by
 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Ene-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16
 Source: BCRA placements of less than US$1 million, which main-
 tained an upward trend (see Chart 3.4).

 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*6,
 Chart 3.4 increased 4.3%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
 Foreign Currency Deposits of the Private Sector
 millions of US$ (daily balance) millions of US$30.6%.
 4.5 10.5

 4.0 10.0
 4. Loans 1 7
 3.5 9.5

 3.0 9.0
 In July, loans in pesos to the private sector pre-
 2.5 8.5 sented a monthly increase of 1.2% ($9,100 million)

 2.0 8.0 and continued to decelerate their expansion rate
 year-on-year, which went from being 26.6% in June to
 1.5 More than US$1 million 7.5 24.2% in July (see Chart 4.1). Unlike what occurred

 Less than US$1 million (right axis)
 1.0 7.0 in the first half of the year, July's growth was explained

 0.5 6.5 mainly by lines with essentially commercial purpose
 (advances, documents and other loans; see Chart 4.2).
 0.0 6.0
 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16
 Source: BCRA

6 Includes M3 and deposits of public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
7 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of portfolio credits from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance consists of loans arranged, minus the amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 7

 Regarding this type of financing, loans
 Chart 4.1 instruments through documents registered in the
 month an increase of 1.8% ($3,150 million). Thus, they
 grew again, after several months of presenting a
 decrease, although their year-on-year variation decreased
 3.4 p.p. and was situated at 17.7%. Distinguishing by type of
 operation, the discount of documents showed an upward
 trend throughout the month, favored by the
 Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion
 (LFPIP). In that sense, both in June and July there was
 verified a high participation of amounts negotiated at
 interest rates similar to those established under the
 LFPIF framework (range of 21.75% to 22.25%; see
 Charts 4.3). Meanwhile, documents at sole signature,
 which had been declining, remained stable. Continuing
 with financing with commercial purpose, advances
 exhibited in the period a growth of 1.9% ($1,920 million),
 similar to that of the previous month and lower than that
 of July of last year. Consequently, its year-on-year
 variation was reduced around 6 p.p. and was placed in
 the order of 23%.

 Chart 4.2 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (contribution by credit lines to monthly growth)
 %
 1.5 Financing intended mainly to finance

 1.0 household consumption showed differentiated
 behaviors. On one hand, personal loans, although
 0.5 they grew at a similar rate to that of the previous month

 0.0 by registering an increase of 1.7% ($3,100 million), in
 year-on-year terms grew around 32%, 0.6 p.p.
 -0.5 Personal loans and credit cards
 less than the previous month. On the other hand,
 -1.0 Mortgage and Pledge loans
 financing with credit cards kept their balance practically
 Advances, documents and other loans
 -1.5 stable. It is worth mentioning that on the first day of
 the month there was a significant drop in the balance of
 -2.0
 Jan-2016 Feb-2016 Mar-2016 Apr-2016 May-2016 Jun-2016 Jul-2016these financing operations, due to the concentration of strong
Source: BCRA maturities of one of the cards intended to finance
Source: BCRA
producers in the agricultural and livestock sector. Meanwhile, the
cumulative growth over the last 12 months was around
43%, declining 1 p.p. compared to the previous month.

Regarding loans with real guarantees, pledgors showed
an increase of 2.1% ($890 million),
Graph 4.3
Private Sector Documents in Pesos favored by the positive "statistical drag" that left
thousands of thousands of (daily balance evolution)
millions $ millions $
June. In fact, the variation of the balance as of July 31
62 124 with respect to June 30 was 1.3% ($570 million). The

Discounted Documents year-over-year variation remained unchanged at around
Documents on Sole Signature (right axis) 22%. For its part, loans with mortgage guarantee
grew in the month 0.8% ($430 million), the
56 118 second consecutive increase of the year. Thus, they
accumulated an increase of 10.5% over the last 12 months.
50 Discounted Documents 112 It is worth noting that several financial entities are
(amounts granted by type of rate and by TNA rate range issuing more mortgage loans denominated in Housing
% and repayable)
100 Variable Units (UVIs), with an interest rate around
22.25 and more
80 5% and an average term of around 15 years. By
21.75 to 22.25
44 60 19.25 to 21.75 106 July, approximately $50 million have already been
40 18.75 to 19.25
18.25 to 18.75 disbursed, although additionally there would be sums
20 20 19 20 12 13 25 2617.75 to 18.25
0 Less than 17.75 approved but not yet executed.

Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16
38 100 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
30-Nov 31-Dec 31-Jan 29-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul continue growing at a very good pace, driven by
Source: BCRA documents on sole signature, a line strongly
Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 8 associated with foreign trade. In particular, in July
Graph 4.4
millions u$s Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector they presented an increase of US$570 million (see Graph
(variation of monthly average balances) 4.4). Thus, so far this year they have accumulated
1,000 growth close to US$3,720 million.
800 Docs on sole signature Cards Others
600

400

200

0

-200

-400
5. Liquidity of financial
-600 entities¹

-800

-1,000
Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16
Source: BCRA

In July, a new increase in reserve requirement
coefficients came into effect. In the case of deposits in
pesos, the effect was equivalent to 2% of total deposits
in that currency. As happened in June, the monthly
increase in deposits over the increase in loans allowed
Graph 5.1 financial entities to meet the higher reserve requirement
and also increase their liquidity held in LEBAC. In this
way, the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of
cash in banks, the current account of entities in the
Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding
of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) in-
creased 2.1 p.p. compared to the previous month,
reaching 42.3% (see Graph 5.1). On the other hand, it is
estimated that financial entities ended June with a
surplus in the Minimum Cash position equivalent to 0.2%
of total deposits in pesos.

Regarding the foreign currency segment, the strong
growth of loans in dollars contributed to the liquidity
ratio in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the
current account of entities in the Central Bank, net
repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC in
foreign currency, as a percentage of deposits in dollars)
continuing to decline, although it remains at elevated
levels. During July, the broad liquidity ratio in foreign

Graph 6.1 currency was located at
thousands of BCRA International Reserves 80.3%, 3.7 percentage points below what was observed the previous month.
 millions of U$S
 60 Given the greater reserve requirement needs, the reduction
 was explained by the fall of LEBACs and net reverse repurchase
 50 agreements in foreign currency.

 40
 6. International reserves and foreign

 thousands of
 30 millions of U$S
 36 exchange market

 34
 20 32
 17-Dec-15
 30 Exchange Rate In July, international reserves showed growth
 Unification
 28 of US$2,004 million, ending the period
 10
 26
 at US$32,511 million (see Chart 6.1). Part of the
 24 01-Dec 01-Jan 01-Feb 01-Mar 01-Apr 01-May 01-Jun 01-Jul
 Jan-02 Jan-04 Jan-06 Jan-08 Jan-10 Jan-12 Jan-14 Jan-160monthly increase was explained by the placement
 
 Source: BCRA of foreign currency debt by the National Government.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 9
 
 The purchases of foreign exchange by the monetary authority in the
 foreign exchange market also contributed to the increase in reserves,
 as well as the increase in current accounts
 of financial entities at the Central Bank; the latter
 linked to the increase in dollar deposits.

 In turn, following the improvement in the Central
 Bank's balance sheet that occurred in recent months, at the end of
 July this Institution early repaid the passive
 reverse repurchase agreement operations for US$5,000 million that it had
 entered into at the end of January of the current year, and
 agreed to new operations with two international
 banks for US$1,000 million. In addition to the reduction
 of its passive reverse repurchase agreements by US$4,000 million, it achieved a
 substantially lower interest rate (1-month US$ LIBOR
 + 2.25%). Simultaneously, the Central Bank activated
 one of the mechanisms it habitually has available with
 the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) to manage
 its balance sheet more efficiently and at a
 lower cost, which generated an additional inflow of
 US$2,500 million and will allow for an
 additional margin of maneuver in the coming months.

 The reference exchange rate of the peso/US dollar
 ended July at 15.04, registering an
 increase of 0.8% compared to the close of June. As in
 previous months, the Central Bank allowed the
 market to freely establish the parity of foreign exchange
 transactions, making only occasional interventions. In this way, the
 exchange rate regime adopted provides flexibility to the
 national economy to face external events.
 
 7. Main policy measures
 of other central banks

 Chart 7.1 During July, among developed countries,
 
 In thousands Non-Agricultural Employment Creation the meetings of the monetary authorities
 of jobs
 400 of the U.S., the Eurozone, England, Japan stood out; and among
 Employment
 350 6-month moving average developing countries, those of the central banks of
 300 Colombia and Brazil.

 250

 200 In the first case, at its July 27 meeting the

 150 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the U.S.
 100 Federal Reserve (FED) decided to maintain the target
 of its reference interest rate, the federal funds rate (TFF),
 50 in the range 0.25-0.5%. In its
 0 press release it highlighted the strength of the labor market
 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15 Jun-16(see Chart 8.1), along with the slight improvement in

 Source: BCRA based on BLS.gov global financial conditions. Considering
 this, the market interpreted that the FED left open the
 possibility of a TFF increase before year-end.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 10
 
 Chart 7.2 For its part, the Governing Council (GC) of the European
 Central Bank (ECB) left its
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target monetary policy interest rate unchanged, which it applies to the
 % Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the minimum
 zone of the eurozone
5 historic level of 0.05%, as well as its corridor of interest rates
 Monetary Policy Rate
 Inflation Rate that remained at -0.4% and 0.25% for the
 4
 Inflation Target deposit and credit facilities, respectively

 3 Interest Rate Corridor (see Chart 8.2). Nor did it modify its asset

 2 purchase program. The authorities of the GC highlighted
 the resilience of the Eurozone financial markets
 1
 following the United Kingdom's decision to leave the

 0 European Union (Brexit). Along with this, in the press

 -1 release of the meeting it was highlighted that, if necessary, and

 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 to ensure the pass-through of monetary policy

 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an inflation rate
 < 2% y.o.y. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. expansionary to the real economy, the GC will use all the
 instruments at its disposal.

 Following the Brexit, the Monetary Policy Committee (CPM)
 of the Bank of England (BoE) decided,
 Chart 7.3 unexpectedly, to maintain its monetary policy interest rate
 Interest Rate, Unemployment Rate, and Inflation Rate and Policy £ Thousands of (the Bank Rate) at 0.5% and its asset purchase program
 % Millions
 11 Non-Conventional Monetary 450 of £375,000 million (see Chart

 Asset Purchase Facility (Right Axis) England 7.3). However, the majority of the GC members
 Unemployment Rate 400
 9 Inflation Target
 Inflation Rate 350 expressed that it would be necessary to take expansionary
 Monetary Policy Rate
 7 300 measures in the next meeting8. In this sense, they

 250 stated that their magnitude and nature would depend on the
 5 200
 new set of projections to be published at that
 3 150 time.

 100
 On the other hand, at its July 29 meeting the
 1
 50 authorities of the Bank of Japan took new expansionary
 -1 0 measures. They almost doubled their program of
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 purchase of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) from the

 Source: BCRA based on data from bankofengland.co.uk and ONS.gov.uk equivalent of US$32,000 million annually to
 US$58,000 million. It also doubled its dollar funding program to US$24,000 million. However,
 the market expected a much broader set of expansionary
 measures.
 
 Chart 7.4

 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - Brazil %

 % Within the region, the Central Bank of the Republic of
 25 Industrial Production (y.o.y. Change) 30
 Economic Activity Index of the BCB (y.o.y. Change) Colombia (BRC) decided to increase once again the
 20 Reference Interest Rate (right axis)
 Inflation Rate (right axis) 25 monetary policy interest rate (the base rate for
 15 Inflation Target Limits (right axis)
 one-day expansion auctions) by 0.25 p.p., to 7.75%,
 10 20 accumulating an increase of 4.25 p.p. since the beginning of
 the rate hike cycle in April 2014 and 2 p.p. in what has
 5 15 elapsed so far this year. It did this in a context where June
 0 inflation is at 8.6%, more than 4.5 p.p. above the
 -5 10 upper limit of the target (3% ± 1 p.p.).

 -10 5
 -15 Finally, on July 20 the Monetary Policy
 0 Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil
 Jun-99 Jun-01 Jun-03 Jun-05 Jun-07 Jun-09 Jun-11 Jun-13 Jun-15 decided to maintain for the eighth consecutive meeting the

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br target for the Selic rate at 14.25% in a recessionary context

8 Indeed, on August 4 the CPM reduced the Bank Rate to 0.25%, and, furthermore, took quantitative expansion measures.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 11 and where inflation, at 8.8% in June,
 continued markedly above the target (4.5% ±
 2 p.p.), although with a downward trend (see
 Chart 7.4).

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 12
8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.
# TASK COMPLETED

## Monthly Averages and Percentage Variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system Jul-16 Jun-16 Dec-15 Jul-15 Monthly Last 12
 months

Monetary Base 671,463 618,259 622,263 517,033 8.6% 29.9%
 Monetary Circulation 483,581 459,233 458,844 401,687 5.3% 20.4%
 Bills and Coins in possession of the public 432,073 409,027 408,627 364,636 5.6% 18.5%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 51,508 50,205 50,217 37,049 2.6% 39.0%
 Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.0 -9.7% -
 Current account at the BCRA 187,881 159,027 163,418 115,347 18.1% 62.9%

Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 35,364 35,985 33,067 19,643 -1.7% 80.0%
 Assets 0 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 561,052 551,561 325,511 352,802 1.7% 59.0%
 In banks 275,400 263,342 239,287 262,615 4.6% 4.9%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 557,717 539,449 305,323 336,885 3.4% 65.6%
 In dollars 138 482 1,754 1,739 -73.8% -87.2%

 NOBAC 0 0 0 0 - -

BCRA International Reserves (5) 33,231 31,485 24,816 33,872 5.5% -1.9%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 1,233,684 1,192,034 1,151,700 989,327 3.5% 24.7%
 Current account (2) 317,374 322,225 374,962 276,941 -1.5% 14.6%
 Savings account 274,211 241,428 244,736 219,387 13.6% 25.0%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 591,287 579,511 487,974 455,150 2.0% 29.9%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 38 21 12 10 80.0% 281.6%
 Other deposits (3) 50,773 48,849 44,015 37,838 3.9% 34.2%

 Private sector deposits 990,023 943,057 887,580 777,549 5.0% 27.3%

 Public sector deposits 243,661 248,977 264,120 211,778 -2.1% 15.1%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 15,376 15,337 10,579 10,398 0.3% 47.9%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 852,826 842,951 821,536 684,388 1.2% 24.6%

 Loans to the private sector 788,468 779,360 763,673 634,793 1.2% 24.2%
 Advances 103,365 101,442 93,780 83,742 1.9% 23.4%
 Documents 177,139 173,993 192,445 150,528 1.8% 17.7%
 Mortgages 55,308 54,874 54,270 50,038 0.8% 10.5%
 Pledges 42,792 41,900 39,996 34,947 2.1% 22.4%
 Personal 181,865 178,758 160,780 137,060 1.7% 32.7%
 Credit cards 190,926 190,534 174,753 133,223 0.2% 43.3%
 Others 37,073 37,859 47,650 45,255 -2.1% -18.1%

 Loans to the public sector 64,358 63,591 57,863 49,596 1.2% 29.8%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 6,699 6,129 2,935 4,446 9.3% 50.7%

Total Monetary Aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 749,448 731,252 783,590 641,579 2.5% 16.8%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,023,659 972,680 1,028,325 860,966 5.2% 18.9%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ total deposits
in pesos) 1,665,757 1,601,061 1,560,327 1,353,964 4.0% 23.0%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency+ CEDIN) 1,898,464 1,820,748 1,686,655 1,454,028 4.3% 30.6%

Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public+ cancellation checks in pesos+ private current account in
pesos) 640,907 617,869 622,087 541,432 3.7% 18.4%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 898,243 842,616 849,199 744,397 6.6% 20.7%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos+ total private deposits
in pesos) 1,422,096 1,352,084 1,296,208 1,142,187 5.2% 24.5%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency+ CEDIN) 1,607,578 1,522,634 1,408,034 1,221,182 5.6% 31.6%

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 13
 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONETARY BASE AND INTERNATIONAL RESERVES

Monetary base 53.204 8.6% 89.140 15.3% 49.200 8.0% 154.429 29.9%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 3.207 0.5% 30.656 5.3% 31.216 5.0% -60.726 -11.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 31.431 5.1% 84.861 14.6% 68.098 11.0% 83.678 16.2%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 20.680 3.3% 43.237 7.4% 88.968 14.4% 187.753 36.3%
Other public sector operations -2.056 -0.3% -5.913 -1.0% -5.272 -0.9% -1.671 -0.3%
Sterilization (Repos and Securities) -3.111 -0.5% -62.418 -10.7% -169.574 -27.4% -126.332 -24.4%
Others 3.052 0.5% -1.282 -0.2% 35.764 5.8% 71.728 13.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA 1.746 5.5% 2.216 7.1% 8.416 26.7% -640 -1.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 252 0.8% 2.223 7.2% 2.286 7.3% -7.458 -22.0%
 Payment to international organizations -91 -0.3% -431 -1.4% -1.150 -3.7% -1.983 -5.9%
 Other public sector operations 1.792 5.7% 2.649 8.5% 3.562 11.3% 6.980 20.6%
 Minimum cash -201 -0.6% 2.672 8.6% 1.509 4.8% 3.771 11.1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -5 0.0% -4.897 -15.8% 2.209 7.0% -1.950 -5.8%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Figures are provisional, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16
 (1)
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 14.9 13.0 11.0
 Integration 15.2 13.3 11.3
 Position (2) 0.2 0.3 0.2
 Residual term structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 66.2 67.1 66.6
 30 to 59 days 21.8 21.6 22.1
 60 to 89 days 6.1 5.9 6.3
 90 to 179 days 3.5 3.3 3.2
 More than 180 days 2.4 2.2 1.8
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 25.5 22.2 20.2
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 72.1 74.0 66.8
 Position (2) 46.6 51.7 46.6
 Residual term structure of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.7 53.7 55.2
 30 to 59 days 20.4 22.6 19.3
 60 to 89 days 10.4 10.0 12.4
 90 to 179 days 9.7 9.8 9.2
 180 to 365 days 3.7 3.8 3.9
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 14
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Passive Interest Rates Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 29.05 31.53 34.45 25.89 23.86
 Amount traded 4.108 3.156 3.280 2.798 3.455

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 24.66 27.00 28.49 26.50 20.18
 60 days or more 25.14 27.72 29.20 28.47 22.93
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 25.37 27.64 29.31 25.27 17.71
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 26.02 28.95 30.92 27.54 20.69

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.67 0.68 0.69 2.10 1.69
 60 days or more 1.19 1.21 1.22 3.21 2.56
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.62 0.61 0.60 1.70 1.43
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.08 0.83 1.00 2.57 2.38

# Active Interest Rates Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 27.43 30.83 34.74 30.90 23.64
 Amount traded (total terms) 619 679 641 956 593
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts on current account 35.90 38.61 40.31 34.50 30.43
 Documents on signature alone 31.47 32.06 33.28 30.61 26.25
 Mortgage loans 24.59 27.51 24.21 22.86 25.10
 Pledge loans 24.78 25.83 25.67 26.00 25.04
 Personal loans 42.51 42.31 43.13 39.00 36.44
 Credit cards n/a 44.46 46.24 40.12 39.39

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 30.77 34.37 37.17 30.33 26.19

 International Interest Rates Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

LIBOR
 1 month 0.48 0.45 0.44 0.36 0.19
 6 months 1.00 0.94 0.93 0.77 0.46

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.67 0.73 0.81 0.97 0.66
 10 years 1.50 1.64 1.80 2.35 2.32

FED Funds Rate 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.39 0.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 14.25 14.25 14.25 14.25 13.82

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 15
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 26.08 28.43 30.00 20.81 13.81
 Liabilities 7 days 27.08 29.43 31.00 22.81 14.97
 Assets 7 days 36.08 38.43 40.00 27.00 18.13

Total floor REPO repo rates
 1 day 26.54 29.29 31.02 22.65 17.19
 7 days 27.00 28.96 n/a 22.78 21.20

Amount traded of REPO floor repos (daily average) 34,701 34,268 32,073 22,708 19,639
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 30.25 31.9 36.3 35.7 n/a
 2 months 29.38 30.9 34.7 34.7 n/a
 3 months 28.64 29.78 33.10 32.31 26.00

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/a n/a n/a 3.22 3.25
 3 months n/a n/a n/a 3.69 3.90
 6 months n/a n/a n/a 3.75 4.00
 12 months n/a n/a n/a 3.96 4.20

Amount traded of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 11,282 13,202 12,352 2,813 2,773

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 14.90 14.18 14.12 11.39 9.14
 Retail 14.97 14.23 14.22 11.51 9.15

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 15.15 14.31 14.51 13.48 9.26
 ROFEX 1 month 15.27 14.51 14.45 12.80 9.27
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 6,124 6,662 5,214 3,856 2,335

Real (Pesos per Real) 4.56 4.16 3.99 2.93 2.82

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 16.54 15.94 15.98 12.43 10.06

 Capital Market Jul-16 Jun-16 May-16 Dec-15 Jul-15

MERVAL
 Index 15,434 13,497 13,027 12,849 11,678
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 340 304 193 204 149

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 114.0 111.1 106.4 140.5 135.2
 BONAR X (US$) 102.9 102.5 101.7 130.5 140.4
 DISCOUNT ($) 118.8 112.2 100.8 120.6 74.9

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR X spread vs. US Treasury Bond 312 364 377 639 835
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 511 521 546 476 603
 EMBI+ Latin America 497 543 555 574 538

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the monthly auctions.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Letters in dollars settled in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for maturities of 1 and 3 months, and
External segment for maturities of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction for the effect of coupons
that could not be collected since mid-2014).
# Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 16

## 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | July 2016 | BCRA | 17
