# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Monetary Aggregates | Page 4

3. Loans | Page 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

5. Interest Rates | Page 7

 Securities Issued by the Central Bank | Page 7

 Central Bank Repurchase Operations | Page 8

 Interfinancial Markets | Page 8

 Passive Interest Rates | Page 9

 Active Interest Rates | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Collective Investment Instruments | Page 11

 Mutual Investment Funds | Page 11

 Financial Trusts | Page 11

8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 12

9. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 14

10. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on February 11, 2016. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• In January, the Central Bank generated a decline in average monetary base of $68,600 million through the placement of its securities. This monetary absorption more than compensated for the expansion associated with other factors and the year-on-year variation of the monetary base was reduced by 7.7 p.p. compared to the previous month, reaching 32.8%. The remaining monetary aggregates also reduced their growth rate. In particular, the broadest aggregate in pesos (M3) presented a year-on-year variation of 33.1%, which was 3.9 p.p. lower than in December.

• Private sector deposits in pesos remained relatively stable, with a decrease in sight deposits and an increase in those made on a term basis. The latter reached a year-on-year growth of 55.1%, after increasing 7.7% in the month. Retail placements and those of more than $1 million showed differentiated behavior. While time deposits of less than $1 million maintained a growing trend throughout the month, those of larger amounts began to decrease in the last weeks of January, in a context in which demand for Central Bank securities by the non-financial sector increased.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector decelerated their expansion rate, both compared to the previous month and in year-on-year terms. The increase they registered in the month was 0.8% ($6,100 million), which meant that their year-on-year growth rate was reduced by 2.2 p.p., to 36.8%. The lower growth rate was associated with the deceleration of commercial lines and those destined for consumption.

• In this framework, broad liquidity in local currency of financial entities increased by 1 p.p. compared to December, reaching 37.9% of deposits in pesos. Its composition changed, with an increase in the holding of LEBAC and a decrease in current account balances at the Central Bank. Thus, financial entities reduced part of the surplus accumulated in the integration of the minimum cash regime—calculated quarterly between December and February—through the purchase of Central Bank securities.

• LEBAC placements were carried out in a context of reduction in the cutoff interest rates. The decreases of between 2 p.p. and 0.7 p.p. occurred fundamentally in the short end of the yield curve. Thus, at the end of January, LEBAC interest rates were positioned at 30.8% for the shortest term (35 days) and 28.5% in the species awarded with greater maturity, at 250 days of term.

• Passive interest rates followed a trajectory similar to the cutoff interest rates resulting from LEBAC auctions. Thus, they continued with the downward trend they had begun to show at the end of December. The interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of term averaged 24.7% for the month, registering a decline of 2.4 p.p. compared to December. For its part, the BADLAR of private banks decreased by 1.2 p.p., averaging 26.3%.

• Active interest rates had more heterogeneous behavior. Among those applied to shorter-term operations, those corresponding to the discount of documents were aligned with the cutoff interest rate of LEBAC of similar term. On the other hand, those corresponding to personal loans and those granted through documents on sole signature remained relatively stable during the course of January, after the increases they had experienced in December.

• The balance of international reserves remained relatively stable during most of January, in a context in which the Central Bank did not intervene in the foreign exchange market. However, on the last business day of the month the balance increased as a result of the arrangement of a passive swap in dollars for US$5,000 million for an approximate term of 1 year. This operation was carried out against securities in the portfolio of the
Central Bank and allows diversifying the different available options to fulfill the functions of exchange rate and monetary regulation, improving the liquidity in United States dollars of the Central Bank's assets.

Thus, at the end of January, the balance of international reserves totaled US$30,074 million
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.1

2. Monetary Aggregates 1

Monetary Base
% (year-over-year variation)

50 During the course of January, the Central Bank continued

45 implementing a sterilization policy aimed at

40 reducing the growth rate of the monetary base. This

35 action aims to make compatible the evolution of monetary

30 aggregates with a downward trajectory

25 of the inflation rate. In this framework, the year-over-year

20 variation of the monetary base was reduced by 7.7 p.p. with respect to

15 the previous month and reached 32.8% in January (see Chart 1).

10 However, it should be noted that in December last

5 this aggregate presented an acceleration in its year-over-year

0 growth rate, driven by an integration
Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 Ene-15 Ene-16
Source: BCRA of bank reserves as a percentage of deposits

much higher than that of December 2014, within the
framework of the quarterly period –from December to February– allowed
for the integration of the Minimum Cash regime. In
Chart 2.2

the first month of 2016 the Central Bank not only absorbed
thousands of Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base part of the surpluses from the integration of reserve requirements that
millions of $ (January 2016, on average)
financial entities had accumulated, but also
40 placed LEBACs to holders in the non-financial sector,
generating an average monthly decrease of
20 the monetary base of $68,600 million through the placement

0 of its securities. In this way, it more than compensated

-20 for the expansive effect that other factors had on the monetary base2
(see Chart 2.2).
-40

-60 The remaining monetary aggregates also reduced

-80 their growth rate. In particular, the broadest aggregate
in pesos (M33) presented a year-over-year variation
Purchases of Sector LEBAC and Transfers Other Circulating in Reserves

Foreign Sector Public NOBAC Public Banking of 33.1%, which was 3.9 p.p. lower than that of December.
Source: BCRA
In the month, M3 registered growth of 1.9%, with

heterogeneous behaviors being verified among its
Chart 2.3 components. While circulating currency in the hands of
Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector the public and deposits from the public sector grew in the

% (variations of monthly averages) % period, placements belonging to the private sector

8 Monthly variation 64 remained relatively stable. Among these latter,

7 Year-over-year variation (right axis) 56 the behavior was also uneven, with

6 48 a decrease in sight deposits that was

5 40 compensated by the increase in fixed-term placements.

4 32

3 24 Fixed-term deposits from the private sector showed

2 16 a monthly growth of 7.7% and a year-over-year

1 8 variation of 55.1% (see Chart 2.3). The strong average increase

0 0 in January was favored by the positive statistical

-1 -8 carryover left by December, given that between the end of
Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 Ene-15 Ene-16
2015 and the end of January deposits at fixed-term

2 Among these factors stood out the expansive monetary effect associated with the open position of dollar futures contracts that

was recorded in the second half of December 2015, and that had an impact on the average balance of the monetary base of January 2016.

3 Includes circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits from non-financial private and public sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.4 grew 2.5%. When distinguishing by amount bracket
thousands of it is observed that while deposits of less than $1
 Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos from the Private Sector
millions of $
245 (evolution of daily balance) million continued showing an upward trend
 throughout January (they increased 6.9% between end of month),
235 Less than $1 million
 More than $1 million wholesale segment placements began to
225
 decline from the second week of the month (see
215 Chart 2.4). The lower dynamism of fixed-term deposits
 of more than $1 million would be associated, in part, with the sustained
205
 demand for LEBAC by investors that are not
195 financial entities.

185

175 For its part, the monthly average balance of deposits
 in foreign currency increased 18.4%, driven
165
 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16mainly by placements from the private sector.
Source: BCRA
 Thus, the balance of these placements reached
 US$11,100 million, the highest level since May
 2012 (see Chart 2.5).

 Chart 2.5 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 4,
 thousands of Foreign Currency Deposits from the Private Sector
millions of US$
 (daily balance) presented monthly growth of 4.7%, reaching
 15
 a year-on-year variation of 38.3%.

 13

 31-Jan-16 3. Loans 1 5
 11.1
 11
 In January, loans in pesos to the private sector dis-
 9
 played a slower monthly growth rate, influenced,
 in part, by seasonal factors. The growth recorded in the
 7
 month was 0.8% ($6,100 million), which implied a deceleration
 in its year-on-year growth rate, which went from 38.9% at the end of 2015 to
 5
 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 36.8% in January of this year (see Chart 3.1). This deceleration
Source: BCRA
 was evident both in the behavior of
 Chart 3.1 lines essentially destined for commercial purposes and in
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 % % those destined for family consumption (see
 6 Monthly variation 60
 Chart 3.2).
 Year-on-year variation (right axis)
 5 50 Loans destined mainly to finance commercial activities
 presented lower dynamism than the previous month, in line
 4 40
 3.2 3.1 with what was expected due to the summer
 3.0 2.7
 3 2.5 30 recess. Thus, after the period of greater liquidity demand
 2.3 2.1
 from companies, advances showed an increase of 2.6%
 2 1.4 20
 ($2,400 million), which, although it was in line with the average
 1 0.8 10 growth of the month for the 2011-2015 period, was lower than that of the last
 0.3
 0 0 year. Thus, its year-on-year variation fell back almost 5
 p.p. and stood at 35.9%. For its part, financing
 -1 -10 arranged through documents decreased 3.3%
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16
 Source: BCRA ($6,300 million), while its year-on-year variation

4 Includes M3 and deposits from non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.
5 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" refers to loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation of the balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
# Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 5 Chart 3.2

% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector was located in the order of 39%, which also implied a 
80 (year-over-year var. of monthly averages)
 deceleration of 5 percentage points with respect to December. Considering the daily evolution of the 
 Commercial loans (advances, documents and other loans)
 Consumer loans (personal and credit cards) balance, a differentiated behavior is verified by type of 
60 Loans with real guarantee (mortgage and pledged loans)
 documents. While discounted documents remained relatively 

40 stable throughout the month, following their seasonal behavior, sole-signature documents 
 exhibited a decline, unlike what occurred in January of 

20 previous years (see Chart 3.3).

 0
 The lines aimed at financing family consumption moderated their expansion pace. Credit card 
-20 financing exhibited in the month a growth of 4.2% ($7,550 million), while the year-over-year 
 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 variation, although it continued to be located at historically elevated levels, in the order of 54%, 
Source: BCRA
 experienced a decline of almost 3 percentage points. For its part, personal loans grew in the month 
 0.9% ($1,460 million), the smallest increase since July 2014. Consequently, the year-over-year 
 
Chart 3.3

 Sole-Signature Documents Discounted Documents variation decreased 0.7 percentage points, placing itself at 36.5%. In the last two months a 
 (daily balance - base index avg. 7 days to 30-Sep-15)(daily balance - base index avg. 7 days to 30-Sep-15)
 decrease in operating volumes in this line was observed. After granting an average daily amount of 
 thousands of thousands of
 around $550 million in November, in December and January approximately $420 and $380 million 
 billions of $ millions of $
140 75
 were operated daily, respectively.

 2015-2016 2015-2016
135 2014-2015 70
 2013-2014 2014-2015 Regarding loans with real guarantee, mortgage loans presented a monthly increase of 1.6% ($880 
130 2012-2013 65 2013-2014
 million), lower than in previous months, although higher than that observed in January 2015. On 
125 2012-2013 60
 the other hand, pledged guarantee loans remained relatively stable (0.4%; $170 million). In year-
120 55
 over-year terms, mortgage and pledged loans grew, respectively, 15.2% and 23.3%.
115 50

110 45 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued with the growing trend they have 
 been showing since mid-December. Since the implementation of measures aimed at normalizing the 
 40
105
 functioning of the exchange market, they accumulated an increase of US$530 million, with the 
 30-Sep 30-Oct 30-Nov 30-Dec 30-Jan 30-Sep 30-Oct 30-Nov 30-Dec 30-Jan
 balance ending the month at US$3,300 million. It is worth mentioning that said increase was driven 
Source: BCRA
 by sole-signature documents, a line associated with foreign trade operations (see Chart 3.4).

 
Chart 3.4 thousands of
 millions of US$ Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector
11 (daily balance)
 18-Nov-11 thousands of
 millions of u$s 4. Liquidity of the Entities

10 9.9 3.7

 3.5
9 3.3
 3.3 During January, the liquidity ratio of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash 
8 3.1 3.0
 in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and the 
 2.8
7 2.9
 holdings of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) grew again to 37.9% (see Chart 4.1). This 
 2.7
6 31-Oct 15-Nov 30-Nov 15-Dec 30-Dec 14-Jan 29-Jan

 5 01-Aug-15
 4.4

4 4. Liquidity of the Entities

3 12-Dec-14 16-Dec-15
 3.2 2.8
2
 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.1
% of Peso Liquidity of Financial Entities rise was driven exclusively by the increase in
 deposits
 45 CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity the holdings of LEBAC, partly offset by the fall
 39,540,241,040,7 39,7
 40 38,938,639,2 39,7 39,539,238,8 in the balance of current account of entities at the
 37,437,337,8 38,036,9 36,937,9
 35,736,6 36,8
 35 33,7 BCRA and net repos.
 32,5
 31,0
 30 17,1
 21,2 This change in the composition of liquidity occurred
 25

 20 within the framework of the quarterly period allowed for the
 1,2
 4,3 0,8 calculation of minimum cash requirements between Decem-
 15 4,4
 ber and February. Thus, the surplus in the integration of
 10

 14,111,6 accumulated minimum cash as of late December
 5
 began to decrease in January, as a counterpart to the
 0
 Ene-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Ene-16increase in LEBAC holdings. It is estimated that financial
 entities finished January with an accumulated surplus
 * LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
 Source: BCRA equivalent to 1.3% of the total of peso deposits
 (see Chart 4.2).

 Chart 4.2 On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency averaged
 % of Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
 January at the equivalent of 117% of the total of dollar
 deposits
 4,4 deposits. Also in this case, during the month there was a

 3,8 change in composition, to the detriment of current ac-

 3,2 counts at the Central Bank and in favor of LE-

 2,6
 BAC issued in dollars. It should be mentioned that as of
 2,0
 1,4 January a decrease in the reserve coefficients for
 1,3

 0,8 foreign currency deposits was established, bringing them
 0,2 to the levels that were in effect in January of 20146. In

 -0,4 turn, as of February an additional reduction will apply,
 -1,0 of up to 10 p.p. for sight placements and time deposits
 -1,6 Surplus
 -2,2 Accumulated Position with shorter residual maturity7.

 -2,8 Daily Position

 Dic-14 Ene-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Abr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Ago-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dic-15 Ene-16
 Source: BCRA
 5. Interest Rates8

 Chart 5.1 Securities Issued by the Central Bank9

 billions of pesos Balance of Central Bank Securities in Pesos Monetary absorption carried out through the placement
 (nominal value)
 420 of Central Bank securities implied an increase in the
 400,8
 400 balance of LEBAC in pesos of 16% in January, so the
 Daily Balance
 380 balance of securities was positioned at VN $400,800 million at
 Average

 360 the end of the month (see Chart 5.1).

 340

 320 Although financial entities were the main
 demanders of LEBAC, in relative terms the increase in
 300
 holdings by other legal and natural persons again stood
 280 out, contributing to the deceleration of broader monetary
 260
 aggregates. As in the previous month, most of the market
 240 positions were concentrated in periods of less than
 Ene-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Ene-16 90 days, among which the species at 35 days stood out
 Source: BCRA

6 Communication "A" 5873.
7 Communication "A" 5893.
8 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
9 In this section the figures correspond to end-of-month data, unless another specification is indicated.

 Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 7 Chart 5.2 (see Chart 5.2), which in terms of maturity is comparable
 Amount Awarded of LEBAC in the Primary Market to a fixed-term deposit and registers a higher yield.
 (as a percentage of total)
 % Up to 90 days From 91 to 180 days From 181 to 270 days From 271 to 360 days More than 360 days
100 The cut-off interest rates decreased compared to the
 90 values registered in the previous month for almost all
 80 maturities. The decreases of between 2 p.p and 0.7 p.p occurred
 70 fundamentally in the short end of the yield curve
60
 yields. In this way, at the end of January the interest rates
 50
 of LEBAC were positioned at 30.8% for the shortest
 40
 30 term (35 days) and 28.5% in the species awarded

 20 with greater maturity, at 250 days term (see Chart 5.3).

 10

 0 In the secondary market, interest rates decreased

 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16in the terms longer than 35 days, in line with the
Source: BCRA
 behavior recorded in the primary LEBAC market,
 while the interest rates for the shortest terms did not
 register changes. However, it should be noted that
 interest rates in the secondary market remained
 below the rates for comparable terms in the primary
 market, mainly in the shortest section of the yield
 Chart 5.3 curve. The average amount traded of LEBAC in the

 LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market secondary market was positioned at almost $3,900
 TNA % (per auction) million daily.

 34
 With respect to the foreign currency segment,
 33 33.0

 32 32.0 LEBAC interest rates decreased by approximately
 31.0 31.3 1 p.p. during the month. In this way, the rate of the
 31 30.8 30.5 30.5
 29.9 LEBAC at 30 days, where the majority of opera-
 30 29.9 29.8 30.0
 29.3 28.8 29.2 tions are concentrated, was positioned at 2%. The
 29 29.4
 29.0 28.5 28.5 28.5LEBAC balance continued to grow during the month
 28
 26-Jan-16 (US$1,700 million) and was positioned at the end
 27
 29-Dec-15 of January at US$4,100 million.
 26 24-Nov-15

 25 Term

 24
 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350Central Bank Repurchase Agreement Operations1

 Following the decrease recorded in December, the
 Central Bank kept unchanged the interest rate corridor
 of its repurchase agreement operations. In this way,
 the interest rates of passive repurchase agreements
 for the terms of 1 and 7 days are positioned at 18%
 and 20%, respectively.
 Chart 5.4 Meanwhile, the interest rates of active repurchase

 thousands Interbank Market agreements are positioned at 26% and 27%, for the same terms.
 of millions of $ (operations at 1 business day) TNA %

10 Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (daily average) 30 The balance of passive repurchase agreements in all
 Amount traded Call (daily average) modalities in which the Central Bank participates
 9
 Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) 25 decreased $11,000 million over the course of January,
 Interest rate Call (right axis)

 7 20 being positioned at $22,000 million on the last day
 6 of the month.

 5 15

 4 Interfinancial Markets1
 3 10

 2 5 In January, the average interest rates of interfinancial

 1
 market operations remained at values similar to those
 0 0
 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16of the previous month, although with deviations from

Source: BCRA that value during the course of the month associated

 Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 8 Chart 5.5 with specific short-term liquidity needs. In this way,

 Short-Term Interest Rates in the unsecured market (call) the interest rate of
 %; p.p. operations at 1 business day averaged 25.9% in
40 daily data of operations at 1 business day January, 0.1 p.p. below the value recorded in the
 Spread BADLAR - Retail 0.1 p.p. previous month.
35 LEBAC 90 days
 BADLAR private banks Likewise, the average interest rate of operations
30 Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks
 at 1 business day among financial entities in the
25 secured market (REPO wheel) was positioned at
 26.3%, verifying a decrease of 0.4 p.p. (see
20 Chart 5.4).

15

10 The average daily amount traded in both markets

 5 increased $800 million, totaling around $9,500
 million.
 0

 -5
 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16Passive Interest Rates1
 Source: BCRA
 In general terms, passive interest rates showed a
 declining trend throughout the month, in line with
 the evolution of the cut-off interest rates of LEBAC
 Chart 5.6 auctions.
# Interest Rates on Fixed-Term Deposits in Dollars

In effect, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of maturity averaged 24.7%, registering a decline of 2.4 percentage points compared to December. For its part, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30-35 days of maturity – of private banks declined 1.2 percentage points, averaging 26.3% in January (see Graph 5.5).

In the foreign currency segment, the interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits showed declines compared to December. After reaching a maximum at the end of the previous month, the rate corresponding to placements with maturities of up to $100 thousand was located at the end of January at 2.2% for deposits of 30 to 44 days and at 2.7% for deposits with maturities of 60 days and more, 0.3 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively, below the values observed at the end of December (see Graph 5.6).

# Graph 5.7
Interest Rates on Personal and Pledge Loans
(daily data)

TNA Personal Pledge
% pp. Average Monthly Variations
50 12-17-Dec Interest Rate Changes1 10
5 4.1
4 Elimination of maximum
3 3.0 rates
45 2
1 Active interest rates exhibited differentiated behaviors in January. Regarding those corresponding to lines that until mid-December were subject to maximum limits, both that of personal loans and the one applied to financing with pledge guarantee increased their average monthly values, although with different trajectories in the last two months. The interest rate applied to personal loans continued to increase until the first week of January and then remained relatively stable. In contrast, the one corresponding to pledge loans, which had remained relatively stable in December, began to show a slightly upward trend in the first month of 2016 (see Graph 5.7).

Regarding commercial lines, the monthly average of the rates applied to overdrafts in current account was located at 34.5%, remaining practically stable compared to the previous month. Within this line, the rate applied to overdrafts to companies for more than $10 million and up to 7 days of maturity reached 29.3%, showing a decline of 1.1 percentage points compared to December, a month of greater demand for liquidity on the part of firms (Graph 5.8).

For its part, the monthly average of the interest rate on discounted documents was located at 29.2%, remaining stable compared to December. In this type of financing, operations with maturities close to 3 months predominate, and the interest rates followed a trajectory similar to that of LEBACs of that maturity, with increases in December that were later reversed.

# Graph 5.8
Interest Rates on Current Account Overdrafts
(monthly average)
TNA, %, TNA
% 40 Daily Data 40
36 36

32 28
24 01-Nov 16-Nov 01-Dec 16-Dec 31-Dec 15-Jan
32 20

28

24 Total Overdrafts in CC
Overdrafts in current account for
20 more than $10 M - up to 7 days

16

12

8
Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16

Source: BCRA

# Graph 5.9
Interest Rates on Loans Granted via Documents
(daily data)

---

1 The interest rates referred to in this section are nominal annual rates and do not include evaluation and granting expenses nor other expenses (insurance, for example) that are considered in the total financial cost of loans.

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 9
TNA partially. In the case of documents payable to order,
%
50 p.p. Variations Monthly Average Payable to Order Discounted Total LEBAC 3M the interest rate averaged 33.5%, placing itself 2.9 p.p.
4
2.9 above that observed the previous month. In this line,
45
2
the increase in the average monthly interest rate was
40
0 0.0 explained by the increase that occurred in Decem-

35 ber, while during the course of January it remained
-2
Payable to Order Discounted
30 relatively stable (Graph 5.9).

25

20 6. International Reserves

15 and Foreign Exchange Market¹

01-Oct-15 01-Nov-15 01-Dec-15 01-Jan-16
Source: BCRA

Since the exchange rate unification, the Central Bank allowed
the market to freely establish the parity at which foreign
currency buying and selling transactions were operated in the
country, remaining on the sidelines of market operations. Thus,
Gráfico 6.1 in January, the reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar
thousands of BCRA International Reserves
ended at 13.9, 6.9% above the level recorded at the end of
millions of U$S
60 2015.

50
In this context, international reserves maintained their

40 stock practically stable, around

thousands of US$25,500 million during most of January. On the other
millions of U$S hand, on the last business day of the month they increased
30 32 as a result of the arrangement of a passive placement in

17-Dec-15 29-Jan-16
30 Exchange Rate Unification Passive placement in dollars for US$5,000 million for an approximate term
20 Unification dollars
28 of 1 year¹¹. This operation was carried out against securities

10 26 held in the Central Bank's portfolio and allows diversifying

24 the different options available to fulfill the functions of
01-Nov 16-Nov 01-Dec 16-Dec 31-Dec 15-Jan 30-Jan
0 exchange rate and monetary regulation, improving liquidity
Ene-02 Ene-04 Ene-06 Ene-08 Ene-10 Ene-12 Ene-14 Ene-16
Source: BCRA in US dollars of the Central Bank's assets and facilitating its

¹¹ See Communiqué P 50,696. capacity to face external shocks and avoid disruptive movements

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 10 in the local market. Thus, at the end of January, the balance of

Gráfico 7.1 international reserves totaled US$30,074 million (see Graph 6.1).

thousands of Equity of Investment Funds in Pesos
(monthly variation of stock at end of month) thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
20 250 7. Collective Investment Instruments

Money Market Investment Funds
15  Fixed Income
  Mixed Income 200
In January the equity of Investment Funds (FCI), denomi-
10  Variable Income
nated in pesos and in foreign currency was reduced by $9,350
 Evolution of stock (right axis)
5 150 million (-4.4%), closing the month at $203,000 million.

0 100
The decline was explained fundamentally by the behavior

-5 50 recorded in the equity of Money Market funds, which fell

-10 0 $8,300 million (-16%). The decrease was explained by the

-15 redemption of fund units during the first half of the month,
Ene-12 Ene-13 Ene-14 Ene-15 Ene-16 where there would have contributed a decrease in the preference
Source: BCRA based on CAFCI
for liquidity by agents after exchange rate normalization and

greater demand for BCRA securities by individuals and legal entities.
Gráfico 7.2 For its part, Fixed Income funds verified an increase of $1,050

Estimated Performance of FCIs in Pesos million in the month (1%), while Mixed Income funds decreased
%
3 (January 2016; profitability in pesos) $1,200 million (2.9%), and Variable Income funds recorded

2.5 declines of $220 driven by the decrease in the value of fund

2 1.2 1.3 units (3.3%; see Graph 7.1).

1

0

-1

-2

-3 -2.6
**Variable Income FCI $ Mixed Income FCI $ Fixed Income FCI $ Money Market $**

Regarding estimated profitability, during January the return of fixed income funds stood out, which yielded a monthly return of around 2.5%. Likewise, Money Market funds, which are those with greater liquidity, registered a positive return of 1.3% and mixed income funds verified gains of 1.2%. Finally, variable income funds lost 2.6% in the month (see Graph 7.2).

Source: BCRA

**Graph 7.3 Financial Trust Issuances**
(excluding those intended to finance infrastructure works)
millions $ units

As for the foreign currency segment, the patrimony of FCIs was reduced by US$68 million to reach US$255 million. The decline was explained to a large extent by the behavior registered in fixed income funds that lost US$61 million.

**Financial Trusts¹²**

In January, the issuances of financial trusts (FF) totaled around $2,650 million, an amount slightly higher than that of the previous month. However, a smaller number of placements was verified, having carried out 16 operations in January, compared to a total of 20 issuances in December (see Graph 7.3).

¹² Only trusts with public offering are considered.

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 11

**Graph 7.4**
millions of $ Amounts Issued by type of Trustor
(excludes FF from the public sector and other infrastructure)

The main trustees of the month were retail commerce, concentrating 60% of the total issued in January. They placed $1,595 million, practically double that in December (see Graph 7.4). In order of importance, they were followed by "Mutuals, cooperatives and non-banking credit card issuers and other financial service providers", which securitized assets for around $830 million, registering an increase of 40% compared to the previous month. Finally, financial entities issued $220 million, the lowest amount in the last nine months. The totality of securitized assets corresponded to loans associated with consumption (personal loans and credit card installments), with the exception of one FF whose underlying assets were pledged credits.

**Graph 8.1**
Labor Market Indicators
% Without seasonality % The cut-off interest rate (weighted average by amount) of senior titles -in pesos and with duration less than 12 months- with variable return was located at 33%, presenting an increase of 0.6 p.p. compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, no operations at fixed rate were registered.

**8. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks**

At the international level, the main characteristic of the month was a marked increase in volatility of financial markets following the decision of the Federal Reserve (FED) to increase its reference interest rate in December.

Source: BCRA based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics
In this international scenario, at the end of January the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the FED decided to maintain the objective of its reference interest rate; that is, the federal funds rate (FFR) in the range of 0.25-0.5%. In this sense, the FOMC stated that

**Graph 8.2**
p.p. Real GDP disaggregated by component
8 United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized

it is closely monitoring the evolution of global economic and financial conditions to estimate the possible consequences that this volatility could have on the labor market and United States inflation. Nevertheless, the FED emphasized that almost all labor market indicators continued showing improvements. On the other hand, it noted a certain deceleration in household consumption, which was reflected in the fourth quarter 2015 GDP data (see Graph 8.2). Finally, the FED continued making reference to the fact that it estimates that the inflation rate would remain at reduced levels in the coming months (see Graph 8.3), in part due to the impact of the fall in energy prices.

For its part, the monetary authorities of the Eurozone and England did not modify the bias of their monetary policy. In the case of the European Central Bank (ECB), the Governing Council (GC) maintained in its January 21 meeting its monetary policy interest rate, which applies to the Main Refinancing Operations (MRO), at the historical minimum of 0.05%. In turn, it maintained the corridor leaving the credit facility interest rate at 0.3% and the deposit facility interest rate at -0.2%. On January 14 the Bank of England (BoE) maintained its monetary policy interest rate (the Bank Rate) at 0.5%. Following this decision, its authorities stated that the level of activity in the British economy is still not sufficiently dynamic to be able to increase the Bank Rate. This consolidated market expectations that indicate that the first increase in said rate will occur only in 2017.

**Graph 8.4 Exchange Rate - China**
Yuan per dollar

At the end of the month, on January 29, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) although it did not modify its quantitative expansion program, surprised the markets by establishing a negative remuneration rate on increases in excess bank reserve balances. The BoJ took this measure after reducing its inflation projection for the fiscal year ending in March 2017 to 0.8% (-0.6 p.p. with respect to the previous projection).
# MONETARY AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

6.15
 On the other hand, throughout the month the yuan depreciated
6.05
 1.3% slowing the acceleration in the depreciation process that
5.95
 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16 had begun in early November (see

BCRA based on Bloomberg data Graph 8.4). The intervention in the foreign exchange market
 by the People's Bank of China (PBoC) to prevent a
 greater depreciation of the yuan had as a secondary
 effect a reduction in liquidity. The PBoC sought to com-
 pensate at least part of said effect through open market
 Graph 8.5 operations that generated extraordinary injections of
 liquidity due to the proximity of the Chinese new year
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators
 % - Brazil % which generates a very high seasonal demand for liquidity.
30 Industrial Production (Year-on-year Var.) 18
 Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-on-year Var.) 16 In the region, on January 21, the Monetary Policy Committee
25
 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil decided to maintain
20 Inflation Rate (right axis) 14
 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) (surprising market analysts who expected a contractionary
15 12
 measure) the target for the Selic rate at 14.25%. COPOM
10 10
 took this decision in a context where signals continue to be
5 8
 observed of a growing decline in the level of activity, greater
0 6
 upward pressures on the exchange rate, and with December
-5 4
 inflation at 10.7%, far from the target range (4.5% ± 2 p.p.,
-10
-15 2 see Graph 8.5).
-20 0
 Jan-08 Oct-08 Jul-09 Apr-10 Jan-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Apr-13 Jan-14 Oct-14 Jul-15

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br

 Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 139. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Jan-15 Jan-16 Dec-15 Monthly Last 12
 months

 Monetary base 602,926 622,263 453,976 -3.1% 32.8%
 Monetary circulation 466,131 458,844 348,760 1.6% 33.7%
 Banknotes and Coins held by the public 414,635 408,841 311,745 1.4% 33.0%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 51,496 50,003 37,014 3.0% 39.1%
 Settlement Checks 0.5 0.4 0.0 38.7% -
 Current account at the BCRA 136,795 163,418 105,216 -16.3% 30.0%

 Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 22,003 33,067 25,879 -33.5% -15.0%
 Assets 000

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 419,916 327,178 286,226 28.3% 46.7%
 In banks 292,022 238,387 217,247 22.5% 34.4%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 382,731 305,323 280,424 25.4% 36.5%
 In dollars 3,482 1,754 671 98.6% 418.6%

 NOBAC 000--

 BCRA international reserves (5) 25,968 24,816 31,275 4.6% -17.0%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,175,968 1,151,584 883,417 2.1% 33.1%
 Current account (2) 365,554 374,897 294,455 -2.5% 24.1%
 Savings account 235,882 244,738 179,184 -3.6% 31.6%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjusted by CER 532,202 487,975 377,366 9.1% 41.0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjusted by CER 14 12 9 15.2% 67.0%
 Other deposits (3) 42,315 43,962 32,404 -3.7% 30.6%

 Deposits of the private sector 889,912 887,522 638,666 0.3% 39.3%

 Deposits of the public sector 286,056 264,061 244,751 8.3% 16.9%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 12,526 10,580 9,146 18.4% 37.0%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 829,483 821,540 605,668 1.0% 37.0%

 Loans to the private sector 769,949 763,834 563,005 0.8% 36.8%
 Advances 96,205 93,780 70,813 2.6% 35.9%
 Documents 186,182 192,465 134,219 -3.3% 38.7%
 Mortgages 55,154 54,271 47,874 1.6% 15.2%
 Pledges 40,169 39,996 32,571 0.4% 23.3%
 Personal loans 162,243 160,782 118,895 0.9% 36.5%
 Credit cards 182,190 174,635 117,930 4.3% 54.5%
 Others 47,805 47,906 40,703 -0.2% 17.4%

 Loans to the public sector 59,534 57,706 42,663 3.2% 39.5%
Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 3.117 2.931 3.392 6.3% -8.1%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 780.189 783.738 606.201 -0.5% 28.7%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1.016.071 1.028.476 785.385 -1.2% 29.4%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 1.590.603 1.560.425 1.195.163 1.9% 33.1%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.766.654 1.686.761 1.277.078 4.7% 38.3%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 611.337 622.267 472.981 -1.8% 29.3%
pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 827.063 849.381 638.916 -2.6% 29.4%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.296.363 950.412 0.6% 37.3%
in pesos) 1.304.547
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.459.109 1.408.197 1.017.314 3.6% 43.4%

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 14 Average variations
Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -19.337 -3.1% 58.338 10.7% -19.337 -3.1% 148.950 32.8%
Financial sector 11.236 1.8% -2.464 -0.5% 11.236 1.8% 4.440 1.0%
Public sector 10.249 1.6% 73.577 13.5% 10.249 1.6% 178.984 39.4%
Private external sector -860 -0.1% -40.326 -7.4% -860 -0.1% -69.643 -15.3%
BCRA securities -68.622 -11.0% -33.751 -6.2% -68.622 -11.0% -28.786 -6.3%
Others 28.659 4.6% 61.303 11.3% 28.659 4.6% 63.956 14.1%

BCRA International Reserves 1.152 4.6% -2.139 -7.6% 1.152 4.6% -5.307 -17.0%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -129 -0.5% -4.280 -15.2% -129 -0.5% -7.310 -23.4%
Payment to international organizations -86 -0.3% -396 -1.4% -86 -0.3% -1.947 -6.2%
Other public sector operations -768 -3.1% -1.228 -4.4% -768 -3.1% 3.643 11.6%
Minimum cash 177 0.7% 1.375 4.9% 177 0.7% 1.512 4.8%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 1.958 7.9% 2.391 8.5% 1.958 7.9% -1.205 -3.9%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Jan-16 Dec-15 Nov-15
(1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 11.5 11.6 11.4
Integration 12.8 14.1 11.7
Position (2) 1.3 2.5 0.3
Maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 66.7 67.6 64.1
30 to 59 days 21.5 21.2 23.4
60 to 89 days 6.5 6.2 7.1
90 to 179 days 4.0 4.1 4.4
more than 180 days 1.2 0.9 1.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.5 41.8 41.1
Integration (includes resource application default) 77.4 89.7 85.1
Position (2) 52.9 47.8 44.1
Maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 50.2 51.8 49.3
30 to 59 days 20.4 21.4 21.6
60 to 89 days 14.1 10.9 12.3
90 to 179 days 10.8 11.6 12.1
180 to 365 days 4.4 4.2 4.6
more than 365 days 0.1 0.0 0.1
(1) Estimated data of Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes fixed-term deposits subject to judicial proceedings.

Source: BCRA
# MONETARY REPORT | JANUARY 2016 | BCRA | 15
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** | | | |
| Rate | 25.83 | 25.88 | 21.75 |
| Amount operated | 3,332 | 2,797 | 2,258 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | |
| **In pesos** | | | |
| 30-44 days | 25.31 | 26.50 | 23.22 |
| 60 days or more | 27.24 | 28.47 | 26.62 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 23.94 | 25.27 | 20.36 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 26.31 | 27.54 | 23.39 |
| **In dollars** | | | |
| 30-44 days | 2.02 | 2.10 | 1.76 |
| 60 days or more | 3.04 | 3.21 | 2.42 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.64 | 1.70 | 1.46 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 2.42 | 2.57 | 2.15 |

## Active Interest Rates
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** | | | |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 28.68 | 30.90 | 25.91 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 626 | 956 | 757 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** | | | |
| Advances on current account | 34.51 | 34.50 | 31.63 |
| Documents at sole signature | 33.49 | 30.61 | 27.60 |
| Mortgage loans | 22.62 | 22.84 | 22.25 |
| Secured loans | 29.04 | 26.00 | 25.19 |
| Personal loans | 43.14 | 39.00 | 36.91 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 38.35 | 41.09 |
| Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 29.25 | 30.33 | 25.61 |

## International Interest Rates
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** | | | |
| 1 month | 0.43 | 0.36 | 0.21 |
| 6 months | 0.86 | 0.77 | 0.61 |
| **US Treasury Bond** | | | |
| 2 years | 0.89 | 0.97 | 0.87 |
| 10 years | 2.07 | 2.35 | 2.26 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 0.50 | 0.39 | 0.25 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 14.25 | 14.25 | 14.25 |

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

---

# MONETARY REPORT | JANUARY 2016 | BCRA | 16
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Reference Interest Rates
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA repurchase agreement rates** | | | |
| Passive 1 day | 18.00 | 20.81 | 21.00 |
| Passive 7 days | 20.00 | 22.81 | 23.00 |
| Active 7 days | 27.00 | 27.00 | 27.00 |
| **Total REPO round repurchase agreement rates** | | | |
| 1 day | 20.85 | 22.65 | 21.60 |
| 7 days | 20.01 | 22.78 | 23.08 |
| **Amount operated in REPO round (daily average)** | 18,464 | 22,708 | 21,642 |
| **LEBAC rates in pesos (1)** | | | |
| 1 month | 31.19 | 35.7 | s/o |
| 2 months | 30.45 | 34.7 | s/o |
| 3 months | 29.89 | 32.31 | 29.04 |
| 9 months | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| 12 months | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| **NOBAC margin in pesos with variable coupon (1)** | | | |
| 200 days BADLAR Private Banks | s/o | s/o | s/o |
| **LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)** | | | |
| 1 month | 2.57 | 3.22 | 3.25 |
| 3 months | 2.72 | 3.69 | 3.90 |
| 6 months | 3.13 | 3.75 | 4.00 |
| 12 months | 3.13 | 3.96 | 4.20 |
| **Amount operated of LEBAC and NOBAC in the secondary market (daily average)** | 3,893 | 2,813 | 2,996 |

## Foreign Exchange Market
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Spot Dollar** | | | |
| Wholesale | 13.64 | 11.39 | 9.63 |
| Retail | 13.71 | 11.51 | 9.64 |
| **Forward Dollar** | | | |
| NDF 1 month | 13.83 | 13.48 | 11.69 |
| ROFEX 1 month | 13.82 | 12.80 | 9.81 |
| Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) | 6,570 | 3,856 | 2,106 |
| **Real (Pesos per Real)** | 3.37 | 2.93 | 2.55 |
| **Euro (Pesos per Euro)** | 14.84 | 12.43 | 10.33 |

## Capital Markets
| | Jan-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **MERVAL** | | | |
| Index | 10,637 | 12,849 | 13,238 |
| Amount operated (millions of pesos) | 175 | 204 | 347 |
| **Government Bonds (at par)** | | | |
| DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 114.6 | 140.5 | 161.7 |
| BONAR X (US$) | 102.1 | 130.5 | 146.7 |
| DISCOUNT ($) | 117.7 | 120.6 | 111.1 |
| **Country Risk (basis points)** | | | |
| BONAR X spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 635 | 639 | 747 |
| EMBI+ Latin America (without Argentina) | 639 | 580 | 543 |

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars settled in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
# GLOSSARY

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a 30 to 35 day term.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Price Index of Shares.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LCIP:** Credit Line for Productive Investment.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Negotiated Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**PM:** Monetary Program.

**BP:** Basis Points.

**pp:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**SDP:** Short-term Debt Value.

**NV:** Nominal Value.

**DRV:** Debt Representative Value.

---

Monetary Report | January 2016 | BCRA | 18
