# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest Rates | Page 4

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates | Page 4

 Market Interest Rates | Page 5

3. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 6

4. Monetary Aggregates | Page 7

5. Loans | Page 8

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 10

7. Main Policy Measures of Other Central Banks | Page 11

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on May 5, 2016. All figures are provisional and subject
 to revision. 1. Summary1
• In the month of April, the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) presented its Monetary Policy Plan for the year 2016². In it, the objectives and actions that this Institution projects to carry out in terms of monetary and exchange rate policy were detailed, with the priority goal of inducing a systematic and sustainable reduction in the inflation rate, until placing it, within a reasonable timeframe, at 5% annually. Compliance with this objective will be the greatest contribution that this Institution can make to guarantee financial stability, employment and, fundamentally, economic development with social equity.

• To achieve these objectives, the path will be traveled toward the formal implementation of an Inflation Targeting Regime throughout the year, in line with the institutional framework existing in most of the countries that enjoy notable price stability.

• The pillars of the new monetary policy framework are the use of the interest rate as the main instrument of monetary policy, exchange rate flotation and transparent and periodic communication of monetary policy decisions.

• The BCRA has established as a reference the LEBAC rate at 35 days, together with a corridor of active and passive repo rates consistent with it. The interest rate constitutes the primary indicator of the monetary policy bias. In this framework, the quantity of money is endogenous, since any monetary expansion that is not validated by greater demand is automatically absorbed via BCRA securities or repos.

• Within the framework of the announced monetary policy, the value of the peso in terms of other countries' currencies is determined by the market. The BCRA will operate occasionally in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market to avoid unjustified fluctuations in the value of the peso or to manage the profile of its balance sheet. This framework proposes to dissociate the behavior of exchange rate variables from the evolution of domestic prices. In turn, it seeks to preserve relevant degrees of flexibility to face adverse shocks of different kinds on the local economy.

• Likewise, the schedule of periodic publications by the BCRA was presented for the remainder of the year, referring to the communication of its actions in terms of monetary policy.

• During the first week of May this Institution decided to reduce the LEBAC cutting rate at 35 days to 37.5% (from the 38% in effect throughout April), while leaving unchanged the corridor of active and passive repo rates, with respect to the previous month's levels. The reduction in the nominal rate aims to limit the increase in the contractionary bias of monetary policy. Indeed, while the inflation rate for the month of April in the City of Buenos Aires was high due to the impact of public service prices, the various official and private sources that the BCRA analyzes weekly have been showing a decline in underlying inflation in April compared to March. This reduction has thus implied an increase in the expected real interest rate.

• In any case, the BCRA considers that the situation still warrants prudence. Despite the observed decline in underlying inflation, during the month of May there will be some specific price movements (for example, fuels) that, while should not alter the underlying inflationary trend, could impact the general inflation rate. The joint analysis of the factors mentioned leads the BCRA to maintain the current contractionary bias of its monetary policy.

• With regard to shorter-term interest rates – mainly those operated in interfinancial markets and those applied to loans granted through advances of up to 7 days – during the month of April outlined trajectories that remained within the corridor of interest rates established by the BCRA.
• As a result of the monetary operations carried out by the BCRA throughout the month, there was a net absorption, mainly through the placement of LEBACs. Thus, the monetary base decreased 0.8% in April compared to March and reduced its year-on-year growth rate to 27.1%, 2.4 percentage points below that observed in the previous month. The broader monetary aggregates also continued decelerating their growth rates. While M3 reduced its year-on-year variation by 3.2 percentage points to 25.8%, Private M2 slowed its increase rate by 2.1 percentage points to reach 25.5% y.o.y.

• International reserves ended April at US$34,380 million, increasing by US$4,808 million throughout the month. The increase was explained mainly by the increase in foreign currency deposits of the National Treasury at the BCRA, within the framework of the debt placement carried out in mid-month.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.
2 See: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/Prensa_comunicacion/PresentacionPoliticasMonetarias2016.pdf

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 3 2. Interest Rates3

 Graph 2.1 Monetary Policy Interest Rates

 % Retail Prices
 7 (var. % monthly average)
 In April the Central Bank presented its Monetary Policy
 6 General Level - CPI City of Buenos Aires Plan for the year 2016. In it, the guidelines regarding
 monetary and exchange rate policy were detailed,
 5 General Level - CPI San Luis with the priority objective of inducing a systematic and
 sustainable reduction in the inflation rate, until placing it,
 4 within a reasonable timeframe, at 5% annually. Compliance
 3 with this objective will be the greatest contribution that
 this institution can make to guarantee financial stability,
 2 employment and, fundamentally, economic development
 1 with social equity.

 0
 I-15 II-15 III-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16
 Source: BCRA based on DPeEyC San Luis and DGdEyC GCBA Within this framework, the Central Bank is moving along
 the path toward formal adoption of an Inflation Targeting
 regime in the course of this year, in line with the
 institutional scheme adopted by countries that enjoy price
 Graph 2.2 stability.

 Interest Rates on Call Operations, BCRA Repos and LEBAC
 (weighted average rate by amount) Currently, the high inherited nominality, the necessary
 Upper Area 7-day Repo Corridor corrections of relative prices, and the lack of official
 % Corridor Area 1 and 7-day Repos
 50 Lower Area 1-day Repo Corridor inflation measurements at the national level make it
 Active Repos at 7 days difficult to evaluate the inflation trend. In recent months,
 Passive Repos at 1 day
 Call at 1 day in addition to a change in relative prices among different
 45 Advances Up to 7 days - Over $10 M - Private Banks goods, there has been a reordering of prices at the
 LEBAC Secondary Market 15 days
 LEBAC Primary Market 35 days geographic level, due to the differential impact of increases
 40 LEBAC Primary Market 90 days in public utility rates in different zones of the country.

 35

 30 Within this context, the latest known inflation measures
 differ according to the indicator used, although they agree
 25 in reflecting lower inflation for the February-March
 4. two-month period compared to the previous two-month
 20 period (see Graph 2.1). In April, inflation in the City of
 15 Buenos Aires would have been high as a result of the
 10 impact of public utility prices. In turn, although the
 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 indicators analyzed by the Central Bank in the course of
 Source: BCRA April suggested some deceleration in underlying inflation
 (which excludes changes in utility rate prices), those
 Graph 2.3 signs did not have the necessary force to alter the levels
 of interest rates.
 TN millions $ Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market
 45 (35-day term instruments, daily data) 5,000 Thus, in April, the Central Bank decided to maintain at 38%
 43 Amount operated by BCRA in LECE round (right axis) 4,500 the interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC, the instrument
 Primary Market Rates
 Secondary Market Rates chosen to influence the evolution of the inflation rate and
 41 4,000 public expectations (see Graph 2.2).

 39 3,500
 Additionally, the Central Bank continued to participate
 37 3,000 actively in the secondary market of the securities it issues
 35 2,500 in order to prevent interest rates negotiated from
 33 2,000 deviating significantly from the level established in the
 31 1,500 auctions.

 29 1,000

 27 500

 25 0
 11-Dec 10-Jan 09-Feb 10-Mar 09-Apr

 Source: BCRA
3 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
4 See Monetary Policy Statement from April 19: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Pdfs/comytexord/P50736.pdf

Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 4 operating mainly in the shortest segment of the yield curve (around 35 days; see Graph 2.3).

TNA % LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
(by auction) In the primary market, LEBAC interest rates with maturities exceeding 35 days and up to 4 months also remained relatively stable, while those corresponding to longer-term bills decreased slightly (less than 1 p.p., see Graph 2.4).

In the repo market the Central Bank also maintained interest rates: in the segment of 1-day operations they remained at 30% and 39% for passive and active repos, respectively; while for 7-day operations the interest rate of passive repos remained at 31% and that of active repos at 40%.

Before the publication of this report, during the first week of May, various sources indicated a reduction in underlying inflation in April compared to March, which implied an increase in the expected real interest rate. To limit the increase in the contractionary bias of monetary policy, in the first May auction the Central Bank decided to reduce the LEBAC interest rate for 35 days to 37.5%⁵. Meanwhile, it left the repo interest rate corridor unchanged.

In any case, the BCRA considers that the situation continues to warrant caution. The incidence of certain specific price movements in May, for example, the increase in fuel prices, while not altering the underlying inflation trend, would impact general inflation. The coexistence of these factors leads the BCRA to maintain the contractionary bias of its monetary policy.

Market Interest Rates

The shortest-term interest rates outlined trajectories that remained within the interest rate corridor established by the Central Bank in the repo market (see Graph 2.2).

Graph 2.5
Thousands of Interbank Market
millions of $ (1-day operations) TNA % expected. To limit the increase in contractionary bias
10 Amount traded REPO wheel excluding BCRA (daily average) 40 of monetary policy, in the first May auction the Central Bank decided to reduce the interest rate
9 Amount traded Call (daily average) 35
8 Interest rate REPO wheel excluding BCRA (right axis) of the 35-day LEBAC to 37.5%⁵. Meanwhile, it left the repo
7 Call interest rate (right axis) 30 interest rate corridor unchanged.
6 25
5 20 In any case, the BCRA considers that the situation continues to warrant caution. The incidence of certain specific price movements in May, such as an increase in fuel prices, while not altering the underlying inflation trend, would impact general inflation. The coexistence of these factors leads the BCRA to maintain the contractionary bias of its monetary policy.

Graph 2.6

Interest Rates for Personal and Chattel Mortgage Loans
Monthly Average Variations (daily data)
TNA % 6 p.p. Personal Chattel Mortgage
50 4 0.8
2
0
45 -2 -0.4 In interfinancial markets, the interest rate for 1-day call operations averaged 36.9% in April, a level 1.5 p.p. higher than the value recorded the previous month. The average interest rate for 1-day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) was also at 36.8%, showing an increase of 0.9 p.p.. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased by almost $300 million, totaling around $9,800 million (see Graph 2.5).

5 See Statement P 50744.
# Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 5

The interest rate on advances to companies in the most traded segment (for more than $10 million and up to 7 days) followed a similar trajectory to those of the interbank market. Thus, it averaged 38.7%, showing an increase of 1 p.p. compared to March.

## Graph 2.7
%; p.p. Short-Term Interest Rates
daily data
40 - Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks
35 - BADLAR private banks
- LEBAC 35 days
30

25

20

15

Oct-15 Jan-16 Apr-16

Source: BCRA

The rest of the active interest rates had dissimilar evolutions. In this sense, it should be remembered that the interest rates referred to are amounts weighted averages, so that, in lines where there are differences in the market segments served by different entities, a change in the participation of each of them could affect the resulting average interest rate level. In that sense, the average interest rate on personal loans (42.9%) increased 0.8 p.p. in the month. Meanwhile, the interest rate corresponding to pledge credit averaged 26.6% in April, showing a decrease of 0.4 p.p. (see Graph 2.6).

For its part, the interest rate on sight documents remained stable and stood at 27.8%, while that of unsecured documents averaged 40.7%, placing itself 0.8 p.p. above that observed the previous month.

## Graph 3.1
% of deposits Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
45 - CCBCRA - Cash - Net Repurchase Agreements - LEBAC and NOBAC - Broad Liquidity
40 - 40.7 39.7 39.7 39.5 39.2 38.8 38.0 36.9 36.7
36.9 37.9 38.6 37.5 36.8 33.1%, placing itself 0.8 p.p. above that observed the
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0 - Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16

* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA

Meanwhile, passive interest rates increased slightly compared to March. In particular, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days of maturity averaged 27.1%, registering an increase of 0.5 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30-35 days of maturity – of private banks showed an increase of 0.9 p.p. compared to the previous month and stood at 30.6% (see Graph 2.7).

## 3. Liquidity of Financial Entities

## Graph 3.2
% of deposits Minimum Cash Position in Pesos
4.4
3.6
2.8
2.0
1.2
0.4
0.1
-0.4
-1.2
-2.0 - Surplus
-2.8 - Accumulated position
- Daily position
-3.6
Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16
Source: BCRA

In the current monetary policy scheme, in which the Central Bank establishes reference interest rates with the objective of generating a sustained decrease in the inflation rate, the quantity of money is endogenous. That is, any excess / deficit of supply in the monetary market is absorbed / covered through LEBAC or repurchase agreements.

In April, the Central Bank carried out a net absorption, primarily through the placement of LEBAC. The counterparties to said absorption were fundamentally investors from the non-financial sector. For their part, financial entities used the resources from the partial renewal of their maturing securities to face the fall in deposits, which was again driven by public sector placements.

Thus, the average liquidity ratio for April of financial entities in the local currency segment (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and the holding of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) was reduced to 36.8% (see Graph 3.1). In turn,

## Graph 4.1
thousands of Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base
millions of $ (April 2016, on average)
30

20
10 estimates that the balance of current accounts observed im-
plied a surplus in the position of Minimum Cash
0 of the total financial entities equivalent to 0.1%

-10 of the total deposits in pesos (see Graph 3.2).

-20 For its part, liquidity in foreign currency averaged

-30 during the last month the equivalent of 97.5% of the total

Purchases of Sector LEBAC and Passes Other Circulating InReserves
of deposits in dollars. Thus, it increased almost 1 p.p.
Foreign Currency Public NOBAC Public Banking
Source: BCRA with respect to March, in a context where the increase in
foreign currency deposits allowed sustaining the
dynamism of dollar financing.

Graph 4.2 4. Monetary Aggregates 1

% Monetary Aggregates
45 (year-on-year variation)

40 In April, the expansion generated by the operations of the
public sector and the punctual interventions of the Central
35 Bank in the exchange market resulted in more than com-

30 pensated by the absorption through LEBAC and passes (see
Graph 4.1). Thus, the monetary base decreased 0.8%

25 with respect to March and its year-on-year variation reached
Monetary Base
M2 private 27.1%, 2.4 p.p. below that observed the previous
20 M3
month.

15
Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 The broader monetary aggregates also slowed
Note: M3 includes circulating currency in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos.
Source: BCRA down during April. While M36 reduced 3.2
p.p. its year-on-year variation to 25.8%, the transactional
money of the private sector (M2 Private7) contracted it
by 2.1 p.p. until reaching 25.5% (see Graph 4.2). This
last aggregate recorded a monthly reduction of
Graph 4.3 0.1%, explained by the fall in circulating currency in the hands
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
millions of $ % of the public, partially compensated by the increase in
500 Observed Balance 70
Year-on-year var. observed (right axis) sight deposits.
450 Year-on-year var. with BCRA Titles not ent. Fin. (right axis) 60

400 50 The fixed-term deposits of the private sector remained

40 relatively stable and continued reducing

350 their year-on-year increase, until reaching 36.7%. Among
30
300 these placements, markedly different behaviors were
maintained among different strata of

20 250 amount. While placements of less than $1
10
million grew 4% in April, maintaining the dynamism
200 0 of previous months, deposits of the wholesale segment
presented a reduction of similar proportion (3.6%).
150 -10
Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 Source: BCRA
The lower growth of wholesale fixed-term deposits

6 Includes circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public
non-financial sectors in pesos.
7 Includes circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 7 Graph 4.4 tas so far in 2016 is the counterpart of the increasing

thousands of Deposits in Foreign Currency of the Private Sector participation of investors that are not financial entities
millions of US$ (daily balance)
15 in the acquisition of LEBAC. At the end of April,
the holders of LEBAC of the non-financial sector (fun-

13 damentally mutual investment funds, insurance compa-
30-Apr-16
11.8 nies and businesses) concentrated around
11 50% of the outstanding stock of these titles, 20 p.p.
more than at the end of 2015. In this sense, when considering

9 jointly the total of fixed-term deposits
and LEBAC that do not belong to financial entities

7 the year-on-year increase amounts to 58% (see Graph 4.3).

5 On the other hand, the impositions of the public sector present-
Jul-11 Ene-12 Jul-12 Ene-13 Jul-13 Ene-14 Jul-14 Ene-15 Jul-15 Ene-16showed a reduction of 9.6%, with declines in both on-demand
 Source: BCRA
 deposits and fixed-term deposits. In this way, the total
 of deposits in pesos (including those from both the pub-
 lic and private sectors) decreased

 Graph 5.1 1.6% in April, exhibiting a year-on-year variation of

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector 25.6%.
 % %
 6 Monthly variation 60

 5 Year-on-year variation (right axis) 50 For its part, the average monthly balance of deposits
 in foreign currency increased 2%, with increases

 4 40 in placements from the public sector and from the

 3 30 private sector. The placements of the private sector
 presented an increase of 0.2% (see Graph 4.4), with
 2 20 rises in placements of less than US$1 million and
 declines in those of more than US$1 million.
 1 10

 0 0 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*8,

 -1 -10 decreased 1.4%, presenting a year-on-year variation
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Apr-16of 33.2%.
 Source: BCRA
 5. Loans 1 9

 Graph 5.2
 % Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 80 (year-on-year variation of monthly averages) Loans to the private sector showed varied behaviors
 according to the type of currency in which they were
 60 granted. While loans in pesos continued to register
 limited variations, those denominated in foreign cur-
 40 rency have been showing renewed dynamism.

 20 Loans in pesos to the private sector continued
 showing meager growth, registering in April an in-
 0 crease of 0.4% ($3,200 million). Thus, its year-on-
 Commercial loans (advances, documents and other loans) year variation continued to decelerate and stood at
 Consumer loans (personal and credit cards) 31.3%, accumulating a decline of almost 8 p.p. in the
 -20 Loans with real guarantee (mortgages and chattel mortgages)
 Apr-07 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Apr-16first four months of the year. This deceleration was

 Source: BCRA more pronounced in the case of lines destined essen-

8 Includes M3 and deposits from non-financial public and private sectors in foreign currency.
9 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
of entities to financial trusts. In the present report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals)
agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation of the balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations
of the period.

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 8 tially for commercial purposes, which went from growing
 around 38% at the end of 2015 to approximately 26%
 in the last month (see Graphs 5.1 and 5.2).

 As for the lines aimed at financing household con-
 sumption, personal loans showed in the month an in-
 crease of 2% ($3,440 million), maintaining a growth
 rate similar to that of the two previous months. Thus,
 the year-on-year variation was reduced from 35.5% in
 March to 34.8% in April. For its part, credit card fi-
 
 Graph 5.3 nancing registered a slight increase (0.7%; $1,200 mil-
 million u$s Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector lion). However, in the last 12 months they accumulated
 600 (variation of average monthly balances) growth of 46.6%.

 400 Loans destined mainly to enterprises showed a slight
 decline in April. Financings arranged through documents
 200 decreased 0.3% ($500 million), with a year-on-year vari-
 ation on the order of 30%, 3.1 p.p. lower than that ob-
 0 served the previous month. Nevertheless, there could
 Others
 -200 have been some substitution
 Credit Cards
 Documents at sole signature order -400
-600 stitution by loans denominated in dollars, since,
 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Apr-16 as will be detailed, the line of documents at sole signature
 Source: BCRA in dollars has shown great dynamism during recent
 months. For its part, advances registered a
 decline of 1.3% ($1,230 million), while its
 year-on-year variation fell back 2.1 percentage points and was placed at
 28.5%.

 Chart 5.4 Loans with real collateral continued to register
 Documents at Sole Signature in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector little significant variations. In fact, credit
 thousands of with pledge guarantees grew 0.6% ($230 million),
 millions of US$ while mortgage loans registered a decline
 TNA; % of 0.3% ($140 million). Over the last 12 months
 5 10 these lines accumulated an increase of 21% and 13.6%,
 Daily Balance respectively.
 Interest Rate (right axis) 9
 4
 8 In order to promote savings and long-
 4 7 term credit, the Central Bank enabled a new instrument
 3 6 in April. Specifically, it arranged the creation of a
 5 new unit of account, Housing Units
 3 4 (UVIs), which will have an initial value equivalent to the thou-
 2 3 sandth part of the average construction cost of a
 2 witness square meter10, which as of March 31, 2016 was
 2 located at $14,053, so the initial value of the UVI is
 1
 1 0 $14,053. The value of the UVI will be updated daily
 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 by the Reference Stabilization Coefficient
 Source: BCRA (CER). Thus, banks will be able to offer deposits
 denominated in UVIs with a minimum term of 180 days and will
 be able to grant mortgage loans for longer terms and
 with more accessible installments. Likewise, it is worth mentioning
 that these loans may be charged to the "Financing Line
 for Production and Financial Inclusion",

10 Based on figures known for properties of diverse types in the cities of Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Rosario, Salta and Litoral area (Santa Fe-Paraná), weighted by population.

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 9 as long as the interest rate applied to these
 financings is less than 5% nominal annual.

 For its part, loans in foreign currency to the private
 sector continued with the upward trend that
 began to show in mid-December. In particular, in April they grew US$530 million and in what
 has been accumulated so far this year an increase close to US$1,500
 million (see Chart 5.3). This was driven
 fundamentally by documents at sole signature, whose
 cost has been reduced during recent months (see
 Chart 5.4).

 6. International Reserves and Foreign
 Exchange Market1

 International reserves ended April at
 US$34,380 million, increasing US$4,808 million
 throughout the month. The increase was explained principally
 by the increase in foreign currency deposits
 of the National Treasury in the Central Bank, within the
 Chart 6.1 framework of the debt placement carried out in mid-month.
 millions of U$S Central Bank Operations in the Foreign Exchange Market

 600 Within the framework of the monetary policy announced, the value
 400 of the peso in terms of the currencies of other countries is
 determined by the market. The BCRA will operate occasionally
 200 in the Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market to
 avoid unjustified fluctuations in the peso quotation
 0 or to manage the composition of its balance
 sheet. This scheme is intended to dissociate the behavior
 -200 of exchange rate variables from the evolution
 of local prices. In turn, it seeks to preserve
 -400
-600 degrees of flexibility relevant to face shocks
 17-Dec-15 17-Jan-16 17-Feb-16 17-Mar-16 17-Apr-16 of different kinds on the local economy. This
 Source: BCRA
 was the context in April, in which the Central Bank ope-
 rated on a reduced number of trading days (see Graph 6.1),
 and the reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar
 ended April at 14.26, decreasing 2.2%
 compared to the close of March.

 It is worth mentioning that in April the Central Bank continued
 to ease operations in the foreign exchange market,
 eliminating the payment schedule for import debt that had been established last December.11

 On May 5th, additional regulatory changes were enacted
 in the same direction. Among them, the increase in the monthly limit to purchase foreign currency for the

11 See Communication "A" 5955.

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 10 formation of external assets from US$2 million to US$5
 Graph 7.1 million12.

 % Interest Rates, Rate and Inflation Target
 6.0 United States
 Reference Interest Rate 7. Main Policy Measures
 5.0

 4.0 Personal Consumption Expenditures (Deflator of Household Spending) from Other Central Banks

 3.0 Inflation Target
 2.0 During April, the main developments from other
 monetary authorities came from the
 1.0
 USA, the euro zone, England and Brazil. In all
 0.0 cases, the monetary policy interest rate was not modified.

 -1.0

 -2.0
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16
 In fact, on April 27th, the Open Market Committee
 The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime. It has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment, moderate (FOMC) of the FED decided to keep unchanged the
 long-term interest rates and stable prices. Regarding this, at the FOMC meeting of January 25, 2012, an objective of an annual variation
 of 2% was set for the Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term. Source: BCRA based on the Federal Reserve, BEA.gov and BLS.gov objective with respect to the reference interest rate, the federal funds interest rate (FFR), in the range
 0.25-0.5% (see Graph 7.1). In its press release,
 the FOMC gave mixed signals: on one hand,
 Graph 7.2 it expressed less concern about the international
 economic context; and on the other hand, it made
 Interest Rate and Inflation Rate and Target reference to a lower level of domestic activity and
 %
 6 euro zone stopped mentioning the recent increase in the inflation rate, making reference again that inflation

 5 Monetary Policy Rate
 Inflation Rate has remained below the long-term target of
 4 Inflation Target
 2%.
 3 Interest Rate Corridor

 2
 The Governing Council (GC) of the European Central
 1 Bank (ECB) decided to maintain its monetary policy
 interest rate, which applies to its refinancing operations

 0 – Main Refinancing Operations (MRO) – at
 0%, and its interest rate corridor (-0.4%; 0.25%)
 -1
 Jan-06 Jan-07 Jan-08 Jan-09 Jan-10 Jan-11 Jan-12 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 (see Graph 7.2). Furthermore, it maintained its asset
 The ECB does not follow an inflation targeting regime. Nevertheless, it seeks price stability which is defined by an purchase program of €80,000 million per month
 inflation rate < 2% y.o.y. Source: own elaboration based on ECB and Eurostats. (program that will be in force until March 2017). However,
 the ECB announced the implementation of the
 "Corporate Sector Purchase Programme",
 Graph 7.3 through which it will begin purchasing private sector
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity securities in June.

 Indicators - Brazil %
 25 Industrial Production (Var. y.o.y.) 30 For its part, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
 % of the Bank of England (BoE) decided to maintain its rate
# Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-over-year Var.)

Reference Interest Rate (right axis) of monetary policy interest (the Bank Rate) at 0.5%
Inflation Rate (right axis) 25
15 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) and its asset purchase program at £375,000

10 20 million. In the minutes it released, it highlighted the

5 impact that the

15 possibility of a withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European
0
 Union (Brexit), which will be decided in a referendum in
-5 10 next June, is having on the level of activity.

-10
5
-15 Finally, within the region, the Monetary Policy

-20 0 Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil
 Jun-99 Jun-01 Jun-03 Jun-05 Jun-07 Jun-09 Jun-11 Jun-13 Jun-15
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br (BCB) kept unchanged the target for the Selic rate

12 See Communications "A" 5963, "A" 5964 and "P" 50745.

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 11 at 14.25% (see Chart 7.3). Furthermore, from the COPOM

 press release it follows that given the high inflation and its expectations, there would be no room for a reduction of the Selic target in the short term.

 Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 128. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Apr-15 Apr-16 Mar-16 Monthly Last 12 Dec-15
 months

 Monetary base 582,322 586,879 622,263 458,015 -0.8% 27.1%
 Monetary circulation 453,763 455,314 458,844 349,861 -0.3% 29.7%
 Bills and Coins in possession of the public 398,536 401,843 408,627 315,158 -0.8% 26.5%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 55,227 53,471 50,217 34,702 3.3% 59.1%
 Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.0 -21.6% -
 Current account at the BCRA 128,559 131,565 163,418 108,154 -2.3% 18.9%

 Stock of Repos
 Liabilities 22,139 19,950 33,067 17,865 11.0% 23.9%
 Assets 1,961 1,934 0 0

 Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) 526,693 500,613 325,511 328,246 5.2% 60.5%
 In banks 301,802 325,811 239,287 245,408 -7.4% 23.0%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
 In pesos 463,273 426,762 305,323 314,610 8.6% 47.3%
 In dollars 4,380 4,921 1,754 1,537 -11.0% 184.9%

 NOBAC 0000--

 International reserves of the BCRA (5) 31,016 28,862 24,816 31,908 7.5% -2.8%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,138,414 1,157,128 1,151,655 906,106 -1.6% 25.6%
 Current account (2) 306,179 330,050 374,919 264,623 -7.2% 15.7%
 Savings account 226,332 222,823 244,736 180,318 1.6% 25.5%
 Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER 560,887 561,375 487,974 425,900 -0.1% 31.7%
 Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER 18 16 12 9 6.6% 95.2%
 Other deposits (3) 45,000 42,863 44,014 35,256 5.0% 27.6%

 Private sector deposits 912,232 906,827 887,580 698,350 0.6% 30.6%

 Public sector deposits 226,182 250,300 264,075 207,756 -9.6% 8.9%

 Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 14,073 13,790 10,579 9,443 2.0% 49.0%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 832,056 828,242 821,672 638,106 0.5% 30.4%

 Loans to the private sector 772,905 769,777 763,954 588,758 0.4% 31.3%
 Advances 95,654 96,880 93,780 74,438 -1.3% 28.5%
 Documents 179,682 180,199 192,463 138,388 -0.3% 29.8%
 Mortgage loans 54,771 54,909 54,270 48,221 -0.3% 13.6%
 Pledge loans 40,248 40,018 39,996 33,262 0.6% 21.0%
 Personal loans 171,844 168,492 160,780 127,466 2.0% 34.8%
 Credit cards 185,127 183,928 174,753 125,416 0.7% 47.6%
 Other 45,578 45,350 47,912 41,568 0.5% 9.6%

 Loans to the public sector 59,150 58,465 57,718 49,348 1.2% 19.9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 4,459 3,930 2,935 3,906 13.4% 14.1%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 704,715 731,894 783,546 579,783 -3.7% 21.5%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 931.046 954.717 1.028.282 760.101 -2.5% 22.5%
M3 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 1.536.950 1.558.971 1.560.283 1.221.266 -1.4% 25.8%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.744.112 1.769.179 1.686.611 1.309.044 -1.4% 33.2%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current accounts in pesos) 601.132 605.049 622.087 483.330 -0.6% 24.4%

M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 814.865 815.670 849.199 649.343 -0.1% 25.5%

M3 (Bills and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 1.310.769 1.308.671 1.296.208 1.013.510 0.2% 29.3%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.485.298 1.489.120 1.408.034 1.085.917 -0.3% 36.8%

Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 13 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -4.557 -0.8% -20.604 -3.4% -39.940 -6.8% 124.307 27.1%
Financial sector -1.972 -0.3% 2.206 0.4% 13.442 2.3% -1.532 -0.3%
Public sector 21.150 3.6% 19.063 3.2% 29.312 5.0% 184.656 40.3%
External private sector 6.009 1.0% 1.717 0.3% 857 0.1% -63.795 -13.9%
BCRA Securities -24.408 -4.2% -51.976 -8.6% -120.598 -20.5% -68.809 -15.0%
Other -5.336 -0.9% 8.387 1.4% 37.046 6.3% 73.787 16.1%

BCRA International Reserves 2.154 7.5% 5.048 19.4% 6.200 21.5% -893 -2.8%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 428 1.5% 223 0.9% 94 0.3% -6.623 -20.8%
Payment to international organizations -260 -0.9% -633 -2.4% -719 -2.5% -1.963 -6.2%
Other public sector operations 1.834 6.4% 1.681 6.5% 913 3.2% 5.387 16.9%
Minimum cash 966 3.3% -1.340 -5.2% -1.163 -4.0% 1.019 3.2%
Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -815 -2.8% 5.117 19.7% 7.076 24.5% 1.288 4.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or foreign residents. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the corresponding main variable for the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation changes

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Apr-16 Mar-16 Feb-16
(1)
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 11.2 11.1 11.4
Integration 11.2 11.3 11.6
Position (2) 0.1 0.2 0.2
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 66.9 66.1 66.4
30 to 59 days 21.0 21.8 21.3
60 to 89 days 6.6 6.4 6.7
90 to 179 days 3.9 4.1 4.1
More than 180 days 1.7 1.6 1.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 22.4 18.3 16.7
Integration (includes default in the application of resources) 59.6 54.2 60.0
Position (2) 37.2 35.9 43.3
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
Up to 29 days 57.0 49.7 48.3
30 to 59 days 21.2 27.0 21.1
60 to 89 days 8.5 11.1 18.5
90 to 179 days 9.6 8.7 8.7
180 to 365 days 3.6 3.4 3.3
More than 365 days 0.0 0.0 0.1
(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 14 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates Apr-16 Mar-16 Feb-16 Dec-15 Apr-15

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
Rate 36.88 35.43 24.78 25.88 17.85
Amount operated 3.636 3.916 3.440 2.797 3.174
Country Risk (basis points)
- BONAR X spread vs. US Treasury Bond: 456, 533, 595, 639, 821
- EMBI+ Latin America (excluding Argentina): 556, 572, 654, 580, 492

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Dollar Bills payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
# Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 169. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

FCI: Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LCIP: Productive Investment Credit Line.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

PM: Monetary Program.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

VRD: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | April 2016 | BCRA | 17
