# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Pg. 3

2. Interest rates | Pg. 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Pg. 4

 Market interest rates | Pg. 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Pg. 6

4. Loans | Pg. 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Pg. 10

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Pg. 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Pg. 12

8. Glossary | Pg. 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was January 5, 2017. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• The retail price indices published in December showed a deceleration of monthly inflation in November, both when considering general levels and core inflation indicators. In particular, the general level of the CPI GBA published by INDEC increased 1.6% in November. As had been announced in October, to evaluate compliance with the monthly average inflation target of 1.5% or less for the last quarter of 2016, the Central Bank computes the average for August-October, thus considering both the decrease and increase in the gas tariff. The average between the monthly inflation calculated for said period and that of November was placed at 1.4%. In turn, the estimations and high-frequency indicators monitored by the Central Bank show that December inflation would have been in line with the objective set for the final months of 2016.

• In December the Central Bank published the "Objectives and plans regarding the development of monetary, exchange, financial and credit policy for the year 2017"2. In accordance with what is established in article 3 of its Organic Charter, the first objective of the BCRA is to ensure monetary stability in Argentina, and to achieve this, the Central Bank has implemented an inflation targeting regime. For 2017, the inflation target is between 12% and 17% annually, converging to 5% annually by the end of 2019. The main instrument of monetary policy as of January 1, 2017 is the central interest rate of the "corridor" of peso-denominated repos with a 7-day term. Said rate will be decided weekly by the institution's Monetary Policy Council. In December and until the publication of this report, the center of the 7-day repo corridor remained at 24.75%, and its width is 200 basis points.

• Most money market interest rates declined in December. The monthly average values of those traded in interbank and passive markets decreased around 1 p.p. compared to November. Among active interest rates, those applied to loans granted through promissory notes and personal loans fell by similar magnitudes, while those corresponding to pawn loans decreased 1.5 p.p. compared to the previous month.

• The broad monetary aggregate, private M3, increased both in nominal terms and when considering its real balance adjusted for seasonality. In December, growth was driven by the means of payment of the private sector. Among these, the increase in savings account deposits and currency in circulation held by the public stood out.

• Foreign currency deposits from the private sector continued growing. They increased US$1,700 million during the month, reaching a balance of US$22,450 million at the end of December, the highest level since the beginning of 2002.

• In real terms, the total of loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency) completed the second half of 2016 showing a sustained upward trajectory. In nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their monthly growth rate, presenting an increase of 4.5% ($38,500 million), the largest increase of the year, and even surpassing that observed in December 2015. The lines that contributed most to monthly growth were those associated with consumption and those granted through promissory notes.

• Loans with mortgage guarantee registered a monthly increase of 3.3% ($1,870 million), the largest since early 2013. In particular, those denominated in Units of Acquisitive Value (UVA) continued showing dynamism: more than $800 million were granted in the month, an amount higher than in previous months. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April and through December, approximately $2,100 million in mortgage credits denominated in UVA were disbursed.

• The balance of loans in foreign currency tripled in 2016. The growth that they registered in December
# Translation to English

allowed for an accumulated increase of US$6,240 million (215%) during the year, concentrated in single-signature documents
(explained in large part by export pre-financing).
• On December 12, the Central Bank paid the US$1,000 million of capital that it had arranged in passive repo operations
in dollars with international banks towards the end of July. Thus, it canceled all passive repo operations with international
banks that it maintained on its balance sheet. In 2016, international reserves
accumulated growth of US$13,208 million, which allows it to continue with the process of improvement in the quality of its
balance sheet and the reduction in the cost of its international liabilities, while maintaining the necessary flexibility to activate
the different available mechanisms that it has developed to face possible external shocks if necessary.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
2 See: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Noticias/Objetivos_y_planes_2017.asp

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest rates 3

 Monetary policy interest rates

 The retail price indices published in the month showed a
 deceleration of monthly inflation in November, both when
 considering general levels and core inflation indicators.
 Chart 2.1 In particular, the general level of the CPI GBA published
 
 Monthly Inflation - General Level of CPI GBA by INDEC increased 1.6% in November (including an
 % incidence of 0.1 p.p. corresponding to the carryover of
 5 the gas rate increase that occurred in October). As had
 been announced in October, to evaluate compliance with
 4 the inflation target of a monthly average of 1.5% or less
 for the last quarter of 2016, the Central Bank computes
 3 the average for August-October, thus taking into account
 both the decrease and increase in the gas rate. Thus, the
 2 1.6 average between the monthly inflation calculated for
 1 Average Aug-Oct: 1.2% said period and that of November was 1.4% (see Chart
 2.1).
 0
 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16

 Source: INDEC.
 At the same time, estimates and high-frequency indicators
 from public and private sources monitored by the Central
 Bank suggest that December inflation would have been in
 line with the objective set for the last months of 2016.

 On the other hand, according to the November Market
 Expectations Survey, inflation expectations for the coming
 Chart 2.2 year were positioned above the upper limit of the range
 
 TNA % Interest Rate of LEBAC in the Primary Market established as a target by the Central Bank (12%-17%).
28 (by auction) Taking into account that monetary policy operates with
 27-Dec-16 29-Nov-16 25-Oct-16 lags, the Central Bank guided its decisions with a view to
27 meeting its 2017 inflation target. Thus, it decided to
 keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, that of the 35-
26 day LEBAC, at 24.75% (see Chart 2.2).

25
 As detailed in the "Objectives and plans regarding the
24 development of monetary, exchange rate, financial and
 credit policy for the year 2017", the monetary policy
23 reference rate will be from 2017 onwards the midpoint of
 the "corridor" of peso repurchase agreements at 7-day
 Maturity 22 maturity. Said rate will be decided weekly by the
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 institution's Monetary Policy Council.

Source: BCRA
 In this way, the reference rate will cease to be the 35-day
 LEBAC rate; these instruments will continue to be used
 for liquidity regulation, but will be auctioned monthly
 from next February, with maturities on the third
 Wednesday of each month. Monetary policy will be
 decided at all times with a view to meeting inflation
 targets.

3 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 4
 The Central Bank will continue to maintain a clear anti-
Chart 2.3 inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process
 Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market thousands of
 TNA% (35-day instruments, daily data) continues toward its target of inflation between
 millions $ 12% and 17% in 2017.
 42 Amount operated by the BCRA in the Secondary Market (right axis) 20
 Monetary policy rate
 Tasas Secondary Market Rates 18
 Policy rate +/- 0.5 p.p.
 38 16 At the same time, as part of the transition toward the
 adoption of the midpoint of the 7-day repurchase
36 14 agreement corridor as the reference rate, the BCRA
 continued reducing the width of the 1-day repurchase
34 12 agreement corridor, taking it from 800 basis points
 (b.p.) to 400 b.p., and the width of the 7-day corridor,
32 10 from 700 b.p. to 200 b.p. In this way, by the end of De-
On December 26, the 1-day pass corridor was positioned at 22.75%-24.2%, and the 7-day operations corridor at 23.75%-25.75%.

01-Mar 31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sept 27-Oct 26-Nov 26-Dec Meanwhile, the Central Bank continued operating in the secondary market of its securities, with the objective of inducing a convergence of observed yields within a corridor of +/- 0.5 p.p. with respect to the monetary policy rate. During this period, LEBAC sales reached approximately VN $4,100 million, which represents a decline in the volume traded compared to previous months (see Chart 2.3).

**Chart 2.4**

**Market Interest Rates**

Most monetary market interest rates declined in December.

The shorter-term rates continued to remain within the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the passes market; remaining relatively stable during December, at values lower than those in November. In interbank markets, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations averaged 24.6% in December, a level 1.1 p.p. lower than the value recorded the previous month. The average interest rate on 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was positioned at 24%, showing a decline of 1.3 p.p. (see Chart 2.4). The average daily amount traded in both markets decreased by $700 million, totaling approximately $13,000 million.

With respect to interest rates associated with financing commercial activity, the rate applied to loans granted through single-signature documents averaged 23.6%, showing a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents remained practically stable and was positioned at 19.8%, after declining 4 p.p. the previous month due to the entry into effect as of November 1st of a new reference value for the interest rates included in the financing line for production and financial inclusion⁴ (LFPIF; see Chart 2.5).

**Chart 2.6**
p.p. Monthly Average Variation Personal and Pledge Loans
0.6 (daily data)
TNA
% -0.2
50 Personal Pledge -1.0
-1.2
45 -1.8 -1.5
The active interest rates aimed primarily at financing families also showed a downward trajectory. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 39.1%, showing a decline of 1.2 p.p. compared to the previous month. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to pledge credits was positioned at 20.8% monthly average, showing a decline of 1.5 p.p. compared to November (see Chart 2.6).

40

35

30

25

20

15
Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17

For its part, passive interest rates continued declining, in a context of ample liquidity conditions for financial entities (see Liquidity section). The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days maturity– of private banks, averaged 20%, accumulating a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the previous month. Similarly, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity accumulated a monthly decline of 0.9 p.p. and averaged 17.6% in December (see Chart 2.7).

**Chart 2.7**
TNA; % Short-Term Interest Rates
44 (Daily Data)
BADLAR Private Banks
40 Fixed-Term Deposits of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)
LEBAC 35 days
36

32

28

24

**3. Monetary Aggregates¹**
20 In real terms, monetary aggregates continued the trend of gradual growth that they began to show from July onwards, evidencing an increase in money demand by the public (see Graph 3.1). Considering the values in real terms 5 and seasonally adjusted, in December, the broad monetary aggregate of the private sector (Private M3) would have increased 1.1% with respect to the previous month, driven by the behavior of the private sector's means of payment (Private M2). Within the latter, currency in circulation held by the public grew 2.1% and sight deposits rose 3.8%. Among them, savings accounts stood out, which received an additional boost from the inflow of funds in pesos associated with the Fiscal Transparency Regime (Law 27,260) and the early payment of the half-yearly bonus 8.

In nominal terms, sight deposits of the private sector grew 11.1% in the month, while fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector decreased 3.3%. In both cases, the influence of seasonal factors associated with high demand for transactional money was observed (payment of the half-yearly bonus, higher family spending during the holiday period and the start of the summer recess). After presenting a decrease during the first fortnight, fixed-term deposits stabilized mid-month and showed growth in the last week of December. This behavior was similar in placements of less than one million pesos and in the wholesale segment (see Graph 3.2).

In year-on-year terms, fixed-term deposits grew 19.4%, 4.9 p.p. below the previous month.

The total deposits of the private sector in pesos presented

---

**FOOTNOTES:**

4 See Communication "A" 6084.

5 They are deflated using the general level of the national indicator (CPI-NP). The BCRA calculates the CPI-NP based on consumer price indices from the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Expenditure Survey corresponding to the 2004-2005 period (ENGHo 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption spending by region of said survey, for the construction of the CPI-NP the CPIБА weighs 44% (used as representative of the price evolution of the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampean Region, the CPI of Córdoba weighs 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San Luis (22% of the CPI-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.

6 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the private sector.

7 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 6

---

**GRAPH DESCRIPTIONS:**

Graph 3.1: Monetary Aggregates (thousands of millions of $ - seasonally adjusted balances in real terms - at December 2016 prices)
- Currency in circulation held by the public
- Private M2
- Private M3 (right axis)

Graph 3.2: Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector (thousands of millions of $ - daily balance evolution)
- More than $1 million
- Less than $1 million

Graph 3.3: Monetary Aggregates (% - year-on-year variation)
40 a growth of 3.9% in December, while public sector placements in pesos rose 9.6%.
35
Thus, the total deposits in pesos (including those of the public sector as well as those of the private sector) increased 5.1% in the month, with a year-on-year variation that hovered around 21%.
25
Monetary Base 9
20 M2 Private For its part, the broad monetary aggregates, M3 and
M3 M3 Private, maintained their year-on-year variation at levels
15 close to those of November, 21.3% and 22.9% respectively. Meanwhile, private means of payment accelerated 2.6 p.p., with a year-on-year growth of
Dic-11Jun-12Dic-12Jun-13Dic-13Jun-14Dic-14Jun-15Dic-15Jun-16Dic-16
Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total deposits in pesos. 24.2% (see Chart 3.3).

Source: BCRA Regarding the monetary base, it presented a monthly growth of 9.6%, with increases in both currency in
Chart 3.4 circulation held by the public and banking reserves,
Factors of Explanation of the Monetary Base encouraged by the seasonal and exceptional factors
thousands of (November 2016, on average)
millions of $ mentioned above, which also generated an increase in the reserve requirement (see Banking
50 Liquidity section). The demand for monetary base in
40 December was met through the reduction in the balance
30 of LEBACs and by the expansion generated by foreign
20 currency purchase operations, mainly from the National
10 Treasury. Both effects were partially offset by the contraction generated by the increase in reverse repos with
0 the Private Sector and Treasury Advances and Other
-10 Central Bank Operations (see Chart 3.4).
-20
S. Private Sector and Treasury Advances and Other Operations with the LEBAC and Reverse Repos Circulation Central Bank National Treasury Reserves
Other Purchases of Foreign Currency in Public Banking
Currency NOBAC
Source: BCRA Considering the year 2016 as a whole, unlike what had occurred in previous years, the main source of

8 According to Law 27,073, the annual complementary salary will be paid in two installments, the first due on June 30 and the second due on December 18 of each year.
9 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, canceled checks in pesos and deposits of private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 7
monetary base variation were foreign currency purchases, pushing back transfers to the National Treasury to second place. Consequently, the increase in non-monetary liabilities in 2016 had as its counterpart the strengthening of the Central Bank's assets, through the increase in liquid assets in foreign currency (see Chart 3.5). In year-on-year terms, the monetary base presented a variation of 26.6%, 1.8 p.p. below the previous month and 13.9 p.p. lower than that recorded at the end of 2015.

Chart 3.5
thousands of Factors of Variation of the Monetary Base The balance of deposits in foreign currency reached accumulated annual millions of $ at the end of December US$24,450 million, with reductions in public sector placements and increases in those of the private sector. The latter increased US$1,700 million during the month, reaching a balance of US$22,450 million at the end of December, the highest level since the beginning of 2002.

250
200 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 10, increased 4.5%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
150 35.2%.
100
50
0
-50
-100
-150
-200
-250
2015 2016

Purchases of Transfers Sterilization Other Monetary Base
foreign currency to TN
Source: BCRA
Chart 4.1

thousands of Loans to the Private Sector
millions $ (balances in real terms - at December 2016 prices)
1,200 4. Loans
1,150
1,100 During the second half of the year, the total loans to the
1,050 private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency) has
1,000 shown a sustained upward trend in terms of...
950
900
850
800 Total (pesos and foreign currency)
750 Pesos
700 real numbers, reversing part of the decline recorded during
Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 the first part of the year (see Graph 4.1) 12. This behavior
Source: own elaboration. Deflated with National CPI of the BCRA (REM expectations for non-observed data).
is also verified in peso financing, although more moderately, as a consequence of the partial substitution between peso loans and foreign currency loans recorded throughout 2016.

**Graph 4.2**

**Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**
% %

6 60
Monthly variation
In nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector
5 Year-over-year var. (right axis) 50
accelerated their monthly growth rate, presenting an

4 40 increase of 4.5% ($38,500 million), the largest increase of
the year and even surpassing that observed in December
3 30
2015. Thus, they ended the year with a growth of 17.3%

2 20 and began to reverse the decline in year-over-year variation initiated at the beginning of 2016 (see Graphs 4.2). The
1 10 financings implemented through documents, personal
loans and credit cards led the month's growth (see Graph
0 0
4.3).

-1 -10
Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16

Source: BCRA

10 Includes M3 and deposits of public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
11 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. Instead, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
12 See note 6.

Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 8

Regarding loans with essentially commercial destination, advances increased their monthly growth rate, driven by the greater liquidity needs of companies typical of year-end. Thus, after the decrease in the previous month, they exhibited an increase of 3.1% ($3,240 million). Nevertheless, they continued moderating their year-over-year variation, which was around 14%. For its part, financing implemented through documents grew for a second consecutive month. The increase recorded in December was 4.4% ($7,950 million), the highest of the year (see Graphs 4.4). Distinguishing by type of document, documents with sole signature show an incipient recovery, in a context of reduction in interest rates charged and some moderation in foreign currency financing. On the other hand, discounted documents continued growing, favored by the "Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion" (LFPIF), which facilitates the indebtedness of SMEs. In this sense, considering the evolution of amounts granted by interest rate stratum, it is verified that around 40% of the amount accumulated in the month was agreed at an interest rate close to that of the LFPIF (see Graphs 4.5).

**Graph 4.4 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector**
%
5
(contribution to monthly growth)

4 Purchased 0.6

Discounted
3 Sole signature
2.4
2
1
1.4
0

-1

-2

-3

Among the lines intended mainly to finance household consumption, credit card financing presented a monthly growth of 6.2% ($13,080 million), which was the highest of the year, although its year-over-year variation decreased 0.8 p.p. and was located at 28%. For its part, personal loans moderated
-4 slowed their growth rate, as is expected for this
 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16
 time of year. In the month they exhibited an increase of 3.6%

Source: BCRA ($7,490 million) and closed the year with a growth of
 35.4%.

 With respect to loans with real guarantee, pawn
 Graph 4.5 loans presented a growth of 4.8% ($2,390

 Discounted Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector million), similar to the previous month and one of the most ele-

 (amounts granted by type of rate and by range of TNA fixed rate and renegotiable) vated since the beginning of 2012. Consequently, the year-
 %
100 over-year variation increased from 26.5% to 29.9%.

 90 For its part, loans with mortgage guarantee registered

 80 a monthly increase of 3.3% ($1,870 million), the
 22.25 and above
 70 largest since the beginning of 2013, and maintained its year-
 21.75 to 22.25
 60 over-year growth rate around 9%. In particular, mortgage
 19.25 to 21.75
 50 loans denominated in Acquisition Value Units (UVA)
 18.75 to 19.25 continued showing dynamism: more than $800 million were
 40
 granted in the month, an amount higher than in previous
 18.25 to 18.75
 42.8 40.8 months. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April
 30 17.75 to 18.25
 and until December 16, approximately $2,100 million were
 20 17.25 to 17.75
 disbursed in mortgage credits denominated in UVA.
 10 16.75 to 17.25
 0 Less than 13
 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 16.75

 Source: BCRA

13 As of the publication date of this report (with data as of January 4), loans in UVAs had been granted for a total of
approximately $2,150 million.

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 9
 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 Graph 4.6 presented a monthly increase of 2.9%

 thousands of Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector (US$260 million). Thus, in 2016 they tripled their balance,
 millions of US$
9.5 million u$s Monthly average balance variation accumulating a growth of 215% (US$6,240 million;
 1,000 see Graph 4.6).
 600

 200
7.5 5. Liquidity of Financial Entities

 -200 Single Signature Documents 1
 -600 Credit Cards
6.5
 Remaining

 -1,000
5.5 Dec-15 Mar-16 Jun-16 Sept-16 Dec-16

 In December, a quarterly period began for the
 computation of reserve requirements, which extends until
4.5
 February 2017; this allows financial entities greater flexibility
 to manage their assets in a period of elevated seasonal liquidity
3.5 demand.

2.5 In this context, broad liquidity in local currency (sum
 of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the
31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 Central Bank, net transfers with this entity and the holding
 of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained
Source: BCRA relatively stable, positioning itself at 44.2% (see Graph 5.1),
 although its composition changed, in favor of current accounts
 of entities at the BCRA and of cash and to the detriment of
 Graph 5.1 LEBAC.

 The increase in reserve requirement integration coincided
 with an increase in requirements—explained by the greater
 proportion of sight deposits in total peso placements that
 configured itself during the month—and implied that the
 total of financial entities ended the first month of the
 quarterly period with a Minimum Cash position practically
 balanced, although distributed in a heterogeneous manner.

 On the other hand, in a month in which the average balance
 of deposits in foreign currency was reduced (due to public
 sector movements) and loans in foreign currency to the
 private sector continued increasing, liquidity in foreign
 currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of
 Graph 6.1 entities at the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity
 and the holding of LEBAC in foreign
thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
 millions of U$S foreign currency, as a percentage of dollar deposits) was reduced to 76% (-3.7 p.p.).

 60

 50

 40
 6. International reserves and foreign exchange 14

 30 market

 20 International reserves ended December with a
 balance of US$38,772 million, increasing by
 10
 US$1,394 million and completing 2016, after five years
 of declines, with a growth of US$13,208 million
 0
 Jan-05Jan-06Jan-07Jan-08Jan-09Jan-10Jan-11Jan-12Jan-13Jan-14Jan-15Jan-16 (see Chart 6.1). The increase for the month was explained
 Source: BCRA

14 In this section the figures correspond to the balances at the end of each month.

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 10
 by the increase in foreign currency current accounts
 of financial entities –counterpart of the growth of pri-
 vate deposits in this denomination and the change in the
 composition of banking liquidity that implied less cash in
 dollars– and a one-time operation to purchase foreign
 currency from payments for adherence to the Tax Regu-
 larization Regime (Law 27,260). Said income was par-
 tially offset by the payment of the US$1,000 million
 reverse repo that the Central Bank had arranged with two
 international banks at the end of July 2016. In this way,
 it canceled all reverse repo operations with international
 banks that it held on its balance sheet15.

 The reference exchange rate of the peso / U.S. dollar
 ended December at 15.85, a value similar to that observed
 at the close of November. As in the previous months, the
 Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish the
 parity of foreign exchange buy-sell operations, carrying
 out only one-time operations. This exchange rate regime
 provides flexibility to the national economy to face pos-
 sible external shocks.

15 See: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Institucional/DescargaPDF/DownloadPDF.aspx?Id=302

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 11
 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

 Monthly AveragesPercentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variablesDec-16Nov-16Dec-15Monthly Last 12
 months

Monetary base 787,895718,872622,2639.6%26.6%
 Monetary circulation 562,994516,185458,8449.1%22.7%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 494,931457,255408,5958.2%21.1%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 68,06258,93050,24815.5%35.5%
 Cancellation Checks 0.40.50.4-28.5%-
 Current account at the BCRA 224,901202,687163,41811.0%37.6%

Stock of Reverse Repos
 Passive 52,77736,33233,06745.3%59.6%
 Active 3401110

Stock of BCRA Securities (at face value) 669,258702,660325,511-4.8%105.6%
 In banks 322,972327,893239,287-1.5%35.0%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for reverse repos)
 In pesos 669,036702,274305,323-4.7%119.1%
 In dollars 14251,754-44.5%-99.2%

 NOBAC 000--

BCRA International Reserves (5) 37,85337,70524,8160.4%52.5%

Deposits from the private and public sector in pesos (1)1,397,6801,330,2891,151,9915.1%21.3%
 Current account (2) 403,001363,181375,16411.0%7.4%
 Savings account 327,399285,652244,80714.6%33.7%
 Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 604,235625,968487,987-3.5%23.8%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 397382124.1%3080.4%
 Other deposits (3) 62,64855,10644,02113.7%42.3%

 Deposits from the private sector 1,098,4191,057,172 887,829 3.9% 23.7%

 Deposits from the public sector 299,261 273,117 264,162 9.6% 13.3%
Deposits from the private and public sector in dollars (1)24,33225,57510,573-4.9%130.1%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 932,004895,267817,6344.1%14.0%
Loans to the private sector 886.491 848.132 755.425 4.5% 17.3%
 Advances 107.324 104.085 94.068 3.1% 14.1%
 Documents 189.877 181.924 191.751 4.4% -1.0%
 Mortgage loans 59.263 57.392 54.270 3.3% 9.2%
 Pledged loans 51.936 49.544 39.996 4.8% 29.9%
 Personal loans 217.668 210.302 160.768 3.5% 35.4%
 Credit cards 223.644 210.565 174.758 6.2% 28.0%
 Other 36.779 34.320 39.815 7.2% -7.6%

 Loans to the public sector 45.513 47.134 62.209 -3.4% -26.8%
Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 9.229 8.971 2.933 2.9% 214.6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current accounts in pesos) 897.932 820.436 783.759 9.4% 14.6%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 1.225.331 1.106.089 1.028.566 10.8% 19.1%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 1.892.611 1.787.544 1.560.587 5.9% 21.3%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.280.680 2.182.746 1.686.845 4.5% 35.2%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts in 744.705 692.364 622.266 7.6% 19.7%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 1.055.167 961.677 849.449 9.7% 24.2%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.593.350 1.514.427 1.296.425 5.2% 22.9%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1.936.256 1.811.232 1.408.180 6.9% 37.5%

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 12
 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2016 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 69.023 9.6% 106.606 15.6% 165.633 26.6% 165.633 26.6%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and other 4.338 0.6% 4.530 0.7% 39.683 6.4% 39.683 6.4%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 30.888 4.3% 70.937 10.4% 154.879 24.9% 154.879 24.9%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 4.880 0.7% 39.930 5.9% 167.565 26.9% 167.565 26.9%
Other public sector operations 860 0.0% -266 0.0% -6.652 -1.1% -6.652 -1.1%
Sterilization (Repos and Securities) 28.531 4.0% -10.384 -1.5% -230.279 -37.0% -230.279 -37.0%
Other 299 0.0% 1.859 0.3% 40.438 6.5% 40.438 6.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA 148 0.4% 6.967 22.6% 13.038 52.5% 13.038 52.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 274 0.7% 287 0.9% 2.845 11.5% 2.845 11.5%
 Payment to international organizations -126 -0.3% -443 -1.4% -1.945 -7.8% -1.945 -7.8%
 Other public sector operations 2.422 6.4% 6.390 20.7% 10.402 41.9% 10.402 41.9%
 Minimum cash -1.552 -4.1% 4.526 14.7% 4.954 20.0% 4.954 20.0%
 Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) -869 -2.3% -3.792 -12.3% -3.219 -13.0% -3.219 -13.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to exchange rate valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.0 14.9
 Integration (1) 15.2 15.0
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 68.6 67.4 66.2
 30 to 59 days 21.3 21.6 22.1
 60 to 89 days 5.1 6.1 6.0
 90 to 179 days 3.1 3.0 3.7
 More than 180 days 1.9 1.9 2.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.7 24.5 24.1
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 59.3 63.0 64.4
 Position (2) 34.5 38.5 40.4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.1 54.6 55.2
 30 to 59 days 22.4 21.0 20.7
 60 to 89 days 10.0 11.9 10.6
 90 to 179 days 9.6 9.6 10.7
 180 to 365 days 2.8 2.7 2.8
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

(1) Between December and February the Minimum Cash regime in national currency is computed on a quarterly basis.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 13
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 24.66 25.65 26.13 25.89
 Operated amount 4,576 4,417 4,270 2,798

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 18.78 19.64 20.62 26.50
 60 days or more 19.06 19.69 20.80 28.47
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.59 20.37 21.41 25.22
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.03 21.10 22.09 27.54

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.39 0.46 0.54 2.10
 60 days or more 0.68 0.81 0.91 3.21
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.50 0.54 1.71
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.77 1.08 2.57

 Active Interest Rates Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.50 24.05 24.63 30.90
 Operated amount (total terms) 795 787 733 956
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Overdrafts on current account 30.99 32.06 32.45 34.50
 Documents with signature only 23.56 24.54 26.61 30.61
 Mortgage loans 19.70 21.49 23.20 22.86
 Pledge loans 20.84 22.30 22.46 26.00
 Personal loans 39.12 40.37 41.54 39.00
 Credit cards n/d 44.10 46.01 40.12

 Overdrafts on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 25.82 27.22 27.41 30.33

 International Interest Rates Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

LIBOR
 1 month 0.72 0.56 0.53 0.36
 6 months 1.31 1.27 1.26 0.77

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.19 0.98 0.84 0.97
 10 years 2.50 2.14 1.76 2.35

FED Funds Rate 0.66 0.50 0.50 0.39

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.75 13.99 14.14 14.25

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 14
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 22.02 21.92 22.50 20.81
 Liabilities 7 days 22.81 22.55 23.50 22.81
 Assets 7 days 26.69 30.08 32.50 27.00

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 24.01 25.28 25.58 24.81

Operated amount of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 8,300 9,316 7,422 5,651
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 24.75 25.8 26.7 35.7
 2 months 24.44 25.1 25.9 34.7
 3 months 24.16 24.66 25.37 32.31

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o 3.22
 3 months n/o n/o n/o 3.69
 6 months n/o n/o n/o 3.75
 12 months n/o n/o n/o 3.96

Operated amount of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 11,758 11,534 10,510 2,813

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 15.84 15.34 15.17 11.39
 Retail 15.92 15.38 15.23 11.51

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 16.02 15.55 15.47 13.45
 ROFEX 1 month 16.22 15.69 15.49 12.80
 Operated amount (total terms, millions of pesos) 8,423 7,771 6,557 23,856

Real (Pesos x Real) 4.73 4.60 4.77 2.93

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 16.69 16.57 16.72 12.43

 Capital Market Dec-16 Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15

MERVAL
 Index 16,711 16,800 17,633 12,849
 Operated amount (millions of pesos) 282 411 423 204
# Government Bonds (at par)

DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 103.7 107.5 112.7 140.5
BONAR X (US$) 102.6 102.6 102.1 130.5
DISCOUNT ($) 117.0 116.7 119.2 120.6

## Country Risk (basis points)

Spread BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond -80 102 206 639
EMBI+ Argentina (3) 494 477 448 476

EMBI+ Latin America 491 500 455 576

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 04-27-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 15

## 8. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Effective.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | December 2016 | BCRA | 16
