# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

   Interest rates of monetary policy | Page 4

   Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 10

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Main policy measures of other central banks | Page 11

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on December 6, 2016. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• The evolution of the general level of retail prices during recent months was influenced to a large extent by changes in gas tariffs. Taking into account the impact of these movements, in order to evaluate compliance with its inflation target (stipulated before the court decision that led to tariff changes), the BCRA computes, as it had previously announced, the average observed between August and October. This is a correction with offsetting biases: the tariff increase was lower than the reduction; but by including August and September, months prior to those originally foreseen are computed, and therefore with inflation that is tendentially higher given the disinflation path. According to this calculation, the average monthly inflation recorded by the CPI GBA in said period stood at 1.2%, which indicates that the BCRA is well positioned to comply with its inflation target of 1.5% monthly or less for the last months of this year. Likewise, the high-frequency indicators it monitors indicate that the disinflation process continued as expected in November.

• Within this framework, the BCRA reduced the interest rate on 35-day LEBACs on 4 occasions during November, for a total of 2 percentage points (p.p.), bringing it to 24.75% at the end of the month. In turn, as part of the transition towards adopting the 7-day repo rate as the reference rate, the BCRA decided to align the center of the repo corridor with the current monetary policy rate, both for 1 day and for 7 days. At the end of November, the 1-day repo corridor was positioned at 20.75%-28.75% and the 7-day operations corridor at 21.25%-28.25%. The BCRA will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its target.

• Other initiatives adopted within the framework of the transition toward the Inflation Targeting Regime was the comprehensive reformulation of active and passive repo operations in pesos that the BCRA offers to financial entities, with the objective of creating conditions for interfinancial market rates to gravitate around the reference rate established by this Institution. It began offering without a predetermined amount limit active and passive repos of 1 and 7 days maturity and discontinued the active variable-rate repo operations. In turn, it was established that when securities issued by the National Government are used as collateral for 7-day active repos, the haircut percentages will be set based on their weighted average life.

• The shortest-term rates continued to evolve within the BCRA's repo corridor. In general, the remainder of interest rates showed downward trends. In particular, those applied to loans implemented through single-signature documents decreased 2.1 p.p. compared to October, while the one corresponding to financing through discounted documents fell 4 p.p., encouraged by the reduction in rates ordered by the BCRA for financing granted within the framework of the financing line for production and financial inclusion. Passive interest rates also declined. The monthly average of private banks' BADLAR decreased 1 p.p. compared to October.

• In this context, financing lines through documents joined those of personal loans and credit cards as one of the most dynamic lines in November. In nominal terms, peso-denominated loans to the private sector presented a monthly increase of 2.5% ($20,600 million), the largest of the year. In real terms, the balance of peso-denominated loans began to show a slightly upward trend starting in the second half. In turn, as a consequence of the substitution between peso-denominated and foreign currency loans recorded throughout 2016, the total of loans to the private sector (in pesos and in foreign currency) has shown a firm upward trend since July.
• In November, more than $460 million in mortgage loans denominated in UVAs were granted. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April and through the end of November, approximately $1,300 million of this type of financing was disbursed.

• Private sector deposits in pesos grew 2.8% in the month, with increases in sight deposits and time deposits. Among the former, those made in savings accounts stood out, which received additional momentum associated with peso funds that joined the Tax Amnesty Regime.

• Loans to the private sector in foreign currency registered an increase of 5.2% in November (US$450 million), accumulating a growth of 200% year-to-date (US$6,000 million).

• Private sector deposits in foreign currency grew US$4,300 million in November, accumulating an increase of more than US$8,000 million in the last three months. Thus they exceeded US$20,900 million, the highest level since 2002, driven by the externalization of funds within the framework of the Tax Amnesty Regime.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 3
 Graph 2.1 2. Interest Rates 2

 % Monthly Inflation - General Level of CPI GBA Monetary Policy Interest Rates

 5

 4 The evolution of the general level of retail prices
 during recent months was influenced by changes

 3 in gas tariffs, with relatively low records
 in August, when the original increase was reversed, and higher

 2 ones in October, when the increase was implemented after

 Average Aug-Oct: 1.2% the public hearing. As announced in the presentation
 1 of the last Monetary Policy Report, the
 BCRA calculates the August-October average to measure
 0
 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 compliance with its inflation target of 1.5% monthly

 Source: INDEC. or less for the last quarter of this year. The
 average of the general level CPI GBA records
 published by the Institute of Statistics and Census
 (INDEC) in the August-October period stood at 1.2%
 (see Graph 2.1), which indicates that the BCRA is
 Graph 2.2 well positioned to comply with its target for the
 last months of 2016.
 TNA % LEBAC Interest Rate in the Primary Market
 28 (by auction)

 1-Nov-16 8-Nov-16 29-Nov-16 Retail inflation in other districts showed behavior
 27 similar to that recorded by INDEC. Furthermore,
 high-frequency indicators from state and private
 26 sources that the BCRA monitors suggest that during
 November prices remained in line with its
 25 objective for the last quarter of 2016.

 24
 Considering this information, the BCRA decided to
 23 reduce the 35-day LEBAC interest rate on 4
 Maturity occasions during November, for a total of 2 percentage
 22 points (p.p.), bringing it to 24.75% at the end of
 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 the month (see Graph 2.2).
 Source: BCRA

 In turn, as part of the transition toward adopting
 the 7-day repurchase rate as the reference rate, which
 will occur in January, the BCRA decided to align the center
 Graph 2.3 of the repurchase corridor with the current monetary policy

 Interest Rates Primary and Secondary Market rate, both for 1 day and for 7 days. Additionally, the
 TNA % thousands of amplitude of the 1-day repurchase corridor was reduced
 (35-day maturity securities, daily data) millions $ by 100 basis points (b.p.) to 800 b.p. and that of
 42 Amount operated by the BCRA in the Secondary M. (right axis) 20 7-day repurchases by 200 b.p. and became 700 b.p. At the
 Monetary policy rate end of November, the 1-day repurchase corridor was
 40 Secondary Market Rates 18 positioned at 20.75%-28.75% and that of 7-day operations
 Policy Rate +/- 0.5 p.p. at 21.25%-28.25%.
 38 16

 36 14 Additionally, the BCRA provided, effective as of
 12 November 8, the comprehensive reformulation of active
 34 10 and passive repurchase operations in pesos that it offers to
 32 8 financial entities with the objective of creating the
 6 conditions for interbank market rates to gravitate around
 30 4 the reference rate established
 28 2
 26 0
 24
 01-Mar 31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sep 27-Oct 26-Nov

 Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annualized nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 4
 by this Institution 3. In this context, it began to offer
 Graph 2.4 without a predetermined amount limit active and
 passive repurchases of 1 and 7-day maturity and the
 variable rate active repurchase operations were
 discontinued. In turn, it was established that when
 National Government securities are used as collateral
 for 7-day active repurchases, the haircut percentages
 will be set based on their average life. For the rest of
 operations, the 10% haircut is maintained.
Meanwhile, the Central Bank continued operating in the secondary market of its securities, with the objective of inducing a convergence of the observed yields within a corridor of +/- 0.5 p.p. with respect to the monetary policy rate. During this period, LEBAC sales reached approximately VN $21,800 million (see Chart 2.3).

The BCRA will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective.

## Market Interest Rates

Most of the interest rates in the money market declined in November.

Those of shorter maturity continued to be maintained within the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market; maintaining, in general, a downward trajectory that was temporarily interrupted by specific liquidity needs before the close of November, with volatility that has been reducing (see Chart 2.4). In the interfinancial markets, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations averaged 25.6% in November, a level 0.5 p.p. lower than the value registered the previous month. The average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was placed at 25.3%, exhibiting a decline of 0.3 p.p.

With regard to interest rates associated with financing commercial activity, the rate applied to loans granted through promissory notes averaged 24.5%, showing a decline of 2.1 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents showed a decline of 4 p.p. and was placed on average at 19.9%, influenced mainly by modifications promoted by the BCRA as of November 1st in the interest rate of the financing line for production and financial inclusion (LFPIF; see Chart 2.5).

The active interest rates intended mainly for financing families showed mixed behaviors in November. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 40.4%, showing a decline of 1.2 p.p. compared to the previous month. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to pawn credit was placed at 22.3% monthly average, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p. compared to October. However, it should be mentioned that the moderate decline was explained mainly by a specific operation in the second half of November, in which a financial entity that does not usually operate in this segment participated, financing a company. Excluding this operation, the average interest rate would have declined 2.2 p.p. compared to October (see Chart 2.6).

For its part, the passive interest rates continued to decline, although less than the monetary policy rate. The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with a term of 30 to 35 days– of private banks, averaged 21.1%, accumulating a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the previous month. Similarly,
600 1,200 lar, the interest rate paid by private entities
 for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to
 500 1,100
 35 days of term accumulated a monthly decline of 0.9
 400 1,000 p.p. and averaged 18.6% in November (see Graph
 Dec-14Mar-15Jun-15Sept-15Dec-15Mar-16Jun-16Sept-16

 Source: own elaboration. Deflated with National CPI of the BCRA (REM expectations for unobserved data). 2.7).

 Graph 3.2 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

 thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
 millions of $ (evolution of daily balance)

 310 Considering values in real terms 5 and season-

 More than $1 million
 290 Less than $1 million 6
 alized, in November, the broad monetary aggregate of

 270 the private sector (Private M3 ) would have increased

 0.8% compared to the previous month, driven by the
 250 behavior of the private sector's means of payment 7 (M2
 Private). While currency in public hands grew 1.5% compared
 230
 to the previous month, demand deposits rose 2.9%. Among
 them, savings accounts stood out, which received an additional
 210 boost from the inflow of funds in pesos to the Fiscal Sincere-
 ment Regime (Law 27.260). Thus, since July, a gradual
 190 reversal has been observed in the decline in real terms of the
 Nov-15Jena-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16
 monetary aggregates recorded in the first half of 2016, which
 Source: BCRA
 would be evidencing an increase in the demand for money

4 See Communication "A" 6084.
5 They are deflated with the general level of the national indicator (IPC-NP). The BCRA calculates the IPC-NP based on consumer price indices
of the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Survey of Household Spending for the 2004-2005 period
(ENGHo 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption spending by region of said survey, for the construction of the IPC-NP the IPCBA weighs 44% (being used as representative
of the evolution of prices in the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampean Region, the CPI of Córdoba weighs 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San
Luis (22% of IPC-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.
6 Includes currency in public hands, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the private sector.
7 Includes currency in public hands, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 6
 from the public (see Graph 3.1).

 Graph 3.3 In nominal terms, demand deposits of the private
 Monetary Aggregates
 % (year-over-year variation) sector grew 4.5% in the month, while fixed-term
 45 deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 1.4%,
 with increases in both the segment of less than $1 million
 40
 and in the wholesale segment. These placements showed
 35
 greater dynamism throughout the month (see Graph 3.2),
 30
 in a period in which a decrease was observed in the spread
 between the interest rates of the securities issued by the
 25
 BCRA and those paid for fixed-term deposits (see Interest
 Monetary Base
 M2 Private Rates Section). In parallel, a moderation was verified in
 20
 M3 the increase in LEBAC holdings of the non-financial pri-
 vate sector (mutual funds, insurance companies, businesses
 15
 Nov-11May-12Nov-12May-13Nov-13May-14Nov-14May-15Nov-15May-16Nov-16 and individuals). In year-over-year terms, fixed-term
 Note: M3 includes currency in public hands and total deposits in pesos.
 deposits grew 24.3%, 1.7 p.p. below the previous month.
 Source: BCRA

 Graph 3.4

 Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
 millions of $thousands of (November 2016, on average)
 50

 40
30 The total deposits of the private sector in pesos presented

20 a growth of 2.8% in November, while the placements in

10 pesos of the public sector rose 10.1%. Thus, the total

0 deposits in pesos (including those of the public sector

-10 as well as those of the private sector) increased 4.2%.

-20

-30 Private Sector and National Treasury Advances and Remainder
Other National Uses Currency Purchases Other Operations with LEBAC and Repos Circulation Reserves
National Treasury NOBAC in Public Banking
Source: BCRA

In the last twelve months, the broad monetary aggregates, M3 8 and M3 Private grew 21.2% and 22.8%, respectively, rising 1.1 p.p. in the first case and remaining stable in the second. Meanwhile, private means of payment accelerated 1.2 p.p., with an annual growth of 21.6% (see Graph 3.3).

Graph 3.5
thousands of The aforementioned increase in broad monetary aggregates
millions of US$ Deposits in Foreign Currency of the Private Sector was consistent with a monthly growth of 3.4% in
25 the monetary base, with increases in both currency in
circulation and banking reserves. The demand for mon-
20 etary base was supplied through the expansion generated
by foreign currency purchase operations with the Treas-
15 ury, partially offset by the contractionary effect of ster-
ilization through the placement of LEBAC (see Graph 3.4).
10 In year-on-year terms, the monetary base presented a
variation of 28.4%, 0.8 p.p. above the previous month.
5

0 On the other hand, the balance of deposits in foreign
Oct-02Oct-04Oct-06Oct-08Oct-10Oct-12Oct-14Oct-16 currency reached US$24,000 million at the end of
Source: BCRA November, with reductions in the placements of the pub-
lic sector and increases in the deposits of the private
8 Includes currency in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 7

sector. The latter increased US$4,300 million during the
Graph 4.1 month, accumulating a growth of more than US$8,000
thousands of Loans to the Private Sector million $ (balances in real terms—at Nov-16 prices) in
(balances in real terms—at Nov-16 prices) the last three months, reaching a balance of US$20,900
1,200 million at the end of November (see Graph 3.5), the high-
est level since early 2002. Growth concentrated in place-
1,150 ments of less than one million dollars, which increased
driven by the externalization of cash funds under the
1,100 Tax Regularization Regime (Law 27,260).

1,050

1,000 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 9, increased
8%, presenting a year-on-year variation of 38.3%.
950

900 Total (pesos and foreign currency)
Pesos
850

800

750

700 4. Loans 1 10
Nov-11Nov-12Nov-13Nov-14Nov-15 Nov-16
Graph 4.2
Source: own elaboration. Deflated with BCRA National CPI (REM expectations for non-reported data)
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector %
%
6 60 In real terms 6, the total loans to the private sector
(in pesos and foreign currency) show since July an in-
Monthly Variation creasing trend, which drives the reversal of the fall re-
5 50
corded during the first semester (see Graph 4.1). This be-
Year-on-year Var. (right axis)
4 40 havior is also verified in peso financing, although more
moderately, as a consequence of the substitution be-
3 30 tween loans in pesos and foreign currency recorded
throughout 2016.
2 20

1 10 In nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector
presented a monthly increase of 2.5% in November
0 0
($ 20,600 million), reaching the highest increase of the
-1 -10 year and consolidating the recovery from the previous
Nov-11Nov-12Nov-13Nov-14Nov-15Nov-16
Source: BCRA bimonthly period (see Graphs 4.2). The monthly increase
was explained mainly by financing instrumented through

Graph 4.3 documents, the loans
# Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

(monthly average variation) %

thousands of 4.3). However, the year-on-year growth rate
millions $ 25 75 continued to decelerate and stood at 16.3%.

20 Monthly variation 60

15 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) 45 Regarding loans intended essentially for commercial
 33.9
10 28.8 30 purposes, advances presented a decrease of 2.9% ($3,100
 16.3 26.5
 16.8 million), moderating their year-on-year variation, which
 5 15
 9.0 stood at 16.8%. With respect to financing implemented
 0 0 through documents, after several months of stability,
 0.4
 -5 -26.3 -15 they presented a monthly growth of 2.7%, which is the
 -10 -30 largest increase of the year. Distinguishing by type of
 document, those discounted accelerated the growing
 trend of the previous months, favored by the "Financing
Source: BCRA Line for Production and Financial Inclusion", which

9 Includes M3 and deposits of public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

10 Monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" refers to loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 8

 facilitates borrowing by MSMEs under favorable condi-
 Chart 4.4 tions. In particular, it should be noted that from November
 Documents in Pesos to the Private Sector the maximum interest rate for these borrowers was reduced,
 thousands of (monthly average balance) thousands of from 22% to 17%. For its part, after several months,
 millions of $ millions of $ documents at sole signature presented an increase in
 125 70 their balance, in a context of reduction in the interest
 Documents at sole signature
 120 Discounted documents (right axis) 65 rates charged (see Chart 4.4).

 115 60 Among the lines intended mainly to finance household
 110 55 consumption, personal loans continued growing at a good
 105 50 pace, registering in November an increase of 4.2% ($8,500
 100 45 million), the largest increase since the beginning of 2012,
 95 40 which motivated an acceleration in its year-on-year variation
 90 35 that reached 34%. When considering the evolution of new
 85 30 loans, it is observed that the average daily amount was
 80 25 positioned above the volume traded in the previous months
 Nov-14Feb-15May-15Ago-15Nov-15Feb-16May-16Ago-16Nov-16 (around $790 million), in a context of reduction in the
 Source: BCRA. interest rate applied to these financings and extension in
 the average term agreed (see Chart 4.5). Meanwhile,
 credit card financings showed in the month an increase
 Chart 4.5 of 3.5% ($7,100 million), with a year-on-year variation
 Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector that was reduced by 3.5 p.p. and stood at 28.8%.
 millions $ (daily average of amounts granted, average term and TNA)
 TNA %; months Regarding loans with real guarantee, those with
 800 Amounts 52 pledges continued showing good performance, in line
 700 Interest rate (right axis) with the improvement that vehicle sales have been
 Term average (in months - right axis) 48 presenting since the beginning of the year. The growth
 600
 44 registered in the month was 5% ($2,370 million), the
 500
 400 40

 300
 36
 200
32 largest since the beginning of 2012, which generated an acce-
 100
 leration in the year-over-year variation that was located around
 0 28 26.5%. For its part, loans with mortgage guarantee
 Nov-13May-14Nov-14May-15Nov-15May-16Nov-16
 Source: BCRA registered an increase of 1.8% ($1,020 million)
 and in the last twelve months accumulated a growth
 of 9%. In particular, with respect to mortgage
 Graph 4.6
 loans denominated in Units of Purchasing
 thousands of Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector
 millions of US$ Power (UVA), $460 million were granted in the month,
 millions u$s Variation of average monthly balances an amount greater than in October. Thus, since the
 9.5
 1,000 launch of this instrument in April, and through
 the end of November approximately $1,300 million of
 8.5 600
 this type of financing were disbursed11.
 200
 7.5 Single-signature Documents
 -200 Credit Cards
 6.5 Rest
 -600 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 registered an increase of 5.2% in November
 -1,000
 5.5 (US$450 million), accumulating a growth of 200% so far
 Nov-15Feb-16May-16Ago-16Nov-16 this year (US$6,000 million). Although financing in
 4.5
 dollars showed some moderation, which is expected as
 the currency substitution process is being exhausted, it
 3.5
 maintained high dynamism, driven by single-signature
 2.5 documents, a line strongly associated with foreign
 30-Sept-12 30-Sept-1330-Sept-1430-Sept-1530-Sept-16 trade (see Graph 4.6).
 Source: BCRA

11 As of the publication date of this report (with data as of December 5), loans in UVAs had been granted for a total of approximately $1,350 million.

 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 9

 Graph 5.1
 5. Liquidity of financial entities1

 During November, the increase in total deposits in pesos
 at financial entities was applied mainly to the granting of
 loans to the private sector, and in part, was also allocated
 to increase liquid assets of the financial entities. In this way,
 the proportion of broad liquidity in local currency (sum of
 cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
 Bank, net repos with this entity and holdings of LEBAC, as a
 percentage of deposits in pesos) remained relatively stable at
 44.4% (see Graph 5.1). However, some changes were recorded
 in the composition, after observing a decrease in liquidity
 held in repos compared to the previous month and an in-
 crease in LEBAC holdings and cash in banks. In this context,
 financial entities would have ended the month with a surplus
 Graph 6.1 in the Minimum Cash position equivalent to 0.2% of total
 thousands of BCRA International Reserves deposits in pesos, as in recent months.
 millions of U$S
 60 For its part, within the framework of the Fiscal Clarity
 50 Regime (see Monetary Aggregates), the total of deposits
 40 in foreign currency continued to grow during the last
 30 month. As a consequence, the proportion of liquidity
 20 in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current
 10 account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with
 0 such entity and holdings of LEBAC in foreign currency,
 Jan-05Jan-06Jan-07Jan-08Jan-09Jan-10Jan-11Jan-12Jan-13Jan-14Jan-15Jan-16 as a percentage of deposits in dollars) rose for the second
 Source: BCRA consecutive month, up to 79.7% (+6.8 p.p.).

 6. International reserves and foreign
 exchange market

 International reserves ended November with a balance of
 US$37,378 million, increasing US$167 million compared
Graph 6.2 to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1).
 Exchange Rate Throughout November, a decrease was observed in the
 (local currency per dollar - Index 1-Jul-16 = 1) minimum cash accounts, which was mainly associated
 1.15 with the sale of foreign currency by the Treasury
 Argentina
 Brazil
Chile
 1,10 Nacional to the Central Bank.

 Mexico
 The reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar
 1,05 ended November at 15.84, showing an increase of
 4.4% compared to the close of October. As in the
 previous months, the Central Bank allowed the market

 1,00 to freely establish the parity of foreign currency
 buying and selling operations, carrying out only
 occasional operations, essentially with the National

 0,95 Treasury. In a context of greater international
 Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg volatility, as a consequence of the results of the
 United States presidential elections, the behavior of
 Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 10
 the Argentine peso accompanied the depreciation
 shown by other currencies (see Graph 6.2).
 Graph 7.1

 Real GDP disaggregated by component In this way, the flexibility of the exchange rate regime
 p.p. United States - seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous quarter and annualized
 8 allowed for addressing this external event and limiting
 its consequences on the domestic economy.

 6 4.6 5.0
 3.9 2.8 4.0 4.0 2.0
 4 3.1 2.6 1.4 3.2
 2.8 2.5 2.9 2.7
 1.9 2.3 2.0
 2 1.6 0.9
 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.8 7. Main policy measures
 0.1
 0 from other central banks
 -1.5 -1.2
 -2 Inventory Accumulation Although the central banks of advanced countries
 Private Consumption did not modify their policy interest rates during
 Gross Investment
 -6 Net Exports of Goods and Services November, new indications emerged that the United
 Public Consumption and Investment States Federal Reserve (FED) would raise its rate at
 -8 Real GDP (year-over-year variation) the December meeting. Among the monetary
 Mar-10Dec-10Sept-11Jun-12Mar-13Dec-13Sept-14Jun-15Mar-16 authorities in the region, the central banks of Brazil
 Source: BCRA based on BEA.gov and Mexico modified their reference interest rates.

 - The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee
 Graph 7.2 (FOMC) kept the target on the federal funds rate
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators - (FFR) unchanged, which continued in the range of
 % Brazil %
 30 18 0.25-0.5%. However, the chances of an increase in
 Industrial Production (Year-over-year variation)
 Economic Activity Index of the BCB (Year-over-year variation) the FFR at the next meeting on December 13 and 14
 25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
 Inflation Rate (right axis) grew, according to the minutes of the last meeting
 0.25-0.5%. Nevertheless, the chances grew for an
 20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14 increase in the FFR at the next meeting on December
 15 13 and 14, according to the minutes of the last
 12
 10 meeting released on November 23. According to
 10 this document, the majority of the FOMC members
 5
 8 considered that the conditions would be in place
 0
 relatively soon for an increase in the FFR, provided
 -5 6
 -10 4 that the new economic data show that the dual
 -15 2 mandate of the FED is being met more closely. In this
 -20 0 sense, the latest economic growth data of 3.2%
 Jan-08Oct-08Jul-09Apr-10Jan-11Oct-11Jul-12Apr-13Jan-14Oct-14Jul-15Apr-16Jan-17 (seasonally adjusted, quarter against previous
 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br quarter and annualized) was the largest variation of
 the last 2 years (see Graph 7.1).

 Among the countries in the region, the Monetary
 Graph 7.3 Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of
 Brazil (BCB) decided, for the second time in 4 years,
 to reduce the target on the Selic rate by 0.25 p.p. to
 13.75% (see Graph 7.2). This occurred in a context
 in which the inflation rate has been reducing
 gradually, and was at 7.9% year-over-year in
 October, the lowest value since February 2015.
 Finally, according to the projections of the latest
 Focus survey conducted by the BCB, a reduction of
 3.25 p.p. is expected for the Selic target in 2017.
Finally, on November 17, the Bank of Mexico (BdM) decided to increase for the second consecutive meeting the target for the 1-day interbank interest rate to 5.25% (+0.5 p.p., see Chart 7.3). This occurs in a context where the Mexican peso depreciated more than 10% since the U.S. presidential elections.

Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 12

8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system Nov-16 Oct-16 Dec-15 Nov-15 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary base 718,872 695,131 622,263 559,688 3.4% 28.4%
Monetary circulation 516,185 502,111 458,844 427,554 2.8% 20.7%
Bills and Coins in public hands 457,253 448,062 408,595 386,447 2.1% 18.3%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 58,931 54,049 50,248 41,106 9.0% 43.4%
Cancellation Checks 0.5 0.7 0.4 0.0 -23.0% -
Current account at BCRA 202,687 193,019 163,418 132,134 5.0% 53.4%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities 36,332 35,855 33,067 29,086 1.3% 24.9%
Assets 1 1 1 0 0 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value) 702,660 665,078 325,511 341,904 5.7% 105.5%
In banks 330,302 309,344 239,287 249,650 6.0% 31.3%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 702,274 664,580 305,323 323,540 5.7% 117.1%
In dollars 253 31,754 1,904 - -23.3% -98.7%

NOBAC 0 0 0 0 - -

BCRA international reserves (5) 37,705 36,430 24,816 26,193 3.5% 43.9%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,330,295 1,276,430 1,151,991 1,088,325 4.2% 22.2%
Current account (2) 363,089 341,626 375,164 324,098 6.3% 12.0%

Savings account 285,676 272,572 244,807 222,526 4.8% 28.4%
Fixed term not adjustable by CER 625,970 607,792 487,987 500,749 3.0% 25.0%
Fixed term adjustable by CER 382 3 0 2 5.0% 3568.3%
Other deposits (3) 55,179 54,135 44,021 40,941 1.9% 34.8%

Private sector deposits 1,057,279 1,028,441 887,829 846,652 2.8% 24.9%

Public sector deposits 273,016 247,989 264,162 241,673 10.1% 13.0%
Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) 25,581 19,298 10,573 10,225 32.6% 150.2%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 895,221 875,230 817,634 783,566 2.3% 14.2%

Loans to private sector 848,086 827,457 755,425 729,166 2.5% 16.3%
Advances 104,114 107,229 94,068 89,129 -2.9% 16.8%
Documents 181,929 177,165 191,751 181,164 2.7% 0.4%
Mortgage 57,387 56,371 54,270 52,670 1.8% 9.0%
Pledge 49,544 47,170 39,996 39,172 5.0% 26.5%
Personal 210,301 201,779 160,768 157,013 4.2% 33.9%
Credit cards 210,492 203,390 174,758 163,474 3.5% 28.8%
Other 34,318 34,353 39,815 46,543 -0.1% -26.3%

Loans to public sector 47,135 47,773 62,209 54,401 -1.3% -13.4%

Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) 8,970 8,534 2,933 3,372 5.1% 166.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 820,343 789,688 783,759 710,546 3.9% 15.5%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,106,019 1,062,261 1,028,566 933,073 4.1% 18.5%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 1,787,549 1,724,493 1,560,587 1,474,773 3.7% 21.2%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,182,842 2,020,403 1,686,845 1,578,161 8.0% 38.3%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 692,366 674,719 622,266 586,716 2.6% 18.0%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 961,702 931,019 849,449 790,997 3.3% 21.6%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 1,514,533 1,476,503 1,296,425 1,233,100 2.6% 22.8%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 1,811,430 1,700,536 1,408,180 1,324,242 6.5% 36.8%
Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 13

Average Variations
Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2016 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base | 23.74 | 23.4% | 43.41 | 26.4% | 96.610 | 13.9% | 159.184 | 28.4%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 155 | 0.0% | 197 | 0.0% | 35.34 | 35.1% | 15.38 | 62.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury | 45.68 | 86.6% | 35.130 | 5.2% | 123.990 | 17.8% | 121.970 | 21.8%
Temporary Advances and Utilities Transfer | 1.220 | 0.2% | 55.572 | 8.2% | 162.685 | 23.4% | 207.578 | 37.1%
Other public sector operations | -206 | 0.0% | 7.986 | 1.2% | -6.738 | -1.0% | 1.481 | 0.3%
Sterilization (Repos and Securities) | -24.251 | -3.5% | -57.030 | -8.4% | -258.810 | -37.2% | -240.177 | -42.9%
Others | 1.136 | 0.2% | 1.557 | 0.2% | 40.140 | 5.8% | 52.946 | 9.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA | 1.275 | 3.5% | 5.564 | 17.3% | 12.889 | 35.4% | 11.512 | 43.9%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 10 | 0.0% | 13 | 0.0% | 2.571 | 7.1% | 463 | 1.8%
Payment to international organizations | -81 | -0.2% | -507 | -1.6% | -1.819 | -5.0% | -1.932 | -7.4%
Other public sector operations | 229 | 0.6% | 3.665 | 11.4% | 7.971 | 21.9% | 8.258 | 31.5%
Minimum cash | 3.707 | 10.2% | 5.310 | 16.5% | 6.506 | 17.9% | 7.167 | 27.4%
Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -2.590 | -7.1% | -2.917 | -9.1% | -2.341 | -6.4% | -2.445 | -9.3%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 | Oct-16 | Oct-16 | Sep-16
 | (1) |  | 
National Currency | % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement | 15.0 | 14.9 | 14.9
Integration | 15.1 | 15.0 | 15.1
Position (2) | 0.2 | 0.2 | 0.2
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the requirement calculation (3)
Up to 29 days | 67.4 | 66.2 | 67.7
30 to 59 days | 21.6 | 22.1 | 20.7
60 to 89 days | 6.1 | 6.0 | 5.8
90 to 179 days | 3.0 | 3.7 | 4.0
More than 180 days | 1.9 | 2.0 | 1.8
Foreign Currency | % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement | 24.8 | 24.1 | 23.7
Integration (includes resource application default) | 62.8 | 64.4 | 63.6
Position (2) | 37.9 | 40.4 | 40.0
Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % used for the requirement calculation (3)
Up to 29 days | 54.6 | 55.2 | 54.5
30 to 59 days | 21.0 | 20.7 | 21.4
60 to 89 days | 11.9 | 10.6 | 10.4
90 to 179 days | 9.6 | 10.7 | 10.7
180 to 365 days | 2.7 | 2.8 | 3.0
More than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 14

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates | Nov-16 | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15

Call in pesos (15 days)
Rate | 25.65 | 26.13 | 26.92 | 25.89 | 21.75
Amount traded | 4.417 | 4.270 | 4.397 | 2.798 | 2.259

Fixed-term deposits
In pesos
30-44 days | 19.61 | 20.67 | 21.53 | 26.50 | 23.22
60 days or more | 19.69 | 20.80 | 21.89 | 28.47 | 26.62
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 20.36 | 21.41 | 22.34 | 25.22 | 20.36
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 21.10 | 22.09 | 23.05 | 27.54 | 23.39

In dollars
30-44 days | 0.45 | 0.54 | 0.58 | 2.10 | 1.76
60 days or more | 0.81 | 0.91 | 0.98 | 3.21 | 2.42
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.46 | 0.54 | 0.61 | 1.71 | 1.50
BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.77 | 1.08 | 1.14 | 2.57 | 2.15

Active Interest Rates | Nov-16 | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Dec-15 | Nov-15

Repurchase agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate for 30 days | 24.05 | 24.63 | 25.81 | 30.90 | 25.91
Amount traded (total terms) | 787 | 733 | 655 | 956 | 757
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Current Account Advances 32.0732.4833.6334.5031.63
Documents at sole signature 24.5826.7428.1230.6127.60
Mortgage loans 21.7222.7223.4422.8622.25
Secured loans 22.7722.6522.8926.0025.19
Personal loans 40.4341.5642.6339.0036.91
Credit cards n/d43.5245.3540.1239.39

Current Account Advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 27.2627.6228.5330.3325.61

International Interest Rates Nov-16Oct-16Sept-16Dec-15Nov-15

LIBOR
1 month 0.560.530.530.360.21
6 months 1.271.261.250.770.61

US Treasury Bond
2 years 0.980.840.760.970.87
10 years 2.141.761.632.352.26

FED Funds Rate 0.500.500.500.390.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.9914.1414.2514.2514.25

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | November 2016 | BCRA | 15
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Nov-16Oct-16Sept-16Dec-15Nov-15

BCRA reverse repo rates
Liabilities 1 day 21.9222.5023.1520.8121.00
Liabilities 7 days 22.5523.5024.1522.8123.00
Assets 7 days 30.0832.5033.1527.0027.00

Interest rates for reverse repos among third parties REPO round
1 day 25.2825.5826.4424.8122.11

Amount operated in reverse repos among third parties REPO round (daily average) 9.3167.4228.7965.6515.333
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month 25.7526.727.135.7n/o
2 months 25.0925.926.334.7n/o
3 months 24.6625.3725.6532.3129.04

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
1 month n/on/on/o3.223.25
3 months n/on/on/o3.693.90
6 months n/on/on/o3.754.00
12 months n/on/on/o3.964.20

Amount operated in LEBAC on the secondary market (daily average) 11.53410.5101206828132996

Foreign Exchange Market Nov-16Oct-16Sept-16Dec-15Nov-15

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 15.3415.1715.1211.399.63
Retail 15.3815.2315.1511.519.64

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 15.5515.4715.3413.4511.55
ROFEX 1 month 15.6915.4915.4112.809.81
Amount operated (all terms, millions of pesos) 7.7716.5727.6083.8562.106

Real (Pesos per Real) 4.604.774.652.932.55

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 16.5716.7216.9512.4310.33

Capital Market Nov-16Oct-16Sept-16Dec-15Nov-15

MERVAL
Index 16.80017.63316.17312.84913.238
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 411423286204347

Government Bonds (at parity)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 107.5112.7114.9140.5161.7
BONAR X (US$) 102.6102.1102.6130.5146.7
DISCOUNT ($) 116.7119.2116.8120.6111.1

Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond 102206240639747
EMBI+ Argentina (3) 477448447476485

EMBI+ Latin America 500455469576541

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 22/12/2015 Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and
External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 basis points due to technical factors (price correction
of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).
# GLOSSARY

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

U.S.A.: United States of America.

NBFE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks in pesos and the total of peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.

PN: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.
