# Monthly Monetary Report
October 2016

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Main policy measures from other central banks | Page 11

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 13

9. Glossary | Page 17

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was November 4, 2016. All figures are provisional
 and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary¹
• The core inflation indices known during the course of October and the high-frequency indicators monitored by the Central Bank show that the disinflation process continued as expected. Nevertheless, inflation expectations for 2017 remained 3 percentage points above the upper limit of the 12%-17% range established as a target. In this context, the Central Bank decided to maintain its monetary policy rate, that of the 35-day LEBAC at 26.75% in the October auctions. It also decided to maintain the levels of the rates for repurchase agreement operations, at 22.5%-31.5% for 1-day operations and 23.5%-32.5% for those arranged for 7 days.

• The BCRA will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its target for this year of monthly inflation of 1.5% or lower in the last quarter and that inflation expectations for 2017 continue to decrease.

• The interest rates in the interbank markets remained within the repurchase agreement corridor established by the Central Bank while the rest of the interest rates in the money market decreased. In particular, the main rates applied to loans associated with commercial activity declined: discounted documents and unsecured loans, as well as the rate applied to personal loans.

• Effective as of November, the BCRA decided that the maximum interest rate for financings granted to SMEs within the framework of the "Financing line for production and financial inclusion" be reduced from 22% to 17%, and that for loans expressed in "Units of Purchasing Power" (UVAs) decrease from 5% to 1%. Also, effective as of November, the cap for the discounting of post-dated checks and other documents for SMEs was eliminated, allowing these financings to be assigned to the total quota allocated to this line.

• In October, loans in pesos to the private sector grew 2.2%, driven by personal loans and advances. Mortgage loans denominated in UVAs continued showing great dynamism. More than $400 million were granted in the month, an amount greater than that of September. Thus, since its launch in April and until the end of October, more than $900 million in mortgage credits in UVAs were disbursed.

• Loans to the private sector in foreign currency also sustained high growth. In October they increased 7.5% (US$590 million), accumulating growth of 191% (US$5,540 million) so far this year, fundamentally through financing granted via unsecured documents.

• Foreign currency deposits grew driven by both placements from the public sector and the private sector. The former were associated with the inflow of foreign exchange to purchase debt securities from the National Treasury and provincial governments. Meanwhile, private sector dollar deposits reached US$16,500 million, the highest level since mid-2002, encouraged by the externalization of funds under the Tax Sinceramiento [Tax Regularization] Regime.

• These operations drove the growth of international reserves, which at the end of October reached US$37,210 million, US$7,309 million above their level at the end of September. In this scenario of strengthening its liquid assets in foreign currency, the Central Bank decided to cancel US$2,500 million in liabilities that the BCRA maintained with the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). In this way, it continued with the gradual improvement in the quality of its balance sheet, reducing the cost of its international liabilities and, at the same time, maintaining the necessary flexibility to implement its exchange rate and monetary policy in the most efficient manner.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 3
2. Interest Rates 2
Graph 2.1
## Monthly Inflation - General Levels and Monetary Policy Interest Rates

The evolution of the indices that measure the general level of retail prices differs from those that reflect core inflation. The volatility of regulated prices makes the monitoring of core inflation more informative; whose evolution, in general, shows that the disinflation process continued in the third quarter (see Charts 2.1 and 2.2).

In turn, the high-frequency indicators monitored by the Central Bank show an evolution of prices during the month of October in line with the predicted disinflation path.

On the other hand, the Market Expectations Survey (REM) from the end of September published by the BCRA showed that inflation expectations for the year 2017 were positioned three percentage points (p.p.) above the upper range established as a target (12% to 17%).

In this context, the Central Bank decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged –the 35-day LEBAC rate– at 26.75% in all October auctions (see Chart 2.3).

The interest rates of the Central Bank's repurchase agreement operations remained stable in line with the 35-day LEBAC. At the end of October, the repurchase agreement corridor was positioned at 22.5%-31.5% for 1-day operations and 23.5%-32.5% for those arranged for 7 days.

Meanwhile, the Central Bank continued operating in the secondary market of its securities, with the objective of inducing a convergence of the observed yields within a corridor of +/- 0.5 p.p. with respect to the monetary policy rate. In this period, LEBAC sales reached approximately VN $9,700 million.

The BCRA will continue maintaining a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective for this year of monthly inflation of 1.5% or lower in the last quarter and that inflation expectations for 2017 decrease.

## Interest Rates in the Market

The majority of the interest rates in the monetary market decreased at a slower pace than in the previous months or remained relatively stable.

Those with shorter terms continued to remain within the interest rate corridor established by the Central Bank in the repurchase agreement market, with volatility that has been reducing since the implementation of the interest rate as a monetary policy instrument in March (see Chart 2.4). In the interbank markets, although the average values of October were 0.7 p.p. lower than those of the previous month, during most of the month under review they remained relatively stable. The interest rate of 1-business-day call operations averaged 26.1%, while the average interest rate of 1-business-day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) was positioned at 25.6%. The average daily volume traded in both markets decreased
TNA; % (daily data) $1,400 million, totaling around $11,500 mil-
 40
 Single Signature Discounted Total LEBAC 35 days lion.

 38

 36
 Regarding the interest rates associated with the fi-

 34 nancing of operations linked to commercial activi-

 32 ty, the rate applied to loans granted through single

 30 signature documents averaged 26.6%, showing a

 28 decline of 1.5 p.p. compared to the previous month.

 26 For its part, the interest rate on discounted docu-

 24 ments showed a slightly decreasing trend throughout
 the month and stood at an average of 23.9%, 0.6
 22
 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 p.p. below the level observed in September (see

 Source: BCRA
 Chart 2.5).

 The active interest rates intended mainly for financing
 families showed different behaviors. It is worth recalling
 Chart 2.6 that as of September the BCRA ordered that financial

 Personal Loans Rate entities cannot charge commissions for life insurance on
 TNA; % (daily data)
 46 the new financing they grant3. Thus, the stability of the
 Personal Personal (20-day moving average)

 45 interest rate on personal loans in the previous month
 meant a decrease in the total financing cost for loan
 44
 borrowers. In October this reduction continued through
 43 a decrease in interest rates which, after remaining at
 42 around 42.5% between May and September, decreased
 41 to values near 40% at the end of this month. On aver-
 age, it fell 1.1 p.p. and stood at 41.5% (see Chart 2.6).
 40
 On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to
 39 pawn credit averaged 22.6% in October, decreasing
 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 0.3 p.p. in relation to September.

 Source: BCRA

3 See Communication "A" 5928.

 Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 5

 Chart 2.7

 42 TNA; % Short-Term Interest Rates
 (Daily Data)
 BADLAR Private Banks For its part, passive interest rates continued to de-

 Fixed-Term Deposits of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)cline, although in a less pronounced manner than in

 38 LEBAC 35 days
 previous months. The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-

 34 term deposits of $1 million or more, with a 30 to 35-
 day term– of private banks, averaged 22.1%, accumu-
 30 lating a decrease of 1 p.p. compared to the previous
 month. Similarly, the interest rate paid by private en-
 26 tities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand
 and up to 35 days of term accumulated a monthly de-
 22 crease of 0.8 p.p. and averaged 19.4% in October
 (see Chart 2.7).
 18
 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16
 Source: BCRA

 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

 Chart 3.1 In October, the broad private monetary aggregate M3 4
 Seasonally adjusted balances in real terms
 thousands of mill. of $ at October 2016 prices thousands of mill. of $would have increased 0.5% compared to the previous month in real terms5 and seasonally adjusted, driven by the

 1,200 1,800 behavior of private sector payment methods6 (Private

 1,100 1,700 M2). In this way, the reversal of the declining trend

 1,000 1,600 that the private sector monetary aggregates had shown

 900 1,500 during the first half of 2016 seems to be consolidating,
 Private M2
 800 Circulation in Public Hands 1,400 evidencing since July a mild growth (see Chart 3.1).

 700 M3 Private (right axis) 1,300

 600 1,200
 In nominal terms, the behavior described above was

 500 1,100 the reflection of fixed-term deposits practically
# English Translation

400 1,000 no changes with respect to September and an increase in
 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16 Jun-16 Sep-16
 Source: own elaboration. Deflated by National CPI (according to REM expectations for unobserved data). sight deposits of the private sector. In particular,
 the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits

 Chart 3.2 in pesos of the private sector remained stable both in

 % Monetary Aggregates the segment of placements of less than $1 million
 (year-on-year variation)
 45
 as well as in the wholesale segment. In year-on-year terms,

 40 its variation stood at 26%, declining 2.6 p.p.
 with respect to the previous month. It is worth mentioning that the stability

 35 of fixed-term deposits coexisted with an increase in
 holdings of LEBAC by the non-financial private sector

 30 (mutual funds, insurance companies,

 25 companies and individuals), in a period in which

 Monetary Base the spread between the interest rates of the securities
 20 M2 Private increased that the BCRA issues and those paid by fixed-term
 M3 deposits (see Interest Rates Section). Meanwhile, sight

 15 deposits in pesos of the private sector increased

 Oct-11 Apr-12 Oct-12 Apr-13 Oct-13 Apr-14 Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 Oct-16
 Note: M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos.
 Source: BCRA

4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the private sector.
5 They are deflated by the general level of the national indicator (CPI-NP). The BCRA calculates the CPI-NP based on the consumer price indices
of the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Expenditure Survey corresponding to the period 2004-2005 (ENGHO 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption expenditure by region of said survey, for the construction of the CPI-NP the CPIBA weights 44% (being used as representative of the evolution of prices of the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampean Region, the CPI of Córdoba weights 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San Luis (22% of the CPI-NP). For October, the median of REM expectations was considered.
6 Includes currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits of the private sector.

 Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 6

 3.6% (2.1% in real and seasonally adjusted terms),
 leading to the total deposits of the private sector
 in pesos growing 2% in October.

 On the other hand, placements in pesos of the public sector
 presented an increase of 3.8%. Thus, the total
 deposits in pesos (including those of the public sector
 as well as those of the private sector) increased 2.4%.

 Chart 3.3 In this way, the broad monetary aggregates, M3 7 and

 thousands of Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
 (October 2016, on average) M3 Private, maintained their year-on-year expansion rate,
 millions of $
 around 20.1% and 22.7%, respectively. Meanwhile,
40 that of private means of payment increased 1 p.p.
 to reach 20.3% (see Chart 3.2).
30

20 The aforementioned increase in the broad monetary
 aggregates was consistent with a monthly growth of
10 the monetary base of 2%, with increases both in currency
 in circulation held by the public (1.3% in nominal terms
0 and 0.4% in real seasonally adjusted terms) as well as
 in banking reserves. The demand for monetary base
-10 was met through operations between the Bank

-20 Private Sector and Advances and Rest of National National Treasuryand Reserves Banking Other Operations with National Treasury
 Currency Purchases of Foreign Exchange Other Operations LEBAC and NOBAC Repurchase Agreements in Public Banking Reserves
Source: BCRA Central and the National Treasury –consistent with the limit of $160,000 million established for 2016– partially compensated by the contractionary effect of foreign currency sales to the National Treasury and sterilization through the placement of LEBACs (see Graph 3.3). In year-on-year terms, the monetary base showed a variation of 27.6%, similar to that of the previous month.

The balance of deposits in foreign currency reached Graph 3.4 end of October US$25,500 million, showing throughout the month a significant increase that was explained both by private sector deposits and by public sector deposits. The growth of the latter was associated with debt placements by the National Treasury and the Province of Buenos Aires. Meanwhile, private sector deposits increased US$3,200 million during the month and reached a balance of US$16,500 million (see Graph 3.4), the highest level since mid-2002. This increase was concentrated in placements of less than one million dollars, which grew driven by the externalization of cash funds within the framework of the Tax Sincerity Regime (Law 27,260).

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*8, increased 4.6%, presenting a year-on-year variation of 31.2%.

7 Includes currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and deposits of private and public non-financial sectors in pesos.
8 Includes M3 and deposits of public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 7

4. Loans19

In October, the Central Bank announced a new quota for Graph 4.1 the "Financing line for production and financial inclusion". During the first semester of 2017, the financial entities covered by the regulation must maintain a balance of financing comprised that is, at minimum, equivalent to 18% of private sector deposits in pesos from November 2016 (Communication "A" 6084). Additionally, some changes were arranged that will be in effect as of November. Such is the case of the maximum interest rate (nominal annual) of financing granted to SMEs, which changed from 22% to 17%, and that of loans expressed in "Units of Purchasing Value" (UVAS), which was reduced from 5% to 1%. Also, effective from November, the cap for the discount of post-dated checks and other documents to SMEs was eliminated, being able to assign these financings to the total quota.

Loans in pesos to the private sector presented a Graph 4.2 monthly increase of 2.2% ($18,000 million), driven, thousands of pesos mainly by personal loans and advances. Together with the growth of the previous month, this increase was one of the (average monthly variation) % highest of the year. Nevertheless, the year-on-year growth rate continued to decelerate and was positioned at 18.5% (see Graphs 4.1 and 4.2).

Regarding loans destined essentially for commercial purposes, advances showed an increase throughout the month, after maintaining a relatively stable balance between June and September. The growth registered in October was 4.4% ($4,500 million), the largest so far this year and higher than that of the same month of the previous year.

Graph 4.3
**thousands of Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector** (see Chart 4.3). Thus, the year-on-year variation reached 26%, increasing around 3 p.p. with respect to the previous month. For its part, financings implemented through documents continued showing meager variations, and a strong deceleration of its year-on-year expansion rate, which went from being around 8% in September to 3% in October. This behavior would be associated with the substitution of peso financing for loans in foreign currency, which would also explain the significant growth of single-signature documents in dollars. If the balances of single-signature documents in pesos and foreign currency were added together, the monthly growth would reach 2.4%, with a year-on-year variation of 47%.

**millions $**

**Daily Balance**
**Monthly Average Balance**

[Chart showing trend lines from 01-Dec-15 to 01-Oct-16]

Source: BCRA

9 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In the present report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

**Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 8**

**Chart 4.4**

Among the lines intended primarily to finance household consumption, personal loans continued growing at a good pace, registering in the month an increase of 3.9% ($7,600 million), with a year-on-year variation that remained around 32%. Contemplating the evolution of new loans, the daily average amount was positioned above the volume operated in September (around $700 million), in a context of decrease in the interest rate applied to these financings (see Chart 4.4). Meanwhile, credit card financings exhibited in the month an increase of 2.5% ($4,900 million), somewhat less than last month and markedly below the growth observed in the same period of 2015. In this way, the year-on-year variation reflected a decrease of 7 p.p. and was positioned at 32%.

**Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**

**millions $ (daily average of amounts granted, average term and TNA) | TNA %; months**

- Amounts
- Interest Rate (right axis)
- Average Term (in months - right axis)

[Chart showing trend from Oct-13 to Oct-16]

Source: BCRA

Regarding loans with real guarantee, pledged loans continued showing good performance, in line with the improvement that automobile sales have been presenting since the beginning of the year (see Chart 4.5). The growth registered in the month was 3.6% ($1,630 million), while the year-on-year variation remained around 24%. For its part, loans with mortgage guarantee registered an increase of 1% ($580 million) and in the last twelve months accumulated growth of 9%. In particular, with regard to mortgage loans denominated in Units of Acquisitive Value (UVA), more than $400 million were granted in the month, an amount similar to that of September. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April, and until the end of October, more than $900 million were disbursed10.

**Chart 4.5**

**% Pledged Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector | thousands of units**

- Pledged Loans - monthly variation
- Total automobile sales to dealers (right axis)

[Chart showing trend from Oct-07 to Oct-16]
Source: BCRA based on its own data and ADEFA data.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered an increase of 7.5% in October (US$590 million), accumulating a growth of 191% (US$5,540 million) so far this year. Thus, financing in dollars continues to show great dynamism, which, as mentioned, has been promoted by single-signature documents, a line strongly associated with foreign trade (see Graph 4.6).

**Graph 4.6**
*Thousands of millions of US$ - Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector*
*Monthly average balance variation*

- Single-signature documents
- Credit cards
- Other

*Daily balance*
*Monthly average balance of financial entities*

Source: BCRA

---

## 5. Liquidity of financial entities¹

In October, the increase in total deposits in pesos in financial entities was applied mainly to the granting of loans to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, to the increase in their more liquid assets. Nevertheless, the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) showed an increase of 0.8 percentage points above the previous month, reaching 44.2% (see Graph 5.1). The increase in said ratio was explained by a slight increase in all its components, with the exception of the current account of entities in the BCRA, which remained unchanged. In a framework of greater efficiency in liquidity management, financial entities would have ended the month with a surplus in the Minimum Cash position equivalent to only 0.2% of total deposits in pesos.

**Graph 5.1**

For its part, in the foreign currency segment, strong growth in dollar loans continued to be verified. However, it was surpassed by the increase in total deposits (see Monetary Aggregates). In this way, the liquidity ratio in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings in foreign currency, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) halted its downward trend, rising 2.7 percentage points, to 73%.

---

## 6. International reserves and foreign exchange market

International reserves ended October with a balance of US$37,210 million, reaching the highest level since mid-2013. Throughout the month, they grew US$7,309 million, explained mainly by the increase in the Minimum Cash accounts of financial entities in the BCRA. The significant growth of these accounts was associated with the increase in foreign currency deposits, both from the public and private sectors. In the case of public deposits, the increase was explained mainly by the placements of debt by the National Treasury and the Province of Buenos Aires; and in the case of private deposits, by the externalization of funds in cash under the Tax Regularization Regime (Law 27,260).

**Graph 6.1**
*Thousands of millions of US$ - BCRA International Reserves*

---

¹ As of the publication date of this report (with data as of November 5), loans in UVAs had been granted for a total of approximately $940 million.

*Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 9*
10 The inflow of foreign currency associated with the aforementioned factors was partially offset by the cancellation of
 Ene-05 Ene-06 Ene-07 Ene-08 Ene-09 Ene-10 Ene-11 Ene-12 Ene -13 Ene-14 Ene-15 Ene-160
 US$2,500 million in liabilities that the BCRA maintained
 Source: BCRA
 with the Bank for International Settlements (BIS)11. In this
 way, it continued with the gradual improvement in the quality
 of its balance sheet, reducing the cost of its international
 liabilities and, at the same time, maintaining the flexibility
 necessary to implement its exchange rate and monetary policy
 in the most efficient manner.

11 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/El_BCRA_cancela_pasivos_BIS.asp

 Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 10
 The reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar concluded
 Chart 7.1 October at 15.17, presenting a slight reduction of 0.6% with
 % Rates and Inflation Objective of the United States
 respect to the close of September.
Personal Consumption Expenditures Inflation Objective *
7 As in the previous months, the Central Bank allowed
 Core Personal Consumption ExpendituresDALLAS FED Trimmed Mean
6 the market to freely establish the parity of foreign exchange
 CPI Core CPI
5 buying and selling operations, performing only occasional
4 operations. This exchange rate regime provides flexibility to
 the national economy to face external events.
3

2 7. Main policy measures
 of other central banks
1

0

-1

-2
1/1/2006 1/2/2007 1/3/2008 1/4/2009 1/5/2010 1/6/2011 1/7 /2012 1/8/2013 1/9/2014 1/10/2015

Source: Own elaboration based on Bloomberg, Bureau of Economic Analysis and Federal Reserve (FED).During October there were no developments from the central
* The FED does not follow an inflation targeting regime; it has a mandate by which it must promote the objectives of "maximum" level of employment,
long-term moderate interest rates and stable prices. Regarding the latter, at the FOMC meeting on January 25, 2012, a banks of advanced countries. In the case of the monetary
target was set for an annual variation of 2% for Personal Consumption Expenditures in the long term.
 authorities of the region, the Central Bank of Brazil
 reduced its objective with respect to the Selic rate.

 The European Central Bank (ECB) kept its reference interest
 rate unchanged at its historic low level, 0%. It also did not
 modify its rate corridor, leaving at 0.25% the interest rate of
 the credit facility, and at -0.4% the interest rate of the deposit
 facility. In addition, it left its asset purchase programs
 Chart 7.2 unchanged. Private sector analysts estimate that the ECB
 Interest Rate, and Inflation Rate and Target, and Activity Indicators -
 could take new expansionary measures in December, since in
 %
 % Brazil its press communiqué it maintained the phrase indicating that
 30 Industrial Production (Year-over-year Var.) 18
 the risks to the macroeconomic scenario of the Eurozone are
 Economic Activity Index of BCB (Year-over-year Var.)
 25 Reference Interest Rate (right axis) 16
 to the downside.
 Inflation Rate (right axis)
 20 Inflation Target Limits (right axis) 14

 15 12 For its part, during the month the Open Market Committee
 10 (FOMC) of the Federal Reserve (FED) of the USA did not
 10
 5 meet, so the federal funds interest rate (TFF) remains in the
 8 range of 0.25-0.5%. Nevertheless, the probability of an
 0
 6 increase in the TFF at the next meeting on December 13 and
 -5
 4 14, according to futures of that rate, increased to its highest
 -10
 level since the beginning of June. This occurs in a context
 -15 2
 where, in general, inflation indicators have increased in
 -20 0
 Ene-08 Oct-08 Jul-09 Abr-10 Ene-11 Oct-11 Jul-12 Abr-13 Ene -14 Oct-14 Jul-15 Abr-16
 the last months, approaching the objective (see Chart 7.1)

 Source: BCRA based on Bloomberg, BCB.gov.br and IBGE.gov.br
Finally, within the countries in the region, the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) of the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) decided, for the first time in 4 years, to reduce the target on the Selic rate by 0.25% to 14%. This occurred in a context in which the Brazilian economy has been in recession for 9 quarters, and industrial production in August decreased 5.2% y.o.y.. For its part, the inflation rate has been reducing gradually, and was located at 8.5% y.o.y. in September, which means it has been above the upper limit of the target for 21 months (4.5% ± 2 p.p.; see Chart 7.2). Finally, according to the projections from the latest Focus survey conducted by the BCB, an additional reduction of 0.5 p.p. of the Selic target is expected before year-end, which would bring it to the lowest level since mid-2015.

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 11

## 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

| Principal monetary and financial system variables | Monthly Averages (Oct-15, Oct-16, Sept-16, Dec-15) | Percentage Variations (Monthly, Last 12 months) |
|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 695,131 | 681,289 | 622,263 | 544,588 | 2.0% | 27.6% |
| Monetary circulation | 502,111 | 492,556 | 458,844 | 422,273 | 1.9% | 18.9% |
| Bills and Coins in public hands | 448,077 | 442,119 | 408,595 | 382,779 | 1.3% | 17.1% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 54,034 | 50,437 | 50,248 | 39,493 | 7.1% | 36.8% |
| Cancellatory Checks | 0.7 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.0 | 89.6% | - |
| Current account at BCRA | 193,019 | 188,732 | 163,418 | 122,314 | 2.3% | 57.8% |
| **Stock of Repos** | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 35,855 | 32,842 | 33,067 | 19,082 | 9.2% | 87.9% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | |
| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 665,078 | 638,536 | 325,511 | 348,838 | 4.2% | 90.7% |
| In banks | 309,344 | 295,284 | 239,287 | 257,224 | 4.8% | 20.3% |
| **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)** | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 664,580 | 637,921 | 305,323 | 330,477 | 4.2% | 101.1% |
| In dollars | 33 | 41 | 1,754 | 1,931 | -19.5% | -98.3% |
| NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | - |
| **BCRA International Reserves (5)** | 36,430 | 30,886 | 24,816 | 28,106 | 17.9% | 29.6% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 1,276,415 | 1,246,959 | 1,151,991 | 1,053,552 | 2.4% | 21.2% |
| Current account (2) | 341,614 | 326,167 | 375,164 | 303,620 | 4.7% | 12.5% |
| Savings account | 272,562 | 266,695 | 244,807 | 217,805 | 2.2% | 25.1% |
| Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER | 607,764 | 603,447 | 487,987 | 492,367 | 0.7% | 23.4% |
| Fixed-term adjustable by CER | 305 | 143 | 12 | 10 | 113.6% | 2,946.8% |
| Other deposits (3) | 54,171 | 50,508 | 44,021 | 39,749 | 7.3% | 36.3% |
| **Deposits of private sector** | 1,028,429 | 1,008,132 | 887,829 | 820,751 | 2.0% | 25.3% |
| **Deposits of public sector** | 247,986 | 238,827 | 264,162 | 232,800 | 3.8% | 6.5% |
| **Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 19,266 | 15,815 | 10,573 | 10,334 | 21.8% | 86.4% |
| **Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 875,055 | 857,280 | 817,634 | 752,060 | 2.1% | 16.4% |
| **Loans to private sector** | 827,310 | 809,255 | 755,425 | 698,403 | 2.2% | 18.5% |
| Advances | 107,297 | 102,796 | 94,068 | 85,159 | 4.4% | 26.0% |
| Documents | 177,095 | 177,376 | 191,751 | 171,787 | -0.2% | 3.1% |
| Mortgages | 56,367 | 55,788 | 54,270 | 51,634 | 1.0% | 9.2% |
| Pledges | 47,104 | 45,477 | 39,996 | 37,878 | 3.6% | 24.4% |
| Personal | 201,781 | 194,173 | 160,768 | 152,244 | 3.9% | 32.5% |
| Credit cards | 203,232 | 198,318 | 174,758 | 153,761 | 2.5% | 32.2% |
| Others | 34,434 | 35,327 | 39,815 | 45,940 | -2.5% | -25.0% |
| **Loans to public sector** | 47,745 | 48,025 | 62,209 | 53,657 | -0.6% | -11.0% |
| **Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 8,535 | 7,946 | 2,933 | 3,720 | 7.4% | 129.4% |
| **Total Monetary Aggregates (1)** | | | | | | |
| M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 789,691 | 768,286 | 783,759 | 686,400 | 2.8% | 15.0% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 1,062,253 | 1,034,981 | 1,028,566 | 904,205 | 2.6% | 17.5% |
| M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 1,724,493 | 1,689,079 | 1,560,587 | 1,436,332 | 2.1% | 20.1% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 2,019,920 | 1,930,786 | 1,686,845 | 1,539,849 | 4.6% | 31.2% |

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 12
Residual Term Structure of Time Deposits % Used for Requirement Calculation (3) |
| Up to 29 days | 55.2 | 54.5 | 53.9 |
| 30 to 59 days | 20.7 | 21.4 | 20.7 |
| 60 to 89 days | 10.6 | 10.4 | 11.5 |
| 90 to 179 days | 10.7 | 10.7 | 10.5 |
| 180 to 365 days | 2.8 | 3.0 | 3.3 |
| More than 365 days | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |

(1) Estimated data for Requirement, Integration and Position.
(2) Position = Requirement - Integration
(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

---

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 14

**Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.**

## PASSIVE INTEREST RATES

| Concept | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Ago-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15 |
|---------|--------|---------|--------|---------|--------|
| **Call in pesos (15 days)** | | | | | |
| Rate | 26.23 | 26.92 | 28.36 | 25.89 | 25.12 |
| Amount traded | 4.273 | 4.397 | 4.267 | 2.798 | 3.573 |
# Fixed-Term Deposits

**In pesos**
- 30-44 days | 20.67 | 21.53 | 23.32 | 26.50 | 21.42
- 60 days or more | 20.79 | 21.89 | 23.61 | 28.47 | 24.05
- BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 21.30 | 22.31 | 24.09 | 25.22 | 19.06
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 22.09 | 23.05 | 24.84 | 27.54 | 21.56

**In dollars**
- 30-44 days | 0.54 | 0.58 | 0.61 | 2.10 | 1.77
- 60 days or more | 0.91 | 0.98 | 1.10 | 3.21 | 2.49
- BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.44 | 0.61 | 0.57 | 1.71 | 1.51
- BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.96 | 1.14 | 1.10 | 2.57 | 2.18

## Active Interest Rates | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Aug-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15

**Repurchase agreements in pesos**
- Gross interest rate at 30 days | 24.63 | 25.81 | 27.77 | 30.90 | 23.79
- Amount traded (total terms) | 733 | 655 | 660 | 956 | 688

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
- Advances on current account | 32.48 | 33.63 | 35.09 | 34.50 | 32.11
- Documents on sole signature | 26.74 | 28.12 | 29.88 | 30.61 | 26.42
- Mortgage loans | 22.72 | 23.44 | 24.03 | 22.86 | 21.65
- Pledge loans | 22.65 | 22.89 | 23.88 | 26.00 | 23.59
- Personal loans | 41.56 | 42.63 | 42.39 | 39.00 | 36.97
- Credit cards | n/d | 45.35 | 45.67 | 40.12 | 39.39

**Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million** | 27.62 | 28.53 | 30.05 | 30.33 | 27.87

## International Interest Rates | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Aug-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15

**LIBOR**
- 1 month | 0.53 | 0.53 | 0.51 | 0.36 | 0.19
- 6 months | 1.26 | 1.25 | 1.20 | 0.77 | 0.53

**US Treasury Bond**
- 2 years | 0.84 | 0.76 | 0.74 | 0.97 | 0.63
- 10 years | 1.76 | 1.63 | 1.56 | 2.35 | 2.06

**FED Funds Rate** | 0.50 | 0.50 | 0.50 | 0.39 | 0.25

**SELIC (at 1 year)** | 14.14 | 14.25 | 14.25 | 14.25 | 14.25

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

*Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 15*
*Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.*

## Reference Interest Rates | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Aug-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15

**BCRA repurchase agreement rates**
- Liabilities 1 day | 22.50 | 23.15 | 25.20 | 20.81 | 18.48
- Liabilities 7 days | 23.50 | 24.15 | 26.20 | 22.81 | 20.48
- Assets 7 days | 32.50 | 33.15 | 35.20 | 27.00 | 24.48

**Repurchase agreement rates among third parties REPO round**
- 1 day | 25.58 | 26.44 | 27.72 | 24.81 | 26.13

**Amount traded in repurchase agreements among third parties REPO round (daily average)** | 7,422 | 8,796 | 6,668 | 5,651 | 5,251

**LEBAC rates in pesos (1)**
- 1 month | 26.75 | 27.1 | 29.2 | 35.7 | n/o
- 2 months | 25.90 | 26.3 | 28.3 | 34.7 | n/o
- 3 months | 25.37 | 25.65 | 27.71 | 32.31 | 26.71

**LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)**
- 1 month | n/o | n/o | n/o | 3.22 | 3.25
- 3 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | 3.69 | 3.90
- 6 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | 3.75 | 4.00
- 12 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | 3.96 | 4.20

**Amount traded in LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average)** | 10,510 | 12,068 | 13,618 | 2,813 | 2,902

## Foreign Exchange Market | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Aug-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15

**Spot Dollar**
- Wholesale | 15.17 | 15.12 | 14.84 | 11.39 | 9.48
- Retail | 15.25 | 15.15 | 14.91 | 11.51 | 9.51

**Future Dollar**
- NDF 1 month | 15.47 | 15.36 | 15.21 | 13.48 | 10.05
- ROFEX 1 month | 15.49 | 15.41 | 15.18 | 12.80 | 9.63

**Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos)** | 6,572 | 7,608 | 6,265 | 3,856 | 6,116

**Real (Pesos per Real)** | 4.77 | 4.65 | 4.62 | 2.93 | 2.44

**Euro (Pesos per Euro)** | 16.72 | 16.95 | 16.63 | 12.43 | 10.64

## Capital Market | Oct-16 | Sept-16 | Aug-16 | Dec-15 | Oct-15

**MERVAL**
- Index | 17,633 | 16,173 | 15,532 | 12,849 | 11,154
- Amount traded (millions of pesos) | 423 | 286 | 240 | 204 | 273

**Government Bonds (at par)**
- DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 112.7 | 114.9 | 115.1 | 140.5 | 146.0
- BONAR X (US$) | 102.1 | 102.6 | 102.6 | 130.5 | 142.8
- DISCOUNT ($) | 119.2 | 116.8 | 116.8 | 120.6 | 90.0

**Country Risk (basis points)**
- Spread BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond | 206 | 240 | 268 | 639 | 794
- EMBI+ Argentina (3) | 448 | 447 | 490 | 476 | 555
- EMBI+ Latin America | 455 | 469 | 480 | 576 | 563

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 the Notes in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for the terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for the terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On Apr-27-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).
# Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 16

## 9. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

U.S.A.: United States of America.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

b.p.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Acquisitive Value.

STV: Short-Term Debt Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

DRV: Debt Representative Value.

Monetary Report | October 2016 | BCRA | 17
