# Monthly Monetary Report
August 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 8

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was September 6, 2017. All figures are provisional
 and subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• In August, the National Consumer Price Index (CPI) from INDEC corresponding to July was published. As expected, due to the increase in regulated prices, July inflation was higher than June inflation, reaching 1.7%. On the other hand, high-frequency indicators monitored by the BCRA suggest that the disinflation process continues and that August inflation would have been lower than July inflation. Nevertheless, core inflation remains above the values targeted by the BCRA. In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the 7-day repo corridor remained at 25.5%-27%.

• The BCRA absorbed liquidity through open market operations. It sold LEBACs in the secondary market, generating a monetary contraction that exceeded the expansion associated with the partial renewal of the month's maturity. The LEBAC yield curve ceased to have a negative slope, with an increase in interest rates of longer-term securities of 190 basis points between the end of July and August.

• While interest rates in interbank lending markets moved within the BCRA's repo corridor, passive interest rates showed upward trends, with monthly average values 0.5 p.p. higher than those of July.

• Time deposits in pesos from the private sector continued showing differentiated behavior according to amount bracket, with better relative performance in the second half of August. On one hand, deposits of less than $1 million, which remained stable during the first half of August, resumed their upward trend during the rest of the month. On the other hand, deposits of $1 million and more interrupted the downward trajectory they had been showing since June in the second half of August. Nevertheless, the monthly average balance of these placements decreased when considered in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In contrast, the real balance adjusted for seasonality of private M2 increased again.

• The main source of money creation was the growth of loans to the private sector. In August, the real balance of total loans, in pesos and in foreign currency, grew 2.5% while loans in local currency increased 1.7%. The most dynamic lines continued to be documents, personal loans, and those granted with real guarantees. Among the latter, mortgage loans continued accelerating their growth rate, encouraged by those denominated in UVA, which concentrated 85% of mortgages granted to families. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $20,090 million in UVA mortgage loans have been granted. In the last 12 months, mortgage loans accumulated a nominal increase of 51.2% and pledge loans grew 67.3%.

• The funding of loan disbursements came fundamentally from the decrease in the balance of repos of financial entities with the BCRA. Thus, banking liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBACs, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) decreased 0.8 p.p. compared to July, to 41.9%.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | August 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest Rates2

Graph 2.1
Monetary Policy Interest Rates

In August, the National Consumer Price Index (CPI) from INDEC corresponding to July was published. As expected, due to the increase in regulated prices, July inflation was higher than June inflation, reaching 1.7% (see Graph 2.1). In turn, the core component of the CPI increased 1.8%.
# Translation to English

On the other hand, the high-frequency indicators monitored by the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) suggest that the disinflation process continues and that August inflation was lower than July inflation. Nevertheless, core inflation is above the values sought by the BCRA.

Considering all available information, the BCRA decided to keep the monetary policy rate unchanged – the center of the 7-day repo corridor – at 26.25%. In this way, the repo corridor for this term remained at 25.5%-27%.

In August, the Central Bank continued to conduct open market operations in order to manage liquidity conditions in the money market. In this manner, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of nominal value of $146.2 billion. These sales generated a monetary contraction that exceeded the expansion associated with the partial renewal of the month's maturity, and in the course of August the monetary effect of total LEBAC operations was a monetary contraction of $31 billion. Throughout the month, the monetary authority sought to modify the slope of the yield curve of its securities until making it slightly positive towards the end of the month. Thus, for the longer terms – between 230 and 260 days – the yield observed in the secondary market of LEBACs increased 190 basis points (b.p.) with respect to the same day of the previous month (see Chart 2.2).

**Interest Rates in the Market**

Short-term interest rates remained close to the center of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market. In interbank markets, the interest rate for 1 business day call operations averaged 26.1%, 1 p.p. above the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) stood at 25.9%, registering an increase of 0.4 p.p. (see Chart 2.3). The average daily amount traded in both markets increased almost $700 million, totaling around $11,400 million.

Similarly, the interest rate charged for overdrafts in current accounts to companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days averaged 26.9%, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p..

For their part, the interest rates paid by banks to capture fixed-term deposits also showed increases with respect to July. Thus the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days term – from private banks averaged 20.8%, which meant a monthly increase of 0.6 p.p.. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 17.6%, showing an increase of 0.5 p.p. (see Chart 2.4).

Active interest rates remained unchanged or decreased with respect to July. Regarding the lines intended to finance families, the rate for pawn loans averaged 17.8%, showing a decrease of 1.5 p.p., with greater participation observed from financial companies linked to automotive companies with lower interest rates. For its part, the rate for personal loans averaged 38.1%, showing a decrease of 0.2 p.p.. On the other hand, in the interest rates of the lines intended to finance business activity, single-signature documents averaged 21.4%, showing a decrease of 0.4 p.p. monthly average, while the interest rate for discounted documents stood at 20.1%, a level similar to that of July (see Chart 2.5).

**3. Monetary Aggregates¹**
**Chart 3.1** Considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, Private M3³ presented a reduction of 0.2% in August (see Chart 3.1), with a year-over-year variation that stood around 2%. During the month, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector decreased, partially offsetting the growth of Private M2⁴ (1.1%).

In nominal terms, the monthly average balance of private M2 remained stable, with an increase in cash in the hands of the public and a reduction in sight deposits. On the other hand, the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits from the private sector increased 0.4%. Upon observing its evolution throughout the month, it is

³ Includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
⁴ Includes cash in the hands of the public and sight deposits from the non-financial private sector.

*Monetary Report | August 2017 | BCRA | 5*

observed that smaller amount placements (less than **Chart 3.2** $1 million) remained relatively stable during the first half of the month, a period in which the growth of foreign currency deposits accelerated, and continued to increase in the second part of August. In contrast, wholesale deposits maintained their balance relatively stable during most of the month, interrupting the declining trend of previous months (see Chart 3.2). This behavior was registered in a period in which passive interest rates showed increases (see Interest Rates section of the market).

The total of peso deposits recorded a monthly growth of 0.3%, driven by the increase in placements from the public sector, since those corresponding to the private sector, as a whole, presented a slight reduction. These behaviors motivated a monthly increase of M3⁵ of 0.7%.

**Chart 3.3**

Consistently with the increase in broader monetary aggregates, the monthly average balance of the monetary base grew 0.9%. This demand for monetary base was supplied by the reduction in the balance of repos, while operations in the foreign exchange market had a practically null effect, since the expansion associated with dollar purchases from the National Treasury was similar to the contraction generated by sales made to the rest of counterparties (see Chart 3.3).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits increased during the course of August, with increases in both placements from the public sector and from the private sector. The increase corresponding to the public sector was explained by the placement of debt from the National Treasury. Private sector dollar deposits grew US$620 million and reached a balance

**Chart 4.1** of US$24,070 million at the end of the month.

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, increased 2.2%, presenting a year-over-year variation of 42%.

## 4. Loans¹

During August, loans to the private sector continued to increase in real terms and seasonally adjusted (see Chart 4.1). The total of loans, pesos and foreign currency, exhibited a monthly increase of 2.5%, while loans in local currency grew 1.7%.

⁵ Includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of peso deposits from the public and private sectors.

*Monetary Report | August 2017 | BCRA | 6*

The segment of peso loans granted with real **Chart 4.2** guarantee continued to be the one with the greatest dynamism, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In particular, loans with mortgage guarantee accentuated the change in their trend since the end of 2016 (see Chart 4.2).
In nominal terms, mortgages grew in August 7.6% ($5,900 million), accumulating an increase of 51.2% over the last twelve months. Once again, financing in UVA continued gaining participation within mortgage loans granted to families, representing in the last month 85% of the total. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $20,090 million of mortgages in UVA have been granted. The growing dynamism that mortgage financing has shown since mid-2016 led in parallel to a lengthening of the average term of disbursement. New loans that were being granted at a term close to 100 months came to be agreed at more than 230 months (see Graph 4.3). For its part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantee increased 4.7% in the month ($3,300 million), showing a year-on-year variation of 67.3%. Along this line and in personal loans, UVA loans are also gaining increasing participation: until the end of August, $8,750 million of personal and chattel loans in UVA were granted.

Loans essentially destined for commercial purposes continued with the growing trend in August. Financings implemented through documents showed an increase of 4.2% ($9,400 million). Thus, they reached a year-on-year growth rate of 32.7%, 5 percentage points above the previous month. With respect to advances, they registered a monthly increase of 2% ($2,150 million).

Regarding loans destined mainly for family consumption, personal loans increased their nominal growth rate, registering an increase of 3.9% ($11,000 million), once the seasonal effect of the collection of the mid-year supplementary salary in this line was overcome. Indeed, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they grew at a rate similar to that of July. On the other hand, credit card financings maintained their average monthly balance practically stable, accumulating an increase over the last twelve months of 23.4%.

In this way, financing to the private sector in pesos exhibited a nominal increase of 3.2% ($33,600 million), while the year-on-year variation stood at around 35%.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector moderated their growth in August, having halted their growth during the first half of August (see Graph 4.4). Even so, they presented a growth of 4.4% (US$ 588 million), which continued to be explained primarily by documents at single signature, financings associated mostly with foreign trade (mainly pre-financing of exports). In this way, they reached an average monthly balance of US$ 13,920 million, practically quintupling the balance of December 2015, the moment when they began to show a growing trend, following the exchange rate unification.

## 5. Liquidity of financial entities

During August, financial entities funded the granting of loans to the private sector and the increase of their LEBAC holdings with the increase in total deposits and the fall in liquidity maintained in repos at the BCRA (see Graph 5.1). Overall, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) showed a reduction of 0.8 percentage points, to 41.9% of deposits (see Graph 5.2).

In particular, the level of current accounts at the Central Bank remained at 13.1% of deposits, which meant that the banks would have ended the month with a surplus in their Minimum Cash position in pesos equivalent to 0.2% of deposits.
On the other hand, in a context of slight growth in deposits and greater credit placement, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) decreased for the fifth consecutive month and averaged 57.4% (1.4 percentage points below the previous month).

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

International reserves ended August with a balance of US$48,877 million, registering a monthly increase of US$1,862 million (see Chart 6.1). The increase was explained by the inflow of foreign currency associated with the placement of debt in dollars by the National Treasury.

During the month, the BCRA sold foreign currency to the private sector for US$1,533 million. It is important to note that, even in the context of the establishment of a foreign exchange floating scheme, the monetary authority maintains the capacity to intervene in the face of potentially disruptive dynamics in the foreign exchange market. In turn, in August the BCRA purchased foreign currency from the National Treasury for US$2,100 million.

The peso exchange rate registered an appreciation against the US dollar of 1.7%, ending August at a value of 17.37 $/US$.

---

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

---

## 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | August 2017 | BCRA | 14
