# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was May 5, 2017. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In April, March inflation data were published. The general level of the GBA CPI from INDEC increased 2.4% compared to February, while its core component grew 1.8% for the month. In turn, unlike what was observed in February, in March the inflation indices of other jurisdictions reflected increases higher than those of the GBA CPI. On the other hand, the high-frequency indicators followed by the Central Bank indicated that in April inflation would have remained above what the monetary authority expected.

• In this scenario, on April 11 the BCRA decided to tighten its stance, increasing 150 basis points (b.p.) its monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, to 26.25%. The 7-day repo corridor was placed at 25.5%-27%.

• The BCRA also continued absorbing liquidity through open market operations. In April, LEBACs were placed in the secondary market for a face value of $102.4 billion, more than offsetting the partial renewal of maturities in the primary market and the decline in the balance of reverse repos with this entity. During the month, interest rates rose 80 b.p. in the LEBAC secondary segment, accumulating an increase of approximately 250 b.p. over the last two months.

• The increase in the LEBAC balance was distributed among non-financial private sector holders and financial entities. The greater holdings of these securities by the non-financial sector had as a counterpart a nominal stability of the monetary aggregates of the private sector and a decline in their levels when considering balances in real and seasonally adjusted terms. Among the components of private M3, the decline in real terms was driven by time deposits.

• For their part, the net purchases of LEBACs by financial entities came from the reduction of their repo balances and the indicator of banking liquidity in local currency (current account at the BCRA, cash, LEBAC balance and repos at the BCRA, in terms of deposits) stabilized after several months of increase.

• Following the tightening of monetary policy, increases in interest rates for the shortest-term operations were verified. Those in the interbank lending markets rose to the new floor of the repo corridor while, between passive and active rates, the BADLAR of private banks grew 1.1 percentage points between the end of March and April, and the rate charged for the discounting of documents by the group of private entities increased 1.3 percentage points in the same period.

• Loans to the private sector increased both in nominal terms and when considering their real balances adjusted for seasonality. When observing the behavior of the different financing lines in pesos, the one that presents the most drastic change in terms of its real growth is that of mortgage loans. In the course of 2017, mortgage loans in pesos managed to break a downward trend that they had maintained uninterruptedly during the previous years. Mortgage loans denominated in UVA have favored the greater dynamism of this line. In the last month, more than $1,200 million were disbursed, concentrating just over half of the mortgage credits granted to families. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, and until April, approximately $5,800 million have been disbursed.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest Rates 2

Chart 2.1 Monetary policy interest rates

% Monthly Inflation - General Levels
6 In April, March inflation data were released. The general
5 Buenos Aires City San Luis INDEC Córdoba
level of the GBA CPI increased 2.4% compared to Febru-

4 ary and its core component grew 1.8% for the month. Dif-

3 ferently from what occurred in February, inflation data
2 recorded in other districts were higher than those

1 surveyed by the CPI GBA (see Graph 2.1). This behavior

0 was due in large measure, although not exclusively, to

-1 the evolution of regulated prices.

-2
May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17 In turn, over the last 9 months, core inflation of the
Sources: General Direction of Statistics and Census of GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directions of Statistics CPI GBA was between 1.3% and 1.9% monthly; values that
and Census of San Luis and Córdoba. the Central Bank considers necessary to reduce. On the
other hand, high frequency indicators showed that in
April inflation would have continued at a level higher
than that compatible with the path sought by the Central
Bank.

Graph 2.2 Considering all available information, the Central
% Interest Rates in Pesos - 7 days Bank decided to increase its monetary policy interest
33 Business Advances over $10 M, h. 7 d. in Pesos rate –the center of the 7-day repo corridor– by

31 Passive Repo 150 basis points (b.p.) on April 11, to 26.25%.
Thus, the 7-day passive repo rate moved to 25.5% and
Active Repo 29 the rate for active operations for the BCRA increased
to 27% (see Graph 2.2).
27
Center 7-day Repo Corridor
25 The tightening of monetary policy was carried out
not only through the increase in the market repo inter-
23 est rate, but also through open market operations. In
21 March the Central Bank had resumed operating in the
secondary LEBAC market and in April it continued to do
Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17Apr-17 so: it sold LEBAC in this market for a total of VN $102.4
Source: Own elaboration billion, which generated a monetary absorption that more
than offset the partial renewal of maturities in auctions
and the expansion associated with the decline in the
Graph 2.3 balance of passive repos. The securities traded were
mainly the species with maturities on the third Wednesday
Secondary LEBAC Market Thousands of of April (48%) and May (36%). April showed an increase
% millions in interest rates of 80 b.p. in the secondary LEBAC
25 Amount operated by BCRA (right axis) 16 segment, accumulating an increase of approximately 250
LEBAC Rate 35 days 14 b.p. over the last two months (see Graph 2.3).

24 12
23 10 The Central Bank will continue maintaining a clear anti-
8 inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process
22 continues toward its target of inflation between 12% and
6
21 17% during 2017.
4
20 2

19 0
2-Jan-172-Feb-172-Mar-172-Apr-17
Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (ANR).

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 4

Graph 2.4 Interest Rates of the Market

ANR, % Interest Rates in Pesos - 1 day Following the tightening of monetary policy, increases
45 were verified in the interest rates of shorter-term oper-
40 ations. This could be observed both in the interfinancial
loan market, as well as among the rates charged for
35 shorter duration loans, and among the rates paid for

30 fixed-term placements.

25 The interest rates of interfinancial loans increased,
although they remained close to the lower limit of the
20 rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo
BCRA 1-day repo corridor market. The one corresponding to 1-day call operations
15 Call at 1 day averaged 24% in April, 1.3 p.p. above the value
10 recorded the previous month. For its part, the average
Jan-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17Mar-17 interest rate of 1-day operations between financial entities
Source: BCRA in the guaranteed market (REPO wheel) was located at
23%, registering an increase of 1.5 p.p. (see Graph 2.4).

Graph 2.5
# SHORT-TERM INTEREST RATES

The other rates that reacted most to the tightening of monetary policy were those charged for document discounts and passive rates. Considering the segment that concentrates the largest part of operations, the rate applied to documents discounted up to 90 days grew 1.3 percentage points between the end of March and April. Meanwhile, the rates paid for fixed-term deposits reversed the downward trajectory they had been showing from mid-month onwards. Thus, the BADLAR – the interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, from 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks, showed an increase of 1.1 percentage points between the end of March and April, reaching 20% on the last day of April. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days maturity stood at 16.8% at the end of April, showing an increase of 0.4 percentage points with respect to the end of March value (see Graph 2.5).

On the other hand, the monthly average levels of active interest rates for operations with longer terms showed mixed behaviors in April. Thus, documents at sole signature were located at 22.4%, showing a monthly average increase of 0.2 percentage points. In turn, the interest rate applied to loans granted through collateral loans averaged 19.6%, showing an increase of 0.8 percentage points. Meanwhile, the interest rate of personal loans averaged 38.3%, declining 0.6 percentage points with respect to the March average (see Graph 2.6).

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 5

# 3. MONETARY AGGREGATES¹

When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, the private M3³ showed a decrease in April (see Graph 3.1). This behavior was associated with the reduction in fixed-term placements, given that the means of payment of the private sector (private M2) maintained a level similar to March, with stability in the circulating currency in the hands of the public and in sight deposits.

In nominal terms, the balances of the monetary aggregates in pesos and their components remained at values similar to those recorded in March. Private M2⁴ increased slightly (0.6%) and the private sector's fixed-term deposits remained stable. When distinguishing the latter by amount stratum, a gradual reduction is confirmed in the wholesale segment throughout the month and stability in the stratum of less than $1 million (see Graph 3.2). This trajectory of fixed-term placements took place in a context in which the holdings of LEBAC of the private sector continued growing, in a period in which the spread existing between the LEBAC rates and the BADLAR remained above the level observed in previous months.

The nominal increase of 0.5% of private M3 resulted
0 0 offset by the decline in public sector deposits, which

-20 -2 meant that Total M3 5 maintained its balance at levels

-40 -4 close to those of March. In year-on-year terms, monetary
 LEBAC Private Sector NF
-60 Fixed-term Less than $1M -6 aggregates showed acceleration of less than 1 p.p. in the

-80 Fixed-term More than $1M -8 case of those in the private sector and more marked in
-100 Spread LEBAC Rate 35 d. - BADLAR private banks (right axis) -10 the case of Total M3, as a consequence of public sector
 Abr-16Jun-16Ago-16Oct-16Dic-16Feb-17Abr-17 deposit behavior (see Chart 3.3).
 Source: BCRA
 
 Chart 3.3 The evolution mentioned for broad monetary aggregates
 
 % Monetary Aggregates was consistent with a stable monthly average balance
 (year-on-year variation)
 50 of the monetary base, even among its components. The
 expansion generated by foreign exchange purchase
 45
 operations and transfers to the National Treasury,
 40 consistent with the annual limit of $150,000 million,
 were offset by the contractionary effect of sterilization
 35
 through LEBAC placement (see Chart 3.4).
 30
 Chart 3.4 Monetary Base
 25 Private M2 On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment,
 Private M3
 20 M3 deposits decreased as a consequence of debt service
 payments by the National Treasury. A portion of this
 15
 expense explained the increase of US$870 million
 Abr-12Abr-13Abr-14Abr-15Abr-16Abr-17 recorded by private sector deposits, which reached a
 Source: BCRA balance of US$24,200 million at the end of the month.

3 Includes currency in circulation and peso deposits of the private sector
4 Private M2 includes currency in circulation and sight deposits of the private sector in pesos.
5 Includes currency in circulation and total peso deposits of non-financial public and private sectors.

 Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 6
 
 Chart 3.4 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 6,
 Factors Explaining the Monetary Base
 thousands of (April 2017, in average) decreased 2.5%, showing a year-on-year variation of
 millions of $ 42.3%.
 20
 
 4. Loans 1 7
 10
 
 0 In April, loans to the private sector showed an increase
 in real and seasonally adjusted terms 3. Both the total
 -10
 of loans (in pesos and foreign currency) as well as peso
 -20 financing showed monthly growth close to 1% (see
 -30 Chart 4.1).
 
 -40 When observing the behavior of different financing
 Private Sector and Treasury Advances and Other lines in pesos in real and seasonally adjusted
 National Other Utilities terms, the change in trend achieved by mortgage loans in
 Foreign Exchange Purchases Other Operations with LEBAC and Repos Circulation in Reserves 2017 stands out. This type of loan has five consecutive
 Treasury National Public Banking months of growth after several years of declines. (see
 Source: BCRA Chart 4.2).
 
 Chart 4.1 In nominal terms, mortgages showed an increase of
 Loans to Private Sector - Real Seasonally Adjusted 3.3% ($2,160 million) and continued accelerating their
 thousands of (monthly average balance)
 millions $ year-on-year growth rate, which went from 18.8% in
 1.300 March to 23% in the last month. Mortgage loans
 1.200 denominated in UVA have favored greater dynamism of
 1.100 the line. In the last month more than $1,200 million
 1.000 were granted, concentrating slightly more than half of
 900 the mortgage credits granted to families.
 800
 700 Pesos and Foreign Currency
 600 Pesos
 500
# Translation to English

400 Thus, since the launch of this instrument, and until
 Apr-06Apr-08Apr-10Apr-12Apr-14Apr-16 April, approximately $5,800 million were disbursed.
 Source: BCRA If personal loans and pledge loans granted under this
 Chart 4.2 modality are added, the total financing in UVA amounts
 Mortgages in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality to around $8,400 million 8.
 % (variation of monthly average balance) %
 3 30
 Regarding the contribution to nominal growth, personal
 2 20 loans continued to stand out among the different credit
 1 10 lines (see Chart 4.3). In the month they registered an
 0 0 increase of 4.4% ($11,000 million), which allowed their
 -1 -10 year-on-year variation to be around 48%, 3.3 p.p. more
 -2 -20 than in March. For its part, the balance of credit card
 -3 Monthly Var. -30 financing remained practically stable.
 Y-o-Y Var. (right axis) -40
 -5 -50
 Apr-12Oct-12Apr-13Oct-13Apr-14Oct-14Apr-15Oct-15Apr-16Oct-16Apr-17
 Source: BCRA

6 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
7 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credit portfolios from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to mean loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.
8 At the date of publication of this report (with data as of May 4), loans in UVAs had been granted for a total of approximately $8,660 million.

 Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 7
 Loans intended essentially for commercial purposes
 exhibited dissimilar behaviors. On one hand, financing
 implemented through documents grew in the month by
 2.6% ($5,104 million), driven by both single-signature
 documents and discounted ones. Thus, their year-on-year
Chart 4.3 variation increased by 2.9 p.p. compared to the previous
 month and was around 13%. On the other hand, advances
 Thousands of Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector continued to show a decrease. The decline recorded in
 (monthly average variation) % April was 3.4% ($3,700 million), although in year-on-
 millions $ year terms they grew around 10%.
 20 60
 50.8 48.0
 Monthly variation In definitive nominal terms, loans in pesos to the
15 Y-o-Y Var. (right axis) 40 private sector grew 1.9% ($17,900 million), an increase
 25.8 26.0 higher than that observed in the same month of the
 10 23.0 20 previous year. Thus, year-on-year variation continued
 9.6 12.9 3.2 to increase and reached 25.8%.
5
 0 0 In the foreign currency segment, loans to the private
 -5 -20 sector registered growth of 4.3% (US$420 million),
 similar to that of the previous month. The lines associated
 Source: BCRA with export pre-financing were those that explained the
 April increase. It should be noted that the BCRA adjusted
 its dollar credit policy (Com. "A" 6231) in order to expand
 financing to exporters. Starting in May, financial entities
 will be able to allocate part of dollar deposits to finance
 importers of Argentine products or services. Thus, they
 will be able to grant dollar loans directly to the importer
 or through credit lines to any foreign bank participating
 in the operation. In this way, the growing capacity for
 dollar savings in the financial system will be able to be
 leveraged to boost our country's export capacity, increase
 its productivity, and stimulate its economy.
 Chart 5.1
 5. Liquidity of financial entities1
During April, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) stopped increasing and remained at 45.4%. Although the level did not vary with respect to the previous month, there was a change in its composition. Thus, financial entities replaced their balances held in repos at the Central Bank with greater LEBAC holdings (see Graph 5.1).

For its part, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) while it decreased with respect to March, remained at elevated values, averaging 73.4% (3.6 percentage points below the previous month).

Graph 6.1
thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
millions of U$S
60

50

40

30

20

10

0 Feb-05 Feb-06 Feb-07 Feb-08 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Feb-15 Feb-16 Feb-17

Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

After reaching a maximum of US$52,696 million on April 12, international reserves ended April with a balance of US$48,217 million, decreasing US$2,306 million with respect to the end of March (see Graph 6.1). The monthly decline was associated with the payment of the maturity of Bonar X by the National Treasury.

The reference exchange rate of peso/US dollar ended April at 15.43, remaining stable with respect to the close of the previous month. Going forward, the BCRA will seek to reach a level of reserves that is in line with that of investment grade economies in the region, that is, that international reserves reach 15% of GDP.

9 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.
10 The payment of BONAR X totaled US$7,180 million.

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Principal monetary variables and financial system | Apr-17 | Mar-17 | Monthly | Dec-16 | Apr-16 | Last 12 months

Monetary base | 789,258 | 790,603 | 787,895 | 582,322 | -0.2% | 35.5%
Monetary circulation | 590,261 | 592,134 | 562,994 | 453,763 | -0.3% | 30.1%
Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public | 515,310 | 515,858 | 494,853 | 398,436 | -0.1% | 29.3%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities | 74,950 | 76,275 | 68,140 | 55,327 | -1.7% | 35.5%
Cancellation checks | 1.0 | 0.6 | 0.4 | 0.06 | 66.2% | -
Current account at the BCRA | 198,996 | 198,469 | 224,901 | 128,559 | 0.3% | 54.8%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 146,150 | 195,030 | 52,777 | 22,139 | -25.1% | 560.1%
Assets | 0 | 0 | 340 | 1,961 | - | -

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 749,810 | 652,941 | 669,257 | 526,693 | 14.8% | 42.4%
In banks | 325,617 | 244,576 | 322,853 | 302,188 | 33.1% | 7.8%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 749,810 | 652,941 | 669,036 | 463,273 | 14.8% | 61.9%
In dollars | 0 | 0 | 144,380 | - | -100.0% | -

NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | -

International reserves of the BCRA (5) | 50,372 | 51,488 | 37,853 | 31,016 | -2.2% | 62.4%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 1,492,502 | 1,497,267 | 1,397,462 | 1,138,151 | -0.3% | 31.1%
Current account (2) | 420,831 | 423,707 | 403,232 | 306,078 | -0.7% | 37.5%
Savings account | 323,396 | 322,261 | 327,229 | 226,390 | 0.4% | 42.8%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER | 686,851 | 693,030 | 605,084 | 560,800 | -0.9% | 22.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 1,194 | 901 | 397 | 183 | 32.6% | 548.7%
Other deposits (3) | 60,231 | 57,369 | 61,520 | 44,865 | 5.0% | 34.3%

Deposits of the private sector | 1,149,381 | 1,140,054 | 1,093,014 | 912,189 | 0.8% | 26.0%

Deposits of the public sector | 343,121 | 357,213 | 304,449 | 225,962 | -3.9% | 51.8%
Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) | 30,698 | 34,160 | 24,472 | 14,074 | -10.1% | 118.1%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 997,293 | 979,984 | 932,208 | 828,217 | 1.8% | 20.4%
Loans to the private sector 962,009 944,102 886,640 764,609 1.9% 25.8%
 Advances 104,938 108,649 107,280 95,773 -3.4% 9.6%
 Documents 202,406 197,303 189,882 179,261 2.6% 12.9%
 Mortgages 67,403 65,243 59,274 54,778 3.3% 23.0%
 Pledged loans 60,712 58,496 51,925 40,251 3.8% 50.8%
 Personal loans 254,633 243,796 217,673 171,996 4.4% 48.0%
 Credit cards 233,348 233,003 223,830 185,177 0.1% 26.0%
 Others 38,569 37,612 36,776 37,373 2.5% 3.2%

 Loans to the public sector 35,283 35,882 45,568 63,608 -1.7% -44.5%
Loans to the private sector and to the public sector in dollars (1) 10,651 10,112 9,224 4,456 5.3% 139.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 936,142 939,565 898,085 704,515 -0.4% 32.9%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,259,537 1,261,826 1,225,314 930,904 -0.2% 35.3%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 2,007,813 2,013,126 1,892,316 1,536,587 -0.3% 30.7%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,480,972 2,545,709 2,282,598 1,743,773 -2.5% 42.3%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 ((Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 771,787 767,459 744,776 600,927 0.6% 28.4%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,080,096 1,073,493 1,054,527 814,716 0.6% 32.6%
 M3 ((Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 1,664,692 1,655,913 1,587,867 1,310,625 0.5% 27.0%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,034,903 2,020,170 1,930,917 1,485,178 0.7% 37.0%

 Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 10
 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2017 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -1,345 -0.2% -26,228 -3.2% 1,363 0.2% 206,935 35.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 5,429 0.7% 9,347 1.1% 16,220 2.1% 55,342 9.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 13,066 1.7% 58,936 7.2% 65,882 8.4% 237,524 40.8%
Transitory Advances and Transfer of Profits 14,005 1.8% 40,457 5.0% 39,167 5.0% 161,000 27.6%
Other public sector operations 960 0.0% -409 -0.1% -1,576 -0.2% -8,869 -1.5%
Sterilization (Repos and Securities) -37,109 -4.7% -140,973 -17.3% -125,418 -15.9% -247,989 -42.6%
Others 3,168 0.4% 6,414 0.8% 7,088 0.9% 9,927 1.7%

International Reserves of the BCRA -1,117 -2.2% 9,216 22.4% 12,518 33.1% 19,356 62.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 348 0.7% 600 1.5% 1,034 2.7% 3,816 12.3%
 Payment to international organizations -183 -0.4% -503 -1.2% -483 -1.3% -1,709 -5.5%
 Other public sector operations 2,527 4.9% 4,595 11.2% 5,342 14.1% 14,834 47.8%
 Minimum cash requirement -3,859 -7.5% 4,384 10.7% 6,026 15.9% 12,143 39.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 50 0.1% 140 0.3% 599 1.6% -9,728 -31.4%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of pooled funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos (1)
 Requirement 12.9 12.9 15.1
 Integration 13.2 13.2 15.3
 Position (2) 0.3 0.3 0.2
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 68.3 66.6 66.8 68.9 68.6
 30 to 59 days 20.6 23.3 21.5 20.0 21.3
 60 to 89 days 5.5 5.0 6.5 5.7 5.1
 90 to 179 days 3.3 3.0 3.4 3.9 3.1
 more than 180 days 2.3 2.1 1.8 1.6 1.9
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.5 24.4 24.4 24.7 24.5
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 65.3 70.9 70.1 65.4 60.2
 Position (2) 40.8 46.6 45.7 40.7 35.7
 Structure of residual term of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)
 Up to 29 days 57.3 57.5 55.9 54.9 55.1
 30 to 59 days 20.1 22.5 22.3 21.4 22.4
 60 to 89 days 9.0 8.8 10.6 11.4 10.0
 90 to 179 days 8.7 8.1 8.3 9.0 9.6
 180 to 365 days 2.9 2.9 2.8 3.1 2.8
 more than 365 days 1.9 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1

 (1) Between December and February the minimum cash regime in national currency is computed on a quarterly basis.

 (2) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (3) Excludes fixed-term deposits subject to judicial proceedings.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 11

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 23.96 22.76 23.56 24.66 36.88
 Amount operated 3,273 2,467 4,032 4,576 3,636

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 17.66 18.09 18.39 19.78 27.90
 60 days or more 18.33 18.59 18.81 19.06 28.64
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 18.54 19.04 19.18 19.54 28.29
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.20 19.53 20.00 22.10 30.58

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.38 0.39 0.38 0.39 0.71
 60 days or more 0.67 0.79 0.58 0.68 1.15
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.51 0.54 0.50 0.45 0.68
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.50 0.74 0.68 0.55 0.97

 Active Interest Rates Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.98 20.33 21.46 25.50 35.71
 Amount operated (total terms) 921 895 783 795 594

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Current account advances 30.14 29.78 29.70 30.99 41.09
 Documents at single signature 22.40 22.21 21.93 23.54 33.06
 Mortgage 19.52 19.09 19.08 19.70 26.94
 Chattel mortgage 19.56 18.80 18.98 20.73 26.62
 Personal 38.35 38.91 39.02 39.15 42.88
 Credit cards n/a 42.53 42.98 44.38 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.99 24.27 24.97 25.92 38.73

 International Interest Rates Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

LIBOR
 1 month 0.99 0.93 0.78 0.72 0.44
 6 months 1.42 1.43 1.35 1.31 0.90

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.23 1.31 1.19 1.19 0.76
 10 years 2.29 2.48 2.42 2.50 1.80

FED Funds Rate 1.00 0.89 0.75 0.66 0.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 11.64 12.25 12.88 13.75 14.25

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 12

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 23.70 22.75 22.75 22.02 30.00
 Passive 7 days 24.95 24.00 24.00 22.81 31.00
 Active 7 days 26.45 25.50 25.50 26.69 40.00

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO auction
 1 day 22.95 21.45 22.94 24.01 36.69

Amount operated of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO auction (daily average) 2,871 3,462 6,449 18,300 6,163

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

 1 month 24.25 22.3 2.8 24.8 38.0
 2 months 23.00 22.0 2.5 24.4 35.71
 3 months 22.50 21.75 22.00 24.16 34.00

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.90
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o 0.90
 6 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 23,534 18,152 103 371 589 293

 Exchange Market Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 15.35 15.52 15.59 15.84 14.39
 Retail 15.45 15.60 15.68 15.89 14.48
## Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 15.61 16.02 16.02 15.42 14.72
ROFEX 1 month 15.61 15.74 15.81 16.22 14.71
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 9,286 8,205 7,227 8,423 6,164

Real (Pesos x Real) 4.89 4.96 5.02 4.73 4.05

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 16.46 16.58 16.60 16.69 16.34

## Capital Market Apr-17 Mar-17 Feb-17 Dec-16 Apr-16

MERVAL
Index 20,835 19,493 19,493 16,711 13,162
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 418 366 382 282 220

Government Bonds (at par value)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 109.9 106.5 107.3 103.7 117.5
BONAR 24 (US$) 116.3 114.7 115.2 115.0 106.9
DISCOUNT ($) 116.0 120.0 120.0 117.0 101.9

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR 24 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 284 306 315 332 587
EMBI+ Argentina 431 452 453 494 434
EMBI+ Latin America 446 446 450 491 552

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Dollar Letters payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for 1 and 3 month terms, and
External segment for 6 and 12 month terms.

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 13

## 8. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBS: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands, canceling checks in pesos and sight deposits
in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in public hands, canceling checks in pesos and
the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in public hands, canceling checks and
total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
STV: Short-term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | April 2017 | BCRA | 14
