# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was on July 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and are
 subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• In June, the price indices corresponding to the month of May were published. Retail inflation was lower than that recorded in April, both according to what was collected by the index prepared by INDEC for Greater Buenos Aires, as well as in other jurisdictions. According to INDEC's CPI, annual inflation through June was 24%, while wholesale price indices varied between 14% and 15.3% y-o-y. On the other hand, estimates and high-frequency indicators from state and private sources monitored by the BCRA suggest that June inflation would have been at levels similar to those observed in May, although higher than those sought by the monetary authority for this part of the year.

• In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the 7-day repo corridor remained at 25.5%-27%.

• Most interest rates in the money market remained stable. While interest rates in the interbank lending markets remained at the lower limit of the Central Bank's repo corridor, passive rates remained at levels similar to those in May.

• As it has been doing since early March, in June the BCRA absorbed liquidity through open market operations. It sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of nominal value of $106.8 billion pesos, increasing its participation in longer-term securities operations.

• In the primary market, the monthly LEBAC auction was affected by the placement of the peso-denominated bond maturing in 2020 by the National Treasury, since most of those who subscribed to this security using pesos were LEBAC holders who decided to reallocate their portfolios. In turn, the placement resulted in an increase in deposits from the public sector in pesos.

• Private M3 also increased, both in nominal terms and considering its real balance adjusted for seasonality. Its growth was encouraged by components of private M2 – currency in circulation and sight deposits –. Among fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector, differentiated behavior was observed by amount bracket, with a growing trend for those up to $1 million and a reduction for those of larger amounts. Although it is usual for lower growth of the latter during this part of the year due to greater demand for liquidity to meet the payment of the mid-year complementary salary; fixed-term deposits from the private sector in pesos declined in real and seasonally adjusted terms, in a period in which a positive spread continued to be observed between the return on LEBACs and passive rates. On the other hand, it should be mentioned that during July an increase in components of private M2 will be observed as a result of the seasonal effect associated with the collection of the mid-year complementary salary and winter vacations.

• Loans to the private sector continued to increase both in nominal and real terms. In the peso segment, the most dynamic lines were again personal loans, documents, and those corresponding to financing granted with real guarantees. Mortgage loans continued to be encouraged by those denominated in UVA. In particular, in June UVA-denominated financing totaled around $2,600 million pesos and came to represent around 70% of mortgage loans granted to individuals, compared to 50% in May. Since its launch, more than $10,000 million in UVA-denominated mortgage loans have been granted.

• Although the main application of financial institutions' liquidity was the granting of loans to the private sector, in June financial institutions also financed the public sector through the purchase of part of the 2020 bond. Thus, the indicator of banking liquidity in local currency (current account at the BCRA, cash, LEBAC balance and repos at the BCRA, in terms of deposits) [text continues...]
reduced 0.6 p.p. compared to May, to 44.7%.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates2
 Chart 2.1
 Monetary policy interest rates

 According to the indices published in June, the increase in retail prices in May was lower than that recorded in April, both in Greater Buenos Aires and in other jurisdictions (see Chart 2.1). According to INDEC's CPI, the annual inflation as of June was 24%, while wholesale price indices varied between 14% and 15.3% y.o.y. In turn, according to the Market Expectations Survey (REM), expected retail inflation is 17.1% for the next 12 months and 15.4% for 20183.
 On the other hand, the estimates and high-frequency indicators from state and private sources monitored by the BCRA suggest that June inflation would have been at levels similar to those observed in May, these being higher than those sought by the monetary authority for this time of year.
 Chart 2.2
 As a result of all available information, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, passive and active repos for this term continued to be offered at 25.5% and 27%, respectively (see Chart 2.2).

 In June the Central Bank continued conducting open market operations, seeking to manage liquidity conditions. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of FV $106.8 billion. The securities traded were mainly the issues maturing on the third Wednesday of July (26%) and August (23%). Likewise, it began operating longer-term issues in the secondary market, concentrating 35% of its operations in securities with more than 90 days of residual maturity (see Chart 2.3).

 Market interest rates
 Chart 2.3
 Most interest rates remained at levels similar to those in May.

 Shorter-term interest rates remained close to the lower limit of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market. In interbank markets, the interest rate on 1-business-day call operations averaged 24.8%, 0.3 p.p. above the value recorded the previous month (see Chart 2.4). For its part, the average interest rate on 1-business-day operations between financial entities in the secured market (REPO session) stood at 25%, recording an increase of

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
3 The values correspond to the medians of the June 2017 REM for the CPI general level GBA.

 Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 4

 0.4 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both Chart 2.4 markets increased by $1,000 million, totaling around $8,500 million.

 Similarly, the interest rate charged for overdrafts on current accounts for companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days averaged 25.7%, showing an increase of 0.1 p.p.

 For its part, the rates paid for fixed-term deposits also remained practically stable in June. The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days maturity– from private banks averaged 19.8%, while the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 16.9% (see Chart 2.5).
Among active rates, the interest rate applied to loans granted through pledge credit loans (Chart 2.5) averaged 19%, showing a decline of 0.6 p.p. Meanwhile, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 37.6%, falling 0.7 p.p. compared to the May average.

On the other hand, interest rates on lines intended to finance business activity showed mixed behavior. The one corresponding to documents at single signature averaged 21.3%, showing a monthly average decline of 0.6 p.p., while the rate on discounted documents averaged 20.4%, 0.1 p.p. above the previous month (see Chart 2.6).

## 3. Monetary Aggregates

In the second half of June, the National Treasury placed a bond maturing in 2020 for nominal value of $75 billion pesos, which was subscribed by both financial entities and members of the non-financial sector. 71% of the total placed was acquired with peso funds and the remainder through the delivery of dollars. The portfolio reallocation of those who participated in financing the National Treasury with pesos had an impact on the evolution of monetary aggregates. Because most of those who bought the bond used funds they had invested in LEBAC, part of the lower renewal of BCRA securities in the June auction is explained by this operation. In turn, this resulted in an expansion of the monetary base consistent with the greater demand for money by the public sector.

Thus, unlike what had been observed in previous months, the variation in peso deposits from the public sector (Chart 3.1) contributed positively to the monthly growth of total M3 (2.9%).

Private M3 also increased in June, with increases in currency in circulation and deposits from the private sector. Within the latter, the growth in sight deposits more than compensated for the slight reduction in time deposits. While smaller fixed-term deposits (less than $1 million) continued growing, wholesale deposits again exhibited a reduction (see Chart 3.1), in a period characterized by greater demand for liquidity from companies to meet the payment of the semi-annual complementary salary and in which the spread between LEBAC rates and fixed-term rates continued to be positive. Real balances adjusted for seasonality (Chart 3.2) moved in the same direction as nominal values: private M3 grew, driven by the increase in payment means from the private sector (private M2; see Chart 3.1), while fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector were reduced.

Consistently with the increase in broader monetary aggregates, the monthly average balance of the monetary base grew 3.3% in nominal terms. In June, the contraction associated with LEBAC and repos partially offset the expansion generated by the Central Bank's foreign exchange purchase operations and transfers to the National Treasury (consistent with the annual limit of $150,000 billion, see Chart 3.2).

Unlike what was observed for private M3 and total M3, which maintained their year-over-year expansion rate essentially stable compared to May, the growth rate of the monetary base decreased (see Chart 3.3). The differentiated behavior of the monetary base is due to the fact that in this month the reserve requirements in effect were the same as a year ago, whereas in May the comparison was with a period in which reserve coefficients were lower.

The balance of foreign currency deposits decreased throughout June, with declines in placements from the public sector and from the private sector. The reduction
4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits.
5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits in the private sector.
6 They are deflated using the general level of the national indicator (CPI-NP). The BCRA calculates the CPI-NP based on consumer price indices from the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Spending Survey corresponding to the 2004-2005 period. Taking as reference the distribution of consumption spending by region from said survey, for the construction of the CPI-NP the CPIBA weights 44% (being used as representative of the price evolution of the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampas Region, the CPI of Córdoba weights 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San Luis (22% of the CPI-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.
7 In June and July 2016 the reserve requirement coefficients were increased by the equivalent of 2% of peso deposits in each month, while in March 2017 a decrease was ordered that reversed half of said increases.

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 6

corresponding to the private sector would be linked to a
Graph 4.1 portfolio decision due to a preference for other financial
instruments (National Treasury Bills and Investment
Funds). Thus, private sector dollar deposits reached a
balance of US$22,700 million at the end of the month.

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, increased
2.2%, presenting an annual variation of 37.7%.

4. Loans 18

In June, loans to the private sector continued showing an
upward trend in real and seasonally adjusted terms4 (see
Graph 4.1). Total loans (pesos and foreign currency)
showed a monthly increase of 2.8%, which was the highest
Graph 4.2 of the first half of the year. Meanwhile, financing in local
currency grew 1.7%. Personal loans and documents
continued explaining most of the monthly growth. However,
loans with real guarantees are those growing at the fastest
rate and those that showed the greatest change in their
trend during recent months (see Graph 4.2).

In the case of mortgage loans, they recorded a monthly
increase of 4.8% ($3,340 million) in nominal terms and in
the last twelve months accumulated growth of 34.1%. In
particular, in June financing in UVA came to represent
around 70% of loans granted to individuals, compared to
50% in May (see Graph 4.3). Since the launch of this
Graph 4.3 instrument, approximately $10,000 million has been
granted. Meanwhile, the growth of loans with pledge
guarantees was 6.3% ($3,970 million). It should be noted
that on the first day of the month a sharp increase in these
credits was observed that was due to an accounting
reclassification by a financial entity. Even, excluding this
effect, the increase in June turns out to be similar to that
of the previous months, standing at around 4%.

As for loans intended mainly for family consumption,
financing with credit cards showed an increase of 2.7%
($6,380 million), after four months of relative stability. In
this way, the annual variation stood at 24.3%. Meanwhile,
personal loans grew 3.5% ($9,250 million), somewhat less
than in previous months, which is
8 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. On the other hand, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 7

expected in the period close to the moment when the
Graph 4.4 half-yearly complementary salary is received. Its year-on-year variation was 52.9%. In real and seasonally adjusted terms, personal loans maintained their monthly growth rate in the order of 2.5%.

Loans intended essentially for commercial purposes continued to show heterogeneous behaviors. While advances presented a nominal decline of 2.2% ($2,350 million), financings implemented through documents grew for the third consecutive month. The increase for the month was 2.6% ($4,400 million) and was explained both by the behavior of documents on single signature and discounted documents. Through this latter instrument, some of the financings granted under the Production Financing Line and Financial Inclusion (LFPIF) are channeled, which provides for a relatively lower interest rate. It should be noted that the
Graph 5.1 Central Bank decided to extend the LFPIF in the second half of the year (Com. "A" 6259).

In this way, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate to 2.9% ($28,200 million), with a year-on-year variation in the order of 29%, which implied an increase of 2.7 p.p. compared to the previous month (and in the order of 5% in real year-on-year terms).

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered a growth of 8.4% (US$950 million), driven by documents on single signature, financings associated mainly with foreign trade (principally export pre-financing). Thus, they reached an average monthly balance of US$12,300 million, four times the balance of December 2015, the moment when they began to show an upward trend, after exchange rate unification (see Graph 4.4).

Graph 5.2 5. Liquidity of financial entities¹

In June, financial entities decreased their liquid assets to grant loans, mainly to the private sector (see Graph 5.1). Thus, after three months of relative stability, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBACs, as a percentage of peso deposits) showed a reduction of 0.6 p.p. to 44.7%.

As has been recorded since April, the trend continued in the change in its composition, in favor of
Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 8

LEBACs and to the detriment of cash balances and those held in repos at the Central Bank (see Graph 5.2). For its part, the level of current accounts at the Central Bank implied that financial entities accumulated a surplus in the integration of reserve requirements equivalent to 0.3% of total peso deposits.

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) decreased for the third consecutive month and averaged 60.9% (6.5 p.p. below the previous month), again in a scenario of lower deposits and increased lending in dollars.

Graph 6.1 6. International reserves and foreign exchange market
International reserves increased by US$1,849 million in June, reaching US$47,995 million at the end of the month (see Chart 6.1). The increase was explained by the placement of foreign currency debt by the National Treasury, which exceeded its maturities. The foreign currency inflow associated with the public sector was partially offset by the outflow linked to the decline in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA, as a result of the persistent dynamism that continued to be shown by dollar loans to the private sector.

The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended June at 16.60, 2.8% above the level observed at the end of May.

9 In this section the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 10

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 11

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 12

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 13

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency from the public and private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value.
VCP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | June 2017 | BCRA | 14
