# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closure of this report was on August 4, 2017. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

## 1. Summary 1

• In July, the National Consumer Price Index of INDEC (IPC) was published for the first time, becoming the reference indicator of the monetary authority, as had been announced last year. The increase in the general level of the IPC was 1.2% in June, while core inflation was located at 1.3%. These figures confirm that the economy has resumed the disinflation path. However, although core inflation in June was lower than in previous months, this evolution should be taken with caution given the persistence it has shown at levels higher than those sought by the monetary authority. In this sense, high-frequency indicators from private and public sources monitored by the BCRA suggest that July inflation would have been higher than June inflation.

• In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the 7-day repo corridor remained at 25.5%-27%.

• As it has been doing since early March, in July the BCRA absorbed liquidity through open market operations. It sold LEBACs on the secondary market for a total of VN $148.2 billion, compensating for the expansion associated with the partial renewal of the month's maturity.

• Most interest rates in the money market showed slight increases. Those traded in interbank lending markets and passive rates increased less than 0.5 p.p., while active rates showed more heterogeneous behavior.

• Loans to the private sector increased in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, both when considering the total in pesos and in foreign currency as well as those granted in local currency only. When adding financing in both currencies, the growth of commercial loans stood out, which accelerated even without considering the month's exchange rate variation. In the peso segment, secured loans maintained a growing trend (accumulating a 64% increase y.o.y.) and mortgage loans continued to be driven by loans granted in UVA, which concentrated 80% of household financing. Since its launch, $14,000 million of mortgage loans in UVA have been granted.

• The nominal growth of monetary aggregates was driven fundamentally by the seasonal increase in demand for transactional money associated with the collection of the mid-year complementary salary and winter vacations. Thus, the nominal increase of 6.5% of private M2 is reduced to 0.8% if its balance is considered in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In contrast, time deposits of the private sector decreased in real terms, with behavior that continued to be differentiated by amount bracket: increase in those of smaller amount and decrease in those of $1 million and more.

• The increase in loans exceeded the increase in deposits, so the broad liquidity (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBACs, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) of financial entities decreased 1.9 p.p. to 42.7%.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | July of 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest rates 2

Monetary policy interest rates

Chart 2.1 In July, the National Consumer Price Index (IPC) from INDEC
% Monthly Inflation - General Levels was published for the first time. Upon introducing the
6 City of Buenos Aires inflation targeting regime, the Central Bank of the
Córdoba Republic of Argentina (BCRA) announced that to evaluate
5 San Luis compliance with the targets it would use the price
4 GBA - INDEC index with greater geographic coverage published by IN-
National - INDEC DEC. Therefore, the IPC became the reference indicator

3 for the monetary authority. The measurements of
2 inflation accumulated in the first five months of the year
1 according to IPC-GBA and IPC coincide. The increase
0 in the general level of IPC was 1.2% in June, while
-1 core inflation was located at 1.3%.
May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Ene-17Mar-17May-17

Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorate of Statistics
and Census of San Luis and Córdoba. On the other hand, the retail price indices collected
in different jurisdictions –City of Buenos Aires,
Córdoba, San Luis– showed the lowest monthly increase
so far in 2017 (see Chart 2.1).

Although core inflation in June was also lower than in
previous months, this evolution should be taken with
caution given the persistence it has shown at levels
higher than those sought by the monetary authority. Like-
wise, the high-frequency indicators from private and state
sources monitored by the BCRA suggest that July inflation
Chart 2.2 would have been higher than June's.

BCRA Interventions in the Secondary LEBAC Market
(breakdown by residual maturity bracket)
% Up to 30 days Between 30 and 90 days More than 90 days Consequently, the BCRA decided to keep unchanged
100 4 its monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day inter-
90 9 12 bank corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, passive and active
80 29 33 35 passes of this maturity continued to be offered at 25.5%
70 and 27%, respectively.
60 54 46
50 26 In July, the Central Bank continued conducting open
40 market operations in order to manage the conditions of
30 67 67 the monetary market liquidity. In this way, it sold
Chart 2.3 20 39 41 LEBAC in the secondary market for a total of VN
36 $148.2 billion, an increase of nearly 40% compared to
10 the previous month, which practically offset in the month
0 the expansion resulting from primary auctions and net
Mar-17Abr-17May-17Jun-17Jul-17 passes. The securities traded were mainly those with
Source: BCRA maturities on the third Wednesday of July (31%) and
August (31%). Likewise, securities with more than 30
days maturity reached 68% of the total, levels similar to
those of the previous month, although with greater par-
ticipation from the bracket of between 30 and 90 days
residual maturity. (see Chart 2.2).

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | July of 2017 | BCRA | 4

Market interest rates

Chart 2.3 During most of the month, the interest rates for shorter
TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos - 1 day maturities continued to be located near the lower limit
45 of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in
40 the interbank market, although they showed an average
35 increase compared to June. In the interfinancial mar-
30 kets, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations
averaged 25.1%, 0.4 p.p. above the value recorded the
25 previous month (see Chart 2.3). For its part, the aver-
age interest rate of 1 business day operations between
financial entities in the guaranteed market
20 (REPO round) was located at 25.5%, registering an increase of 0.5 p.p.. The average daily amount traded in both

15 BCRA pass broker at 1 day Call at 1 day markets increased $2,200 million, totaling around $11,000 million.

10
 Jan-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17Mar-17May-17Jul-17
Source: BCRA Similarly, the interest rate charged for over-
 drafts in current accounts to companies of more than $10 million
 and up to 7 days averaged 26.3%, showing an in-
 crease of 0.6 p.p..

 Chart 2.4
 Short-Term Interest Rates
 TNA; % (Daily Data) For its part, the interest rates paid by banks to
 42 BADLAR Private Banks capture fixed-term deposits also showed limited increases
 Fixed-term deposits of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)
 38 LEBAC 35 Days - Secondary Market with respect to June. Thus the BADLAR –interest rate for
 LEBAC 35 days - Primary Market fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, from 30 to 35 days

 34 of maturity– of private banks averaged 20.1%, which

 30 meant a monthly increase of 0.4 p.p.. On the other hand,
 the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of
 26 up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 17.1%, ex-

 22 hibiting an increase of 0.2 p.p. (see Chart 2.4).

 18
 Among active interest rates, increases were registered

 14 in various lines, which were mainly due to
 Jan-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17Mar-17May-17Jul-17
 Source: BCRA the change in the weighting that they had in the average
 monthly rate those entities that charge higher rates. In general, it was due to the fact that entities with
 lower interest rates granted smaller amounts. The
 Chart 2.5 rate for pawn loans, which averaged 19.2%,

 Active Interest Rates increased 0.4 p.p., while that of personal loans
 TNA; % Pawn Loans Unsecured Documents averaged 38.3%, increasing 0.7 p.p. with respect
 45 Discounted Documents Personal Loans to June. On the other hand, the interest rates of the lines

 40 intended to finance business activity showed
 mixed behaviors. The one corresponding to

 35 unsecured documents averaged 21.9%, showing an
 increase of 0.6 p.p. monthly average. In this line
 30
 the lower weighting of disbursements from the Pro-
 25 duction Financing and Financial Inclusion Line
 (LFPIF) affected with respect to what was observed in June, the month
 20 in which the period ended to comply with what was agreed

 15 in the first semester of 2017. For its part, the rate of
 discounted documents averaged 20.1%, 0.2 p.p. below
 01-Jul-1601-Oct-1601-Jan-1701-Apr-1701-Jul-17 the previous month (see Chart 2.5).

 Monetary Report | July of 2017 | BCRA | 5
 3. Monetary Aggregates 1
 Chart 3.1
 Balance of seasonally adjusted monetary aggregates in real terms at In July, when considering real balances and adjusted by
 trillions of $ prices of Jul-17 trillions of $ 3
 1.4 2.1 seasonality, M2 Private increased 0.8%, while

 1.3 2.0 fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector decreased.

 1.2 1.9 As a consequence, M3 private remained
 almost unchanged with respect to June (see Chart 3.1).
 1.1 1.8

 1.0 1.7
 Cash in the hands of the public Due to the seasonal increase in demand for money
 0.9 M2 Private 1.6
 transactional associated with winter vacations and the
 0.8 M3 Private (right axis) 1.5
 collection of the half annual supplementary wage,

 0.7 1.4 the nominal growth of monetary aggregates of the private sector

 0.6 1.3 far exceeded the seasonally adjusted. In particular, M2 Private increased 6.5% in
0.4 1.1 nominal terms, with increases in cash in circulation in the
Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16
Source: BCRA. Aggregates deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations. hands of the public and in sight deposits. The latter concentrated the growth of private sector deposits, while fixed-term deposits registered a nominal increase of 0.4%.

**Chart 3.2**

thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector While fixed-term deposits of smaller amounts
millions of $ (evolution of daily balance) thousands of
millions of $
250 330 (less than $1 million) continued to increase, wholesale
240 320 deposits again showed a reduction (see Chart 3.2), in a period in which the spread between the interest rates
230 310 of LEBACs and those of fixed-term deposits continued to be positive.
220 300
In nominal terms, the total deposits in pesos registered
210 290 monthly growth of 1.8%, verifying a reduction in public
More than $1 million sector placements that was more than offset by the increase
Less than $1 million (right axis)
200 280 in the private sector. Ultimately, M3 grew 3% with respect to June.
Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17
Source: BCRA.

The seasonal impulse of broad monetary aggregates translated into monthly growth of 5% in the monetary base. This demand for monetary base was supplied by the expansion generated by the reduction in the balance of repo operations and transactions between the Central Bank
**Chart 3.3**
and the National Treasury (purchase of foreign currency and transfers, consistent with the annual limit of $150,000 million).
Balance of monetary base
thousands of millions of $
890 LEBAC
Maturities
The average monthly monetary effect of LEBACs was
870 practically null, because the monetary expansion that
850 resulted from the partial renewal of the maturity was
830 offset by secondary market operations. Thus, as has been
810 observed in recent months, the flexibility provided by
790 the reserve requirement, which must be met considering
National Treasury Bond monthly average balances, the concentration of LEBAC
Seasonality
of money demand maturities on the third Wednesday of each month and the strategy of banks to manage their liquidity resulted in transitory expansion
770 of the monetary base on the date of LEBAC maturity, which was offset on the remaining days of the month (Chart 3.3).
750
1-Mar-17 1-Apr-17 1-May-17 1-Jun-17 1-Jul-17
Source: BCRA

3 Includes cash in the hands of the public and sight deposits of the non-financial private sector.

**Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 6**

**Chart 3.4**

% Monetary Aggregates In year-on-year terms, monetary aggregates presented a
(year-on-year variation) deceleration, which was more pronounced in the case of
50 the monetary base (see Chart 3.4). The differentiated
45 behavior of the monetary base is due to the fact that this
40 month the reserve requirements in force were lower than
35 those in force a year ago, while in June comparable periods with similar reserve requirement coefficients were being compared.
30
25 Monetary Base 4
Private M2
Private M3
20 M3 On the other hand, the balance of deposits in foreign currency increased throughout July, with increases in both
15
Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16 Jun-17 the public sector and the private sector. The increase corresponding to the public sector was driven mainly by the
Source: BCRA. transfer of funds from the National Treasury that had been deposited in the Central Bank. Private sector deposits
**Chart 3.5** in dollars grew by US$760 million and reached a balance of US$23,450 million at the end of the month (see Chart 3.5).

thousands of Deposits in Foreign Currency of the Private Sector
millions of US$
26

24

22
20
 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, in-
18
 creased 5.4%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
16
 39.2%.
14

12
 4. Loans 1 5
10

 8

 6 In July, loans to the private sector continued
 Dec-15Mar-16Jun-16Sept-16Dec-16Mar-17Jun-17
Source: BCRA showing an increasing trend in real terms and
 seasonally adjusted 3 (see Graph 4.1). The total of
 loans (pesos and foreign currency) exhibited a
 Graph 4.1 monthly increase of 3%, highlighting the growth of
 commercial loans (see Graph 4.2). It should be
 Loans to the Private Sector -Real Without Seasonality noted that although the increase in the peso/dollar
 thousands of (monthly average balance)
 millions $ exchange rate in the month had a greater
 1,300 influence in July than in previous months, even
 without considering this effect, the real seasonally
 1,250
 adjusted growth rate of commercial loans in pesos
 1,200 and dollars exceeded that of June. For its part,
 1,150 loans in local currency grew 1.2%.

 1,100 The other segment that continued showing dynamism
 1,050 is that of loans in pesos granted with real collateral.
 1,000 In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, both
 Pesos and Foreign Currency loans with mortgage guarantees and pledged asset
 950 guarantees show continuous growth since the end of
 Pesos
 900
 Jul-14Jan-15Jul-15Jan-16Jul-16Jan-17Jul-17
 Source: BCRA

4 In June and July of 2016, reserve requirement coefficients were increased by the equivalent of 2% of peso deposits in each month, while in March 2017 a decrease was implemented that reversed half of such increases.
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | July of 2017 | BCRA | 7
 2016, reversing several years of consecutive declines (see
 Graph 4.2 Graph 4.3).

 % Commercial in Pesos and For. Curr. Priv. S. -Real Without Season.
 (variation of monthly average balance) % In nominal terms, mortgages grew in Ju-
 6 30
 Monthly Var. ly 5.8% ($4,300 million), accumulating an increase of

 4 Year-on-year Var. (right axis) 20 40% in the last twelve months. Financing in
 UVA continued gaining participation in mortgage
 2 10 loans granted to families, representing in the
 last month around 80% of the total. Since the
 0 0
 launch of this instrument, approximately $14,000
 -2 -10 million has been granted. For its part, loans with
 pledged asset guarantees grew in the month 3.9%
 -4 -20 ($2,600 million), with a year-on-year variation that
 exceeded 60%.
 -6 -30
 Jul-14Jan-15Jul-15Jan-16Jul-16Jan-17Jul-17 The largest contribution to the nominal monthly
 Source: BCRA growth of loans in pesos came from financing
 instruments arranged through documents. These
 exhibited an increase of 6.9% ($14,600 million). Thus,
 they reached a year-on-year growth rate of 27%, 6
 p.p. above the previous month. Both document
 Graph 4.3 discounting and documents at sole signature continued
 showing significant dynamism. For its part, advances
 Loans with Real Guarantees in Pesos to Priv. S. -Real Without Seasonality stopped the downward trend of the previous
 % (monthly variation of average balances)
 5 months and registered a monthly increase of 3.1%

 4 ($3,200 million).

 3 Mortgages Pledged Assets
 2 As for loans destined mainly for consumption by
 1 families, personal loans moderated their growth
 0 rate, registering an increase of 2.8% ($7,700
 -1 million), in line with what occurred in July of

 -2
-3 other years due to higher available income for families in the period when the semi-annual complementary salary is received.

-4 Financing with credit cards registered a decline of 1.6% ($3,700 million),

-5 which was partly explained by the concentration of the semi-annual maturity of one of the cards intended to finance producers in the agricultural and livestock sector. The accumulated increase in the last twelve months was 22.9%.

**Chart 4.4**
**thousands of Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector**
**millions of US$**

In this way, financing to the private sector in pesos showed a nominal increase of 3.1% ($31,700 million US$) Variation of monthly average balances million), while the year-on-year variation stood at around 32%.

**Documents on Single Signature** Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to show strong dynamism. In July they presented a growth of 8.2% (US$1,020 million), which continued to be explained fundamentally by documents on single signature, financings associated mostly with foreign trade (mainly export pre-financing). Thus, they reached a monthly average balance of US$13,300 million, practically quintupling the balance of December 2015, the moment when they began to show an increasing trend, following the exchange rate unification (see Chart 4.4). It should be noted that this sustained growth was achieved through the use of part of the high lending capacity in foreign currency that financial entities have maintained over recent years and that, even currently, banking liquidity in dollars is at levels that far exceed reserve requirement levels (see Chart 5.3).

**5. Liquidity of financial entities¹**

During July, financial entities again reduced their liquid assets mainly to grant loans to the private sector (see Chart 5.1). Thus, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) showed a reduction of 1.9 p.p. to 42.7%.

On this occasion, the only component significantly affected was the balance of net repos held at the Central Bank (see Chart 5.2). For its part, the level of current accounts at the Central Bank meant that financial entities accumulated a surplus in the integration of reserve requirements equivalent to 0.2% of total deposits in pesos.

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) decreased and averaged 58.8% (2 p.p. below the previous month), again in a scenario of increased dollar loans.

**Chart 5.3**

**6. International Reserves and Foreign**
**Exchange Market**
International reserves ended July with a balance of US$47,014 million, registering a monthly decrease of US$980 million (see Chart 6.1). The current accounts in foreign currency of financial entities at the BCRA increased due to the transfer of funds from the National Treasury from accounts at the Central Bank to financial entities, an operation that does not affect the total balance of international reserves. If this movement were excluded, minimum cash accounts would have decreased, in a period in which foreign currency loans continued to show dynamism. On the other hand, the BCRA sold foreign currency to the

6 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 9

private sector for US$305 million, participating in this market only on July 28.

Chart 6.1 It should be noted that the People's Bank of
thousands of BCRA International Reserves
millions of U$S

60 China (PBC) and the BCRA agreed to renew their

55 bilateral currency swap agreement for a new period
 of 3 years. The first agreement between both central
50 banks was established in 2009. In 2014 a second

45 agreement was signed, which was complemented at

40 the end of 2015 with a supplementary agreement. The new

35 agreement will continue to strengthen the relationship

30 between both central banks and promote the strengthen-
 ing of financial conditions to promote economic and
25 commercial development in both countries.
20

15 The peso exchange rate registered a depreciation against the

10 US dollar of 6.5%, ending July with a value of 17.67 $/US$.
Jun-05Jun-06Jun-07Jun-08Jun-09Jun-10Jun-11Jun-12Jun-13Jun-14Jun-15Jun-16Jun-17
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 10

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables | Jul-17 | Jun-17 | Dec-16 | Jul-16 | Monthly | Last 12 months

Monetary base | 850,827 | 810,231 | 787,895 | 671,463 | 5.0% | 26.7%
Monetary circulation | 644,906 | 605,680 | 562,994 | 483,581 | 6.5% | 33.4%
Bills and Coins in public hands | 577,811 | 542,854 | 494,853 | 432,160 | 6.4% | 33.7%
Bills and Coins in financial entities | 67,095 | 62,826 | 68,140 | 51,421 | 6.8% | 30.5%
Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.3 | -24.6% | 4.1%
Current account at the BCRA | 205,921 | 204,550 | 224,901 | 187,881 | 0.7% | 9.6%

Stock of Repos
Liabilities | 79,652 | 107,590 | 52,777 | 35,364 | -26.0% | 125.2%
Assets | 30 | 100 | 3 | 4 | 0 | 0

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 914,671 | 893,062 | 669,257 | 559,783 | 2.4% | 63.4%
In banks | 356,892 | 356,047 | 322,853 | 275,389 | 0.2% | 29.6%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 914,671 | 893,062 | 669,036 | 557,717 | 2.4% | 64.0%
In dollars | 0 | 0 | 14 | 138 | -- | -100.0%

NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | -- | --

BCRA international reserves (5) | 47,932 | 45,376 | 37,888 | 33,231 | 5.6% | 44.2%

Deposits from private and public sector in pesos (1) | 1,565,041 | 1,537,037 | 1,397,490 | 1,233,266 | 1.8% | 26.9%
Current account (2) | 419,298 | 434,405 | 403,233 | 316,815 | -3.5% | 32.3%
Savings account | 383,195 | 349,217 | 327,229 | 273,915 | 9.7% | 39.9%
Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER | 695,782 | 687,659 | 605,107 | 591,768 | 1.2% | 17.6%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER | 1,429 | 1,449 | 439 | 7 | -1.3% | 3544.2%
Other deposits (3) | 65,336 | 64,308 | 61,523 | 50,730 | 1.6% | 28.8%

Deposits from private sector | 1,230,069 | 1,187,496 | 1,093,038 | 989,691 | 3.6% | 24.3%

Deposits from public sector | 334,972 | 349,540 | 304,452 | 243,575 | -4.2% | 37.5%

Deposits from private and public sector in dollars (1) | 29,024 | 26,419 | 24,472 | 15,374 | 9.9% | 88.8%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) | 1,074,343 | 1,042,436 | 932,208 | 852,380 | 3.1% | 26.0%
Loans to the private sector 1.040.979 1.009.389 886.640 788.563 3.1% 32.0%
 Advances 105.514 102.315 107.280 103.354 3.1% 2.1%
 Documents 225.655 211.022 189.882 177.115 6.9% 27.4%
 Mortgage 77.828 73.568 59.274 55.303 5.8% 40.7%
 Pledge 70.131 67.529 51.925 42.773 3.9% 64.0%
 Personal 281.473 273.808 217.673 181.864 2.8% 54.8%
 Credit cards 234.880 238.604 223.830 191.087 -1.6% 22.9%
 Others 45.499 42.544 36.776 37.067 6.9% 22.7%

 Loans to the public sector 33.364 33.047 45.568 63.816 1.0% -47.7%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 13.375 12.358 9.224 6.687 8.2% 100.0%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + checking accounts in pesos) 997.110 977.259 898.086 748.975 2.0% 33.1%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 1.380.305 1.326.475 1.225.315 1.022.890 4.1% 34.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 2.142.853 2.079.891 1.892.343 1.665.427 3.0% 28.7%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.642.684 2.506.848 2.282.632 1.898.114 5.4% 39.2%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + private checking accounts in 849.407 810.978 744.776 640.949 4.7% 32.5%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 1.214.254 1.139.935 1.054.527 897.989 6.5% 35.2%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 1.807.881 1.730.350 1.587.891 1.421.851 4.5% 27.1%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.207.415 2.102.070 1.930.947 1.607.304 5.0% 37.3%

 Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 11
 Average Variations
 Variation Factors MonthlyQuarterlyAccumulated 2017Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)

Monetary base 40.597 5.0% 61.569 7.8% 62.932 8.0% 179.364 26.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -699 -0.1% 17.113 2.2% 33.332 4.2% 41.799 6.2%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 8.260 1.0% 25.092 3.2% 90.974 11.5% 177.755 26.5%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities 3.743 0.5% 57.243 7.3% 96.410 12.2% 175.007 26.1%
Other public sector operations -879 -0.1% -1.793 -0.2% -3.369 -0.4% -4.750 -0.7%
Sterilization (Repurchase Agreements and Securities) 27.886 3.4% -42.349 -5.4% -167.866 -21.3% -226.556 -33.7%
Others 2.285 0.3% 6.264 0.8% 13.451 1.7% 16.110 2.4%

International Reserves of the BCRA 2.556 5.6% -2.440 -4.8% 10.044 26.5% 14.701 44.2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -39 -0.1% 1.110 2.2% 2.144 5.7% 2.703 8.1%
 Payment to international organizations -85 -0.2% -411 -0.8% -894 -2.4% -1.689 -5.1%
 Other public sector operations 905 2.0% 1.005 2.0% 6.347 16.8% 13.193 39.7%
 Minimum cash requirement 988 2.2% -5.085 -10.1% 940 2.5% 4.386 13.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 787 1.7% 941 1.9% 1.506 4.1% -3.892 -11.7%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the utilization of unified funds.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to change in valuation

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
jul-17jun-17may-17
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12,912,912,7
 Integration 13,113,213,0
 Position (1) 0,20,30,3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 69,367,466,8
 30 to 59 days 20,321,720,8
 60 to 89 days 5,25,46,5
 90 to 179 days 2,73,03,5
 more than 180 days 2,52,52,3
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24,324,424,5
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 52,954,460,2
 Position (2) 28,630,035,6

 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)

 Up to 29 days 56,255,554,8
 30 to 59 days 19,220,519,8
 60 to 89 days 9,38,39,9
 90 to 179 days 8,38,17,9
 180 to 365 days 2,52,82,9
 more than 365 days 4,64,74,7
(1) Position= Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 12
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 25,1424,7724,5224,6629,05
 Amount operated 4.7293.7343.3204.5764.108

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 18,4018,1618,1018,7824,66
 60 days or more 18,4618,3618,2419,0625,14
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19,3319,1518,9919,5425,29
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20,1219,7719,6020,0426,02

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0,410,370,380,390,67
 60 days or more 0,740,700,550,681,19
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,450,480,530,450,65
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,620,700,760,551,06

 Active Interest Rates Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 24,6924,1023,8225,5027,43
 Amount operated (total terms) 930870913795619

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Current account advances 30,9130,7730,5830,9935,90
 Documents on sole signature 21,8821,2721,8923,5431,47
 Mortgages 21,4519,1519,8519,7024,59
 Pledge loans 19,4818,8519,6220,7324,83
 Personal loans 38,3637,6038,3139,1542,50
 Credit cards n/d42,1842,8444,3739,39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 26,2625,6625,5225,9230,75

 International Interest Rates Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16

LIBOR
 1 month 1,231,171,010,720,48
 6 months 1,461,431,421,311,00

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1,371,341,301,191,67
 10 years 2,322,192,302,501,50

FED Funds Rate 1,251,141,000,660,50

SELIC (at 1 year) 10,0610,2511,2013,7514,25

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 13
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 24,2524,2524,2522,0226,08
 Liabilities 7 days 25,5025,5025,5022,8127,08
 Assets 7 days 27,0027,0027,0026,6936,08

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO session
 1 day 25,3024,9724,4224,0128,18

Amount operated of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO session (daily average) 5.9984.7554.1198.3007.340
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

 1 month 26,5025,525,524,830,2
 2 months 26,2025,325,224,429,38
 3 months 26,0024,7524,6924,1628,64

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/on/on/on/on/o
 3 months n/on/on/on/on/o
 6 months n/on/on/on/on/o
 12 months n/on/on/on/on/o

Amount operated of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 27.31223.361302671175811282

 Foreign Exchange Market Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 17,1916,1215,7115,8414,90
 Retail 17,2316,1715,7815,8914,97

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 17,3616,3715,9716,0215,15
 ROFEX 1 month 17,5316,3916,0016,2215,27
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 10.2949.67110.1748.4236.124

Real (Pesos x Real) 5,374,894,914,734,56

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 19,8218,1317,3816,6916,54

 Capital Market Jul-17Jun-17May-17Dec-16Jul-16
# MERVAL
Index 21,741 21,583 21,564 16,711 15,434
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 380 438 445 282 340

# Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 109.41 112.81 112.1 103.7 114.0
BONAR 24 (US$) 113.4 116.3 117.5 115.0 115.2
DISCOUNT ($) 113.4 112.8 114.0 117.0 118.8

# Country Risk (basis points)
Spread BONAR 24 vs. US Treasury Bond 338 280 258 332 435
EMBI+ Argentina (3) 435 409 412 494 511

EMBI+ Latin America 457 445 440 491 497

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for 1 and 3-month terms, and External segment for 6 and 12-month terms.
(3) On 04-27-16, the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 14

## 8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: Year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, payment checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, payment checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, payment checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Settled Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
SDP: Short-Term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | July 2017 | BCRA | 15
