# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on March 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In February, the variation for January of the GBA CPI from INDEC became known, an index that the BCRA uses to measure the fulfillment of its targets. Both its general level and the core component increased 1.3% compared to December 2016. On the other hand, the various high-frequency indicators that the BCRA monitors indicate an increase in inflation in February compared to what was observed in the previous months, mainly derived from the evolution of regulated prices. This development does not alter the monetary authority's perspectives on the disinflation process underway, but warrants a cautious approach.

• In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 24.75%. It also maintained the width of the corridor, so the 7-day passive repo rate was placed at 24% and the active rate at 25.5%.

• The shorter-term interest rates showed downward trajectories, declining towards the floor of the repo corridors. Those operated in interbank lending markets – call and repo – and those applied to company advances of up to 7 days decreased around 0.5 p.p. Among active interest rates, those applied to personal loans and single-signature documents also fell. Meanwhile, the rates paid for fixed-term deposits remained relatively stable.

• Private M3 remained practically unchanged compared to the previous month when considering its real balance and adjusted for seasonality. Meanwhile, in nominal terms its year-on-year growth rate increased 0.7 p.p. compared to January and, due to the growth of public deposits, that of Total M3 grew 4.5 p.p. in the month. The year-on-year variations of Private M3 and M3 were placed at 26.3% and 27.7%, respectively.

• The year-on-year growth of the Monetary Base continued above that recorded by broader monetary aggregates. As explained in the Monthly Monetary Report for January, several factors affected this variable during recent months: the way in which financial entities decided to integrate reserve requirement obligations in the joint measurement period December-February; the increase in reserve requirement ratios ordered in mid-2016; and the greater cash holdings of financial entities. When considering the period included in the quarterly reserve requirement calculation and adjusting the monetary base level by the impact that the increase in reserve requirement obligations and cash in banks had, the year-on-year increase in the monetary base for the quarter December 2016-February 2017 was placed at 24%.

• Effective as of March, the BCRA ordered a reduction in reserve requirement ratios on peso deposits equivalent to 2% of these placements. This measure is aimed at counteracting the greater amount of immobilized funds that financial entities maintain as a collateral effect of initiatives designed to reduce the operational costs of cash management. On the other hand, it would tend to compress the differences between active and passive rates; eventually, encouraging an increase in the rates paid for deposits.

• Following the operational changes that the adoption of the Inflation Targeting regime implied and in a period with seasonally low loan growth, in February, financial entities directed the increase in their peso deposits and the funds associated with the reduction in their LEBAC holdings primarily towards the increase in their repo balances with the BCRA.

• As is customary in the month of February, peso loans to the private sector moderated their monthly growth rate. They increased 1.8%, which contrasts with the decline observed in the same month of 2016. Thus, the year-on-year variation increased 3.1 p.p. placing itself at 23.2%. Personal loans continued to concentrate the largest portion of peso financing. In this type of credit line, in addition to the traditional ones, since the end of 2016
# Translation to English

loans in UVA began to be granted, although they still represent a small proportion of the total granted.
• Among mortgage loans, those denominated in UVA continued to gain participation and in February
they comprised close to 45% of total mortgage credits granted to families. Since the launch of this instrument, in April 2016, and until February, $3,400 million in UVA mortgage loans were granted.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest rates2

Graph 2.1 Monetary policy interest rates

% Monthly Inflation - General Level of CPI GBA In February, the January value of the CPI GBA published by INDEC was disclosed; an index that the Central Bank uses to evaluate compliance with its inflation target.

5

Both the general level and the core component 4 increased 1.3% with respect to December (see Graph 2.1).

3

On the other hand, high-frequency indicators from 2 state and private sources monitored by the Central Bank indicate that February inflation would have increased Average 2nd Semester 2016: 1.4 1.3 with respect to the value registered in recent months, mainly 1 as a product of an increase in regulated prices, although for 0 the moment without altering the monetary authority's view May-16Jun-16Jul-16Ago-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dic-16Ene-17 regarding the disinflation process currently underway. Source: INDEC.

In turn, considering the evolution of the CPI GBA core in the second semester of 2016, the larger increases Graph 2.2 registered in January in the indices of other districts (see Graph 2.2) and the greater impact that regulated price % Monthly Core Inflation increases will have in relation to that associated with the rest 5 IPCBA Rest of the components of the CPI, the Central Bank considers 4 INDEC Core it appropriate to maintain a cautious stance. Córdoba - Core

3 As a result of all available information, in February the Central Bank decided to keep its monetary policy rate 2 unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 24.75%. It also maintained the corridor width, so the 7-day 1 passive repo rate was 24% and the active rate was 25.5% (see Graph 2.3).

0 May-16Jun-16Jul-16Ago-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dic-16Ene-17 Sources: General Statistics and Census Office of the GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Statistics and Census Office of Córdoba.

The 1-day repo corridor also underwent no changes in February. Passive operations continued to be arranged at 22.75% and active operations at a rate of 26.75%.

As had been announced, in February LEBAC Graph 2.3 began to be auctioned once a month. On this occasion, the cutoff interest rates declined compared to those at the end of January, around 0.5 p.p. for most of the awarded terms.

The Central Bank will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective of inflation between 12% and 17% during 2017.

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 4

Market interest rates

Graph 2.4 Market interest rates showed dissimilar trajectories in February.

The shorter-term interest rates were located close to the lower limit of the rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market; maintaining a downward trajectory and with greater stability than that registered in January. In interfinancial markets, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations averaged 23.6% in February, 0.5 p.p. below the value registered in January. In turn, the amount traded showed a decline of approximately $250 million. For its part, the average interest rate on 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was located at 23%, showing a decline of 0.5 p.p. (see Graph 2.4). In this case, the average daily amount negotiated decreased by more than $2,500 million, totaling $6,500 million.

Graph 2.5 Documents With respect to the interest rates associated with the Documents financing of commercial activity, the rate applied to (daily data)
TNA; %
35 advances registered a decrease of 0.5 percentage points and averaged

33 Interest rate of Discounted Documents 29.1%. In particular, the one corresponding to advances

31 Discounted Documents at 90 days - Private Banks in current account with agreement of 1 to 7 days and $10

29 million or more showed a trajectory similar to the rates

27 in the interbank loan market and averaged

25 25%, decreasing 0.4 p.p. with respect to January. On the other

23 hand, the interest rate applied to loans granted

21 through single-signature documents continued de-

19 creasing and averaged 21.9%, 0.6 p.p. less than in

17 January. In contrast, the monthly average of the interest rate of

15 discounted documents was located at 19.1%,
Mar-16Apr-16May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17
 registering an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month.
Source: BCRA
 Nevertheless, this result did not obey a change
 in the trend of these interest rates, but rather
 a modification in the participation that the different
 entities had in the calculation of the rate for the total of
 Graph 2.6 operations which, as in the rest of the lines, arises from
 p.p. Monthly Average Variation Personal and Chattel a weighted average by amount. Thus, if a
 0.8 (daily data)
 0.2 rate is calculated for a more homogeneous group, such as
 0.0
 TNA; % that of operations arranged by private banks in the
 50 -0.8 -0.8 Personal Chattel
 -1.6 90-day segment, it is observed that so far this year
 45 the interest rate charged for the discount of documents
 40 showed a much less volatile and slightly
 35 downward trajectory (see Graph 2.5).
 30

 25 Active interest rates intended mainly for the

 20 financing of families also showed mixed
 15 behaviors. The interest rate of personal loans averaged 39%, registering a decline of 0.8
 p.p. with respect to the previous month to be located at a level si-
Mar-16Apr-16May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17
 Source: BCRA milar to that of December. On the other hand, the interest rate
 corresponding to chattel loans averaged 19%

 Monetary Report | February of 201 7 | BCRA | 5
 increasing 0.2 p.p. with respect to January (see Graph
 Graph 2.7 2.6). Similarly to what occurred in the discounted
 %; p.p. Short-Term Interest Rates documents line, the increase was associated mainly
 36 (daily data) with the change in the relative weight that different
 Deposits up to $100 thousand up to 35 days - private banks entities had in the total interest rate and did not imply
 BADLAR private banks
 32 a change in the trend of the rates.

 28 For its part, passive interest rates presented limited
 variations, remaining relatively stable. The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits
 24 of $1 million and more, of 30 to 35 days maturity– of private
 banks, averaged 20%, while the average

 20 of the interest rate paid by private entities for
 fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days

 16 maturity was located at 16.9% (see Graph 2.7). Thus, in a

 31-Dec-1529-Feb-1630-Apr-1630-Jun-1631-Aug-1631-Oct-1631-Dec-16 period in which the interest rates of BCRA securities
 decreased, the margin between the
 yield of the 35-day LEBAC and the BADLAR of
 Graph 3.1 private banks also fell.

 Balance of seasonally adjusted aggregates in real terms 3. Monetary Aggregates 1
 billions of $ at February 2017 prices billions of $
 1.3 1.9

 1.2 1.8 The monetary aggregates of the private sector remained

 1.1 1.7 relatively stable with respect to January, when considering

 1.0 1.6 their balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality

 0.9 1.5 (see Graph 3.1). This was the result of a
0.8 M2 Private 1.4 monthly increase in circulating currency in the hands of the public and
 Circ. in Hands of Public
 M3 Private (right axis) savings account deposits, practically offset by a decrease in current
 0.7 1.3
 account deposits.

 0.6 1.2

 0.5 1.1

 0.4 1.0 In nominal terms, this behavior implied
 Dec-07Dec-08Dec-09Dec-10Dec-11Dec-12Dec-13Dec-14Dec-15Dec-16
 Source BCRA. Aggregates deflated by National CPI observed and according to REM expectations. a monthly decrease in the components of private M2 –
 circulating currency in the hands of the public (0.7%) and sight deposits of the private sector
 (1%) – and an increase in time placements of the private sector (3.7%). In the context
 mentioned of reduction of the margin between the rate
 Graph 3.2
 thousands of Variation of fixed-term deposits and LEBAC private sector of LEBAC of 35 days and the BADLAR of private
 millions of $ accumulated last 30 days p.p.
 100 15 banks, deposits of more than $1 million encouraged the
 increase in the participation of fixed-term deposits in the
 80 portfolio that agents of the non-financial private sector
 10
 60 allocate to LEBAC and time placements (see Graph 3.2).
 40 5
 20
 The aforementioned variations, together with the increase
 0 0 in public deposits, resulted in an annual growth of
 -20 -5 M3 Total3 of 27.7%, 4.5 p.p. above the previous month.
 LEBAC Private Sector NF
 -40 Fixed-term Less than $1M In contrast, the monetary aggregates of the private sector
 -10
 -60 Fixed-term More than $1M maintained relatively stable their annual expansion rates
 Spread Rate LEBAC 35 d. - BADLAR private banks with respect to January: private M2 4 registered a growth of
 -80 -15
 Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17 31.4% y.o.y., while private M3 5 increased 26.3%
 Source: BCRA

3 Total M3 includes circulating currency in the hands of the public and the total of peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sectors.
4 Private M2 includes circulating currency in the hands of the public and sight deposits of the private sector in pesos.

 Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 6
 with respect to 12 months ago (0.7 p.p. above the
 Graph 3.3 variation observed in January).

 Balance and annual variation of the Monetary Base
 billions of $ As mentioned in the Monthly Monetary Report of June
 1.0 Greater cash in banks
 and July 2016 and January 2017, several factors affected
 Increase in reserve requirements
 Rest of Monetary Base balance the balance of the monetary base during recent months,
 0.9 Quarterly average without increase in reserve requirements nor greater cash in banks which resulted in an acceleration of its growth rate, above
 47% y.o.y.
 what was evidenced in the broader monetary aggregates:
 35% y.o.y.
 0.8 27% y.o.y. change in reserve requirement coefficients established from mid-2016,
 the dynamics of the integration of reserve requirements
 0.7 24% y.o.y. of financial entities in the December-February period
 and the increase in banking liquidity held in cash (see
 0.6 Banking Liquidity). Once the balance is adjusted by said
 factors, it is appreciated that the growth of the monetary
 0.5 base is in line with that of the rest of the aggregates.
 Dec-15Jan-16Feb-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17 Thus, in the quarter December 2016-February 2017 it
 Source: BCRA
 registered growth of 24% y.o.y. (see Graph 3.3). As of
 Graph 4.1 March there will be a reduction of reserve requirements
 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector in pesos (see Banking Liquidity), reversing part of
 % % the increase established in mid-2016. This measure and
 6 60 the conclusion of the reserve requirement period will
 Monthly variation result in a deceleration of the annual growth rate of the
 5 50 monetary base.

 Y.o.y. var. (right axis)
 4 40 On the other hand, in the dollar segment, deposits
 increased, mainly due to the inflow of funds associated
 3 30 with debt placements by the public sector. In
 2 20
1 10 those from the private sector reached US$23,000 million,
the highest level since 2003.

0 0
4. Loans 1 6
-1 -10
Feb-12Feb-13Feb-14Feb-15Feb-16Feb-17

Source: BCRA Loans in pesos to the private sector moderated their
monthly growth rate, as is customary in February.
Chart 4.2 In the period presented, they showed an increase of 1.8% ($16,600
Advances in Pesos to the Private Sector Feb-17 million), which contrasts with the decline observed in the same
millions $ (daily balance - base index avg. 7 days as of 2nd of month 2017) month of 2016. Thus, the year-on-year variation increased
Feb-16 by 3.1 p.p., placing itself at 23.2% (see Chart 4.1).
118 Feb-15

116 Feb-14 Within loans with essentially commercial purposes,
advances showed a monthly growth of 4.9% ($5,150
114 Feb-13 million), the highest in recent months. When observing
112 their daily evolution during the course of the month, a
110 growth superior to that of other years is verified in the first
108 half of the month (see Chart 4.2), in a context of decrease
106 in interest rates associated with this line. Consequently,
104 the year-on-year variation of advances increased almost
102 4 p.p. with respect to the previous month, placing itself
100 at 12.7%. For its part, loans granted through documents
98 maintained their average monthly balance relatively stable
and in the last 12 months accumulated growth close to 10%.
1357911131517192123252729
Source: BCRA day

5 Private M3 includes currency in the hands of the public and the total of peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
6 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 7

placing itself at 12.7%. For its part, loans granted
through documents maintained their average monthly
balance relatively stable and in the last 12 months
accumulated growth close to 10%.

Chart 4.3
Personal Loans to the Private Sector With respect to lines intended mainly to finance house-
millions $ (amount and average monthly term) hold consumption, personal loans continued showing good
months
900 Average daily amount 50 performance. In February, they registered an increase of
800 Term (right axis) Nov-16 3.8% ($8,640 million), accelerating their year-on-year
700 Feb-17 45 growth rate, which went from around 39% in January to
43.8 42% in the last month. Considering new loans (amounts
600 Jan-16 40
granted), since mid-2016 they show marked recovery,
500 40.2
35 which has been accompanied by an extension in the term
400 of these financing (see Chart 4.3). It is worth mentioning
30
that, in addition to traditional personal loans, since late
300
2016 some loans denominated in Acquisition Value Units
200 25 (UVA) have been placed. By the end of February, $600
100 20 million have been granted under this modality. For its part,
0 financing with credit cards registered a slight decline in
Feb-13Ago-13Feb-14Ago-14Feb-15Ago-15Feb-16Ago-16Feb-17 the month and maintained their year-on-year growth rate
Source: BCRA in the order of 28%.

Loans with real guarantee continued growing at a good
pace. Mortgages showed an increase of 2.6% ($1,630
million), somewhat less than in the previous two-month
period, although they continued showing an increase
in their year-on-year growth rate, which went from being
around 12% to 15%. In particular, with respect to mort-
gage loans denominated in UVA, more than $700 million
were granted in the month, an amount superior...

Chart 4.4
Mortgage Loans with UVA
millions $ (amounts and participation in loans granted to individuals) %
900 50
800 43.8 45 higher than that observed in January. Its participation in mort-
 Amount gage loans granted to individuals increased
 700 36.9 40
 34.9 34.6 35 from 37% to approximately 45%. (see Graph 4.4). Thus,
 600 UVAS / Individuals (%; right axis)
 30.9 since the launch of this instrument, in April of last
 30
 500 26.2 year, and until February approximately $3,400 million
 25
 400 were disbursed. If personal loans granted under this
 20
 300 1… 15 modality are added, total UVA financing amounts to
 200 10 more than $4,000 million 7. For its part, loans with
 6.3
 100 5 chattel mortgage guarantee increased 4.4% ($2,400 mil-

 0 0 lion), somewhat less than in January. Nevertheless, they
 May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17 continued to increase their year-on-year growth rate,
 Source: BCRA which reached 42.1%, 6.4 p.p. more than the previous
 month.

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 showed an increase of 4.6% in the month
 (US$420 million), explained both by lines associated
 with pre-financing of exports and by financing with
 credit cards.

7 As of the publication date of this report (with data as of March 6), UVA loans totaling approximately
$3,550 million had been granted.

 Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 8
 5. Liquidity of Financial Entities 1
 Graph 5.1

 Variation of the main assets of financial entities
 % of deposit based on average monthly variations In February, financial entities allocated the increase
 balance in deposits and funds from the decline in their
 LEBAC Repo CC BCRA Cash Loans S. Priv. Fin. to S. Public
 LEBAC holdings to increase their repos with the Central
 10 Bank, grant loans to the private sector and increase
 8 their cash balances. This allocation of resources dif-
 6 fered significantly from that observed in the same
 4 month of 2016. At that time, given the excess accumu-
 2 lated in the Minimum Cash position quarterly as of the
 0 end of January, banks had reduced current accounts at
 -2 the Central Bank, mainly increasing their LEBAC bal-
 ances. However, in December 2016-February 2017 the
 -4 integration of reserves was more uniform, which meant
 Dec-15Jan-16Feb-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17
 Source: BCRA that balances in current accounts showed much narrower
 variations during the period. In turn, within the frame-
 work of operational changes that accompanied the formal
 Graph 5.2 adoption of the Inflation Targeting regime as of 2017, it
 Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities is notable the transfer of liquid funds from LEBAC

 % of CC BCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity towards repos in the first two months of the current year (see
 deposits
 50 Graph 5.1).
 45 43.4 44.3 44.4 44.1 44.9
 42.1 42.1 42.5
 38.6 40.2 In short, the liquidity of financial entities in the local
 40 37.9 37.5 36.8 37.6
 16.6 currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks,
 35 22.3 19.5
 the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net
 30
 25 7.5 1.0 2.5 repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC, as a
 20 percentage of deposits in pesos) reached 44.9% in the
 4.8 5.5 5.8
 15 month under analysis (see Graph 5.2). This level was
 10 16.0 14.9 15.0 consistent with a surplus in the quarterly reserve inte-
 5 gration equivalent to 0.2%
 0
Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 of the total deposits in pesos (see Graph 5.3).

* LEBAC and NOBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA

It should be noted that as of March, a reduction in reserve requirement coefficients on peso deposits equivalent to 2% of the total of these placements will come into effect. This measure is aimed at counteracting the higher level of immobilized funds in cash that banks maintain as a collateral effect of the initiatives designed to reduce the operational cost of currency management⁸. On the other hand, it would tend to compress the differences between active and passive rates; possibly, encouraging an increase in the rates paid for deposits. This is so because, in practice, reserve requirements act as a tax on bank deposits and their reduction makes it more attractive for banks to take deposits.

For its part, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) remained at elevated levels, placing it at 76.5% (1.3 p.p. above the previous month).

**Graph 5.3**
**% of the Minimum Cash Position in Pesos**
**Deposits**
Quarterly Calculation
Quarterly Calculation

Accumulated Integration Daily Integration

1-Dec-15 1-Feb-16 1-Apr-16 1-Jun-16 1-Aug-16 1-Oct-16 1-Dec-16 1-Feb-17

Source: BCRA

⁸ See Communication A 6195 and press note at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Institucional/DescargaPDF/DownloadPDF.aspx?Id=355

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 9

---

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market⁹

In February, international reserves accumulated an increase of US$3,721 million, reaching a balance of US$50,608 million at the end of the month. Thus, it returns to the levels observed in mid-2011; in turn, when considered in terms of GDP, they would have recovered around 4 p.p. with respect to the minimum observed at the end of 2015 (see Graph 6.1). The monthly increase in reserves was associated mainly with the issuance of debt by the national public sector and provincial sector, and also by private companies.

**Graph 6.1**
**International Reserves and GDP**
**% of GDP based on average monthly balances** | **thousands of millions of US$**

International Reserves / GDP s.e. | Saldo de Reservas Internacionales (right axis)

Nov-15

Jan-96 Jan-98 Jan-00 Jan-02 Jan-04 Jan-06 Jan-08 Jan-10 Jan-12 Jan-14 Jan-16

Source: BCRA

The reference exchange rate of the peso / United States dollar ended February at 15.46, presenting a decrease of 2.8% compared to the close of the previous month. As in the previous months, the Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish the parity of foreign exchange buying and selling operations, carrying out only occasional operations, essentially with the National Treasury. This exchange regime provides flexibility to the national economy to face any external fluctuations.

⁹ In this section, the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 10

---

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal Monetary Variables and Financial System | Monthly Averages |  |  | Percentage Variations |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Feb-17 | Jan-17 | Dec-16 | Feb-16 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
| **Monetary Base** | 827,036 | 815,486 | 787,895 | 563,460 | 1.4% | 46.8% |
| **Monetary Circulation** | 602,749 | 599,160 | 562,994 | 458,865 | 0.6% | 31.4% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 516,355 | 520,130 | 494,948 | 405,431 | -0.7% | 27.4% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 86,393 | 79,030 | 68,045 | 53,434 | 9.3% | 61.7% |
| Cancellation Checks | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.4 | 0.03 | 2.6% | - |
| Current Account in the BCRA | 224,287 | 216,326 | 224,901 | 104,595 | 3.7% | 114.4% |
| **Stock of Repurchase Agreements** |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Liabilities | 135,059 | 75,674 | 52,777 | 31,032 | 78.5% | 335.2% |
| Assets | 0 | 31 | 34 | 0 |  |  |
# STOCK OF BCRA SECURITIES (at nominal value)
620,220 643,368 669,257 497,556 -3.6% 24.7%

In banks 259,203 291,270 322,853 361,472 -11.0% -28.3%

LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos 620,220 643,368 669,036 429,371 -3.6% 44.4%
In dollars 0 0 144,594 #¡DIV/0! -100.0%

NOBAC 0 0 0 0 -- --

BCRA international reserves (5) 48,464 41,156 37,853 29,359 17.8% 65.1%

Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,491,843 1,440,132 1,397,683 1,167,690 3.6% 27.8%
Current account (2) 397,224 431,262 403,278 344,403 -7.9% 15.3%
Savings account 326,956 325,559 327,379 232,025 0.4% 40.9%
Fixed-term not adjustable by CER 709,742 627,344 604,283 546,461 13.1% 29.9%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER 55 246 539 7 18.7% 3543.9%
Other deposits (3) 57,368 55,502 62,347 44,786 3.4% 28.1%

Private sector deposits 1,133,488 1,118,898 1,098,356 900,404 1.3% 25.9%

Public sector deposits 358,354 321,234 299,326 267,285 11.6% 34.1%

Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 31,420 25,075 24,343 12,958 25.3% 142.5%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 970,525 954,904 932,110 818,489 1.6% 18.6%

Loans to the private sector 930,421 913,795 886,547 755,231 1.8% 23.2%
Advances 110,355 105,210 107,280 97,941 4.9% 12.7%
Documents 197,639 197,272 189,883 179,117 0.2% 10.3%
Mortgage loans 63,475 61,840 59,273 55,060 2.6% 15.3%
Pawn loans 56,913 54,519 51,937 40,064 4.4% 42.1%
Personal loans 234,208 225,572 217,663 164,924 3.8% 42.0%
Credit cards 230,340 231,325 223,744 180,375 -0.4% 27.7%
Others 37,491 38,057 36,768 37,751 -1.5% -0.7%

Loans to the public sector 40,105 41,109 45,563 63,258 -2.4% -36.6%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,684 9,262 9,226 3,533 4.6% 174.1%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 913,581 951,393 898,226 749,834 -4.0% 21.8%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,240,537 1,276,952 1,225,605 981,858 -2.9% 26.3%

M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 2,008,199 1,960,262 1,892,631 1,573,120 2.4% 27.7%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,499,845 2,361,176 2,280,869 1,770,222 5.9% 41.2%

Private monetary aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 764,960 776,472 744,927 604,911 -1.5% 26.5%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,075,983 1,085,342 1,055,367 819,146 -0.9% 31.4%

M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 1,649,845 1,639,029 1,593,305 1,305,835 0.7% 26.3%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,008,056 2,001,032 1,936,380 1,478,606 0.4% 35.8%

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 11

## Average variations

**Variation factors** | **Monthly** | **Contribution (4)** | **Quarterly** | **Contribution (4)** | **Accumulated 2017** | **Contribution (4)** | **Last 12 months** | **Contribution (4)**
Nominal | | Nominal | | Nominal | | Nominal |

Monetary base 11,550 | 1.4% | 108,164 | 15.0% | 39,141 | 5.0% | 263,576 | 46.8%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 0 | 0.0% | 11,211 | 1.6% | 6,873 | 0.9% | 46,905 | 8.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury | 29,033 | 3.6% | 66,867 | 9.3% | 35,979 | 4.6% | 193,230 | 34.3%
Temporary advances and transfer of utilities | 4,862 | 0.6% | 8,451 | 1.2% | 3,571 | 0.5% | 165,272 | 29.3%
Other public sector operations | -406 | 0.0% | -1,487 | -0.2% | -1,573 | -0.2% | -11,512 | -2.0%
Sterilization (repos and securities) | -22,831 | -2.8% | 21,256 | 3.0% | -7,275 | -0.9% | -132,220 | -23.5%
Others | 892 | 0.1% | 1,865 | 0.3% | 1,565 | 0.2% | 1,902 | 0.3%

BCRA International Reserves | 7,308 | 17.8% | 10,759 | 28.5% | 10,611 | 28.0% | 19,105 | 65.1%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 0 | 0.0% | 708 | 1.9% | 434 | 1.1% | 3,354 | 11.4%
Payment to international organizations | -149 | -0.4% | -255 | -0.7% | -129 | -0.3% | -1,832 | -6.2%
Other public sector operations | 1,359 | 3.3% | 4,528 | 12.0% | 2,106 | 5.6% | 13,361 | 45.5%
Minimum cash | 5,968 | 14.5% | 6,058 | 16.1% | 7,610 | 20.1% | 14,435 | 49.2%
Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) | 130 | 0.3% | -279 | -0.7% | 589 | 1.6% | -10,212 | -34.8%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Feb-17Jan-17Dec-16
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos (1)
 Requirement 15.1
 Integration 15.3
 Position (2) 0.2
 Residual term structure of time deposits %
 fixed used for requirement calculation (3)

 Up to 29 days 66.868.968.6
 30 to 59 days 21.520.021.3
 60 to 89 days 6.55.75.1
 90 to 179 days 3.43.93.1
 more than 180 days 1.81.61.9

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 31.624.724.6
 Integration (includes resource application default) 70.565.460.5
 Position (2) 38.940.735.9
 Residual term structure of time deposits %
 fixed used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 55.954.955.1
 30 to 59 days 22.321.422.4
 60 to 89 days 10.611.410.0
 90 to 179 days 8.39.09.6
 180 to 365 days 2.83.12.8
 more than 365 days 0.10.20.1

(1) Between December and February the Minimum Cash regime in national currency is computed on a quarterly basis.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 12
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-17Jan-17Dec-16Feb-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 23.5724.0924.6624.78
 Amount traded 4.0124.3664.5763.441

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 18.3918.4018.7824.73
 60 days or more 18.8118.9519.0626.34
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.2019.1119.5423.82
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.0019.7622.1026.11

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.380.380.391.37
 60 days or more 0.580.610.681.96
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.470.440.451.13
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.550.550.551.40

 Active Interest Rates Feb-17Jan-17Dec-16Feb-16

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.4623.5125.5027.87
 Amount traded (total terms) 783767795591

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 29.7030.2630.9933.58
 Signature documents only 21.9222.5323.5431.71
 Mortgage 19.0819.2019.7024.63
 Pledged 18.9818.8220.7330.56
 Personal 38.9039.7639.1442.07
 Credit cards n/d43.5044.3539.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 25.0725.3925.9227.60

 International Interest Rates Feb-17Jan-17Dec-16Feb-16

LIBOR
 1 month 0.780.770.720.43
 6 months 1.351.341.311.31

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.191.201.190.73
 10 years 2.422.432.501.77

FED Funds Rate 0.750.750.660.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.8813.2413.7514.25

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to
daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 13
Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-17Jan-17Dec-16Feb-16

BCRA repurchase rates
 Passive 1 day 22.7522.7522.0218.24
 Passive 7 days 24.0023.8622.8120.21
 Active 7 days 25.5025.6426.6927.28

Repurchase rates among third parties REPO session
 1 day 22.9423.4024.0124.17

Amount traded of repurchase agreements among third parties REPO session (daily average) 6.4919.1678.3005.462
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 22.7523.524.830.6
 2 months 22.5123.524.429.56
 3 months 22.0023.1024.1628.75

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
1 month w/os/os/o 1.16
3 months w/os/os/o 1.10
6 months w/os/os/os/o
12 months w/os/os/os/o

Amount traded in LEBAC on secondary market (daily average) 10,337 11,806 11,758 5,154

Foreign Exchange Market Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Feb-16

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 15.59 15.91 15.84 14.84
Retail 15.68 15.97 15.89 14.84

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month 15.86 16.06 16.02 14.83
ROFEX 1 month 15.81 16.17 16.22 14.99
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 7,227 6,666 8,423 8,328

Real (Pesos x Real) 5.02 4.98 4.73 3.74

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 16.60 16.91 16.69 16.48

Capital Markets Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Feb-16

MERVAL
Index 19,493 18,736 16,711 11,866
Amount traded (millions of pesos) 382 435 282 285

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 107.3 106.8 103.7 118.4
BONAR X (US$) 100.7 101.2 102.6 101.7
DISCOUNT ($) 120.0 119.1 117.0 114.7

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond Spread 226 124 -80 595
EMBI+ Argentina (3) 453 466 494 471

EMBI+ Latin America 450 472 491 648

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars settled in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of
1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 04-27-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction
of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 14

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Common Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFEB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and
sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and
the total of deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancelable checks and
the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the public and private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.
STP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | February 2017 | BCRA | 15
