# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

   Interest rates of monetary policy | Page 4

   Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was June 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and are
subject to revision.

## 1. Summary 1

• In May, the price indices for April were released. According to the IPC GBA of INDEC, the general
level of retail prices increased 2.6%, while its core component grew 2.3%. In both cases, growth was
higher than that registered in March. In contrast, in other jurisdictions the increase in prices decelerated
in April and was lower than that computed by the IPC GBA. The high-frequency indicators monitored
by the Central Bank indicate that in May the disinflation path would have resumed.

• In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the
7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the 7-day repo corridor remained at 25.5%-27%.

• As it has been doing since early March, in May the BCRA absorbed liquidity through open market
operations. It sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of VN $166.9 billion, which generated a
monetary absorption that amply compensated for the partial renewal of maturities in the primary market
and the expansion associated with the decline in the balance of reverse repos.

• Market interest rates remained stable throughout May. Thus, the interest rates in the interbank loan
markets remained at the lower limit of the Central Bank's repo corridor and both active and passive rates
remained at levels similar to those reached at the end of April.

• The counterparties of the Central Bank in the LEBAC market were both banks and buyers from
the non-financial sector. Thus, the non-financial private sector continued to increase the proportion of
its savings held in these securities.

• Considering its value adjusted for seasonality, the real balance of private M2 remained compared to
the previous month, while time deposits in pesos of the private sector decreased, which explained the
monthly reduction of the real balance adjusted for seasonality of Private M3. In nominal terms, monetary
aggregates have maintained great stability so far this year.

• The banking liquidity indicator in local currency (current account at the BCRA, cash, LEBAC
balance and repos at the BCRA, in terms of deposits) remained at 45.4% since, although financial
entities purchased LEBACs, they also reduced their repo balances and cash.

• Loans to the private sector continued to increase both in nominal and real terms. In the peso
segment, although personal loans explained most of the real increase, mortgage and chattel loans were
the lines that grew the most in absolute terms and those that show a more abrupt change in their
trajectory, having reversed several years of consecutive declines. In the case of mortgage loans, their
greater dynamism has been favored by loans denominated in UVA. In nominal terms, they grew 4.2%
($2,820 million) in the month and 28.3% in the last twelve months. With respect to UVA financing,
since the launch of this instrument, approximately $11,160 million has been granted ($7,460 million in
mortgage loans and $3,700 million in chattel and personal loans).
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | May of 2017 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates 2

 Chart 2.1 Monetary Policy Interest Rates

 % Monthly Inflation - General Levels In May, the price indices for April were released.
 6
 INDEC Buenos Aires City Córdoba San Luis According to the INDEC GBA CPI, the general level of
 5
 retail prices increased 2.6%, while its core component
 4
 grew 2.3%. In both cases, the growth was higher than
 3 that recorded in March. However, in other jurisdictions
 the price increase decelerated in April and was lower
 2
 than that computed by the GBA CPI (see Chart 2.1).
 1
 For its part, the high-frequency indicators from public
 0 and private sources that the Central Bank monitors
 -1 indicate that in May the disinflation path would have
 -2 resumed.
 May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Jan-17 Mar-17

 Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorates of Statistics
 and Census of San Luis and Córdoba.

 As a result of all available information, the BCRA
 decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the
 center of the 7-day repurchase operations corridor, at
 26.25%. Thus, the corridor for this period remained at
 Chart 2.2
 25.5% - 27% (see Chart 2.2).
 % Interest Rates in Pesos - 7 days

 33 Advances Up to 7 days - More than $10 M - Private Banks In May the Central Bank continued conducting
 31 BCRA repurchase corridor at 7 days open market operations, as it has been doing since
 March, seeking to manage liquidity conditions in such
 Center of the Repurchase Operations Corridor at 7 days
 29 a way as to ensure that the disinflation process is
 consolidated. In the month under analysis it sold LEBAC
 27
 in the secondary market for a total of $166.9 billion
 25 in nominal value, which generated a monetary
 absorption that amply compensated the partial
 23
 renewal of maturities in the auction and the expansion
 21 associated with the decline in the balance of reverse
 repurchase operations. The securities traded were
 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17
 Source: BCRA mainly the issues maturing on the third Wednesday of May
 (32%) and June (33%). Between late April and May,
 the interest rate of the 35-day LEBAC in the secondary
 Chart 2.3 Interest Rates in the Market
 Secondary Market LEBAC Thousands of
 27 % Amount Traded by the BCRA (right axis) millions 18
 35-day LEBAC Rate
 26 16 market increased 170 basis points (see Chart 2.3).

 14
 25 Following the increases experienced in the second half
 of April, accompanying those of the Central Bank rates,
 12
 24 during the course of May most interest rates remained
 10
 stable.
 23
 8
 22 The shorter-term interest rates remained close to the
 6 lower limit of the interest rate corridor established by
 21
 4 the BCRA in the repurchase market. In interbank
 20 2 markets, the interest rate on call operations for 1
 business day averaged 24.5% in May, 0.5 p.p. above
 19 0
 02-Mar-17 17-Mar-17 01-Apr-17 16-Apr-17 01-May-17 16-May-17

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | May of 2017 | BCRA | 4

 the value recorded the previous month (see Chart 2.4).
 For its part, the average interest rate for 1 business day
 Chart 2.4 operations between financial entities in the guaranteed
 TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos - 1 day market (REPO trading) was located at 24.6%, registering
 45 an increase of 1.6 p.p. The average daily amount traded
 in both markets increased by $1,300 million, totaling
 40
 around $7,400 million.
 35

 Meanwhile, the rates paid for fixed-term deposits
 remained practically stable throughout the month. The BA-
30 DLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with a term of 30 to 35 days– from private banks ended May at 20.1%. Thus it continued widening the spread between this wholesale rate and the 35-day LEBAC rate. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was positioned at 16.9% at the end of May (see Graph 2.5).

BCRA pass broker at 1 day Call at 1 day

Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Jan-17 Mar-17 May-17
Source: BCRA Graph 2.5
Short-Term Interest Rates
TNA; % (Daily Data)

On the other hand, the majority of active rates also did not show significant trend changes in May and the variations in their average values were associated with trend changes in April –in the case of discounted documents– or with the characteristic volatility they display, linked to changes in the participation of different financial entities in the average observed each day. With regard to credit destined mainly to families, the interest rate applied to loans granted through pawn loans averaged 19.6%, showing an increase of 0.2 p.p. Meanwhile, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 38.3%, increasing 0.1 p.p. compared to the April average. On the other hand, the rates of the lines destined to finance business activity showed mixed behaviors. The one corresponding to documents on sole signature was positioned at 21.9%, showing a decline of 0.5 p.p. monthly average. Meanwhile, the rate for discounted documents averaged 20.5% in May, 0.5 p.p. above the previous month (see Graph 2.6).

BADLAR Private Banks
BADLAR Private Banks adjusted by reserve requirements
Fixed-Term Deposits of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)
LEBAC 35 Days - Secondary Market
LEBAC 35 days - Primary Market

Personal Loans Sole Signature Documents
Pawn Loans Discounted Documents

Jan-16 Mar-16 May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Jan-17 Mar-17 May-17
Source: BCRA
Graph 2.6
Active Interest Rates
TNA; %

3. Monetary Aggregates 1

The real balance 3 and seasonally adjusted of private M3 presented in May a reduction, reaching a level similar to that of end of 2016 (see Graph 3.1). Its monthly behavior was explained by the fall in fixed-term deposits, since the means of payment of the private sector (private M2) remained stable.

01-Jan-17 21-Jan-17 10-Feb-17 02-Mar-17 22-Mar-17 11-Apr-17 01-May-17 21-May-17
Source: BCRA

3 They are deflated with the general level of the national indicator (CPI-NP). The BCRA calculates the CPI-NP based on consumer price indices of the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Expenditure Survey corresponding to the 2004-2005 period (ENGHo 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption expenditure by region of said survey, for the construction of the CPI-NP the CPIABA weighs 44% (being used as representative of the evolution of prices in the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampas Region, the CPI of Córdoba weighs 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San Luis (22% of the CPI-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 5

In nominal terms, the balances of monetary aggregates in pesos and their components presented limited variations in May. The increase registered by Total M3 (0.7%) was explained by the increases in currency in the hands of the public and deposits of the private sector, given that placements of the public sector showed a decrease.

Graph 3.1
Balance of seasonally adjusted monetary aggregates in real terms in billions $ May-17 prices billions $
1.0 1.7
Among deposits from the private sector, both sight deposits 0.9 1.6
and time deposits increased. In turn, the increase in Currency in circulation
Public Circulation 0.8 M2 Private 1.5 the latter was explained exclusively
M3 Private (right axis)
by those of smaller amounts (less than $1 million), while 0.7 1.4

0.6 1.3 wholesale time deposits maintained an average monthly

0.5 1.2 balance similar, in nominal terms, to that of the previous

0.4 1.1 month. This trajectory took place in a context in which
Dec-07Dec-08Dec-09Dec-10Dec-11Dec-12Dec-13Dec-14Dec-15Dec-16
Source BCRA. Aggregates deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations. holdings of LEBAC by the non-financial private sector
continued to grow and in which the spread between LEBAC
and BADLAR rates continued to be positive (see section
"Market Interest Rates"). In real terms, this meant that
the current balance of time deposits of the private sector
Chart 3.2
turned out to be similar to that at the end of 2012,
Time Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
although if the total balance in time deposits and LEBAC is
trillions $ (in real terms at May-17 prices)
considered, the savings of the non-financial private sector
1.1
Time Deposit continued to increase (see Chart 3.2).
1.0
Time Deposit + LEBAC Non-financial Private Sector
0.9 In year-on-year terms, monetary aggregates presented
heterogeneous behaviors. On one hand, private sector 0.8
aggregates registered an acceleration of less than 1 p.p.
0.7
On the other hand, Total M3 and the monetary base
0.6
reduced their year-on-year growth rate (see Chart 3.3).
0.5

0.4 The aforementioned evolution for broad monetary aggregates

0.3 was consistent with a stable average monthly balance of
Dec-08Dec-09Dec-10Dec-11Dec-12Dec-13Dec-14Dec-15Dec-16 the monetary base ($784,356 million), proving an increase
Source BCRA. Balances deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations.
in currency in circulation held by the public and a
decrease in bank reserves. The expansion generated by
the Central Bank's foreign exchange purchase operations
and transfers to the National Treasury (consistent with
Chart 3.3 the annual limit of $150,000 million) was offset by the
Monetary Aggregates
contractionary effect of absorption through the placement
% (year-on-year variation)
of LEBAC (see Chart 3.4).
50

45 Foreign currency deposits decreased in May, with declines
40 in both public sector and private sector placements. The
35 reduction in public sector placements was mainly
30 associated with foreign currency payments made by the
Monetary Base National Treasury, while the decrease corresponding to
25
M2 Private the private sector would be associated with a portfolio
M3 Private
20 M3 decision for a preference for other financial instruments
15 (National Treasury Bills and Investment Funds). Thus,
May-12May-13May-14May-15May-16May-17 private sector dollar deposits reached a balance of US$23,100
Source: BCRA million at the end of the month.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 6
Chart 3.4 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 4,
thousands of Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
millions of $ (May 2017, on average)
decreased 1.2%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
30
39%.
20

10 4. Loans 5

0
-10 In May, loans to the private sector continued

-20

-30
-40 showing increases in real and seasonally adjusted terms,3 whether considering the total in pesos
-50 and foreign currency or financing in pesos
-60 Private Sector and Treasury Advances and Rest only (see Chart 4.1). The financing lines
Others National Profits
Foreign Exchange Purchases Other Operations with LEBAC and Repos Circulating that contributed to monthly growth were those of
Treasury National Public Banking personal loans, documents, mortgages and chattel
Source: BCRA mortgages. Although personal loans continue to ex-
plain the largest part of total growth, those
Chart 4.1 granted with real guarantees are the ones growing at a higher
rate and those showing a more drastic change in their evo-
Private Sector Loans -Real Without Seasonality lution during recent months (see Chart 4.2).
thousands of (monthly average balance)
millions $ Regarding mortgage loans, their greater dynamism
1,250 has been favored by loans denominated
in UVA. In nominal terms, they grew 4.2%
1,200 ($2,820 million) in the month and 28.3% in the last twelve
months. With respect to UVA financing,
1,150 since the launch of this instrument, approximately
$7,460 million have been granted. In particular, in the
1,100 last month more than $1,600 million were granted, concen-
trating around half of the mortgage credits
1,050 granted to families (see Chart 4.3). For their part,
loans with chattel mortgage guarantees registered a monthly
1,000 nominal increase of 4.1% ($2,510 million) and contin-
ued accelerating their year-on-year expansion rate, which
Pesos and Foreign Currency 950 was 54.7%. It is worth mentioning that, recently,
Pesos chattel mortgage credits denominated in UVA
900 have also begun to be granted.

850
May-14 Sept-14 Jan-15 May-15 Sept-15 Jan-16 May-16 Sept-16 Jan-17 May-17 Regarding financing destined mainly to
Source: BCRA family consumption, personal loans continued
Chart 4.2 showing very good performance. The nominal
growth recorded in May was 3.9%
% Loans with Real Guarantee in Pesos to Private Sector -Real Without Seasonality ($9,970 million), with a year-on-year variation exceeding
(monthly variation of average balances) 50%. In this line, loans in UVA are also being
4 granted. Meanwhile, credit card financings maintained their
monthly average balance
3 practically stable for the fourth consecutive month.

2 Chattel Mortgages Mortgages

1

0

-1

-2

-3

-4

-5
May-14 Nov-14 May-15 Nov-15 May-16 Nov-16 May-17

4 Includes M3 and deposits of the public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts
granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in
balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 7

Loans with essentially commercial purpose continued Chart 4.3
presenting dissimilar behaviors. On one Mortgage Loans with UVA
hand, financings implemented through docu- millions $ (amounts and participation in loans granted to natural persons) %
1,600 60
ments reflected a monthly nominal increase of 1.6%
Amount
($3,200 million), accumulating growth of 15.8% 1,400 50
in the last twelve months. Thus, in the last three months
they have been showing an increasing trajectory, driven 1,200
UVA / Natural Persons (%; right axis) 40
by both unsecured promissory notes and discounted
1,000
ones, which are arranged at short term and at a
relatively low rate. This is due, in part, to the fact that many 800 30
600 days of financings granted under the framework of the Production Financing and Financial Inclusion Line (LFPIF) are channeled through discounted documents. On the other hand, in the same period advances have shown a downward trend.

20
400
10
200
0 0
May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Jan-17 Mar-17 May-17
Source: BCRA

Thus, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector maintained their monthly growth rate at around 1.9% ($18,650 million), while the year-on-year variation continued to increase until reaching 26.8%.

Graph 5.1

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector recorded growth of 5.3% (US$540 million), the highest of the last six months. Single-signature documents, associated with pre-financing of exports, were those that explained the monthly increase.

5. Liquidity of financial entities¹

During May, and for the second consecutive month, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) remained practically unchanged at 45.3%.

Graph 5.2
As in April, there was a change in its composition, in favor of LEBACs and to the detriment of cash balances and those maintained in transfers at the Central Bank (see Graph 5.1). The level of current accounts at the Central Bank was consistent with a surplus in the integration of reserves equivalent to 0.3% of total peso deposits (see Graph 5.2).

For its part, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net transfers with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) decreased again, averaging 67.4% (6 p.p. below the previous month), in a scenario of lower deposits and increased dollar loans.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market⁶

Graph 6.1
International reserves ended May with a balance of US$46,146 million, presenting a decrease of US$2,071 million compared to the end of April (see Graph 6.1). This was explained fundamentally by the decline in dollar current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA, which reflected the behavior of foreign currency deposits and, in turn, public sector debt payments (among which mainly stood out, the payment to the Paris Club and the Global 2017).

International Reserves and GDP
% GDP (based on average monthly balances) thousands of millions of US$

16 60

14 50

12 40

10 30

8
6 20

4 International Reserves / GDP s.e.*
Balance of International Reserves (right axis)
10
2

0 0
May-05 May-07 May-09 May-11 May-13 May-15 May-17

*Provisional data. Source: BCRA

Likewise, it should be noted that the BCRA made foreign currency purchases for a total of US$1,100 million, in line with its objective of increasing reserves in terms of GDP to a level similar to that of investment-grade economies in the region. The reference exchange rate of the peso/US dollar ended May at 16.14, depreciating 4.6% compared to the previous month.

⁶ In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Main monetary variables and financial system | May-17 | Apr-17 | Dec-16 | May-16 | Monthly | Last 12 months
Monetary Base 784,356789,258787,895584,173-0.6%34.3%
 Monetary Circulation 587,525590,261562,994453,005-0.5%29.7%
 Bills and Coins in possession of the public 522,490515,308494,853400,6651.4%30.4%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 65,03474,95268,14052,340-13.2%24.3%
 Cancellation Checks 0,91.00.40.0-8.8%-
 Current Account in the BCRA 196,832198,996224,901131,168-1.1%50.1%

Stock of Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 130,703146,15052,77733,574-10.6%289.3%
 Assets 003400

Stock of BCRA Securities (in nominal value) 832,997749,810669,257538,56811.1%54.7%
 In banks 340,657325,617322,853272,6484.6%24.9%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 832,997749,810669,036507,27111.1%64.2%
 In dollars 00142,201--100.0%

 NOBAC 0000--

BCRA International Reserves (5) 47,70750,37237,88831,581-5.3%51.1%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,498,7061,492,3471,397,4621,159,2370.4%29.3%
 Current Account (2) 419,659420,871403,232320,617-0.3%30.9%
 Savings Account 325,454323,374327,229229,4470.6%41.8%
 Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER 690,562686,698605,084562,8960.6%22.7%
 Fixed-term adjustable by CER 1,3621,20339721113.2%6506.7%
 Other deposits (3) 61,66960,20361,52046,2562.4%33.3%

 Deposits of the private sector 1,158,124 1,149,336 1,093,014 914,417 0.8% 26.7%

 Deposits of the public sector 340,582 343,011 304,449 244,821 -0.7% 39.1%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1)27,33530,69824,47214,210-11.0%92.4%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,015,010997,659932,208837,1851.7%21.2%

 Loans to the private sector 980,988 962,340 886,640 773,801 1.9% 26.8%
 Advances 104,730104,867107,280 99,212-0.1%5.6%
 Documents 205,588202,384189,882177,5431.6%15.8%
 Mortgage 70,23367,41459,27454,7584.2%28.3%
 Pledge 63,48560,97451,92541,0294.1%54.7%
 Personal 264,593254,625217,673175,6203.9%50.7%
 Credit Cards 231,973233,410223,830187,949-0.6%23.4%
 Others 40,38638,66536,77637,6894.5%7.2%

 Loans to the public sector 34,021 35,320 45,568 63,384 -3.7% -46.3%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 11,41410,6469,2245,3617.2%112.9%

Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos)942,150936,180898,085721,2830.6%30.6%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,267,6041,259,5531,225,314950,7300.6%33.3%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits 2,021,1972,007,6561,892,3161,559,9020.7%29.6%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN)2,451,9642,480,8222,282,5981,764,515-1.2%39.0%

Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 783,370771,792744,776606,6411.5%29.1%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,091,1141,080,0801,054,527820,4621.0%33.0%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in possession of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private 1,680,6161,664,6451,587,8671,315,0821.0%27.8%
deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN)2,054,5302,034,8641,930,9171,485,1801.0%38.3%

 Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 10
 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2017 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4)Nominal Contribution (4)Nominal Contribution (4)Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base -4,901-0.6%-42,680-5.2%-3,539-0.4%200,18434.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 12,0621.5%21,4082.6%28,2823.6%58,29810.0%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 17,6322.2%47,5355.7%83,51410.6%227,18338.9%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 15,5402.0%51,1356.2%54,7066.9%165,25528.3%
Other public sector operations -2330.0%-2360.0%-1,809-0.2%-6,770-1.2%
Sterilization (Repurchase Agreements and Securities) -52,071-6.6%-170,214-20.6%-177,489-22.5%-258,835-44.3%
Others 2,1690.3%7,6920.9%9,2571.2%15,0532.6%
Reference Interest Rates

| Item | May-17 | Apr-17 | Mar-17 | Dec-16 | May-16 |

*Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.*
## BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 24.25 23.70 22.75 22.02 30.00
 Liabilities 7 days 25.50 24.95 24.00 22.81 31.00
 Assets 7 days 27.00 26.45 25.50 26.69 40.00

Repo Rates Between Third Parties REPO Round
 1 day 24.42 22.95 21.45 24.01 34.20

Amount Operated of Repos Between Third Parties REPO Round (daily average) 4,119 2,871 3,462 8,300 5,595

LEBAC Rates in Pesos (1)
 1 month 25.50 24.3 22.3 24.8 36.3
 2 months 25.25 23.0 22.0 24.4 34.70
 3 months 24.69 22.50 21.75 24.16 33.10

LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1) (2)
 1 month w/o w/o w/o w/o w/o
 3 months w/o w/o w/o w/o w/o
 6 months w/o w/o w/o w/o w/o
 12 months w/o w/o w/o w/o w/o

Amount Operated of LEBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 30,267 23,534 18,152 11,758 12,352

 Foreign Exchange Market May-17 Apr-17 Mar-17 Dec-16 May-16

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 15.71 15.35 15.52 15.84 14.12
 Retail 15.78 15.45 15.60 15.89 14.22

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 15.85 15.61 16.02 15.42 14.51
 ROFEX 1 month 16.00 15.61 15.74 16.22 14.45
 Amount Operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 10,174 9,286 8,205 8,423 5,214

Real (Pesos per Real) 4.91 4.89 4.96 4.73 3.99

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 17.38 16.46 16.58 16.69 15.98

 Capital Market May-17 Apr-17 Mar-17 Dec-16 May-16

MERVAL
 Index 21,564 20,835 19,493 16,711 13,027
 Amount Operated (millions of pesos) 445 418 366 282 193

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 112.1 109.9 106.5 103.7 106.4
 BONAR 24 (US$) 117.5 116.3 114.7 115.0 109.0
 DISCOUNT ($) 114.0 116.0 120.0 117.0 100.8

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR 24 vs. US Treasury Bond 258 284 306 332 526
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 412 431 452 494 546

 EMBI+ Latin America 440 446 446 491 556

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
(2) As of 22/12/2015 Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and
External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction for the effect of coupons
that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 13
8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Price Index of Shares.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Concerted Operations.
ON: Negotiable Bond.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | May 2017 | BCRA | 14
