# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on February 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In January, INDEC's Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Greater Buenos Aires area corresponding to December 2016 was released. In that month, the general price level increased 1.2%, which made it possible to confirm that the Central Bank met its objective of monthly inflation of 1.5% or less for the last quarter of 2016. In turn, the core component of the index showed monthly growth of 1.7%. The Central Bank considers that in the coming months core inflation should be located at a level lower than the aforementioned, and with a downward trend, given a year in which increases in regulated prices are expected to be higher than those of the rest of the CPI components.

• On the other hand, high-frequency indicators from state and private sources monitored by the Central Bank showed mixed signals regarding price evolution in January, with better behavior in the second half of the month than in the first. Taking into account all available information, the Central Bank decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, which as of this month is the center of the 7-day peso repo corridor, at 24.75%. In turn, in order to consolidate a corridor in which interest rates reflect with precision the monetary policy rate, it decided to reduce its width to 150 basis points (24%-25.5%).

• During the course of January, the Central Bank's 7-day repo operations gained participation among sterilization instruments and in the second half of the month constituted the main factor of monetary absorption.

• The majority of money market interest rates declined in January. The monthly average values of operations in interbank markets and passive rates decreased around 0.5 p.p. compared to December. Among active interest rates, those applied to loans granted through single-signature documents and discounted loans decreased 1 p.p. compared to the previous month.

• Private M3 increased in both nominal terms and when considering its real balance adjusted for seasonality. Said increase in real terms implied an acceleration in the year-over-year nominal growth rate of monetary aggregates. The year-over-year variations of Private M3 and M3 were placed at 25.6% and 23.2%, respectively.

• The year-over-year growth of the Monetary Base exceeded that of broader monetary aggregates, although its value is not representative when considered in isolation, since several factors have affected this variable during recent months: the way in which financial entities decided to meet reserve requirements in the joint measurement period of December-February; the increase in reserve requirement coefficients enacted in mid-2016; and the higher cash holdings of financial entities. When considering the period included in the quarterly reserve requirement calculation and adjusting the monetary base level by the impact of the increase in reserve requirements and cash in banks, the year-over-year increase in the monetary base for the two-month period December 2016-January 2017 was placed at 20%. In February, the effects of the aforementioned factors will persist, so to obtain the relevant year-over-year growth of the monetary base, an analogous adjustment will need to be made, considering the December-February quarterly averages.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector showed an increase of 2.9% ($26,000 million), reducing its monthly growth rate, in line with the behavior observed in other years during the summer period. Its year-over-year variation was placed around 20%, increasing 2.5 p.p. compared to the previous month. The lines that grew the most in January were those corresponding to financing with real guarantees. Pawn loans increased 4.8% and mortgage loans 4.2%.

• During the month, approximately $600 million in mortgage loans denominated in Units of [text cuts off]
Purchasing Power Value (UVA), which represented 37% of mortgage loans granted to families. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April 2016 and through January of the current year, more than $2,600 million in UVA loans have been disbursed.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | January of 2017 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest rates 2

 Graph 2.1 Monetary policy interest rates

 % Monthly Inflation - General Level of CPI GBA
 5
 In January, the inflation data for December 2016 of the

 4 GBA CPI published by INDEC was released. The general
 price level increased 1.2%. This figure implies that the

 3 second half of 2016 ended with an average monthly
 inflation of 1.4% (see Graph 2.1). In turn, it confirmed
 2 Average 2nd Semester 2016: 1.4 that the Central Bank met the objective it had set for
 the last quarter of the year: a monthly inflation of 1.5%
 1 Average Aug-Oct: 1.2 1,6 or less. In that quarter, the monthly variation of the
 1.2 general price level was placed at 1.3% 3.

 0
 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16

 Source: INDEC.

 Likewise, core inflation measured according to the GBA CPI
 was 1.7% in December, equal to its monthly average for
 Graph 2.2 the second half. The Central Bank considers that in the

 TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos - 7 days coming months core inflation should be placed at a
 36 Companies Advances over $10 M, h. 7 d. in Pesos level lower than mentioned, and with a downward trend,
 34 Call Reverse Repo in light of a year in which increases in regulated prices
 Active Repo
 32 Monetary policy interest rate superior to those of the rest of the IPC components are
 expected.
 30

 28 On the other hand, high-frequency indicators from state

 26 and private sources monitored by the Central Bank showed
 mixed signals about price developments in January, with
 24 better performance in the second half of the month than
 22 in the first.

 20 Sept-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17

 Source: BCRA In this scenario, the Central Bank decided to maintain its
 monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day repo corridor,
 at 24.75%. In turn, in order to consolidate a corridor in
 Graph 2.3 which interest rates reflect with precision the monetary

 thousands of Monetary Base thousands of policy rate, it decided to reduce the width of the same to
 millions $ millions $ 150 basis points (24%-25.5%; see Graph 2.2).
 60 882

 40 Since the adoption of the interest rate of the center of
 the 7-day repo corridor as monetary policy rate, as of
 20 842 2017, this segment of operations gained participation
 among sterilization instruments and constituted the main
 0 factor of monetary absorption in the second half of
 -20 802 January (see Graph 2.3).

 -40
 -60 762
 2-Jan-17 5-Jan-17 10-Jan-17 13-Jan-17 18-Jan-17 23-Jan-17 26-Jan-17 31-Jan-17
 LEBAC 1-day Repos
 7-day Repos Transfers to Treasury
 Purchase of Currencies to Nat. Treas. Other Operations of Public Sector
 Daily Variation of BM Cumulative Var. of BM in left axis and BM balance in right axis

 Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
3 The BCRA had announced in the presentation of the Monetary Policy Report of October 18, 2016 that for purposes of
evaluating its inflation objective for the last quarter - established before the judicial decision that led to tariff changes -
it was going to compute for October an average inflation of August-October, which includes both the decrease and the increase of gas prices.
It is a correction with offsetting biases: the increase in tariffs was lower than the reduction; but by including August and
September, months prior to those originally foreseen are computed and therefore of inflation that is tendentially higher
given the ongoing disinflation path.

 Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 4
 The Central Bank also continued to carry out 1-day repo
 Graph 2.4 operations, with a corridor of rates that at the end
**TNA, % BCRA Pass Corridor and Interbank Rate**

During January, the midpoint of the pass corridor was located at 22.75%-26.75%. In turn, in the LEBAC auctions, the cut-off interest rates ended the month under analysis with a decline of around 1.5 p.p. compared to the end of December. The cut-off interest rate of the shortest-term LEBAC (42 days) auctioned in the last week of January was located at 23.2%.

**[Graph 2.4 - BCRA Pass Corridor and Interbank Rate]**
- BCRA 1-day pass corridor
- BCRA 7-day pass corridor
- 3-party repo at 1 day
- LEBAC primary market 35 days
- 7-day pass corridor midpoint
[Time period: Jan-16 to Jan-17]
Source: BCRA

The Central Bank will continue maintaining a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its objective of inflation between 12% and 17% during 2017.

---

## **Market Interest Rates**

The majority of the money market interest rates declined in January.

Most shorter-term rates continued to remain within the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the pass market; remaining relatively stable during January, at values slightly lower than those in December. In interfinancial markets, the interest rate on call operations at 1 business day averaged 24% in January, a level 0.6 p.p. lower than the value recorded in the previous month. The average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was located at 23.5%, showing a decline of 0.6 p.p. (see Graph 2.4). The average daily amount traded in both markets increased by $700 million, totaling around $13,500 million.

Regarding interest rates associated with commercial activity financing, the rate applied to loans granted through documents to sole signature averaged 22.5%, showing a decline of 1 p.p. compared to the previous month. For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents was located at 18.8% average monthly, exhibiting a decline of 1 p.p. (see Graph 2.5).

**[Graph 2.6 - Personal and Pledge Loans]**
Monthly Average Variation
Personal and Pledge Loans (daily data)
TNA %
[Time period: Mar-16 to Feb-17]

Active interest rates destined mainly for family financing showed a heterogeneous trajectory in January. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 39.8%, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p. compared to the previous month. On the other hand, the interest rate corresponding to pledge loans was located at 18.8% average monthly, showing a decline of 1.9 p.p. compared to December (see Graph 2.6).

---

For their part, passive interest rates showed a slight decline, in a context of abundant liquidity conditions for financial entities. The BADLAR –interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days in term– of private banks, averaged 19.8%, accumulating a decline of 0.3 p.p. compared to the previous month. Similarly, the interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days in term accumulated a monthly decline of 0.5 p.p. and went on to average 17.2% in January.

---

**[Graph 3.1 - Monetary Aggregates]**
Thousands of millions of $ (seasonally adjusted balances in real terms - at Jan-17 prices)
- Currency in public hands
- M2 Private
- M3 Private (right axis)
[Time period: Jan-15 to Jan-17]

## **3. Monetary Aggregates**

Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 5
Source: own elaboration. Deflated with National CPI of the BCRA (REM expectations for unobserved data).

The monetary aggregates maintained the real growth trend initiated in mid-2016, as expected in a disinflation process (see Graph 3.1). Considering values in real and seasonally adjusted terms, in January, the broad monetary aggregate of the private sector (M3 Private) would have increased 1.3% compared to the previous month, with growth in all of its components.

Said increase in real terms implied an acceleration in the rate of nominal year-over-year growth of the monetary aggregates. The year-over-year variations of the broad monetary aggregates, M3 and M3 Private, stood in January at 23.2% and 25.6%, respectively, and that of private means of payment (M2 Private) reached 31.2% (see Graph 3.2).

Although in January the year-over-year growth rate of the Monetary Base (35.3%) exceeded that registered by the broader monetary aggregates, its value is not significant when considered in isolation, since several factors have affected its evolution in recent months. First, it must be considered that between December and February a quarterly period of reserve integration applies. Between the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016, financial entities had opted to integrate a high excess of reserves in December and reduce it gradually in the two following months (see Banking Liquidity). In contrast, in the two months elapsed of the quarterly period in progress, the integration of reserves was more uniform, which implied a deceleration in the growth of the monetary base in December and an acceleration in January. Second, it is necessary to recall that in mid-2016, increases in reserve coefficients were ordered that amounted to 4% of deposits in pesos. Thus, when computing the year-over-year variation of the monetary base, a comparison is being made against a balance that twelve months ago included lower demand for the monetary base.

Graph 3.4

---

**FOOTNOTES:**

4 They are deflated with the level of the national indicator (IPC-NP). The BCRA calculates the IPC-NP from consumer price indices of the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Expenditure Survey corresponding to the 2004-2005 period (ENGHo 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption expenditure by region of said survey, for the construction of the IPC-NP the IPCBA weights 44% (being used as representative of the evolution of prices in the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampean Region, the CPI of Córdoba weights 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the CPI of San Luis (22% of the IPC-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.

5 Includes cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos, and the total deposits in pesos of the private sector.

6 Includes cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos, and deposits of the private and non-financial public sectors in pesos.

Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 6
# Translation to English

thousands of Factors Explaining Monetary Base monetary due to a regulatory change. Finally, it should be noted
millions of $ (January 2017, on average)
50 that in recent months financial institutions

40 maintained a higher proportion of their liquidity in

30 cash. Although the quarterly reserve requirement period
20 has not yet concluded, preliminary comparisons can be
10 made between the average of the December 2016 - January
0 2017 two-month period with the same period of 2015-2016
-10 to mitigate the effect of the quarterly integration of
-20 Minimum Cash in pesos. In turn, if the impact of the
-30 increase in reserve requirement coefficients is extracted
S. Private and Treasury Advances and Other from the current two-month average and that associated
Other Purchases of Foreign National Utilities with greater cash holdings in banks, it is found that the
Currency Operations with the LEBAC Repos Circulating Reserves year-over-year growth of the monetary base in the
National Treasury in Public Banking December 2016-January 2017 two-month period was
Source: BCRA positioned at 20% (see Graph 3.3). In February the effects
of the aforementioned factors will persist, so to obtain the
relevant year-over-year growth of the monetary base, an
analogous adjustment will have to be made, considering
three-month averages.

Specifically in January, the monetary base presented a
nominal monthly growth of 3.5%, which was supplied by
the reduction in the LEBAC balance and by the expansion
generated by foreign currency purchase operations. Both
effects were partially offset by the contraction associated
with the increase in passive repos for the Central Bank.
Among its components, circulating currency in public
Graph 3.5 hands concentrated the largest part of the increase (see
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector Graph 3.4).

millions of $ (daily balance evolution)
310 More than $1 million Once the seasonal effects of year-end and the impulse
290 Less than $1 million from the Tax Regularization Regime (Law 27.260) dissipated,
demand deposits of the private sector moderated their
270
monthly increase (they increased 0.9%). In turn, fixed-term
250 placements of the private sector showed an increase again
(3.8%), with advances in the segment of less than $1 million
230 and, fundamentally, in the larger amount segment (see
210 Graph 3.5). In year-over-year terms, fixed-term deposits in
190Dec-15Feb-16Apr-16Jun-16Aug-16Oct-16Dec-16 pesos registered an increase of 14.8%, 4.6 p.p. below the
Source: BCRA previous month.

The total deposits of the private sector in pesos presented
growth of 1.7% in January, while placements in pesos of
the public sector rose 6.5%. Thus, the total deposits in
pesos (including those of the public sector as well as the
private sector) increased 2.8% in the month, with a year-
over-year variation that was around 22%.

Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 7
For its part, the balance of deposits in foreign currency
Graph 4.1 reached US$31,200 million at the end of January, with
an increase driven mainly by the inflow of funds from
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
government debt placements. At the end of January, the
% %
6 60 stock of deposits in dollars of the private sector was
Monthly variation positioned at US$22,500 million, a level similar to that
5 50
Y.o.y. var. (right axis) recorded at the end of 2016.

4 40 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, 7 in-
creased 3.5%, presenting a year-over-year variation of
3 30
33.8%.
2 20

1 10 4. Loans

0 0
Jan-12Jan-13Jan-14Jan-15Jan-16Jan-17
BCRA: BCRA In January, loans in pesos to the private sector presented
an increase of 2.9% ($26,000 million), reducing its rate of
Graph 4.2 monthly growth, in line with the behavior observed in other
Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector years during the period
% (in real terms) summer. However, favored by a low comparison base, the year-over-year variation was around 20%, increasing 2.5 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Graphics 4.1). On the other hand, in real terms, loans in pesos grew in January for the third consecutive (see Graphics 4.2).

Regarding loans with essentially commercial purpose, advances registered a decrease of 1.9% ($2,070 million), after the period of greatest liquidity demand by companies. Likewise, they continued to decrease their year-over-year growth rate, which went from around 14% in December 2016 to 9% in January of this year. For their part, financings arranged through documents grew 3.9% ($7,400 million), as a consequence of the positive "statistical carryover" left by December. In effect, the variation of the balance at the end of the month shows a decline of 2.7% (see Graphic 4.3). This is explained, essentially, by the seasonal behavior of discounted documents, which toward the end of the year show a strong increase, and then decrease throughout January.

Within the lines intended mainly to finance household consumption, personal loans exhibited an increase of 3.7% ($8,000 million), similar to that of the previous month and markedly higher than that observed in January of last year. Thus, the year-over-year variation increased 3.7 p.p. compared to December, placing itself around 39%. For their part, credit card financings decelerated their expansion rate, exhibiting in the month an increase of 3.3% ($7,450 million) and a year-over-year growth of 26.8%.

Loans with real guarantee continued to show good performance. Pawn loans maintained their monthly growth rate, registering an increase of 4.8% ($2,580 million), one of the highest since early 2012. Thus, the year-over-year variation reached 35.7%, 5.8 p.p. more than that observed in the previous month.

For their part, loans with mortgage guarantee presented in January a growth of 4.2% ($2,570 million) and in the last twelve months accumulated an increase close to 12%. In particular, with respect to the
Source: BCRA

mortgage loans denominated in Units of Acquisition Value (UVA), approximately $600 million were granted in the month, which represented 37% of mortgage loans granted to families (see Chart 4.4). Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April 2016 and until January of the current year, more than $2,600 million have been disbursed⁹.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector grew in the month by 0.8% (US$70 million). In this way, they continued showing moderation.

## 5. Liquidity of financial entities

During January, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repo operations with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) remained relatively stable, standing at 43.9% (see Chart 5.1). However, some changes in its composition are noteworthy, within the framework of the adoption of the repo corridor center as the monetary policy rate and the quarterly period allowed for the computation of Minimum Cash requirements between December and February.

On one hand, financial entities reduced their LEBAC position, allocating those funds to a higher net repo balance with the BCRA. Likewise, after having accumulated a surplus in the integration of minimum cash in December, the balance of the current account of entities at the BCRA recorded a decline, leading financial entities to end January with an estimated accumulated surplus equivalent to 0.2% of total peso deposits (see Chart 5.2). In turn, the proportion of cash held by financial entities increased.

For its part, the proportion of liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repo operations with such entity and LEBAC holdings in foreign currency, as a percentage of dollar deposits) remained relatively stable, standing at 75.2% (-0.7 p.p. below the previous month).

## 6. International reserves and foreign exchange market¹⁰

International reserves ended January with a balance of US$46,847 million, which implied an increase of US$8,100 million compared to the previous month. The placement of public debt in international markets for almost US$7,000 million explained most of the monthly increase. Thus, international reserves returned to a level similar to mid-2012 (see Chart 6.1).

The reference exchange rate of peso/US dollar ended January at 15.91, presenting an increase of 0.4% compared to the closing of the previous month. As in previous months, the Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish the parity of foreign currency trading operations, carrying out only occasional operations, essentially with the National Treasury. This exchange rate regime provides flexibility to the national economy to face external events.

¹⁰ In this section the figures correspond to balances at the end of each month.

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations |
|---|---|---|
| | Jan-17 | Dec-16 | Monthly | Jan-16 | Last 12 months |
# MONETARY REPORT - CENTRAL BANK OF ARGENTINA

**Monetary Base** 815,486 787,895 602,926 3.5% 35.3%
 **Monetary Circulation** 599,160 562,994 466,131 6.4% 28.5%
 **Bills and Coins in the hands of the public** 520,125 494,943 414,695 5.1% 25.4%
 **Bills and Coins in financial entities** 79,034 68,050 51,436 16.1% 53.7%
 **Cancelatory Checks** 0.8 0.4 0.01 19.4% -
 **Current Account at the BCRA** 216,326 224,901 136,795 -3.8% 58.1%

**Stock of Repos**
 **Liabilities** 75,674 52,777 22,003 43.4% 243.9%
 **Assets** 314 34 00

**Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value)** 643,368 669,257 430,469 -3.9% 49.5%
 **In banks** 291,270 322,853 313,726 -9.8% -7.2%

 **LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repos)**
 **In pesos** 643,368 669,036 382,731 -3.8% 68.1%
 **In dollars** 0 143,482 - -100.0% -100.0%

 **NOBAC** 0 0 0 - -

**BCRA International Reserves (5)** 41,156 37,853 25,968 8.7% 58.5%

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** 1,440,133 1,397,646 1,176,805 3.0% 22.4%
 **Current Account (2)** 431,255 403,006 365,622 7.0% 18.0%

 **Savings Account** 325,569 327,381 236,019 -0.6% 37.9%
 **Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER** 627,342 604,256 532,725 3.8% 17.8%
 **Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER** 465 397 141 7.0% 3,128.7%
 **Other Deposits (3)** 55,502 62,606 42,425 -11.3% 30.8%

 **Deposits of the Private Sector** 1,118,916 1,098,395 890,211 1.9% 25.7%

 **Deposits of the Public Sector** 321,217 299,251 286,595 7.3% 12.1%

**Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** 25,074 24,339 12,542 3.0% 99.9%

**Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1)** 954,793 932,116 825,203 2.4% 15.7%

 **Loans to the Private Sector** 913,686 886,553 761,130 3.1% 20.0%
 **Advances** 105,234 107,306 96,582 -1.9% 9.0%
 **Documents** 197,265 189,856 185,120 3.9% 6.6%
 **Mortgages** 61,832 59,264 55,156 4.3% 12.1%
 **Pledges** 54,519 51,936 40,175 5.0% 35.7%
 **Personal Loans** 225,574 217,664 162,149 3.6% 39.1%
 **Credit Cards** 231,197 223,748 182,282 3.3% 26.8%
 **Others** 38,066 36,778 39,667 3.5% -4.0%

 **Loans to the Public Sector** 41,107 45,564 64,074 -9.8% -35.8%

**Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1)** 9,262 9,226 3,113 0.4% 197.5%

**Total Monetary Aggregates (1)**

 **M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos)** 951,381 897,950 780,317 6.0% 21.9%

 **M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos)** 1,276,950 1,225,331 1,016,335 4.2% 25.6%

 **M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos)** 1,960,259 1,892,590 1,591,501 3.6% 23.2%

 **M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN)** 2,361,166 2,280,769 1,767,771 3.5% 33.6%

**Private Monetary Aggregates**

 **M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos)** 776,474 744,714 611,239 4.3% 27.0%

 **M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos)** 1,085,359 1,055,158 827,093 2.9% 31.2%

 **M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos)** 1,639,042 1,593,339 1,304,906 2.9% 25.6%

 **M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN)** 2,001,039 1,936,355 1,459,688 3.3% 37.1%

 Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 11

 **Average Variations**

 **Variation Factors** | **Monthly** | **Quarterly** | **Accumulated 2017** | **Last 12 months**
 | **Nominal** | **Contribution (4)** | **Nominal** | **Contribution (4)** | **Nominal** | **Contribution (4)** | **Nominal** | **Contribution (4)**

**Monetary Base** | 27,591 | 3.5% | 120,356 | 17.3% | 27,591 | 3.5% | 212,560 | 35.3%
**Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others** | 6,873 | 0.9% | 11,367 | 1.6% | 6,873 | 0.9% | 47,712 | 7.9%
**Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury** | 6,946 | 0.9% | 83,522 | 12.0% | 6,946 | 0.9% | 161,824 | 26.8%
**Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits** | -1,290 | -0.2% | 4,810 | 0.7% | -1,290 | -0.2% | 158,707 | 26.3%
**Other public sector operations** | -1,167 | -0.1% | -1,287 | -0.2% | -1,167 | -0.1% | -10,797 | -1.8%
**Sterilization (Repos and Securities)** | 15,556 | 2.0% | 19,836 | 2.9% | 15,556 | 2.0% | -157,167 | -26.1%
**Others** | 674 | 0.1% | 2,108 | 0.3% | 674 | 0.1% | 12,281 | 2.0%
International Reserves of the BCRA 3,302 8.7% 4,726 13.0% 3,302 8.7% 15,188 58.5%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 434 1.1% 718 2.0% 434 1.1% 3,444 13.3%
Payment to international organizations 200 1.1% -187 -0.5% 200 1.1% -1,839 -7.1%
Other public sector operations 747 2.0% 3,424 9.4% 747 2.0% 11,935 46.0%
Minimum cash 1,642 4.3% 3,797 10.4% 1,642 4.3% 6,419 24.7%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 459 1.2% -3,026 -8.3% 459 1.2% -4,772 -18.4%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month relative to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 15.0
 Integration (1) 15.2
 Position (2) 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 68.9 68.6 67.4
 30 to 59 days 20.0 21.3 21.6
 60 to 89 days 5.7 5.1 6.1
 90 to 179 days 3.9 3.1 3.0
 more than 180 days 1.6 1.9 1.9
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 26.1 24.6 24.5
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 66.3 60.5 63.0
 Position (2) 40.1 35.9 38.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (3)
 Up to 29 days 54.9 55.1 54.6
 30 to 59 days 21.4 22.4 21.0
 60 to 89 days 11.4 10.0 11.9
 90 to 179 days 9.0 9.6 9.6
 180 to 365 days 3.1 2.8 2.7
 more than 365 days 0.2 0.1 0.1

(1) Between December and February the Minimum Cash regime in national currency is computed quarterly.

(2) Position= Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 12
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 24.08 24.65 25.65 25.87
 Amount traded 4,383 4,559 4,417 3,357

Fixed-term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 18.40 18.78 19.64 25.31
 60 days or more 18.95 19.06 19.69 27.24
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.13 19.54 20.37 23.98
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.76 22.10 21.10 26.31

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.38 0.39 0.46 2.01
 60 days or more 0.61 0.68 0.81 3.03
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.45 0.50 1.67
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.49 0.55 0.77 2.28

 Active Interest Rates Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 23.51 25.50 24.05 28.68
 Amount traded (total terms) 767 795 787 626

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 30.26 30.99 32.06 34.51
 Documents on signature alone 22.53 23.54 24.54 33.49
 Mortgage loans 19.20 19.70 21.49 22.62
 Pledged loans 18.82 20.73 22.30 29.10
 Personal loans 39.76 39.14 40.36 43.21
 Credit cards n/d 44.35 44.38 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 25.39 25.92 27.22 29.25

 International Interest Rates Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16

LIBOR
 1 month 0.77 0.72 0.56 0.43
 6 months 1.34 1.31 1.27 0.86

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.20 1.19 0.98 0.89
 10 years 2.43 2.50 2.14 2.07

FED Funds Rate 0.75 0.66 0.50 0.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 13.24 13.75 13.99 14.25

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly SISCEN 08 information requirement, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily SISCEN 18 information requirement.

 Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 13
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16
BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 22.75 22.02 21.92 18.00
 Liabilities 7 days 23.86 22.81 22.55 20.00
 Assets 7 days 25.64 26.69 30.08 27.00

Repo Rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 23.40 24.01 25.28 25.41

Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) 9,167 8,300 9,316 6,214

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 23.48 24.8 25.8 31.2
 2 months 23.47 24.4 25.1 30.45
 3 months 23.10 24.16 24.66 29.89

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)

 1 month n/a n/a n/a 2.57
 3 months n/a n/a n/a 2.72
 6 months n/a n/a n/a 3.13
 12 months n/a n/a n/a 3.13

Amount operated in LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 11,806 11,758 11,534 3,893

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 15.91 15.84 15.34 13.64
 Retail 15.97 15.89 15.38 13.71

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 16.06 16.02 15.55 13.82
 ROFEX 1 month 16.17 16.22 15.69 13.82
 Amount operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) 6,666 8,423 7,771 6,570

Real (Pesos per Real) 4.98 4.73 4.60 3.37

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 16.91 16.69 16.57 14.84

 Capital Market Jan-17 Dec-16 Nov-16 Jan-16

MERVAL
 Index 18,736 16,711 16,800 10,637
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 435 282 411 175

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 106.8 103.7 107.5 114.6
 BONAR X (US$) 101.2 102.6 102.6 102.1
 DISCOUNT ($) 119.1 117.0 116.7 117.7

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR X Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 124 80 102 635
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 466 494 477 487

 EMBI+ Latin America 472 491 500 633

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for maturities of
1 and 3 months, and External segment for maturities of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On April 27, 2016, the risk premium of the EMBI rose more than 100 basis points due to technical factors (price correction
of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 14
8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NBFE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | January 2017 | BCRA | 15
