# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on October 5, 2017. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

## 1. Summary¹

• According to the National Consumer Price Index (CPI) of INDEC, in August inflation was 1.4% for the general level and also 1.4% for the core, decreasing compared to July's records. High-frequency indicators suggest that in September inflation would not have been able to break the values observed since May. In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the 7-day repo corridor remained at 25.5%-27%.

• The BCRA continued restricting liquidity conditions by conducting operations in the secondary LEBAC market. In September it sold LEBAC in the secondary market for a total of nominal value $116.4 billion, which more than compensated for the expansion generated by the partial renewal of the month's maturity. As a result, the average net monthly monetary absorption through LEBAC and repos was $28,800 million.

• Interest rates in the interbank loan market remained within the corridor established by the BCRA. On the other hand, among passive interest rates, the private banks' BADLAR showed an upward trend.

• The increase in M3 continued to be explained by the components of private M2, which again was the aggregate with the highest real growth. Time deposits in pesos from the private sector, which had been showing sustained decline in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, showed some stability throughout September.

• Loans to the private sector continued to increase in real terms and considering balances adjusted for seasonality. Both the total of loans in pesos and in foreign currency, as well as just the local currency one, exhibited a monthly increase of 2.3%. All lines increased in real terms, although mortgage loans continued to stand out. In nominal terms, mortgages recorded an increase of 9.2% ($7,600 million), and in the last twelve months accumulated growth of 63.8%. UVA financing continued gaining participation within mortgage loans granted to individuals, representing 88% of the total. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $27,500 million in UVA mortgages have been granted.

• The granting of loans to the private sector exceeded the growth of deposits. The remaining credit funding came, among other things, from repos and LEBAC. Thus, banking liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with that entity and holdings of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) fell 1 percentage point compared to August, to 40.2%.

¹ Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Interest rates²

## Graph 2.1

Monetary policy interest rates
According to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of INDEC, in August inflation resulted in 1.4% for the general level and also 1.4% for the core, decreasing compared to the July records. The indices calculated for different regions also indicated lower inflation rates in August in a generalized manner (see Chart 2.1).

High-frequency indicators suggest that in September inflation would not have managed to break the values observed since May. The monetary authority has indicated on repeated occasions that it will seek for core inflation to accompany the disinflation process in a more forceful manner.

Chart 2.2 Considering all available information, the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged in September, the center of the 7-day pass corridor, at 26.25%. Thus, the pass corridor for this term remained at 25.5%-27%.

In turn, the BCRA continued restricting liquidity conditions by actively conducting operations in the secondary LEBAC market. In September it sold LEBAC in the secondary market for a total of FV $116.4 billion. These sales countered the expansion generated by the partial renewal of the month's maturity. Furthermore, throughout the month the LEBAC yield curve remained at levels similar to those at the end of August, with positive slope (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.3 Interest rates of the market

Shorter-term interest rates continued to be located close to the center of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA (see Chart 2.3). Among the factors that contributed to mitigating the volatility of rates in the last period are the permanent facilities provided by the BCRA (active and passive passes). In particular, financial entities began to use more frequently the active passes for the BCRA, fundamentally during the days prior to the monthly maturity of LEBAC, in view of the greater liquidity needs derived from rising credit demand (see Chart 2.3).

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 4

In interfinancial markets, the interest rate of the Chart 2.3 call operations at 1 business day averaged 26.5%, 0.4 p.p. above the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate of operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was located at 25.8%, registering a decrease of 0.1 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased $2,500 million, totaling around $14,000 million.

With a similar evolution to the interest rates of interfinancial loan markets, the interest rate charged for overdrafts in current accounts for companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days averaged 27.4%, showing an increase of 0.5 p.p.

For its part, the interest rates paid by banks to capture fixed-term deposits showed increases compared to the previous month, in line with the reduction of liquidity conditions in financial entities (see Liquidity Section). Thus the BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days term– of private banks averaged 21.3%, which meant a monthly increase of 0.5 p.p. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 18%, showing an increase of 0.4 p.p. (see Chart 2.4).
The active interest rates for operations agreed at fixed or repriceable rates increased with respect to August, explained mainly by changes in the participation that the different financial entities had. With respect to the lines intended to finance families, the rate of pledge loans averaged 18.5%, showing an increase of 0.7 p.p. In this line, said effect is explained to a large extent because the participation of entities with lower levels of interest rates decreased. For its part, the rate of personal loans averaged 38.9%, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p. In this case, the increase (Chart 2.5) was associated with a greater proportion granted by entities that operate with higher rates. With respect to the interest rates of the lines intended to finance business activity, single signature documents averaged 21.7%, showing an average monthly increase of 0.3 p.p., while the interest rate of discounted documents was placed at 20.5%, showing a slightly upward trend (see Chart 2.5).

On the other hand, in recent months loans denominated in UVA have gained participation among the financing lines in pesos; in particular, among mortgage and personal credits. In September, mortgage credits in UVA were granted at an average rate weighted by amount of 4.8%. It is observed that during recent months it has been reducing, as a product of the growing participation of an entity that grants financing at a rate lower than average. For its part, the rate of personal credits adjustable by UVA averaged 8.8% for the month, a level similar to that of the previous month (see Chart 2.6).

1
3. Monetary Aggregates

The real balance and seasonally adjusted balance of private M3³ grew 0.5% in September, maintaining its year-on-year variation stable around 3%. The monthly decrease recorded by fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector was more than offset by the growth of Private M2⁴ (0.7%). Among the components of the means of payment, the one that grew in the greatest proportion was currency in circulation with the public, which would indicate greater relative growth of activities with more intensive use of bills (such as, for example, construction). In turn, following the publication of official data on gross domestic product (GDP), it can be verified that the real growth of private M2 observed in the second quarter of this year accompanied that of activity, since the proportion of private M2 / GDP remained stable around 11.5% during said period (see Chart 3.1).

In nominal terms, the average monthly balance of private M2 increased 1.3% in September. For its part, fixed-term deposits from the private sector increased 0.8%, with a year-on-year variation that continued close to 10%. When analyzing its evolution throughout the month, it is verified that placements of smaller amounts (less than $1 million) continued with the growing trend resumed in the second half of August. Meanwhile, wholesale deposits maintained their balance, in line with what was observed during the previous month (see Chart 3.2). This behavior was recorded in a period in which passive interest rates showed a slight increase (see Interest Rates section of the market).

The total of deposits in pesos grew 0.9% in September, driven by the increase in placements from the private sector, since those from the public sector maintained their balance stable. These behaviors motivated a monthly increase in M3⁵ of 1%.

Consistent with the broader monetary aggregates, the average monthly balance of the monetary base grew
3 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
4 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and demand deposits from the non-financial private sector.
5 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits from the public and private sectors.

 Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 6

 1.6%. The demand for monetary base was supplied
 Chart 3.3 by the expansion associated with dollar purchases and transfers to the National Treasury, partially offset by the contractionary effect of sterilization through the placement of LEBACs (see Chart 3.3).

 In the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits decreased throughout September, with increases in private sector placements and reductions in those belonging to the public sector. The decrease corresponding to the public sector was explained by the National Treasury's foreign currency sales. Private sector deposits in dollars grew by US$380 million, showing a deceleration compared to what was observed in August, when they had received a boost from the greater purchase of dollar bills that the private sector made in the Single and Free Exchange Market.

 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, in-
 Chart 4.1 creased 0.9%, presenting a year-on-year variation of 41.2%.
 4. Loans 1

 In September, loans to the private sector continued showing an upward trend in real and seasonally adjusted terms (see Chart 4.1). Both the total of loans in pesos and foreign currency, as well as local currency only, exhibited a monthly increase of 2.3%.

 Once again, the segment of peso loans granted with real collateral continued to be the most dynamic, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. It is worth noting that mortgage-backed loans continue to accentuate the change in their trend since the end of 2016 (see Chart 4.2).

 In nominal terms, mortgages registered an in-
 Chart 4.2 crease of 9.2% ($7,600 million), and in the last twelve months accumulated growth of 63.8%. In particular, in September financing in UVA continued gaining participation within mortgage loans granted to individuals, representing 88% of the total. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $27,500 million in UVA mortgages have been granted. With respect to loans with chattel collateral, they increased 5.8% in the month ($4,300 million), and continued accelerating their year-on-year expansion rate, which was placed at 71%. In this line and in personal loans, a growing participation of UVA loans continues to be observed: by the end of September, more than $11,800 million in personal and chattel credits in UVA have been granted.

 Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 7
 Another of the lines with the greatest contribution to the monthly growth of peso loans was that of financing implemented through documents. These loans increased 5.1% ($12,100 million) in nominal terms and reached a year-on-year growth rate of
 Chart 4.3 39.4%, 6.6 percentage points above the previous month. With respect to advances, they registered a monthly increase of 3.2% ($3,400 million).
Regarding financing destined mostly to family consumption, personal loans registered an increase of 4.4% ($12.900 million), which allowed its year-on-year variation to be placed in the order of 57.1%. In this way, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they continued growing at a similar pace to previous months (2.1%; see Chart 4.3). On the other hand, credit card financing showed a nominal increase of 4.1% ($9.700 million), accumulating an increase over the last twelve months of 24.1%. This evolution implied that they grew in real terms and adjusted for seasonality for a second consecutive month.

In this way, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate, to 4.6% ($49.600 million), with a year-on-year variation of around 38.9%, which implied an increase of 3.5 percentage points with respect to the previous month.

Chart 5.1 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector decreased their monthly growth rate to 1.5% in September, which can be explained by a deceleration in the expansion rate of documents on signature (mainly pre-financing of exports). Despite this moderation in its growth, they reached an average monthly balance of US$14.100 million, practically quintupling the balance from December 2015, the moment when they began to show an upward trend, following the exchange rate unification.

5. Liquidity of financial entities

During September, the growth of loans to the private sector exceeded that of deposits and financial entities used part of their most liquid assets to supply the credit market (see Chart 5.1). In this way, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) showed a reduction of 1 percentage point, to 40.2% of deposits.

Among the components of liquidity in pesos, the balance of net repos maintained in the Central Bank was the one that fell to the greatest extent (see Chart 5.2), because banks reduced their passive repos and also requested active repos. Thus, during the month net repos of financial entities in the BCRA averaged a balance equivalent to 0.7% of deposits. Likewise, after two consecutive months of increases, LEBAC holdings registered a fall of 0.5 percentage points of deposits. On the other hand, cash in banks and the balance of current accounts in the Central Bank remained at levels similar to the previous month. In particular, current accounts in the BCRA had a participation of 13% of deposits (which implies that the Minimum Cash surplus was equivalent to 0.4% of deposits).

On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment, in a context of deceleration of loans, liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) showed a slight increase after five consecutive falls, and averaged 58% (0.7 percentage points above the previous month).

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market

International reserves increased US$1.360 million in September, totaling US$50.237 million at the end of the month (see Chart 6.1). The increase was explained mainly by the issuance of foreign currency debt by the National Treasury.
It should be noted that reserves also varied for other reasons that did not generate changes in the gross balance of international reserves, such as the Central Bank's purchase of dollars from the National Treasury for US$3,600 million. Although it is true that the foreign currency that the BCRA purchased already formed part of international reserves, these operations allow for improvement of its balance sheet, by generating an increase in the participation of those more liquid assets in foreign currency. In this way, its position is favored to face eventual negative shocks.

The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended September at 17.32, registering a decrease of 0.3% with respect to the level observed at the end of the previous month.

6 In this section the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 10

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 11

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 12

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 13

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock market index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Mutual Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash Reserve.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
BP: Basis Points.
pp: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | September 2017 | BCRA | 14
