# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT
March 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 8

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was April 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

## 1. Summary 1

• In March, the CPI GBA of INDEC corresponding to February was published, according to which monthly inflation was 2.5%, while its core component registered an increase of 1.8% with respect to January. General price levels in other jurisdictions also accelerated with respect to the previous month, although they increased less than the CPI GBA. However, the core inflation indicators for the City of Buenos Aires and Córdoba decelerated with respect to January. On the other hand, the public and private high-frequency indicators monitored by the Central Bank showed mixed signals about the evolution of inflation in March.

• In this scenario, the BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 24.75%. It also maintained the width of the corridor, so that the 7-day passive repo rate stood at 24% and the active rate at 25.5%. The BCRA maintains a cautious stance, given the volatility of monthly inflation, and is ready to act if necessary.

• Following the consolidation of the repo market, the Central Bank resumed operations in the secondary LEBAC market, selling securities, in order to absorb excess liquidity in the system and, at the same time, encourage the lengthening of the average maturity of its non-monetary liabilities.

• During the month under analysis, a reduction in reserve requirements on peso deposits came into effect and the destruction of deteriorated banknotes held by financial entities accelerated. These factors and the decline in LEBAC holdings in the hands of banks generated a change in the composition of bank liquidity, in favor of repos held at the BCRA.

• The interest rates traded in the interbank markets decreased to levels close to the floor of the repo corridor. In turn, passive interest rates declined, especially in the wholesale segment. For its part, the majority of active interest rates remained at similar levels to those of February.

• The fall in monetary circulation, particularly in cash in banks and in the current accounts of banks at the Central Bank, associated with the destruction of banknotes and the change in reserve requirements, respectively; resulted in a sharp deceleration of the monetary base (its year-on-year growth was reduced by 12 p.p. with respect to February). In contrast, broader monetary aggregates increased their year-on-year growth rates with respect to February, although in different magnitudes: while private M2 grew at 31.6% y.o.y., 0.3 p.p. above the previous month (with a monthly decline of 0.2%); private M3 increased 26.5% with respect to 12 months ago, 0.6 p.p. more than in February (showing monthly growth of 0.7%).

• Monthly loan growth was driven mainly by personal loans. Mortgage loans continued to be encouraged by those denominated in UVAs, which in March totaled around $1,100 million, approximately half of the mortgage credits granted to households. Thus, since the launch of this instrument in April 2016 through March, more than $4,500 million have been disbursed.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | March of 2017 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates 2
 Chart 2.1
 % Monthly Inflation - General Levels Monetary Policy Interest Rates
 6

 5 Buenos Aires City San Luis INDEC Córdoba
 In March, inflation data for February were released.
 4
 According to the GBA CPI of INDEC, the general level of
 3 retail prices increased 2.5% compared to January, while

 2 the core component registered a monthly increase of

 1 1.8%. The general price levels in other jurisdictions also
 accelerated compared to the previous month, although they
 0 increased less than the GBA CPI (see Chart 2.1). However,
 the core inflation indicators for Buenos Aires City and
 -1
 Córdoba decelerated compared to January.
 -2
 May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17
 Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of GCBA, INDEC, Provincial Directorates of Statistics
 and Census of San Luis and Córdoba. On the other hand, the high-frequency public and private indicators monitored by the Central Bank showed mixed signals regarding the evolution of inflation in March.

 Chart 2.2

 Interest Rates in Pesos - 7 days Considering all available information, in March, the Central Bank decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor at 24.75%. In turn, the corridor for this term remained at 24%-25.5% (see Chart 2.2). The Central Bank will continue to maintain a clear anti-inflationary bias to ensure that the disinflation process continues toward its target of inflation between 12% and 17% during 2017. The BCRA maintains a cautious stance, given the volatility of monthly inflation (usual in disinflation processes), and is ready to act if necessary.

 %
 33
 Loans to Companies over $10 M, 7 days in
 Pesos
 31 Passive Repo
 Active Repo
 29
 Center of 7-day Repo Corridor
 27

 25

 23

 21
 Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17
 Source: BCRA Once the repo market was consolidated, in March, the Central Bank resumed operations in the secondary LEBAC market, in order to remove excess liquidity and, at the same time, encourage the lengthening of the terms of its non-monetary liabilities. With sales totaling approximately VN$88,700 million, the LEBACs traded were concentrated mainly in the securities maturing on the third Wednesday of March (20%) and April (60%; see Chart 2.3).

 Chart 2.3 Secondary LEBAC Market

 TNA;% billions of $
 24 Amount Traded LEBAC maturity June-17 (right axis) 14
 Amount Traded LEBAC maturity April-17 (right axis)
 Amount Traded LEBAC maturity March-17 (right axis)
 12
 Secondary rate BCRA - LEBAC maturity March-17
 23 Secondary rate BCRA - LEBAC maturity April-17
 Secondary rate BCRA - LEBAC maturity June-17 10

 22
 8
 Market Interest Rates
 21 6
 In March, a reduction in reserve requirements on peso deposits came into effect and the process of destruction of deteriorated bills in the possession of financial institutions accelerated. These factors generated an increase in excess bank liquidity which, in the short term, resulted in a decrease in passive interest rates and lower values for those traded in interbank markets. In contrast, active interest rates remained practically unchanged compared to February.

 4

 20 2

 19 0
 01-Mar-1706-Mar-1709-Mar-1714-Mar-1717-Mar-1722-Mar-1728-Mar-17

 2 The interest rates referenced in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | March of 2017 | BCRA | 4
 Chart 2.4

 TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos - 1 day

 45 Thus, shorter-term interest rates continued to be located near the lower limit of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market. In the

 40
35 interfinancial markets, the interest rate for 1 business day call operations averaged 22.7% in March,

30 0.85 p.p. below the value recorded the previous month.
 For its part, the average interest rate for 1 business day
 25 operations between financial entities in the market

 20 BCRA repo corridor at 1 day guaranteed (REPO round) was located at 21.5%, showing

 Repo among third parties at 1 day a decline of 1.5 p.p. (see Chart 2.4). Although it is striking
 Call at 1 day
 15 that this interest rate was positioned below the
 corridor established by the BCRA for several days,
 10 it should be considered that its level was influenced by
 Jan-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17Mar-17
 operations that do not strictly respond to short-term
 Source: BCRA liquidity allocation of financial entities.
 This is so because some operators were willing to charge
 Chart 2.5 a lower rate than the one paid by the BCRA, with the
 Interest Rates Personal and Pawn Loans objective of obtaining some of the public securities
 TNA% (daily data)
 used as collateral and which, in turn, had high demand.
 50 Personal Pawn The trajectory of the interest rate for advances in current
 45 account with agreement of 1 to 7 days and of $10 million
 or more was similar to those operated in call markets, as is
 40
 customary, and averaged 24.3%, 0.7 p.p. below the previ-
 35 ous month.
 30
 On the other hand, the average monthly levels of active
 25 interest rates for operations with longer terms remained
 20 relatively stable compared to February. Thus, that of
 15 discounted documents was located at 19.1%, while the
 Mar-16Apr-16May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17 interest rate applied to loans granted through documents
 with sole signature averaged 22.2%. In turn, the interest
 rate for personal loans averaged 39% and that correspond-
 Chart 2.6 ing to pawn credits averaged 18.8% (see Chart 2.5).
 Short-Term Interest Rates
 TNA; % (Daily Data) For its part, passive interest rates showed declines in
 34 BADLAR Private Banks March. The BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits
 PF of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to
 30 of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days term– of private
 35 days) banks, averaged 19.5%, 0.5 p.p. below February. While the
 26 average interest rate paid by private entities for fixed-
 term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days
 22
 of term was located at 16.7% (see Chart 2.6).
 18

14
Mar-16Apr-16May-16Jun-16Jul-16Aug-16Sept-16Oct-16Nov-16Dec-16Jan-17Feb-17Mar-17

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 5
 Chart 3.1 3. Monetary Aggregates 1
 Balance of seasonally adjusted monetary aggregates in real terms at
trillions of $ Mar-17 prices trillions of $
 1.3 2.0 3
 The real balance and seasonally adjusted of private M3 4
 1.2 1.9 remained relatively stable compared to February and
 1.1 1.8 even after the increase it experienced in the second half
 1.0 1.7 of 2016 continues below the maximum levels it had
 reached during recent years (see Chart 3.1).
 0.9 Circulation in the hands of the public 1.6
 M2 Private In nominal terms, the balance of private M2 5 and its
 0.8 M3 Private (right axis) 1.5
 components remained stable and placements at term of
 0.7 1.4 the private sector grew 2.5%. When distinguishing fixed-
 0.6 1.3 term placements by amount bracket, an increasing evolu-
 tion is verified throughout the month for the
 0.5 1.2
 0.4 1.1
 Dec-07Dec-08Dec-09Dec-10Dec-11Dec-12Dec-13Dec-14Dec-15Dec-16
# Source BCRA. Aggregates deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations. of less than $1 million and stability in those of the wholesale segment (see Graph 3.2). The stability of these latter ones

## Graph 3.2
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos and LEBAC - Private Sector
millions of $ (evolution of daily balance) LEBAC of the non-financial private sector accentuated the
400 upward trajectory they had been showing since the be-
380 FT - More than $1 million ginning of the year, accompanying the increase in the
360 FT - Less than $1 million spread between LEBAC and BADLAR rates.
340

320 The nominal growth of the broad aggregate of the
300 private sector (Private M3) more than compensated for
280 the reduction in public deposits, generating a slight
260 monthly increase in Total M3⁶ (0.3%), which accelerated
240 its year-on-year variation by 1.5 p.p., reaching 29.1%.
220 The monetary aggregates of the private sector also in-
200 creased their year-on-year expansion rates with respect
 May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Jan-17 Mar-17 to February: Private M2 registered a growth of 31.6% y.o.y.,
Source: BCRA. Note: the balance of LEBAC has weekly periodicity. while Private M3 increased 26.5% compared to 12 months
## Graph 3.3 ago.

% Monetary Aggregates In contrast, the year-on-year variation of the monetary
(year-on-year variation) base presented a sharp deceleration, of 12 p.p. with
50 respect to February (see Graph 3.3). This deceleration
45 was related to the disappearance or lesser incidence of
40 several of the factors that had motivated the previous
35 acceleration: in March reserve requirements were again
30 computed monthly, while the reduction in reserve re-
25 Monetary Base quirements ordered by the Central Bank came into effect
 Private M2 and the destruction of banknotes that were in the hands
 Private M3 of financial entities accelerated.
20

15

Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 Mar-17
Source: BCRA

3 They are deflated with the general level of the national indicator (IPC-NP). The BCRA calculates the IPC-NP based on consumer price indices of the City of Buenos Aires, San Luis and Córdoba weighted according to the National Household Expenditure Survey corresponding to the period 2004-2005 (ENGHo 2004/05). Taking as reference the distribution of consumption expenditure by region of said survey, for the construction of IPC-NP the IPCBA weights 44% (being used as representative of the evolution of prices in the GBA), and the remaining 56% is assigned to the interior of the country. Based on the participation of the Pampean Region, the Córdoba CPI weights 34%, and the rest of the interior of the country is represented by the evolution of the San Luis CPI (22% of IPC-NP). For the last month, the median of REM expectations was considered.
4 Private M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
5 Private M2 includes cash in the hands of the public and sight deposits of the private sector in pesos.
6 Total M3 includes cash in the hands of the public and total deposits in pesos of the public and non-financial private sectors.

Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 6

On the other hand, in the dollar segment, deposits

## Graph 4.1

Loans to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality grew, driven mainly by the transfer of public funds from
thousands of (monthly average balance) the Central Bank to commercial banks. Meanwhile, those
millions $ of the private sector reached US$23,350 million, in-
1,200 creasing US$370 million over the course of the month
1,150 and showing the highest level since 2003.

1,100 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3⁷,
1,050 increased 1.8%, presenting a year-on-year variation of
1,000 43.8%.
950
 Pesos and Foreign Currency 1 8
 900 4. Loans
 Pesos
 850
 In March, the real seasonally adjusted balance 3 of loans
 800
 Mar-14Sept-14Mar-15Sept-15Mar-16Sept-16Mar-17 to the private sector, in pesos and foreign currency,
 Source: BCRA remained relatively stable with respect to
 Chart 4.2 February, after growing uninterruptedly during the

 Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector previous months (see Chart 4.1). The balance in pesos
 % % also remained unchanged with respect to the previous month.
 6 60

 Monthly variation
 5 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 50 In nominal terms, credit in pesos to the private

 4 40 sector grew 1.4% ($13,200 million), which meant
 that its year-on-year expansion rate continued to acce-

 3 30 lerate, reaching 24.1% (see Chart 4.2).

 2 20
 The month's growth was driven mainly by personal

 1 10 loans (see Chart 4.3). The financing granted through
 this line continued to accelerate its growth rate, with
 0 0 a monthly increase of 4.1% ($9,550 million) and a

-1 -10 year-on-year variation that reached 44.7%, 2.7 p.p.

 Mar-12Mar-13Mar-14Mar-15Mar-16Mar-17 more than the previous month (see Charts 4.4). For its
 
Source: BCRA part, credit card financings, another of the lines destined
 essentially to finance household consumption, presented
 Chart 4.3 growth close to 1% ($2,140 million) and continued

 thousands of Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
 (average monthly variation) % decreasing their year-on-year growth rate, which went
 millions $ from 28% to 26.6%.
 15 60

 Monthly variation 44.7
 46.2 Regarding loans destined mainly to finance com-
 10 40 mercial activities, advances reflected a decline of 1.4%

 24.1 26.6 ($1,550 million) in March, while the year-on-year

 5 18.8 20 variation stood at 12%. For their part, financings in-
 12.0
 10.1 0.8 strumentalised through documents maintained their ave-
 0 0 rage monthly balance practically unchanged, and in the
 last 12 months accumulated an increase close to 10%.

 -5 -20

 Source: BCRA

7 Includes M3 and deposits from public and private non-financial sectors in foreign currency.
8 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" refers to loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortisations and cancellations of the period.

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 7

 Loans with real guarantees continued to show good
 Chart 4.4 performance. Mortgages presented growth similar to

 % Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector % that of the previous month, of 2.7% ($1,740 million),
 5 60 compared to a decline in March of the previous year.

 Avg. monthly var. In this way, they continued to accelerate their year-
 Year-on-year var. (right axis)
 4 50 on-year expansion rate, from 15.3% in February to
 18.8% in the last month (see Charts 4.5). Mortgage

 3 40 loans denominated in UVA continued driving the greater
 dynamism of the line. In March, approximately

 2 30 $1,100 million were granted, approximately half of the
 mortgage credits granted to families. Thus, since the
1 20 launch of this instrument, in April 2016, and until
 March more than $4,500 million were disbursed. If personal
 loans granted under this
 0 10
 Mar-12Mar-13Mar-14Mar-15Mar-16Mar-17 modality are added, the total financing in UVA amounts,
 Source: BCRA
 approximately, to $6,200 million 9. For its part, loans
 with chattel mortgage guarantee registered an increase
 of 2.8% ($1,580 million), lower than in the previous
 months, although in year-over-year terms they accumu-
 lated a growth of 46.2%, increasing approximately 4 p.p.

 Chart 4.5
 % Mortgage Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector with respect to the previous month.
 (avg. monthly and year-over-year var.) %
 5 50
 Monthly variation
 Lastly, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 4 Y.o.y. var. (right axis) 40
 showed a monthly increase of 4.4%

 3 30 (US$420 million), which was composed funda-
 mentally by lines associated with export pre-financing.

 2 20
 1 10 5. Liquidity of financial entities
 
 0 0

 -1 -10 In March, financial entities allocated the increase in
 Mar-12Mar-13Mar-14Mar-15Mar-16Mar-17
 their funds in pesos mainly to granting loans to the
 Source: BCRA
 private sector and also to increase their liquid assets.
 The liquidity of financial entities in the local currency
 Chart 5.1 segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the
 current account of entities at the Central Bank, net
 repurchase agreements with such entity and the holding
 of LEBACs, as a percentage of deposits in pesos)
 reached 45.5% (see Chart 5.1). This level was consistent
 with a surplus in reserve requirements integration
 equivalent to 0.2% of total deposits in pesos (see
 Chart 5.2).

 The composition of liquidity changed affected by the
 acceleration of the destruction of deteriorated banknotes
 –reducing cash holdings in banks– and by the entry into
 force of a reduction in reserve requirement coefficients
 on deposits in pesos equivalent to 2% of total such
 placements, which resulted in a decline in the current
 account of entities at the Central Bank. In both cases,
 the liquidity freed was channeled toward a greater holding
 of net repurchase agreements with the BCRA, further
 increased by the reduction in banks' holding of LEBACs.

 For its part, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash
 in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
 Chart 5.2 Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity, as a
 Position of Minimum Cash in Pesos percentage of deposits in dollars) remained at high levels,
 % of deposits
 20 increasing slightly to 77% (0.5 p.p. above the previous
 Quarterly computation month).

18
 6. International reserves and foreign
16 10 exchange market
14
 International reserves ended March with a balance of
12 US$50,522 million, presenting a decline of US$86 million
 in the month (see Chart 6.1). The main changes in
 8 international reserves in March came from the issuance
 Accumulated Integration Requirement Daily Integration of debt by the province of Córdoba, which generated
 6
 an inflow of around US$500 million, offset by the decline
1-Dec-151-Feb-161-Apr-161-Jun-161-Aug-161-Oct-161-Dec-16
 associated with the foreign currency current accounts of
Source: BCRA
 financial entities at the Central Bank and payments by
 the National Treasury. The latter also varied for other
 reasons that did not generate changes in the gross
 balance of international reserves: transfers of funds by
 the National Treasury from accounts at the Central Bank
 to financial entities and the purchase of dollars by the
 Central Bank from the Province of Buenos Aires for
 US$600 million.

---

**Footnote:**
9 At the date of publication of this report (with data as of April 5), loans in UVAs had been granted for a total of approximately $6,400 million.

Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 8
# Thousands of BCRA International Reserves Millions of U$S

Although the foreign currency that the BCRA purchased through these operations already formed part of international reserves, these operations allow improving the composition of its assets, by generating an increase in the participation of those more liquid in foreign currency, which favors its position to face eventual negative shocks.

Thus, as in the previous months, the Central Bank allowed the market to freely establish the parity of foreign currency buying and selling operations, participating only on specific occasions. The reference exchange rate of the peso / US dollar ended March at 15.38, registering a slight decline (-0.5%) compared to the close of the previous month.

In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | March of 2017 | BCRA | 9

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| Monthly averages / Percentage variations | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Main monetary and financial system variables | Mar-17 | Feb-17 | Dec-16 | Mar-16 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
| Monetary base | 790.603 | 827.036 | 787.895 | 586.879 | -4.4% | 34.7% |
| Monetary circulation | 592.134 | 602.749 | 562.994 | 455.314 | -1.8% | 30.0% |
| Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public | 515.855 | 516.392 | 494.853 | 401.781 | -0.1% | 28.4% |
| Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 76.278 | 86.357 | 68.140 | 53.533 | -11.7% | 42.5% |
| Cancellation Checks | 0.6 | 1.1 | 0.4 | 0.0 | -45.1% | - |
| Current account at the BCRA | 198.469 | 224.287 | 224.901 | 131.565 | -11.5% | 50.9% |
| Stock of Reverse Repos | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 195.030 | 135.059 | 52.777 | 19.950 | 44.4% | 877.6% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 34.0 | 1.934 | | |
| Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 652.941 | 620.220 | 669.257 | 500.613 | 5.3% | 30.4% |
| In banks | 244.576 | 257.060 | 322.853 | 325.811 | -4.9% | -24.9% |
| LEBAC (does not include portfolio for reverse repos) | | | | | | |
| In pesos | 652.941 | 620.220 | 669.036 | 426.762 | 5.3% | 53.0% |
| In dollars | 0 | 0 | 144.221 | - | - | 100.0% |
| NOBAC | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | - |
| BCRA International Reserves (5) | 51.488 | 48.464 | 37.853 | 28.862 | 6.2% | 78.4% |
| Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 1.496.489 | 1.490.855 | 1.396.673 | 1.157.516 | 0.4% | 29.3% |
| Current account (2) | 423.705 | 396.508 | 403.213 | 330.034 | 6.9% | 28.4% |
| Savings account | 322.260 | 326.722 | 327.229 | 222.937 | -1.4% | 44.6% |
| Fixed term not adjustable by CER | 692.230 | 709.741 | 604.280 | 561.787 | -2.5% | 23.2% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER | 901 | 551 | 397 | 166 | 63.4% | 5364.6% |
| Other deposits (3) | 57.393 | 57.332 | 61.554 | 42.741 | 0.1% | 34.3% |
| Deposits of the private sector | 1.140.092 | 1.128.293 | 1.093.010 | 907.179 | 1.0% | 25.7% |
| Deposits of the public sector | 356.398 | 362.562 | 303.662 | 250.337 | -1.7% | 42.4% |
| Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) | 34.159 | 31.455 | 24.472 | 13.789 | 8.6% | 147.7% |
| Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) | 979.959 | 970.968 | 932.200 | 823.911 | 0.9% | 18.9% |
| Loans to the private sector | 944.078 | 930.866 | 886.632 | 760.979 | 1.4% | 24.1% |
| Advances | 108.652 | 110.207 | 107.280 | 97.045 | -1.4% | 12.0% |
| Documents | 197.313 | 197.683 | 189.882 | 179.279 | -0.2% | 10.1% |
| Mortgage loans | 65.239 | 63.496 | 59.274 | 54.908 | 2.7% | 18.8% |
| Pledge loans | 58.490 | 56.913 | 51.936 | 40.019 | 2.8% | 46.2% |
| Personal loans | 243.800 | 234.250 | 217.663 | 168.441 | 4.1% | 44.7% |
| Credit cards | 232.968 | 230.832 | 223.829 | 183.985 | 0.9% | 26.6% |
| Others | 37.615 | 37.486 | 36.769 | 37.303 | 0.3% | 0.8% |
| Loans to the public sector | 35.881 | 40.103 | 45.568 | 62.932 | -10.5% | -43.0% |
| Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) | 10.114 | 9.677 | 9.224 | 3.927 | 4.5% | 157.6% |
| Total monetary aggregates (1) | | | | | | |
| M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 939.560 | 912.901 | 898.066 | 731.815 | 2.9% | 28.4% |
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 1.261.821 | 1.239.623 | 1.225.295 | 954.753 | 1.8% | 32.2% |
| M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 2.012.345 | 2.007.248 | 1.891.526 | 1.559.297 | 0.3% | 29.1% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 2.544.926 | 2.499.445 | 2.281.804 | 1.769.482 | 1.8% | 43.8% |
# Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 ((Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 767.474 764.910 744.758 604.964 0.3% 26.9%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1.073.508 1.075.572 1.054.508 815.699 -0.2% 31.6%
 M3 ((Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private 1.655.948 1.644.686 1.587.864 1.308.961 0.7% 26.5%
deposits in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.020.194 2.002.908 1.930.909 1.489.385 0.9% 35.6%

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 10

 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2017 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base -36.434 -4.4% 2.708 0.3% 2.708 0.3% 203.724 34.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 3.917 0.5% 10.791 1.4% 10.791 1.4% 55.922 9.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 16.838 2.0% 52.817 6.7% 52.817 6.7% 214.676 36.6%
Transitory Advances and Transfer of Profits 21.590 2.6% 25.161 3.2% 25.161 3.2% 179.807 30.6%
Other public sector operations -100 0.0% -1.672 -0.2% -1.672 -0.2% -10.844 -1.8%
Sterilization (Repurchase Agreements and Securities) -81.033 -9.8% -88.308 -11.2% -88.308 -11.2% -237.449 -40.5%
Others 2.354 0.3% 3.920 0.5% 3.920 0.5% 1.612 0.3%

International Reserves of the BCRA 3.024 6.2% 13.635 36.0% 13.635 36.0% 22.626 78.4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 252 0.5% 686 1.8% 686 1.8% 3.897 13.5%
 Payment to international organizations -171 -0.4% -300 -0.8% -300 -0.8% -1.785 -6.2%
 Other public sector operations 709 1.5% 2.815 7.4% 2.815 7.4% 14.157 49.1%
 Minimum Cash 2.274 4.7% 9.884 26.1% 9.884 26.1% 16.968 58.8%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -40 -0.1% 549 1.5% 549 1.5% -10.614 -36.8%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.
5 Provisional figures subject to valuation change

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos (1)
 Requirement 13.0 15.1
 Integration 13.2 15.3
 Position (2) 0.2 0.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)

 Up to 29 days 66.6 66.8 68.9 68.6
 30 to 59 days 23.3 21.5 20.0 21.3
 60 to 89 days 5.0 6.5 5.7 5.1
 90 to 179 days 3.0 3.4 3.9 3.1
 More than 180 days 2.1 1.8 1.6 1.9

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.6 24.4 24.7 24.6
 Integration (includes defect in application of resources) 71.1 70.1 65.4 60.5
 Position (2) 46.5 45.7 40.7 35.9

 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (3)

 Up to 29 days 57.5 55.9 54.9 55.1
 30 to 59 days 22.5 22.3 21.4 22.4
 60 to 89 days 8.8 10.6 11.4 10.0
 90 to 179 days 8.1 8.3 9.0 9.6
 180 to 365 days 2.9 2.8 3.1 2.8
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1

(1) Between December and February the Minimum Cash regime in national currency is computed on a quarterly basis.

(2) Position = Requirement - Integration

(3) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 11

Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 22.76 23.57 24.09 24.66 35.43
 Amount traded 2.467 4.018 4.365 4.576 3.916

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 18.09 18.39 18.40 18.78 27.40
 60 days or more 18.58 18.81 18.95 19.06 28.55
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.00 19.18 19.11 19.54 27.80
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 19.46 20.00 19.76 22.10 29.72
In dollars
 30-44 days 0.39 0.38 0.38 0.39 0.81
 60 days or more 0.79 0.58 0.61 0.68 1.30
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.50 0.50 0.44 0.45 0.69
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.68 0.55 0.55 1.17

 Active Interest Rates Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 20.33 21.46 23.51 25.50 34.86
 Amount traded (total terms) 895 783 767 795 643
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Current account advances 29.78 29.70 30.26 30.99 39.61
 Documents at sole signature 22.21 21.93 22.53 23.54 32.27
 Mortgage loans 19.09 19.08 19.20 19.70 25.44
 Pledge loans 18.80 18.98 18.82 20.73 26.94
 Personal loans 38.91 39.02 39.77 39.15 42.10
 Credit cards s/d 42.99 43.92 44.38 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 24.27 24.97 25.39 25.92 37.78

 International Interest Rates Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

LIBOR
 1 month 0.93 0.78 0.77 0.72 0.44
 6 months 1.43 1.35 1.34 1.31 0.90

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.31 1.19 1.20 1.19 0.87
 10 years 2.48 2.42 2.43 2.50 1.88

FED Funds Rate 0.89 0.75 0.75 0.66 0.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 12.25 12.88 13.24 13.75 14.25

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 12
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 22.75 22.75 22.75 22.02 28.68
 Liabilities 7 days 24.00 24.00 23.86 22.81 29.68
 Assets 7 days 25.50 25.50 25.64 26.69 39.71

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 21.45 22.94 23.40 24.01 35.18

Amount traded of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 3,462 6,491 9,176 8,300 6,488
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

 1 month 22.25 22.8 23.5 24.8 37.8
 2 months 22.00 22.5 23.5 24.4 35.00
 3 months 21.75 22.00 23.10 24.16 33.80

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month s/o s/o s/o s/o 0.90
 3 months s/o s/o s/o s/o 0.90
 6 months s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o
 12 months s/o s/o s/o s/o s/o

Amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 18,152 10,337 11,806 11,758 7,811

 Foreign Exchange Market Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 15.52 15.59 15.91 15.84 14.94
 Retail 15.60 15.68 15.97 15.89 15.01

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 16.02 16.02 15.92 15.42 15.24
 ROFEX 1 month 15.74 15.81 16.17 16.22 15.20
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 8,205 7,227 6,666 8,423 9,210

Real (Pesos x Real) 4.96 5.02 4.98 4.73 4.05

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 16.58 16.60 16.91 16.69 16.68

 Capital Market Mar-17 Feb-17 Jan-17 Dec-16 Mar-16

MERVAL
 Index 19,493 19,493 18,736 16,711 12,964
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 366 382 435 282 260

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 106.5 107.3 106.8 103.7 116.5
 BONAR X (US$) 100.2 100.7 101.2 102.6 100.9
 DISCOUNT ($) 120.0 120.0 119.1 117.0 109.0

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR X vs. US Treasury Bond 247 226 124 -80 533
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 452 453 466 494 450

 EMBI+ Latin America 446 450 472 491 568

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 13
8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, settlement checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | March 2017 | BCRA | 14
