# Monthly Monetary Report
October 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was November 7, 2017. All figures are provisional
 and are subject to revision.

## 1. Summary 1

• In October, the INDEC's national consumer price index for September was released, which showed a monthly variation of 1.9% for the general level and 1.6% for the core component. Although, so far this year, this component has slowed down and in the third quarter averaged 1.6% monthly, the BCRA seeks a more pronounced deceleration. On the other hand, in October, a fuel price increase greater than expected became known. In this scenario, the monetary authority decided to give a more contractionary bias to its monetary policy and increased its monetary policy rate –the center of the 7-day repo corridor– 150 basis points (b.p.) in October and an additional 100 b.p. on November 7, bringing it to 28.75%.

• The Central Bank continued conducting open market operations in order to manage liquidity conditions in the monetary market. Thus, during the month, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of NV $118.7 billion, which more than compensated for the expansion that occurred in the primary auction.

• The interest rates in the interbank loan markets remained within the BCRA's repo corridor and adjusted immediately to the new levels set for the monetary authority's repo operations. In turn, passive rates maintained a slight growth trend.

• Loans to the private sector prolonged their growing trend in real and seasonally adjusted terms. Both total loans in pesos and foreign currency as well as only those denominated in local currency presented a monthly increase of 2%. Although most lines increased in real terms, mortgage loans continued to stand out, with real seasonally adjusted growth exceeding 7% for a second consecutive month.

• In nominal terms, mortgage loans accumulated an increase of 77.4% in the last twelve months and, in October, those granted in UVA represented approximately 90% of the total mortgage loans granted to families. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $35,700 million in UVA mortgage loans have been granted.

• The granting of loans to the private sector again exceeded deposit growth, so the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holdings of LEBACs, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) showed a reduction of 1.2 p.p. to 38.9% of deposits, mainly due to a decline in LEBAC holdings.

• In October, the BCRA decided to stop computing reserve requirements on a quarterly basis for the December-February period. Thus, the computation for that period will be monthly, as for the rest of the year. This measure aims to achieve stricter control of the liquidity levels of the financial system, in line with the restrictive monetary policy that the BCRA has been carrying out, aimed at intensifying the disinflation process.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest rates 2
# Graph 2.1 Monetary Policy Interest Rates
% Monthly Inflation - General Levels
6 City of Buenos Aires

5 Córdoba In October, the national consumer price index from
San Luis INDEC was released for September, which showed a
4 GBA monthly variation in the general level of 1.9% (see Graph
National - INDEC 2.1) and 1.6% for the core component. Although, in
3 what has elapsed this year, this component has decelerated
and in the third quarter averaged 1.6% monthly, the BCRA
2 seeks a more pronounced deceleration. On the other
hand, in this month increases in regulated prices greater
1 than expected were also announced.
0

-1
May-16 Jul-16 Sept-16 Nov-16 Ene-17 Mar-17 May-17 Jul-17 Sept-17
Sources: General Directorate of Statistics and Census of GCBA, INDEC, Provincial
Directorates of Statistics and Census of San Luis and Córdoba. In this scenario, the monetary authority decided to give
a more contractionary bias to its monetary policy and increased
its monetary policy rate –the center of the 7-day repo
corridor– 150 basis points (b.p.), to 27.75%. The 7-day
corridor moved to 27%-28.5%. The rates of the BCRA's 1-day
repos also increased 150 b.p. Before the publication of this report, on
# Graph 2.2 November 7, the BCRA decided an additional increase of
Secondary Market Rate Curve 100 b.p. of its monetary policy rate, bringing it to
TNA; % (last day of each month) 28.75%.
29.0 31-Oct-17 29-Sept-17 31-Aug-17

28.5 The Central Bank continued conducting open market
operations in order to manage the liquidity conditions of
28.0 the monetary market. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the
secondary market for a total of VN $118.7 billion, which
27.5 more than compensated in the month for the expansion
from the primary auction. The securities traded were
27.0 mainly the issues with maturities on the third Wednesday
26.5 of December (22%) and of November (18%). The increase
in the reference rate produced a displacement of the curve
26.0 as a result of rate arbitrage, which induced an increase in
0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 end-of-month yields of 60 b.p. for the shortest-dated issue
Source: BCRA and around 100 b.p. for issues with residual maturity
greater than 35 days. (see Graph 2.2).

# Graph 2.3
TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos Market Interest Rates
45

40 The shorter-term interest rates remained close to the
center of the rate corridor established by the BCRA in the
35 repo market. This behavior continued to be recorded after
30 the rate increase at the end of October (see Graph 2.3).
As of the publication date of this report, there is still no
25 information available to assess the behavior of these market
rates following the monetary policy rate increase in the first
20 week of November.
BCRA 1-day repo corridor
15 1-day Call
Advances Up to 7 days - More than $10 M - Private Banks

10
Ene-16 Abr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Ene-17 Abr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17
Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 4

In the interbank loan markets, the interest rate of the
# Graph 2.4 1-day business day call operations ended October at
TNA; % Short-Term Interest Rates 27%, 1.4 p.p. above the value recorded at the end of
(Daily Data) the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate
42 BADLAR Private Banks of the 1-day business day operations between financial
Fixed-term Deposits for Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) entities in the guaranteed market (REPO session) was
38 LEBAC 35 Days - Secondary Market located at the end of October at 25.4%, showing an
LEBAC 35 days - Primary Market increase of 1.1 p.p. with respect to the last day of September.
34 The average daily amount traded in both markets remained
practically stable, totaling around
22 $14 billion.

18 The rate of current account advances to companies of
14 more than $10 million and up to 7 days showed an increase

 Source: BCRAJan-16Mar-16May-16Jul-16Sept-16Nov-16Jan-17Mar-17May-17Jul-17Sept-17 of 1.2 p.p. with respect to the end of September, following a similar evolution to the interest rates of the interbank loan markets.

 For its part, the interest rates that banks pay to capture time deposits showed increases with respect to
 Chart 2.5 September, continuing with the upward trend that

 Active Interest Rates began in April. Thus the BADLAR –interest rate for
 ANN; % Discounted Documents Personal Loans
 45 Documents at Sole Signature Secured Loans time deposits of $1 million and more, from 30 to 35 days
 of term– of private banks averaged 21.6%, which

 40 meant a monthly increase of 0.3 p.p. Meanwhile, the
 interest rate paid by fixed-term deposits of

 35 up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 18.4%, showing an increase of 0.4 p.p. (see Chart 2.4).
 30

 25 The active interest rates of operations agreed at fixed or re-negotiable rates showed mixed behavior in October. Whereas those intended for families decreased, those associated with a commercial purpose
 20
 increased. With respect to the lines

 15 intended to finance families, the rate of secured
 loans averaged 18.4%, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p. In this line, said effect is explained
 to a large extent by the decline in the rate charged by
 a financial entity associated with an automotive company and by the
 increase in the participation of an entity with a rate
 01-Jul-1601-Oct-1601-Jan-1701-Apr-1701-Jul-1701-Oct-17 level lower than average. For its part, the rate of personal
 loans averaged 38.2%, showing a
 Chart 2.6 drop of 0.7 p.p. In this case, the increase was asso-
 % Active Interest Rates UVA ciated with a lower proportion granted by entities that
 12 (daily data - private sector) Mortgage Personal operate with higher rates. With respect to the
 interest rates of the lines intended to finance the ac-
 10 tivity of companies, documents at sole signature averaged 22.6%, showing an average monthly increase
 8 of 0.9 p.p., while the interest rate of
 discounted documents averaged 21.1%, showing an

 6 increase of 0.6 p.p. (see Chart 2.5).

 4 For its part, with respect to financing adjustable by UVA, mortgage credits were granted at
 2 a weighted average rate by amount of 4.8%, a similar

 0 value to the previous month. Meanwhile, the rate of personal
 2-Jan-172-Mar-172-May-172-Jul-172-Sept-17 credits adjustable by UVA averaged 8.6% for the month,
 Source: BCRA practically unchanged with respect to September. (see
 Chart 2.6).
 Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 5
 Chart 3.1

 %, p.p. M3 Private -Real Without Seasonality
 2.5 (monthly variation and contribution by component to growth)

 2.0

 1.5

 1.0 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

 0.5

 0.0 In October, the real and seasonally adjusted balance of
 the M3 private 3 showed growth of 0.9%, with
 -0.5
 -1.0 Time Deposits and Others (p.p.) increases in all its components (see Chart 3.1). The
 Demand Deposits (p.p.) M2 Private 4 increased 1.2%, with rises in demand
-1.5 Cash in circulation held by the public (p.p.) at sight and, mainly, in cash held by the
-2.0 M3 private (monthly variation) public. The dynamism of the latter would be associated with
Oct-16 Dec-16 Feb-17 Apr-17 Jun-17 Aug-17 Oct-17 greater relative growth of activities and higher in-
Source: BCRA. Aggregates deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations.
comes of individuals –such as retirees who receive ad-
justments to their pensions under the Historical Reparation Law–
Graph 3.2
that make more intensive use of banknotes. For its part,
thousands of Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector thousands of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector
millions of $ (evolution of daily balance) millions of $ stopped falling in real terms.

260 345
In nominal terms, the average monthly balance of
250 335 M2 private increased 2.1% in October, while fixed-
term deposits of the private sector grew 1.5%.
240 325
Placements of smaller amounts (less than $1 million)
230 315 continued to increase at a similar rate to previous
months, while wholesale deposits continued with the
220 305 slight upward trend initiated in mid-September (see
Graph 3.2). This behavior was recorded in a period in
More than $1 million which passive interest rates
210 295
Less than $1 million (right axis) showed an increase (see Interest Rates section of
200 285 the market).
Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sept-17 Oct-17
Source: BCRA. Total deposits in pesos grew 0.4% in October, with
an increase in placements of the private sector that
Graph 3.3 was partially offset by the decline in those
thousands of Factors Explaining the Monetary Base corresponding to the public sector. These behaviors
millions of $ (October 2017, on average) prompted a monthly increase in M3⁵ of 1%.
80

60 The average monthly balance of the monetary base grew

40 1.8%, mainly due to the increase in cash in circulation
held by the public. The demand for monetary base was
20
met by the expansion associated with dollar purchases
0 and transfers to the National Treasury, partially offset
by the contractionary effect of sterilization through the
-20
placement of LEBACs and repo operations (see Graph 3.3).
-40

-60

-80
S. Private and National Advances and Rest
Other Treasury Profits
Purchases of ForeignOther Operations with LEBAC and Cash Reserve
Exchange Treasury National Held by Public Banks
Source: BCRA

3 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
4 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and demand deposits of the non-financial private sector.
5 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos of the public and private sectors.

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 6

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of de-
Graph 4.1 posits decreased throughout October, with increases
thousands of Loans to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality in placements of the private sector and reductions in
millions $ (average monthly balance) those belonging to the public sector. The decrease
corresponding to the public sector was associated with
1,500 dollar sales by the National Treasury. Private sector
1,400 deposits in dollars grew US$230 million, reaching a
balance of US$24,650 million.
1,300

1,200 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*⁶,
decreased 0.7%, presenting an annual variation of
1,100 34%.

1,000
Pesos and Foreign Pesos 4. Loans¹⁷
900 Currency
Oct-14 Oct-15 Oct-16 Oct-17
Source: BCRA

During October, loans to the private sector extended their growing trend in real terms and seasonally adjusted (see Chart 4.1). Both the total of loans in pesos and foreign currency as well as only those denominated in local currency, showed a monthly increase of 2%.

**Chart 4.2**
Loans with Real Guarantee in Pesos to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
% (monthly variation of average balances)

9
7
5    Mortgage Loans    Pledge Loans
3
1
-1
-3
-5
-7
     Oct-14 Apr-15 Oct-15 Apr-16 Oct-16 Apr-17 Oct-17
     Source: BCRA

Regarding loans in pesos, those granted with real guarantee continued to be the most dynamic, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In particular, loans with mortgage guarantee registered on average a real increase greater than 7% in the last two months (see Chart 4.2).

In nominal terms, mortgage loans grew in October 9.8% ($8,900 million), accumulating an increase of 77.9% in the last twelve months. Month after month, UVA financing continues gaining participation over the total of mortgage loans granted to individuals, coming to represent close to 90% of the total. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $35,700 million of mortgage loans in UVA have been granted. For its part, loans with pledge guarantee grew 4.6% in the month, raising its year-on-year expansion rate, which stood at 72.5%. In both this line and in personal loans, a growing participation of UVA loans is observed: by the end of October, $16,000 million of personal and pledge credits in UVA have been granted.

**Chart 4.3**
Consumer Loans in Pesos Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
thousands of (monthly average balance)
millions $

320    Personal
300    Credit Cards
280
260
240
220
200
180
     Oct-14 Oct-15 Oct-16 Oct-17
     Source: BCRA

Loans with essentially commercial destination also maintained their growing trend in October. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, both those granted through advances and through documents grew. In nominal terms, this meant that financing instruments arranged through documents registered a growth of 3.9% ($9,600 million), reaching a year-on-year increase of 45%, 5.6 p.p. above the previous month. As for advances, they registered a nominal monthly increase of 7% ($7,800 million).

---

**Footnotes:**

6 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currencies.

7 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolios of entities to financial trusts. In the present report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 7
**Graph 4.4** With regard to financing destined mainly
Thousands of Private Banks to family consumption, personal loans
mill. of US$ showed a nominal increase of 4.8% ($14,500 million),
12 Lending capacity of deposits in foreign currency* with a year-on-year variation close to 60%. Thus, in
10 Balance of loans in foreign currency real terms and adjusted for seasonality they grew
 2.3% in October (Graph 4.3).
 8
 6 Meanwhile, credit card financing
 showed an increase of 2% ($5,000 million),
 4 accumulating an increase in the last twelve months of
 2 23.5%. However, in real terms and adjusted for
 seasonality they presented a monthly decline.
 0
 Dec-15Apr-16Aug-16Dec-16Apr-17Aug-17 Thus, financing to the private sector in pesos
*Defect in the application of resources in foreign currency reported under the Minimum Cash regime.
Source: BCRA exhibited a nominal increase of 4.5% ($50,100 million), while the year-on-year variation stood at
 around 41.9%.

 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private
 sector raised their monthly growth rate to 1.9%
 in October, explained mainly by the recovery
 in the expansion rate of single-signature documents
 (mainly export pre-financing). Thus,
 they reached a monthly average balance of US$14,384 million.
 It is worth noting that the sustained dynamism that
 **Graph 5.1** this segment of loans had in recent months
 Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of financial implied that a large part of the increase in
 entities -October, average flows lending capacity from deposits was absorbed
 thousands of million $ following the inflow of funds associated with the local portion of tax regularization.
 60
 50 This is particularly evident in private sector financial
 40 entities (see Graph 4.4), which concentrated
 30 Liquidity in pesos 80% of the increase in dollar loans
 20 to the private sector, both since the end of 2015
 10 and during 2017 so far.
 0
 -10 5. Liquidity of financial enti-
 -20 ties¹
 -30
 -40 Loans to Fin. to CC Cash LEBAC Repos Sale Deposits Others
 S. Priv. S. Pub. BCRA of US$
 Source: BCRA During October, financial entities again showed
 a decrease in their liquid assets as a consequence
 of sustained growth in loan demand (see Graph 5.1). In this way, the liquidity of
 financial entities in the local currency segment
 (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net
 repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) showed a reduction
 of 1.2 p.p. to 38.9% of deposits.

 Unlike previous months, the decline is explained
 exclusively by the decrease in LEBAC holdings,
 **Graph 5.2** which fell to 20.5% of deposits (see Graph
 Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities 5.2). Cash in banks and the balance of net repos
 
 % of CCBCRA Cash Net Repos LEBAC and NOBAC Broad Liquidity with the Central Bank partially compensated
 deposits
 50 with slight increases. For their part, current accounts at
 44.2 44.4 44.2 44.8 45.4 45.4 45.3 44.7
 45 43.4 42.5 42.5 the BCRA had a share of 13.2% of deposits
 41.2 40.1
 40 38.9 (which implies a surplus equivalent to 0.2% of
 deposits in the Minimum Cash position).
 35
 30 22.4 22.7 It is worth mentioning that during October the BCRA
 22.1 20.5
 25 decided to stop calculating reserve requirements on a
 quarterly basis in December-February⁸. Thus, the
 20 2.7 1.4 0.7 1.1
 computation period for that period will be monthly
 15 4.3 4.0 4.0 4.1
 starting this year, as

 10

---

**Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 8**
13,113.1 13.3 13.2 in the rest of the months. This measure aims to achieve
5
0 more strict control of the liquidity levels of the financial

sep-16 oct-16 nov-16 dec-16 jan-17 feb-17 mar-17 apr-17 may-17 jun-17 jul-17 aug-17 sep-17 oct-17 system, in line with the restrictive monetary policy

* LEBACs and NOBACs at effective value.
Source: BCRA that the BCRA has been carrying out aimed at intensifying the disinflation process.

On the other hand, in a context of falling deposits and slight increase in loan demand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) showed a decrease of 5 p.p. –from elevated levels– compared to the previous month, averaging 52% in October.

Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign 9
Exchange Market

thousands of BCRA International Reserves
of millions of US$
60
55 International reserves ended October with a balance of
US$51,810 million, registering a monthly increase of
50 US$1,573 million (see Chart 6.1). Once again, said
45 increase was explained mainly by the inflow of foreign

40 currency associated with the placement of debt in dollars
35 by the National Treasury.
30
25 In line with what occurred in previous months, the Central
20 Bank's purchase of dollars from the National Treasury
15 for US$2,674 million made it possible to improve the
10 Oct-05 Feb-07 Jun-08 Oct-09 Feb-11 Jun-12 Oct-13 Feb-15 Jun-16 Oct-17 BCRA's balance sheet, generating an increase in the

Source: BCRA participation of those more liquid assets in foreign currency. However, these movements did not generate changes in the gross balance of international reserves.

8 Communication "A" 6349.
9 In this section, figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 9

The exchange rate of the peso registered a depreciation against the US dollar of 2%, ending October at a value of 17.67 $/US$.

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 10

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Changes
Main monetary and financial system variables | oct-17 | sep-17 | dec-16 | oct-16 | Monthly | Last 12 months

Monetary Base | 887,850 | 872,282 | 787,895 | 695,131 | 1.8% | 27.7%
Monetary Circulation | 675,524 | 660,029 | 562,994 | 502,111 | 2.3% | 34.5%
Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public | 610,341 | 596,460 | 494,853 | 447,973 | 2.3% | 36.2%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 65,183 | 63,569 | 68,140 | 54,138 | 2.5% | 20.4%
Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.7 | 35.8% | -48.5%
Current Account in the BCRA | 212,326 | 212,253 | 224,901 | 193,019 | 0.0% | 10.0%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities | 66,637 | 45,253 | 52,777 | 35,855 | 47.3% | 85.9%
Assets | 257 | 3,103 | 3,400 | -- | -- | --

Stock of BCRA Securities (at nominal value) | 1,109,942 | 1,035,219 | 669,257 | 665,078 | 7.2% | 66.9%
In banks | 350,982 | 370,559 | 322,853 | 309,344 | -5.3% | 13.5%

LEBACs (does not include portfolio for repos)
In pesos | 1,109,942 | 1,035,219 | 669,036 | 664,580 | 7.2% | 67.0%
In dollars | 0 | 0 | 14 | 33 | -- | -100.0%

NOBACs | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | -- | --

BCRA International Reserves | 51,692 | 50,837 | 37,888 | 36,430 | 1.7% | 41.9%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 1,590,679 | 1,583,813 | 1,397,490 | 1,277,343 | 0.4% | 24.5%
Current Account (2) | 436,274 | 441,949 | 403,233 | 341,653 | -1.3% | 27.7%

Savings Account | 379,197 | 378,430 | 327,229 | 272,571 | 0.2% | 39.1%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA | 703,490 | 694,395 | 605,107 | 608,521 | 1.3% | 15.6%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA | 1,811 | 1,517 | 497 | 305 | 19.4% | 492.9%
Other deposits (3) | 69,907 | 67,523 | 61,523 | 54,293 | 3.5% | 28.8%

Private Sector Deposits | 1,262,014 | 1,240,500 | 1,093,038 | 1,028,585 | 1.7% | 22.7%

Public Sector Deposits | 328,665 | 343,313 | 304,452 | 248,758 | -4.3% | 32.1%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) | 28,982 | 31,601 | 24,472 | 19,302 | -8.3% | 50.1%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) | 1,203,701 | 1,155,002 | 932,208 | 877,791 | 4.2% | 37.1%
**Loans to the private sector** 1,174,044 1,124,022 886,640 827,612 4.5% 41.9%
- Advances 118,758 110,961 107,280 107,229 7.0% 10.8%
- Documents 256,855 247,206 189,882 177,161 3.9% 45.0%
- Mortgages 100,300 91,379 59,274 56,371 9.8% 77.9%
- Pledges 81,348 77,750 51,925 47,156 4.6% 72.5%
- Personal loans 319,463 305,039 217,673 201,787 4.7% 58.3%
- Credit cards 251,295 246,334 223,830 203,543 2.0% 23.5%
- Other 46,025 45,355 36,776 34,366 1.5% 33.9%

**Loans to the public sector** 29,657 30,980 45,568 50,179 -4.3% -40.9%

**Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1)** 14,453 14,186 9,224 8,530 1.9% 69.4%

**Total monetary aggregates (1)**

- **M1** (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelling checks in pesos + checking accounts in pesos) 1,046,615 1,038,409 898,086 789,627 0.8% 32.5%

- **M2** (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 1,425,812 1,416,839 1,225,315 1,062,197 0.6% 34.2%

- **M3** (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelling checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 2,201,020 2,180,273 1,892,343 1,725,317 1.0% 27.6%

- **M3*** (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelling checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,708,653 2,726,405 2,282,632 2,021,289 -0.7% 34.0%

**Private monetary aggregates**

- **M1** (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelling checks in pesos + private checking accounts in pesos) 896,600 876,485 744,776 674,637 2.3% 32.9%

- **M2** (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 1,260,897 1,235,279 1,054,527 930,935 2.1% 35.4%

- **M3** (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancelling checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 1,872,355 1,836,960 1,587,891 1,476,559 1.9% 26.8%

- **M3*** (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelling checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,302,276 2,257,000 1,930,947 1,700,640 2.0% 35.4%

Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 11

**Variation factors - Average variations**

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Year-to-date 2017 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary base** | 15,568 | 1.8% | 37,023 | 4.4% | 99,955 | 12.7% | 192,720 | 27.7% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and other | 0 | 0.0% | -31,911 | -3.8% | 1,421 | 0.2% | 5,914 | 0.9% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury | 67,871 | 7.8% | 134,343 | 15.8% | 225,317 | 28.6% | 301,893 | 43.4% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits | 5,587 | 0.6% | 13,590 | 1.6% | 110,000 | 14.0% | 116,100 | 16.7% |
| Other public sector operations | -12,051 | -1.4% | -13,302 | -1.6% | -16,671 | -2.1% | -16,791 | -2.4% |
| Sterilization (Repurchase agreements and Securities) | -32,490 | -3.7% | -53,432 | -6.3% | -221,298 | -28.1% | -217,018 | -31.2% |
| Other | -13,348 | -1.5% | -12,265 | -1.4% | 1,186 | 0.2% | 2,621 | 0.4% |
| **BCRA International Reserves** | 855 | 1.7% | 3,761 | 7.8% | 13,804 | 36.4% | 15,262 | 41.9% |
| Foreign exchange market intervention | 0 | 0.0% | -1,798 | -3.8% | 346 | 0.9% | 631 | 1.7% |
| Payment to international organizations | -251 | -0.5% | -565 | -1.2% | -1,459 | -3.8% | -1,666 | -4.6% |
| Other public sector operations | 4,101 | 8.1% | 7,791 | 16.3% | 14,138 | 37.3% | 16,815 | 46.2% |
| Minimum cash | -3,013 | -5.9% | -2,003 | -4.2% | -1,062 | -2.8% | 1,093 | 3.0% |
| Remainder (including exchange rate valuation) | 18 | 0.0% | 335 | 0.7% | 1,841 | 4.9% | -1,610 | -4.4% |

(1) Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

(2) Net of the use of unified funds.

(3) Net of BODEN accounted for.

(4) The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month to which the variation is being made.

**Sources:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

**Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration**
oct-17 sep-17 ago-17
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 13.0 13.0 12.9
 Integration 13.2 13.3 13.1
 Position (1) 0.2 0.3 0.2
 Structure of residual maturity of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 68.3 69.2 68.0
 30 to 59 days 21.1 20.7 21.4
 60 to 89 days 5.5 4.9 5.4
 90 to 179 days 3.8 3.7 3.0
 more than 180 days 1.3 1.6 2.1
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.1 24.3 24.2
 Integration (includes default of resource application) 45.9 52.0 52.3
 Position (1) 21.8 27.7 28.2
 Structure of residual maturity of time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 54.6 55.5 55.0
 30 to 59 days 19.7 19.5 20.0
 60 to 89 days 9.8 9.6 9.6
 90 to 179 days 9.5 9.3 9.0
 180 to 365 days 3.0 2.5 1.9
 more than 365 days 3.3 3.6 4.5
 (1) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (2) Excludes judicial time deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 12
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates oct-17 sep-17 ago-17 dic-16 oct-16

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 25.99 26.49 26.06 24.66 26.13
 Amount operated 4,223 5,198 4,749 4,576 4,270

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 19.72 19.25 18.79 18.78 20.62
 60 days or more 20.18 19.49 19.23 19.06 20.80
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.74 20.33 19.79 19.54 21.41
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.60 21.27 20.75 20.04 22.07

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.45 0.45 0.42 0.39 0.54
 60 days or more 0.76 0.77 0.90 0.68 0.91
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.48 0.53 0.50 0.45 0.54
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.76 0.74 0.71 0.55 1.08

 Active Interest Rates oct-17 sep-17 ago-17 dic-16 oct-16

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 26.22 26.34 24.60 25.50 24.63
 Amount operated (total terms) 1,236 1,123 1,087 795 733

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Overdrafts in current account 31.49 31.34 30.95 30.99 32.45
 Single signature documents 22.63 21.74 21.45 23.54 26.61
 Mortgage loans 18.83 18.57 19.41 19.70 23.20
 Pledge loans 18.40 18.57 17.73 20.73 22.46
 Personal loans 38.19 38.86 38.28 39.15 41.54
 Credit cards n/d 41.88 41.45 44.37 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 27.13 27.36 26.86 25.92 27.41

 International Interest Rates oct-17 sep-17 ago-17 dic-16 oct-16

LIBOR
 1 month 1.24 1.23 1.23 0.72 0.53
 6 months 1.54 1.47 1.45 1.31 1.26

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.54 1.38 1.33 1.19 0.84
 10 years 2.36 2.20 2.21 2.50 1.76

FED Funds Rate 1.25 1.25 1.25 0.66 0.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 8.07 8.39 9.25 13.75 14.14

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 13
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates oct-17 sep-17 ago-17 dic-16 oct-16

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 24.59 24.25 24.25 22.02 22.50
 Passive 7 days 25.84 25.50 25.50 22.81 23.50
 Active 7 days 27.34 27.00 27.00 26.69 32.50

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO session
 1 day 24.88 25.96 25.89 24.01 25.58

Amount operated of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO session (daily average) 9,770 8,803 6,685 8,300 7,422
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 26.50 26.5 26.5 24.8 26.7
 2 months 26.84 26.9 26.5 24.4 25.90
 3 months 27.00 27.0 26.5 24.16 25.37

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 6 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 29,983 31,406 29,844 11,758 10,510

 Foreign Exchange Market oct-17 sep-17 ago-17 dic-16 oct-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 17.46 17.24 17.42 15.84 15.17
 Retail 17.52 17.29 17.47 15.89 15.23

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 17.79 17.50 17.76 16.02 15.47
 ROFEX 1 month 17.82 17.57 17.75 16.22 15.49
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 10,929 12,172 13,018 8,423 6,572

Real (Pesos x Real) 5.47 5.50 5.53 4.73 4.77

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 20.52 20.53 20.59 16.69 16.72
Capital Markets Oct-17 Sep-17 Aug-17 Dec-16 Oct-16

MERVAL
 Index 27,105 24,375 22,460 16,711 17,633
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 742 540 454 282 423

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 116.9 116.3 112.3 103.7 112.7
 BONAR 24 (US$) 116.3 114.9 114.3 115.0 115.6
 DISCOUNT ($) 108.6 108.7 114.2 117.0 119.2

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR 24 vs. US Treasury Bond 231 294 317 332 378
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 354 379 421 494 448

 EMBI+ Latin America 433 445 463 491 455

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and
External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction for the effect of coupons
that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 14

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits in amounts greater than one million pesos and for terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MF: Mutual Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and
sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and
the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and
total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Futures Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

 Monetary Report | October 2017 | BCRA | 15
