# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 12

8. Glossary | Page 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was January 5, 2018. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In December, the National Consumer Price Index (IPC) of INDEC for November was published, whose monthly variation was 1.4% for the general level and 1.3% for the core component. Core inflation has been declining in recent months, breaking the level of persistence observed until the third quarter. Its three-month moving average recorded the lowest value since INDEC data has been published in 2016, and is also the lowest value since September 2012, the date from which CABA data is available to make the comparison. The BCRA decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged during the month – the center of the 7-day repo corridor – at 28.75%.

• On December 28, announcements were made regarding the inflation target scheme and transfers from the monetary authority to the Treasury. In particular, it was decided to postpone by one year the objective of achieving long-term inflation of 5% annually, with respect to the path announced in January 2016. The intermediate inflation targets are 15% in 2018 and 10% in 2019, before reaching the long-term target of 5% in 2020. Furthermore, the trajectory of monetary transfers from the BCRA to the Treasury was defined, determining their reduction to $140,000 million in 2018, $70,000 million in 2019, and it was established that from 2020 the transfer limit will be defined by the genuine increase in the demand for monetary base, explained by economic growth.

• In response to the seasonal increase in liquidity demand – associated with end-of-year holidays, the payment of the half annual complementary salary and the imminent beginning of the summer recess – the BCRA conducted open market operations to minimize its impact on the volatility of monetary market interest rates. It bought LEBACs in the days prior to the monthly maturity of securities and sold during most of the rest of December. Thus, in the month it carried out net LEBAC sales in the secondary market for VN $64.4 billion.

• The interest rates in the interbank loan markets moved within the BCRA's repo corridor, reaching maximum values before the maturity of LEBACs, and then declining to the floor toward the end of the month. Among the rest of the monetary market interest rates, an upward trend predominated, with monthly average values that exceeded those observed in November by around 1 percentage point.

• The nominal evolution of monetary aggregates was in line with expectations in December, with the increase of private M2 components (currency in circulation and sight deposits) and a deceleration of time deposits. Once movements associated with seasonality are excluded and considering balances in real terms, it is observed that private M3 increased 1.4% in December and that fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector were the component that explained most of its growth.

• When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, total loans, pesos and foreign currency, increased 1.5% in December, while loans in local currency grew 1.7%. Thus, in 2017 loans to the private sector accumulated real growth of 24.6%. Most financing lines showed positive real variations during the year.

• Mortgage loans continued to stand out in December, registering a nominal increase of 10.2% ($11,800 million). Thus, they doubled their balance in the last 12 months (growth of 106.7% year-over-year), driven by UVA financing. Since the launch of this instrument (April 2016), approximately $56,300 million in UVA mortgages have been granted.

• Unlike what had been observed previously, in December the growth of loans was below that of deposits, so the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as
the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity
and the holding of LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) increased 1.3 p.p., reaching 39.8%. The
increase occurred through an increase in LEBAC balances and through higher balances in current accounts at
the BCRA (in December, required reserves increase due to the seasonal increase in sight deposits).
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates 2

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates
 Table 2.1
 Core Monthly Inflation INDEC In December, the National Consumer Price Index (CPI) of the INDEC for November was published, whose monthly variation was 1.4% for the general level and 1.3% for the core component. The evolution of core inflation has been favorable in recent months, breaking the persistence observed through the third quarter. The three-month moving average registers the lowest value since INDEC data has been published in 2016 (see Graph 2.1). For December, the high-frequency indicators monitored by the BCRA show that core inflation continued its favorable dynamics, beyond the effect that increases in regulated prices in the month may have on it. In this framework, the monetary authority decided to keep its monetary policy rate unchanged, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 28.75% throughout the month.

 Thousands of Millions Operated Amount OMA As indicated in the document "Objectives and plans regarding the development of monetary, financial, credit and exchange rate policy for the year 2018" 3, on December 28 announcements were made regarding inflation targets scheme. In particular, it was decided to postpone by one year the objective of achieving long-term inflation of 5% annually, with respect to the path announced in January 2016. The intermediate inflation targets are 15% in 2018 and 10% in 2019, before reaching the long-term target of 5% in 2020.

 In December the Central Bank continued conducting open market operations to manage the liquidity conditions of the money market. Due to the particularity of the month, in which liquidity demand is seasonally elevated, especially from the second half of the month onwards, the BCRA conducted LEBAC purchases during the days prior to the release of funds that occurred on the date of LEBAC maturity and sold securities during the rest of the period. Thus, in December it sold LEBAC for NV $92.6 billion, while it bought for NV $28.2 billion, which generated net sales of NV $64.4 billion.

 In the last two business days of December the BCRA induced a decline in LEBAC yields. Thus, when comparing the interest rates at the end of December with those at the end of November, it is observed that for the shorter-term securities –20 and 50 days of residual term– exhibited declines of around 190 b.p. and 248 b.p., respectively (see Graph 2.2).

 Market Interest Rates

 The greater seasonal demand for liquidity in December resulted in a transitory increase in shorter-term interest rates that, following the partial renewal of maturity–

 Graph 2.3
 Graph 2.4
 Short-Term Interest Rates
 TNA; % (Daily Data)
 Private Sector Fixed Rate for Individuals up to $100,000 (up to 35 days)
 LEBAC 35 Days - Secondary Market
 TM20 Private Banks
 BADLAR Private Banks

 Graph 2.2
 TNA; % Yield Curve of Secondary Market
 (last day of each month)

 Graph 2.3
 TNA; % Interest Rates in Pesos

 Source: BCRA
 Source: BCRA

 2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
 3 http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Noticias/Objetivos_y_planes_2018.asp

 Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 4
20 ment of LEBAC, was completely reversed. Thus, they
 ended the month located close to the lower limit of the
 18 interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the
 repurchase agreement market (see Chart 2.3).
 16

 14
 Jan-17Mar-17May-17Jul-17Sept-17Nov-17 In the interbank loan markets, the interest rate on
 Source: BCRA one business day call operations averaged
 29%, 1.1 percentage points above the value recorded the
 previous month. Meanwhile, the average interest rate on
 one business day operations between financial entities in
 the secured market (REPO wheel) was located at 27.9%,
 registering an average monthly increase of 1 percentage
 Chart 2.5 point. The average daily amount traded in both markets
 Active Interest Rates remained practically stable, totaling around
 TNA; % $15,600 million.
 Discounted Documents Personal Loans
 43 Documents on Signature Only Chattel Mortgages

 38 The rate on overdrafts in current account to companies of
 more than $10 million and up to 7 days showed an average
 33 monthly increase of 2.1 percentage points, following a
 similar evolution to the interest rates of the interbank loan
 28
 markets.
 23

 18 In the rest of the interest rates, the trend they had been
 showing since October predominated. The TM20 rate – in-
 13 terest rate on fixed-term deposits of $20 million or
 01-Jan-1701-Mar-1701-May-1701-Jul-1701-Sept-1701-Nov-17 more – from private banks increased 0.9 percentage points
 Source: BCRA average monthly and was located at 24.2%. Meanwhile,
 the BADLAR – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $1
 million or more, from 30 to 35 days maturity – from pri-
 vate banks averaged December at 23.2%, which meant a
 monthly increase of 0.6 percentage points compared to
 November. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid on
 Chart 2.6 fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35
 TNA; % days averaged 20.7%, also exhibiting an increase of 1
 12 Active Interest Rates in UVA percentage point compared to the previous month (see
 Mortgage Loans Personal Loans Chart 2.4).
 11

 10
 9 The active interest rates on operations agreed at fixed or
 renegotiable rates showed mostly increases in December.
 8
 The exception was the rate applied to chattel mortgage
 7 loans, which averaged December at 17.4%, showing a de-
 crease of 0.4 percentage points. This effect is explained in
 6
 large part by the increase in participation and the decrease
 5 in the rate of an entity that operates at a relatively low
 4 rate. On the other hand, the interest rate on personal
 02-Jan-1702-Mar-1702-May-1702-Jul-1702-Sept-1702-Nov-17 loans averaged 40%, showing an increase of 0.7 percentage
 Source: BCRA points. With respect to the interest rates of the credit lines
 intended to finance business activity, documents on sig-
 Monetary Report | December 201 7 | BCRA | 5 nature only averaged 25.3%, showing an average monthly
 Chart 3.1 increase of 1.2 percentage points, while the interest rate
 %, p.p. Private M3 -Real Without Seasonality on discounted documents averaged 24.2%, evidencing
 2.5 (monthly variation and contribution by component to growth) an increase of 1.7 percentage points (see Chart 2.5).

 2.0
 1.5 With respect to UVA-adjustable financing, mortgage
 credits were granted at an average rate weighted by
 1.0 amount of 4.7%, remaining practically stable compared
 to the previous month. In contrast, the rate on personal
 0.5
 credits adjustable by UVA averaged the month at 9.9%,
 0.0 showing an increase of 0.7 percentage points compared
 to November. (see Chart 2.6).
 -0.5

 -1.0 Meanwhile, the rate paid on fixed-term deposits adjust-
 Fixed-Term Deposits and Others (p.p.) able by UVA, averaged in December 5.1%, a level similar
 -1.5 Demand Deposits (p.p.) to that of November.
 -2.0 Currency in Circulation (p.p.)
 M3 private (monthly variation)
 Dec-16Feb-17Apr-17Jun-17Aug-17Oct-17Dec-17
 Source: BCRA. Aggregates deflated with National CPI observed and according to REM expectations.
## Chart 3.2 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

The real balance 4 and seasonally adjusted balance of private M3 5 showed growth of 1.4% in December. Among its components, a moderation was verified in the increase of Private M2 6 which was more than offset by the acceleration in fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector, which grew in real terms for the third consecutive month (see Chart 3.1). In turn, following the publication of official data for the third quarter of gross domestic product (GDP), it can be observed that from the second quarter of 2017 the real growth of private M2 accompanied the progress of the economy, given that the ratio of private M2 / GDP remained stable at around 11.5% since then (see Chart 3.2).

## Chart 3.3

In nominal terms, sight deposits of the private sector grew 10.2% in the month, while fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 2.1%, (see Chart 3.3). The impulse of sight placements and the deceleration of fixed terms were the reflection of factors of a seasonal nature associated with the high demand for transactional money: payment of the semi-annual complementary salary, the greater expenses of families during the holiday period and the beginning of the summer recess. In this way, placements of the private sector grew 6.5% in December.

The increase in placements of the private sector was accompanied by an increase in those of the public sector,

4 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the INDEC National CPI series was used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the INDEC GBA CPI and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.
5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of peso deposits of the non-financial private sector.
6 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits of the non-financial private sector.

Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 6

which motivated a monthly nominal growth of 6.9% in the total of deposits in pesos.

In keeping with this, the monetary base, in December presented a monthly growth of 8.4%, with increases in both currency in circulation held by the public and bank reserves, encouraged by the seasonal factors mentioned above. The demand for monetary base was supplied by the expansion associated with dollar purchases, transfers to the National Treasury and the reduction in the balance of LEBACs and repos at the Central Bank.

## Chart 3.4

Considering the entirety of 2017, the growth of the monetary base was fed by the expansion associated with the accumulation of international reserves and transfers to the National Treasury, partially offset by the contractionary effect of sterilization through the placement of LEBACs and repo operations (see Chart 3.4). Thus, the increase in non-monetary liabilities during the year had as its counterpart the strengthening of the Central Bank's assets, through the increase in liquid assets in foreign currency (see section International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market).
For the second consecutive year, transfers to the National Treasury respected the established limit ($150,000 million for 2017), which constitutes a fundamental pillar of coordination between monetary and fiscal policy, Graph 3.5 essential for the consistency of the disinflation scheme. In this regard, in order to guarantee confidence in the new inflation targets, the Executive Branch together with the BCRA informed a trajectory for said transfers, confirming the figure of $140,000 million for the year 2018 and announcing a reduction to $70,000 million in 2019. From 2020 onwards, a rule will be applied by which the Central Bank will transfer the product between the monetary base and the real growth rate of the economy. This means that the Central Bank transfers to the Treasury the genuine increase in money demand (monetary base), that is, the increase in money demand derived from the real growth of the economy (see Graph 3.5).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits remained stable throughout December, with reductions in public sector placements that were offset by the increase in private sector placements. The latter grew US$1,300 million in the month, and their balance exceeded US$26,400 million at the end of December.

Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 7
Graph 4.1 Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 7, increased 6.3%, presenting an annual variation of 29%.

thousands of Private Sector Loans -Real Without Seasonality
millions $ (average monthly balance)

1,600
 Pesos and Foreign Currency Pesos
1,500

1,400

1,300

1,200

1,100

1,000

900
 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17
 Source: BCRA

Graph 4.2
 % Mortgages in Pesos -Real Without Seasonality
 9 (variation of average monthly balance) %80

 7 70
 Monthly Var.
 5 Annual Var. (right axis) 60
 50
 3
 40
 1
 30
 20
-1
 10
-3 0
 -10
-5 -20
-7 -30
 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15 Jun-16 Dec-16 Jun-17 Dec-17
 Source: BCRA

Graph 4.3
 Consumer Loans in Pesos Priv. Sect. -Real Without Season.
 thousands of (average monthly balance)
 millions $
 350
 Personal Pesos
 330 Credit Cards
 310

 290

 270

 250

4. Loans 18

In December, loans to the private sector maintained their growing trend in real terms 9 and deseasonal-ized (see Graph 4.1). The total of loans, pesos and foreign currency, exhibited a monthly increase of 1.5%, while loans in local currency grew 1.7%.

Regarding loans in pesos, those granted with mortgage guarantee continued to be the ones with greater dynamism (see Graph 4.2), with an average monthly increase of 7.8% in real terms over the last 3 months. For their part, pawn loans showed an increase of 1.3% in real terms.

In nominal terms, mortgage loans registered an increase of 10.2% ($11,800 million), and over the last 12 months accumulated growth of 106.7%. It is important to note that financing in UVA continues to gain participation in the total of loans to individuals, covering 92% of the total in the last month. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $56,300 million of mortgages in UVA have been granted. With respect to loans with pawn guarantee, they increased 2.9% in the month ($2,500 million), showing an annual expansion rate of 67%. Along this line and in that of personal loans, loans in UVA are also gaining increasing participation: by the end of December, $23,800 million of personal and pawn credits in UVA had been granted.

Loans intended essentially for commercial purposes maintained their growing trend in December. In this way, financings implemented through documents registered an increase of 4.4% ($11,800 million) in nominal terms, reaching a growth rate
230 year-on-year growth of 46.4%. In real terms and adjusted
210 for seasonality, they showed a monthly increase of 0.4%.
190 For its part, advances presented a nominal increase of 4%
 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 ($5,000 million), with a rate of year-on-year expansion of
 Source: BCRA 21.7%. This line grew 5.9% in real terms seasonally
 adjusted during the month.

7 Includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency.

8 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) agreed in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans agreed, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.

9 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC have been used since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the Buenos Aires City CPI, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

 Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 8

 Graphic 4.4

 thousands of Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector
 millions of US$ Variation of average balances For the part of loans destined mainly to consumer
 16 US$ monthly spending by families, credit card financing showed
 1,000
 600 a nominal increase of 5.7% ($14,900 million), with a
 14 year-on-year variation of 24%. Single-signature documents As for personal
 200
 12 -200 Cards loans, they showed a monthly increase of 3.9%
 Rest
 10 -600 ($12,900 million), which allowed its year-on-year
 -1,000
 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 Sept-17 Dec-17 variation to be around 60%. Thus, in real terms and
 8 adjusted for seasonality they grew 2.5% in December
 6 (Graphic 4.3).

 4
 In this way, financing to the private sector in pesos
 2 showed a nominal increase of 5% ($62,000 million),
 0 while its year-on-year variation was around 45.8%.
 Dec-03 Dec-05 Dec-07 Dec-09 Dec-11 Dec-13 Dec-15 Dec-17 Thus, in 2017, the total of loans, in pesos and foreign
 Source: BCRA currency accumulated an increase of 24.6% in real terms.

 Graphic 5.1 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of fin. entities raised its average monthly growth rate to 1.6% in
 thousands of December 2017, average flows December, which can be explained by a recovery in the
 millions of $ expansion rate of single-signature documents during the
 120 second half of November, while during December they
 100 remained stable. It should be noted that the dynamism of
 80 this segment of loans already absorbed much of the
 60 lending capacity that had been generated with the entry
 Liquidity in pesos of funds from the local tranche of fiscal regularization.
 40 Thus, dollar loans reached an average monthly balance
 20 of US$14,780 million, practically quintupling the
 0 balance of December 2015, the moment when they began
 -20 to show an upward trend, following exchange rate
 Loans to Fin. to CC Effective LEBAC Repos Sale Deposits Oblig. Others unification (see Graphic 4.4).
 S. Priv. S. Púb. BCRA of US$ Neg.
 Source: BCRA

 5. Liquidity of financial entities1
**Graph 5.2** During December, the process of decline in liquid assets of financial entities was interrupted because the growth of deposits exceeded that of loans (see Graph 5.1). In the local currency segment, banking liquidity (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repurchase agreements with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased 1.3 p.p. to 39.7%.

The growth of broad liquidity was distributed mainly among the seasonal increase in cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA and LEBAC holdings. In a context of higher seasonal demand for cash in circulation, banks increased their cash holdings by 0.4 p.p. to 13.7% of deposits. Thus also, due to seasonal changes in the composition of International Reserves of the BCRA deposits, that is, greater participation of items with a higher reserve requirement rate, current accounts at the BCRA went from 13.3% of deposits to 13.7% (which implies that entities would have accumulated a surplus in the Minimum Cash position in pesos equivalent to 0.3% of deposits). In relation to this latter point, it should be noted that after 12 years they stopped being computed on a quarterly basis for reserve requirements.

On the other hand, in a context of slight increase in deposits and stable loan demand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank and net repurchase agreements with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) showed an increase of 1.2 p.p.

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

International reserves increased US$492 million in December, reaching a balance of US$55,055 million at the end of the month (see Graph 5.1). During 2017, international reserves accumulated an increase of US$15,747 million and, when adjusted by inflation in dollars, it can be observed that the accumulation of international reserves in 2017 was the largest in the history of the BCRA (see Graph 6.2).

In line with what occurred in previous months, the Central Bank purchased dollars from the National Treasury for US$950 million in December, allowing an improvement in its balance sheet by increasing the participation of those more liquid assets in foreign currency.

A central axis of BCRA policy was the accumulation of international reserves, which has as its counterpart the increase in LEBAC and net repurchase agreements, because when sterilizing the effect of foreign currency purchases since March 1, 2016, the BCRA's balance sheet expands. In this way, when net dollar purchases are subtracted from the LEBAC and repurchase agreement balance, it is observed that at the end of 2017 the stock of BCRA instruments minus the foreign currency that entered the BCRA's assets, in terms of GDP, was lower than that recorded in March 2016 (the moment when the process of absorption of monetary surpluses existing in the market after the elimination was completed...
4 tion of foreign exchange restrictions in December of
 Mar-16Jun-16Sept-16Dec-16Mar-17Jun-17Sept-17Dec-17 2015). Thus, the BCRA reduced its debt in relation to GDP,
 Note: The 12-month moving average of GDP was used. The nominal GDP data for 2017 was improving its balance sheet (see Chart 6.3)
 completed based on forecasts from the REM.
 Source: BCRA

10 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

 Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 10
 In December, the peso exchange rate registered a depreciation against the US dollar of 8%, ending
 the period at a value of 18.77 $/US$.

 Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 11
7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables Dec-17 Nov-17 Dec-16 Monthly Last 12
 months

Monetary base 982,660 906,483 787,895 8.4% 24.7%
 Monetary circulation 741,724 688,919 562,994 7.7% 31.7%
 Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 658,553 620,399 494,853 6.2% 33.1%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 83,169 68,520 68,140 21.4% 22.1%
 Settlement Checks 1.2 1.1 0.4 11.3% 221.8%
 Current account in the BCRA 240,936 217,564 224,901 10.7% 7.1%

Stock of BCRA Repurchase Agreements
 Liabilities 63,989 73,262 52,777 -12.7% 21.2%
 Assets 3,679 113 40

BCRA Securities Stock (at nominal value) 1,144,103 1,147,258 669,257 -0.3% 71.0%
 In banks 365,366 344,235 322,853 6.1% 13.2%

 LEBAC (does not include portfolio for repurchase agreements)
 In pesos 1,144,103 1,147,258 669,036 -0.3% 71.0%
 In dollars 0 0 14 -- -100.0%

 NOBAC 0 0 0 -- --

BCRA International Reserves 55,582 53,992 37,888 2.9% 46.7%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,746,132 1,633,073 1,397,490 6.9% 24.9%
 Current account (2) 495,126 442,356 403,233 11.9% 22.8%
 Savings account 450,359 390,381 327,229 15.4% 37.6%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 719,915 725,090 605,107 -0.7% 19.0%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 2,653 1,907 493 39.1% 567.5%
 Other deposits (3) 78,079 73,341 61,523 6.5% 26.9%

 Private sector deposits 1,378,192 1,293,656 1,093,038 6.5% 26.1%

 Public sector deposits 367,940 339,417 304,452 8.4% 20.9%
Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 30,566 29,561 24,472 3.4% 24.9%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,320,970 1,259,832 932,208 4.9% 41.7%

 Loans to the private sector 1,293,013 1,231,027 886,640 5.0% 45.8%
 Advances 130,507 125,457 107,280 4.0% 21.7%
 Documents 278,025 266,185 189,882 4.4% 46.4%
 Mortgages 122,549 111,204 59,274 10.2% 106.7%
 Pledges 86,776 84,310 51,925 2.9% 67.1%
 Personal loans 347,569 334,657 217,673 3.9% 59.7%
 Credit cards 277,485 262,614 223,830 5.7% 24.0%
 Others 50,102 46,600 36,776 7.5% 36.2%

 Loans to the public sector 27,957 28,805 45,568 -2.9% -38.6%
Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 14,851 14,621 9,224 1.6% 61.0%

Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1,153,680 1,062,755 898,086 8.6% 28.5%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,604,039 1,453,136 1,225,315 10.4% 30.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + total deposits 2,404,687 2,253,473 1,892,343 6.7% 27.1%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,947,969 2,772,124 2,282,632 6.3% 29.1%

Private Monetary Aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + private current account in 966,071 915,781 744,776 5.5% 29.7%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,394,232 1,288,059 1,054,527 8.2% 32.2%
 M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + settlement checks in pesos + total private deposits 2,036,746 1,914,056 1,587,891 6.4% 28.3%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + settlement checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,494,347 2,351,995 1,930,947 6.1% 29.2%
# Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 12

Average Variations

Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2017 | Last 12 months
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
 | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base | 76.177 | 8.4% | 110.377 | 12.7% | 194.765 | 24.7% | 194.765 | 24.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 1.421 | 0.2% | 1.421 | 0.2%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury | 18.306 | 2.0% | 110.361 | 12.7% | 267.807 | 34.0% | 267.807 | 34.0%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits | 20.834 | 2.3% | 43.071 | 4.9% | 147.484 | 18.7% | 147.484 | 18.7%
Other public sector operations | 121 | 0.0% | -2.447 | -0.3% | -7.067 | -0.9% | -7.067 | -0.9%
Sterilization (Repos and Securities) | 35.529 | 3.9% | -45.546 | -5.2% | -234.885 | -29.8% | -234.885 | -29.8%
Others | 1.386 | 0.2% | 4.939 | 0.6% | 20.005 | 2.5% | 20.005 | 2.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA | 1.589 | 2.9% | 4.745 | 9.3% | 17.694 | 46.7% | 17.694 | 46.7%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 346 | 0.9% | 346 | 0.9%
Payment to international organizations | -77 | -0.1% | -521 | -1.0% | -1.728 | -4.6% | -1.728 | -4.6%
Other public sector operations | 1.132 | 2.1% | 7.557 | 14.9% | 17.594 | 46.4% | 17.594 | 46.4%
Minimum cash | 420 | 0.8% | -2.333 | -4.6% | -382 | -1.0% | -382 | -1.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | 114 | 0.2% | 41 | 0.1% | 1.864 | 4.9% | 1.898 | 5.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | Dec-17 | Nov-17 | Oct-17 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** |
| Requirement | 13.4 | 13.0 | 13.0 |
| Integration | 13.7 | 13.2 | 13.2 |
| Position (1) | 0.3 | 0.2 | 0.2 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits** | **%** |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (2)** |
| Up to 29 days | 68.8 | 68.6 | 68.3 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.2 | 20.8 | 21.1 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.4 | 5.7 | 5.5 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3.3 | 3.6 | 3.8 |
| More than 180 days | 1.2 | 1.3 | 1.3 |
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** |
| Requirement | 25.5 | 24.5 | 24.1 |
| Integration (includes default in application of resources) | 49.0 | 47.2 | 46.2 |
| Position (1) | 23.5 | 22.7 | 22.1 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits** | **%** |
| **used for the calculation of the requirement (2)** |
| Up to 29 days | 54.9 | 55.5 | 54.6 |
| 30 to 59 days | 21.3 | 19.1 | 19.7 |
| 60 to 89 days | 9.3 | 10.4 | 9.8 |
| 90 to 179 days | 7.6 | 8.2 | 9.5 |
| 180 to 365 days | 4.4 | 3.6 | 3.0 |
| More than 365 days | 2.5 | 3.2 | 3.3 |

(1) Position = Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA

---

# Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 13

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | Dec-17 | Nov-17 | Oct-17 | Dec-16 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** |
| Rate | 29.04 | 27.94 | 25.99 | 24.66 |
| Amount traded | 4.917 | 5.424 | 4.232 | 4.576 |
| **Fixed-term deposit** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30-44 days | 21.48 | 20.82 | 19.71 | 18.78 |
| 60 days or more | 22.75 | 21.84 | 20.17 | 19.06 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 21.76 | 21.70 | 20.76 | 19.54 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 23.18 | 22.55 | 21.60 | 20.04 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30-44 days | 0.50 | 0.46 | 0.45 | 0.39 |
| 60 days or more | 0.74 | 0.72 | 0.76 | 0.68 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.52 | 0.48 | 0.51 | 0.45 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.72 | 0.80 | 0.78 | 0.55 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | Dec-17 | Nov-17 | Oct-17 | Dec-16 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 28.06 | 27.76 | 26.22 | 25.50 |
| Amount traded (total terms) | 1.236 | 1.343 | 1.236 | 795 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** |
| Current account advances | 34.15 | 32.58 | 31.49 | 30.99 |
| Single-signature documents | 25.33 | 24.18 | 22.64 | 23.54 |
| Mortgage | 18.60 | 17.31 | 18.83 | 19.70 |
| Pledge | 17.45 | 17.83 | 18.41 | 20.73 |
| Personal | 39.90 | 39.29 | 38.36 | 39.15 |
| Credit cards | s/d | 41.25 | 42.09 | 44.37 |
| Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 31.36 | 29.29 | 27.13 | 25.92 |
# International Interest Rates Dec-17 Nov-17 Oct-17 Dec-16

LIBOR
 1 month 1.49 1.29 1.24 0.72
 6 months 1.77 1.63 1.54 1.31

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 1.84 1.70 1.54 1.19
 10 years 2.40 2.35 2.36 2.50

FED Funds Rate 1.41 1.25 1.25 0.66

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.08 7.50 8.07 3.75

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

# Reference Interest Rates Dec-17 Nov-17 Oct-17 Dec-16

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 26.75 26.52 24.59 22.02
 Liabilities 7 days 28.00 27.77 25.84 22.81
 Assets 7 days 29.50 29.27 27.34 26.69

Repo Rates between third parties REPO session
 1 day 27.84 26.90 24.88 24.01

Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO session (daily average) 10,724 10,083 9,770 8,300

LEBAC Rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 28.75 28.8 26.5 24.8
 2 months 28.80 29.1 26.8 24.4
 3 months 28.80 29.25 27.00 24.16

LEBAC Rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month w/o w/o w/o w/o
 3 months w/o w/o w/o w/o
 6 months w/o w/o w/o w/o
 12 months w/o w/o w/o w/o

Amount operated in LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 33,393 26,186 29,983 11,758

# Foreign Exchange Market Dec-17 Nov-17 Oct-17 Dec-16

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 17.73 17.48 17.46 15.84
 Retail 17.79 17.53 17.52 15.89

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 18.08 17.83 17.79 16.02
 ROFEX 1 month 18.10 17.84 17.82 16.22
 Amount operated (all maturities, millions of pesos) 17,441 11,151 10,929 8,423

Real (Pesos per Real) 5.38 5.36 5.47 4.73

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 20.99 20.54 20.52 16.69

# Capital Markets Dec-17 Nov-17 Oct-17 Dec-16

MERVAL
 Index 27,798 27,268 27,105 16,711
 Amount operated (millions of pesos) 671 652 742 282

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 117.2 116.2 116.9 103.7
 BONAR 24 (US$) 115.6 115.6 116.3 115.0
 DISCOUNT ($) 102.6 103.4 108.6 117.0

Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR 24 vs. US Treasury Bond 217 249 231 332
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 356 370 354 494

 EMBI+ Latin America 464 468 433 491

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for maturities of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for maturities of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 15

8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Common Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEGs: Special Drawing Rights.
EE.UU.: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IGBVL: General Stock Exchange Index of Lima.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | December 2017 | BCRA | 16
