# Monthly Monetary Report
November 2017

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 10

8. Glossary | Page 14

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely provided that the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was December 6, 2017. All figures are provisional and
 subject to revision.

1. Summary¹
• On November 7, the BCRA decided to increase its monetary policy rate by 100 basis points, bringing it to 28.75%. Although high-frequency indicators at the time of the decision continued to show a decline in core inflation, the BCRA considered that it was still above the sought level. Monthly inflation in October was 1.5% for the general level and 1.3% for the core component, showing a decrease compared to September values.

• The Central Bank continued conducting open market operations in order to manage liquidity conditions in the monetary market. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of VN $68.7 billion, which compensated for the expansion associated with the primary auction. The increase in the reference rate produced a new upward shift of the LEBAC curve, with monthly increases in yields of 125 basis points for the 30-day instrument and 130 basis points for instruments with residual maturity around 80 days.

• Interest rates in the interbank lending markets adjusted immediately to the new levels set for the monetary authority's repo operations and remained within the BCRA's repo corridor. In turn, passive rates grew more rapidly and since October 24 – the first of the last two dates on which the BCRA increased the policy rate – both the BADLAR of private banks and the rate paid for deposits up to 100 thousand increased more than 150 basis points.

• In this context, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased in real terms for a second consecutive month and became the component of private M3 (which includes currency in circulation and the total of peso deposits from the private sector) that grew the most, with an increase in both the wholesale and retail segments.

• Loans to the private sector prolonged their growing trend in real and seasonally adjusted terms. The total of peso loans grew 1.9% in real terms and although increases were recorded in most lines, the mortgage line continued to stand out, with an average monthly increase of 7.6% real in the last three months.

• In nominal terms, mortgages recorded a monthly increase of 9.3% ($9.3 billion), and in the last twelve months accumulated growth of 91%. It is worth noting that UVA financing continues to gain share of the total loans to individuals, totaling just over 90% of the total in the last month. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $44.8 billion of UVA mortgages have been granted.

• In this way, the granting of loans to the private sector again exceeded the growth of deposits, so the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBACs, as a percentage of peso deposits) continued to decline, reaching 38.5% of deposits, as banks continued to reduce their LEBAC holdings. When considering excess bank liquidity (sum of LEBACs and repos) it is observed that despite having decreased during recent months it is still equivalent to 21% of deposits, although its distribution among financial entities is heterogeneous.

1 Except as otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest Rates2

Graph 2.1

Monetary Policy Interest Rates
On November 7th, the BCRA decided to increase 100 basis points (b.p.) its monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, bringing it to 28.75%. Although high-frequency indicators at the time of making the decision continued to point to a decline in core inflation, the BCRA considered that it was still above the desired level (see Chart 2.1). Monthly inflation in October was 1.5% for the general level and 1.3% for the core component, showing a decrease compared to September figures. Later, in the second meeting of the month in which the level of the monetary policy rate is defined, the BCRA considered that the monetary policy bias was appropriate to accentuate the inflationary decline and minimize the impact of the upcoming regulated price increases. Consequently, it decided to keep the monetary policy rate unchanged on November 21st.

All interest rates for repo operations in which the BCRA participates increased by the same magnitude in November. The 7-day repo corridor moved to 28%-29.5%.

The Central Bank continued to carry out open market operations in order to manage liquidity conditions in the monetary market. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of VN $68.7 billion, which offset the expansion associated with the primary auction. The securities traded were concentrated in securities with residual terms between 31 and 90 days. The increase in the reference rate produced a new upward shift of the LEBAC curve, with monthly increases in yields of 125 b.p. for the 30-day security and 130 b.p. for securities with residual terms around 80 days (see Chart 2.2).

**Market Interest Rates**

Shorter-term interest rates continued to be positioned close to the center of the rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market, following an upward trajectory in line with the increase in the policy rate (see Chart 2.3).

In interfinancial markets, the interest rate on call operations for 1 business day averaged 27.9%, 2 percentage points above the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate on operations for 1 business day between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) stood at 26.9%, registering an increase of 2.1 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased $1,500 million, totaling around $15,500 million.

The rate for overdrafts in current accounts for companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days showed an increase of 2.2 p.p. compared to the end of October, following a similar evolution to the interest rates in the interfinancial loan markets.

---
*2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).*

*Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 4*
For their part, the interest rates that banks pay to capture time deposits also exhibited increases following the latest increases in the reference rate and in a context in which the excess liquidity of financial entities continued to decline (see Liquidity Section). The TM20 rate – interest rate for time deposits of $20 million or more – of private banks increased 1.2 p.p. between the end of October and November and at the end of this last month it stood at 23.8%. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate for time deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days term – of private banks ended November at 23.3%, which meant a monthly increase of 1.1 p.p. compared to the end of October. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for time deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days ended the month at 20.2%, showing an increase of 1.2 p.p. during the month and 1.7 p.p. compared to October 24, the first of the last two dates on which the BCRA decided to increase its policy rate (see Chart 2.4).

The active interest rates for operations agreed at fixed or re-negotiable rates showed heterogeneous behaviors in November. With respect to the lines intended to finance families, the rate for pawn loans averaged 17.9%, showing a decline of 0.5 p.p. In this line, this effect is explained in large measure by the decline in the participation in the amount operated of entities that grant at a rate higher than average. For their part, the interest rate for personal loans averaged 39.3%, showing an increase of 1 p.p. With respect to the interest rates of the lines intended to finance business activity, documents at sight averaged 24.2%, showing an average monthly increase of 1.5 p.p., while the interest rate for discounted documents averaged 22.4%, evidencing an increase of 1.3 p.p. (see Chart 2.5).

For their part, with respect to financings adjustable by UVA, mortgage credits were granted at a weighted average rate by amount of 4.7%, showing a slight decline compared to the previous month. In contrast, the rate for personal credits adjustable by UVA averaged 9.2% for the month, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p. compared to October (see Chart 2.6).

3. Monetary Aggregates

The real balance adjusted for seasonality of private M3 grew 0.9% in November. Although all its components showed increases, a moderation was observed in the increase of Private M2 that resulted in being offset by the acceleration in time deposits in pesos of the private sector, which grew in real terms for a second consecutive month (see Chart 3.1).

In the context of increased passive interest rates (see Interest rates section of the market), time deposits in pesos of the private sector grew 2.1% in nominal terms. While placements of smaller amounts (less than $1 million) maintained a pace of expansion similar to previous months, wholesale deposits exhibited a marked acceleration during the second half of November (see Chart 3.2). This, together with the increase of 2.6% in sight deposits, determined that private sector placements grew 2.5% during the month.

The increase in private sector placements was accompanied by an increase in public sector placements, which caused a nominal monthly growth of 2.6% in the total deposits in pesos.
For its part, the monetary base showed a nominal monthly growth of 2.1%, with increases in both currency in circulation held by the public and banking reserves. Chart 3.3 The demand for monetary base was supplied by the expansion associated with dollar purchases and transfers to the National Treasury, partially offset by the contractionary effect of sterilization through the placement of LEBACs and repo operations (see Chart 3.3).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits increased throughout November, with increases mainly in public sector placements, although those in the private sector also grew: they accumulated an increase of US$420 million in the month, surpassing US$25,000 million at the end of November.

3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total peso deposits of the non-financial private sector.
4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits of the non-financial private sector.

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 6

Finally, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*5, Chart 4.1 increased 2.3%, presenting a year-on-year variation of 27%.

4. Loans 16

In November, loans to the private sector continued to show an upward trend in real and seasonally-adjusted terms (see Chart 4.1). Both the total of loans in pesos and foreign currency as well as only those denominated in local currency, showed a monthly increase of 1.9%.

Regarding the segment of loans granted with real collateral, loans with mortgage guarantees continued showing great dynamism, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In particular, said segment recorded an average monthly increase of 7.6% real in the last 3 months. For its part, pledge loans showed a deceleration, although maintaining positive real growth rates (see Chart 4.2).

In nominal terms, mortgages registered an increase of 9.3% ($9,300 million), and in the last twelve months accumulated growth of 91%. It is worth noting that financing in UVA continues gaining participation in the total of loans to individuals, totaling just over 90% of the total in the last month. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $44,800 million in UVA mortgages have been granted. With respect to loans with pledge guarantees, they increased 3.6% in the month ($2,900 million), registering a year-on-year expansion rate close to 70%. Along this line and in that of personal loans, UVA loans are also gaining increasing participation: through the end of November, $20,500 million in personal and pledge loans in UVA have been granted.

Loans with essentially commercial destination prolonged their upward trend in November. Thus, financing instruments carried out through documents recorded an increase of 3.6% ($9,300 million) in nominal terms, reaching a year-on-year growth rate of 46%. In real terms they remained at similar levels to October. For its part, advances showed an increase of 5.7% ($6,700 million), with

5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos and foreign currencies.
6 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, mainly caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. Instead, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, less amortizations and cancellations of the period.

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 7

a year-on-year expansion rate of 20.6%. This line grew 5.8% in real seasonally-adjusted terms.
Regarding loans destined mainly to family consumption, financing with credit cards showed a nominal increase of 4.5% ($11,200 million). In this way, the year-over-year variation stood at 24.5%, and in real terms and adjusted for seasonality presented a slight monthly increase. On the other hand, personal loans exhibited an increase of 4.7% ($14,900 million), which allowed their year-over-year variation to be around 59%. Thus, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality they grew 2.4% in November (Chart 4.4).

In this manner, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited an increase of 4.7% ($54,900 million), while the year-over-year variation stood at around 44.9% (3 p.p. higher than the previous month).

Chart 5.1 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector decreased their monthly growth rate to 1.2% in November, which can be explained by a deceleration in the expansion rate of documents on signature alone (mainly pre-financing of exports). It should be recalled that the dynamism of this loan segment already absorbed much of the lending capacity that had been generated with the inflow of funds from the local portion of the tax compliance program. Despite the moderation in its growth, dollar loans reached an average monthly balance of US$14,550 million, practically quintupling the December 2015 balance, the moment when they began to show an upward trend, following the currency unification.

5. Liquidity of financial 7 entities

Chart 5.2 During November, the growth of loans again exceeded that of deposits and financial entities continued reducing their liquid assets (see Chart 5.1). In this way, the liquidity of financial entities in the local currency segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and LEBAC holdings, as a percentage of peso deposits) fell 0.4 p.p. to 38.5% of deposits (see Chart 5.2).

As in the previous months, the fall in broad liquidity is explained mainly by the evolution in LEBAC holdings (they decreased 1 p.p. to 19.5% of deposits). The balance of repos increased by the equivalent of 0.4% of deposits, offsetting part of the LEBAC decline. In this way, excess liquidity in pesos, defined as the sum of LEBAC and repos, has shown a downward trajectory during recent months, although it continues at elevated levels, equivalent to 21% of deposits for the system as a whole. However, its

Chart 5.3 distribution is not homogeneous among entities, even when considering only the banks that concentrate most of the deposits and liquid assets (see Chart 5.3).

Finally, the balance of current accounts at BCRA was equivalent to 13.3% of deposits, which meant that the Minimum Cash position ended November with a surplus equivalent to 0.2% of deposits.

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity, as a percentage of dollar deposits) averaged 52.3% of dollar deposits, remaining virtually unchanged compared to October.

6. International 7 reserves and foreign exchange market

International reserves totaled November with a record balance of US$54,563 million, registering a monthly increase of US$2,753 million (see Chart 6.1).
On this occasion, said increase was explained by the inflow of foreign currency from abroad associated with the issuance of euro-denominated debt by the National Treasury, for an equivalent of US$3,177 million; whose effect was partially offset by debt payments made during the period.

It should be noted that the Central Bank purchased dollars from the National Treasury for approximately US$850 million, allowing an improvement in its balance sheet by increasing the participation of those more liquid assets in foreign currency.

The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended November at 17.38, registering a decline of 1.6% with respect to the level observed the previous month.

7 In this section, the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 10

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 11

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 12

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 13

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash Reserve.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Acquisition Value
VCP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | November 2017 | BCRA | 14
