# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 The statistical closing of this report was May 7, 2018. All figures are provisional and are
 subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In April, the Consumer Price Index (IPC) from INDEC for March was published, which showed a monthly price variation of 2.3% for the general level and 2.6% for the core component. The estimates and high-frequency indicators from state and private sources monitored by the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) indicate that core inflation for April would have remained at elevated levels, although lower than those in March.

• In recent weeks, international conditions, combined with some local factors, generated a situation of instability in the foreign exchange market. The initial decision of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) was to resort to foreign exchange interventions to contain the depreciation of the peso, with the objective of limiting volatility and ensuring the disinflation process. At the same time, there was a decrease in non-monetary liabilities of the BCRA: mainly LEBAC and LELIQ. As days passed, and in the conviction that the movements observed reflected a deeper shock on emerging markets and not an isolated episode of volatility in financial markets, the BCRA reduced the magnitude of its interventions and allowed a greater depreciation of the exchange rate.

• In turn, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Council met outside its pre-established schedule on April 27 and resolved to increase the monetary policy rate, usually the center of the 7-day repo corridor, by 300 basis points to 30.25%. The interest rates in the interbank lending markets remained at values close to the center of the corridor established by the BCRA during April and at the end of the month aligned with the new level set. Before the publication of this Report, the Monetary Policy Council resolved to increase its monetary policy rate again on two occasions, for a total of 975 basis points to 40%, in order to preserve the disinflation process. Likewise, it decided to widen the corridor and the rate for active 7-day repos rose to 47%, while that for passive repos of the same term was set at 33%. The exceptional width of the corridor had the objective of allowing the yield of domestic assets to move more freely to respond to high-frequency shocks.

• Passive interest rates remained stable at levels similar to those recorded since the beginning of this year. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 23.3% in April, while the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 22.8%.

• Active interest rates showed disparate behavior, although that of the most operated line – mortgages in UVA – remained compared to March, averaging 4.7%. In the case of personal loans, the rate for those granted with fixed yield increased 0.1 percentage points compared to March (averaged 40.2%), while that for those granted in UVAs decreased 0.3 percentage points (to 10.2%). In both cases, the changes compared to the previous month do not indicate widespread movements, but rather were the result of changes in the participation of entities that operate at different rate levels.

• Considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, Private M3 decreased 0.2% compared to March, after an increase in fixed-term deposits from the private sector was observed, partially offset by a decline in private M2, comprised of both demand deposits and currency in the hands of the public.

• With the objective of promoting savings in the local financial system, given its importance as a source of financing for longer-term loans (in particular, those denominated in UVAs), the BCRA established a reduction of the minimum term for fixed-term deposits in UVAs, from 180 days to 90 days.
• Loans to the private sector continued to grow in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In April, the total of loans, in pesos and foreign currency, increased 2.1% and in the last 12 months accumulated a real increase of 26.3%. The monthly growth of loans in local currency was 2.1%, with a real year-on-year variation of 20.4%. To the stimulus coming from mortgage loans, this month was added that of financing granted through advances.

• The growth rate of mortgage loans stood at 7.2% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In nominal terms, the line showed an increase of 7.8%, accumulating a year-on-year increase of more than 150%. Financing in UVA represented around 90% of loans granted to individuals. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $101,200 million in mortgage loans in UVA have been granted.

• The growth of loans exceeded that of deposits and broad banking liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holdings of LEBAC and LELIQ, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) decreased 0.6 p.p. with respect to March, reaching 42.3%. The reduction was composed by the decline in LEBAC holdings.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest Rates 2

 Monetary Policy Interest Rates

 In April, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of INDEC for
 March was published, which showed a monthly price
 variation of 2.3% for the general level and 2.6% for the
 core component. March inflation data from the Wholesale
 Graph 2.1 Price System were also released, whose monthly varia-
 Interest Rates in Pesos tions were between 1.9% (for the IPIM) and 2.4% (for
 Annual Rate (TNA), % the IPIB and the IPP).

 Estimates and high-frequency indicators from state and
 private sources monitored by the Central Bank of the
 Argentine Republic (BCRA) indicate that April's core
 inflation would have maintained high levels, although
 lower than those of March.

 The BCRA continued intervening throughout the month
 to sustain the value of the currency. Given the dynamics
 acquired by the foreign exchange market during the last
 week of the month, and in the conviction that the move-
 ments observed reflected a deeper shock on emerging
 markets and not an isolated episode of volatility in
 financial markets, the BCRA gradually reduced the mag-
 nitude of its interventions and allowed for greater slide
 in the exchange rate.

 At the same time, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Council
 met outside its pre-established schedule on April 27 and
 resolved to increase the monetary policy rate, normally
 the center of the 7-day repo corridor, by 300 basis points
 (b.p.) to 30.25% (see Graph 2.1). Before the publication
 of this Report, the Monetary Policy Council resolved to
 increase its monetary policy rate on two more occasions,
 in order to guarantee the disinflation process: 300 b.p. on
 May 3 and 675 b.p. on May 4, bringing it to 40% 3. Like-
 wise, it decided to increase the corridor width: the 7-day
 rates moved to 47% for active repos and 33% for passive
 repos, while the 1-day corridor moved to 28%-57%.

 To guarantee the transmission of the policy rate to the
 rest of the market rates, the monetary authority continued
 operating in the secondary market for its Letters. In this
 way, it sold LEBAC in the market for a total of VN $79.5
 billion. The securities traded were concentrated in the

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
3 On May 4, the limit of the global net position in foreign currency of financial entities was also modified, reducing it from 30% to 10% of computable equity capital. See: http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Institucional/DescarPDF/DownloadPDF.aspx?Id=655

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 4
 species with residual maturity up to 30 days (18%) and
 Graph 2.3 between 30 and 60 days (62%). The increase in the mone-

 Short-Term Interest Rates tary policy rate led to secondary market interest rates for

 Annual Rate (TNA); % (Daily Data) both short-term species ending the month at levels 470
 b.p. higher than those recorded at the end of March (see
 Graph 2.2). In the monthly LEBAC auction, the cut-off
 rates were in line with the returns observed in the secon-
 dary market in the preceding days.

 Furthermore, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity
 Letters (LELIQ), an instrument that began to be used
16 on January 11 and which gradually gained participation
among liquid assets of financial entities
14 (see Banking Liquidity). At the end of March, the balance in circulation
of LELIQs reached VN $116,319 million.

Interest rates in the market

During April, shorter-term interest rates continued
Graph 2.4 to be located near the center of the interest rate corridor

Active Interest Rates established by the BCRA in the repo market, ex-
TNA; %
43 hibiting an increase on the last day of the month, in line with
the increase in the monetary policy rate.
38

33 Discounted Documents In the interbank loan markets, the interest rate

Personal Loans of one-business-day call operations averaged
28 Single Signature Documents 26.8%, while the average interest rate of one-
business-day operations between financial entities in the
23 guaranteed market (REPO session) was located at 25.7%.

18 At the end of the month these rates were located at 30.9% and
30.3% respectively. The average daily amount traded
13 in both markets increased by $2,000 million, totaling
ene-17abr-17jul-17oct-17ene-18abr-18
Source: BCRA approximately $15,850 million.

The interest rate on current account advances of
more than $10 million and up to 7 days to companies followed a
similar trajectory and remained stable in April, averaging
28.1%.
Graph 2.5 For its part, passive interest rates continued to be es-

14TNA; % Active Interest Rates UVA sentially stable around the levels that have been showing

13 Mortgage since the beginning of the year. The TM20 rate – interest

12 Personal rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more,
11 from 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged

10 23.3%, while the BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-
9 term deposits of $1 million and more, from 30 to 35 days

8 maturity– of private banks averaged 22.8%. In the retail
segment, although there were transitory changes in the
7 levels due to days in which operations were only conducted
6 through electronic channels 4 –where in general higher rates

5 are paid than those offered in branches–, the average in-
4 terest rate also remained with respect to March. In particu-
ene-17abr-17jul-17oct-17ene-18abr-18
Source: BCRA lar, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to
4 In April there were days without banking activity due to strikes.
$100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 20.4% in the
Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 5 month (see Graph 2.3).

Graph 3.1 Meanwhile, active interest rates agreed at fixed rates
showed slight increases in April. The interest rate of
personal loans averaged 40.2%, showing an increase of 0.1 p.p.
with respect to March (see Graph 2.4).
The increase in the rate of this line was due to a change
in participation (in a segmented market with great disparity
of rates) in the amount operated by entities in favor of those
that have higher interest rates.

With respect to the interest rates of the lines destined
to finance business activity, the rate charged for single
signature documents averaged 27%, showing an increase of
0.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month. Meanwhile, the
interest rate of discounted documents averaged 25.2% re-
maining practically stable.

With respect to financing adjustable by UVA, mortgage
credits were granted at a weighted average interest rate by
amount of 4.7%, similar to the previous month (see Graph 2.5).
In contrast, the interest rate of personal credits adjustable
by UVA averaged 10.2% showing a decrease of 0.3 p.p. The
decrease was explained by the greater participation of a
public entity that operates at a rate lower than the average.

Graph 3.2
On the other hand, the rate paid for time deposits adjustable by UVA averaged 3.9% in March, showing a decrease of 0.4 percentage points compared to March. Although during the course of April the term of arrangement of placements in UVAs did not change significantly, it is worth mentioning that on the 19th the BCRA ordered the reduction of the minimum term –from 180 days to 90 days– for fixed-term deposits in UVAs 5. This measure aims to promote long-term savings in the financial system, given its importance for financing mortgage loans, secured loans and personal loans in UVAs.

3. Monetary Aggregates 1

In April, the monthly average balance of real M3 Private 6 and adjusted for seasonality decreased 0.2% with respect to March, with growth in fixed-term deposits that partially offset the reduction in means of payment of the private sector (M2 private 8; see Chart 3.1). These latter decreased for the third consecutive month, with declines in sight deposits and in currency in circulation held by the public.

In nominal terms, private M2 decreased 0.6%, with declines in currency held by the public and stability in sight deposits. For its part, fixed-term placements in pesos of the private sector increased 2.2%, with increases in retail placements and, mainly, in those of more than $1 million. After showing declines during the first days of the month, affected by the long weekend and bank strike, fixed-term deposits resumed a growth path (see Chart 3.2), in a context in which passive interest rates remained relatively stable.

Graph 3.3 Factors of Variation of the Monetary Base
thousands of April - average flows
millions of $

In this way, the total of deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 1.6% in April. For its part, placements of the public sector decreased 2%, so the total deposits in pesos showed a monthly growth of 0.6%.

The monthly average balance of the monetary base decreased 0.2% in April, with an increase in bank reserves that partially offset the aforementioned reduction in currency held by the public. During the month, net sales of foreign currency by the BCRA generated an average contractionary monetary effect of $45,425 million ($96,579 million when accumulating April operations), which was partially offset by expansion via temporary advances and the fall in the stock of LEBAC (see Chart 3.3). In year-on-year terms, the monetary base showed growth of 29.2%, similar to that registered in March.

For its part, deposits in foreign currency increased throughout April, with increases in placements from the public sector and the private sector. The latter grew US$470 million and reached a balance of US$26,500 million at the end of the month (see Chart 3.4).

In short, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 9, increased 0.3% in nominal terms, presenting a year-on-year variation of 33.7%.
1.000
 900
 mar-15sep-15mar-16sep-16mar-17sep-17mar-18
 Source: BCRA

8 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and sight deposits in pesos from the private sector.
9 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 7
 Chart 4.2 4. Loans 110

 % Mortgages in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality
 (variation of monthly average balance) % Loans to the private sector continued growing in
 10 120 real terms 11 and adjusted for seasonality (see Chart
 8 100 4.1). In April, the total of loans, pesos and foreign
 Monthly Var. 80
 6 currency, presented an increase of 2.1% and in the last
 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 12 months accumulated an increase of 26.3%. The monthly
 4 60 growth of loans in local currency was 2.1%, with a
 40 year-over-year variation of 20.4%. To the impulse
 2 20 coming from mortgage loans, this month was added that
 0 0 of financing granted with advances.

 -2 -20
 -4 -40 The growth rate of mortgages was located around 7% in
 -6 -60 real terms and adjusted for seasonality, in line with the
 mar-15sep-15mar-16sep-16mar-17sep-17mar-18 growth observed since August of last year (see Chart
 Source: BCRA 4.2). In nominal terms, the line presented an increase of
 7.8% ($12,365 million), accumulating a year-over-year
 Chart 4.3 increase of more than 150%. Financing in UVA represented
 Mortgage Loans to Individuals around 90% of loans granted to individuals (see Chart
 (daily average amount and participation in personal loans) 4.3). Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approxi-
 million $ % mately $101,200 million of mortgage loans in UVA have
 750 UVAS 100 been granted. For their part, loans with pledge guarantee
 700 90 maintained their real growth rate around 1.7%. In nominal
 650 terms they registered an increase of 2.6% ($2,485 million),
 600 Rest 80 accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of
 550 70 58.7%.
 500
 450 60
 400 50 Loans with essentially commercial destination presented
 350 differentiated behaviors. On one hand, advances acceler-
 300 40 ated their expansion rate, with a real growth rate of 6.3%.
 250 30 Thus, in recent months they show a rebound (see Chart
 200 4.4). The nominal increase was 5.3% in the month
 150 20 ($7,700 million) and 45.1% year-over-year. On the other
 100 10 hand, financings instrumented through documents
 50 remained relatively stable, both in real terms and adjusted
 0 0 for seasonality and in nominal terms.
 oct-16ene-17abr-17jul-17oct-17ene-18abr-18
 Source: BCRA
 Chart 4.4 Financing aimed mainly at consumption by families has
 thousands Commercial Loans in Pesos Priv. Sec. -Real Without Seas. been moderating its growth rate. Personal loans exhibited
 of million $ (monthly average balance) a monthly increase of 1.1% in real terms and adjusted for
 350 seasonality, below the 2.3% monthly average observed in
 310 2017. The nominal increase was 2.7% ($10,200 million),
 270 with a year-over-year variation of 53.5%.
 Advances
 230
 190 Documents
 150

 110

 apr-15oct-15apr-16oct-16apr-17oct-17apr-18
 Source: BCRA
10 The monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credit portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations in the period.

11 Annual variations in real terms were calculated using general price level indices, while monthly variations in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the INDEC National CPI series was used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the INDEC GBA CPI was used, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the Buenos Aires City CPI was used, base jul-11/jun-12.

Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 8

On the other hand, credit card financings presented in April an increase of 1.3% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, while in nominal terms an increase of 1.5% ($4,600 million) was verified. The year-over-year variation stood around 30%.

In this way, in nominal terms, loans in Graph 5.1
Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of financial entities, pesos to the private sector reached a growth of 3.1% ($43,100 million), with a year-over-year variation of around 50%.

thousands of April 2018 - average flows
million $

50
40 Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector showed an increase of 1.4% (US$220 million), driven by 
30 documents at signature only (mainly pre-financing of ex-
20 Liquidity in pesos ports). In this way, the average monthly balance stood at 
10 US$16,000 million.
0
-10
-20
-30
Loans to Fin. at CC Cash LEBACPasses and Deposits Oblig. Other1
-40 S. Priv. S. Púb. BCRA LELIQ Neg.

Source: BCRA

5. Liquidity of financial entities

During the month of April, liquidity in pesos of financial entities registered a slight decline that is explained by the greater increase in loans in relation to that of deposits (see Graph 5.1). Broad liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net passes with such entity and holdings of LEBAC and Graph 5.2 LELIQ, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) decreased 0.6 p.p., reaching 42.3% of deposits.

Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
% of
deposits CC BCRA Cash Net Passes Leliq LEBAC Broad Liquidity

50 This evolution of broad liquidity was composed 
44.8 45.4 45.4 45.3 44.7 mainly of the fall in LEBAC – they went from 18.2% to 
45 42.5 42.9 42.3 17% of deposits – which was not able to be compensated 
41.2 40.1 39.7 41.3
40 38.9 38.5 39.2 for by increases in LELIQ, cash and current accounts at 
35 the BCRA. Particularly, LELIQ holdings continue with 
18.2 17.0 their increasing trend; on this occasion of 0.5 p.p. Like-
30 19.6 wise, cash holdings of banks registered a slight increase, 
20.5 19.5 19.6 19.3 moving from 4.2% to 4.3% of deposits. On the other 
25 hand, due to some reversal of the changes in the com-
6.4 6.9 position of deposits that had occurred in the two previous 
20 1.6 0.0 3.2 0.5 p.p. months, current accounts at the BCRA were located at 
1.1 1.5 1.7 0.8 1.1 1.0 13.1% of deposits (which implied a surplus equivalent to 
15 4.1 4.2 4.7 4.9 4.7 4.2 4.3 0.3% of deposits in the Minimum Cash position). Finally, 
10 net Passes experienced a decline of 0.1 p.p., standing at 
13.2 13.2 13.7 13.3 12.9 12.9 13.1 1% of deposits.

5

0
feb-17 mar-17 apr-17 may-17 jun-17 jul-17 aug-17 sep-17 oct-17 nov-17 dec-17 jan-18 feb-18 mar-18 apr-18

* LEBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA
On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, as a percentage of dollar deposits) remained practically unchanged, just 0.1 p.p. below the previous month. However, in terms of composition, the total balance of current accounts was reduced 0.2 p.p., and was more than compensated by the increase in cash holdings.

**Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 9**

**Graph 6.1**
**Purchase / sale of foreign currency by the BCRA in the foreign exchange market**
millions of US$ / exchange rate $/US$

- Purchase/sale of foreign currency to the National Treasury
- Purchase/sale of foreign currency to other counterparties
- Official exchange rate (right axis)

**6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

The nominal exchange rate remained relatively stable throughout March and until the first half of April, subsequently showing an upward trajectory. Thus, it ended April at 20.69 $/US$, registering an increase of 2.7% with respect to the level observed in the previous month (see Graph 6.1). The depreciation of the domestic currency with respect to the dollar occurred in a context of rising interest rates in the United States, which caused a depreciation in almost all currencies of emerging countries.

The multilateral real exchange rate has remained stable, thanks to the implementation of the floating exchange rate regime. Moreover, it has fluctuated since mid-2016 around a value that is 22.3% higher than what it had before the unification of the foreign exchange market in late 2015. During April it registered a slight decline of 1.7% (see Graph 6.2).

**Graph 6.2**
**Index of Multilateral Real Exchange Rate**
17-Dec-15=100

During the course of the month, the Central Bank intervened in the foreign exchange market to sustain the value of the currency. Foreign currency sales to the private sector totaled US$4,731 million in April, while, as a counterpart, there was a reduction in the stock of LEBAC, LELIQ and net repos of the institution, for a similar amount. International reserves ended the month at US$56,623 million (see Graph 6.3).

It is worth noting that, even in the context of the establishment of a floating exchange rate scheme, the monetary authority maintains the capacity to intervene in an exceptional manner in the face of potentially disruptive dynamics in the foreign exchange market.

**Graph 6.3**
**International Reserves of the BCRA**
thousands of millions of U$S

Source: BCRA

12 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

**Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 10**

**7. Monetary and Financial Indicators**
Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

| Principal monetary variables and financial system | Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations |
|---|---|---|
| | apr-18 | mar-18 | dec-17 | apr-17 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
| Monetary Base | 1,019,735 | 1,022,094 | 982,660 | 789,258 | -0.2% | 29.2% |
| Monetary Circulation | 749,306 | 757,585 | 741,724 | 590,261 | -1.1% | 26.9% |
| Bills and Coins in public hands | 660,004 | 670,833 | 658,651 | 515,184 | -1.6% | 28.1% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 89,301 | 86,751 | 83,071 | 85,077 | 2.9% | 18.9% |
| Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 1.2 | 1.0 | 0.0% | -74.0% |
| Current account in the BCRA | 270,429 | 264,509 | 240,936 | 198,996 | 2.2% | 35.9% |
| **Stock of BCRA Repos** | | | | | | |
| Liabilities | 21,447 | 23,203 | 63,989 | 146,150 | -7.6% | -85.3% |
| Assets | 921 | 653,679 | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) | 125,530 | 128,407 | --- | --- | -2.2% | --- |
| Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value) | 1,249,338 | 1,253,510 | 1,144,103 | 749,810 | -0.3% | 66.6% |
| In pesos | 1,249,338 | 1,253,510 | 1,144,103 | 749,810 | -0.3% | 66.6% |
| In banks | 358,774 | 388,864 | 365,366 | 305,008 | -7.7% | 17.6% |
| In dollars | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | --- | --- |
International reserves of the BCRA 60.76361.75655.58250.372-1.6%20.6%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 2.040.8412.029.5231.746.2131.492.4370.6%36.7%
 Current account (2) 498.252490.445495.782420.7831.6%18.4%
 Savings account 463.044453.194450.078323.4292.2%43.2%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 986.6521.001.622719.668686.706-1.5%43.7%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 10.4008.3192.6531.19525.0%770.4%
 Other deposits (3) 82.49375.94478.03360.3258.6%36.7%

 Private sector deposits 1.458.651 1.435.615 1.377.905 1.149.546 1.6% 26.9%

 Public sector deposits 582.189 593.909 368.307 342.891 -2.0% 69.8%
Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 30.26029.81530.56230.6991.5%-1.4%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 1.471.7051.428.7971.321.463997.3953.0%47.6%

 Loans to the private sector 1.444.828 1.401.728 1.293.529 962.002 3.1% 50.2%
 Advances 151.776144.089130.467104.6315.3%45.1%
 Documents 282.379278.819278.052202.4221.3%39.5%
 Mortgage loans 170.314157.949122.76267.4147.8%152.6%
 Pawn loans 96.78994.30387.09860.9782.6%58.7%
 Personal loans 390.781380.570347.652254.6252.7%53.5%
 Credit cards 302.355297.742277.787233.2781.5%29.6%
 Others 50.43348.25449.71338.6544.5%30.5%

 Loans to the public sector 26.878 27.069 27.933 35.393 -0.7% -24.1%
Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 16.09915.87814.84610.6441.4%51.2%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1.158.2561.161.2791.154.434935.968-0.3%23.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1.621.3001.614.4721.604.5121.259.3960.4%28.7%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 2.700.8452.700.3572.404.8652.007.6220.0%34.5%

 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3.315.7873.305.2692.948.0612.480.7980.3%33.7%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 971.081976.187966.260771.673-0.5%25.8%

 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1.382.9691.390.8951.394.1401.080.015-0.6%28.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 2.118.6562.106.4482.036.5581.664.7310.6%27.3%

 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.651.1682.632.5932.494.1002.035.0000.7%30.3%

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 11

 Average variations
 Variation factors MonthlyQuarterlyAccumulated 2018Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)

Monetary base -2.359-0.2%-6.945-0.7%37.0753.8%230.47729.2%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -45.425-4.4%-63.925-6.2%-63.925-6.5%-78.724-10.0%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 00.0%137.12913.4%165.84916.9%367.77446.6%
Temporary advances and transfer of profits 12.9601.3%19.6981.9%44.7634.6%153.08019.4%
Other public sector operations -4130.0%-517-0.1%-2.098-0.2%-7.589-1.0%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) 27.6492.7%-104.177-10.1%-114.041-11.6%-223.410-28.3%
Others 2.8700.3%4.8470.5%6.5280.7%19.3462.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA -994-1.6%1370.2%5.1819.3%10.39120.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -2.240-3.6%-3.153-5.2%-3.153-5.7%-3.841-7.6%
 Payment to international organizations -237-0.4%-578-1.0%-597-1.1%-1.842-3.7%
 Other public sector operations 8981.5%6.95111.5%9.39616.9%21.64843.0%
 Minimum cash 3130.5%-3.325-5.5%-1.523-2.7%-7.931-15.7%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 2720.4%2430.4%1.0581.9%2.3574.7%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.812.712.6
 Integration 13.112.913.2
 Position (1) 0.30.30.3
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 fixed used for the calculation of the requirement (2)

 Up to 29 days 72.661.860.7
 30 to 59 days 17.127.825.6
 60 to 89 days 4.54.77.4
 90 to 179 days 2.32.63.4
 more than 180 days 3.43.13.0

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 23.724.024.4
 Integration (includes failure to apply resources)41.141.245.2
 Position (1) 17.417.220.8

 Residual maturity structure of time deposits %
 fixed used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 56.656.857.8
 30 to 59 days 18.419.319.5
 60 to 89 days 9.38.69.1
 90 to 179 days 9.48.86.7
 180 to 365 days 5.55.55.9
 more than 365 days 0.81.01.0
(1) Position= Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 12
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 26.8426.5026.9929.0423.98
 Amount traded 6.3295.1565.0944.9173.294

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.7120.7021.3721.4817.64
 60 days or more 22.2922.3222.2922.7518.30
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.3620.0822.0521.6318.55
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.7822.7822.7423.1819.20

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.570.560.500.500.38
 60 days or more 0.830.830.730.740.67
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.520.550.510.550.54
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.930.980.810.740.73

 Active Interest Rates Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 26.1225.3525.1628.0621.98
 Amount traded (total terms) 1.3541.2101.2601.236921

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Current account advances 33.2833.0033.3534.1430.14
 Documents on sole signature 27.0526.7126.6525.3522.40
 Mortgage 20.2219.9720.2118.6719.47
 Secured loans 17.2216.2516.0217.4219.44
 Personal 40.2440.1240.4639.9938.37
 Credit cards n/a43.2843.0842.1939.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 28.0827.8928.7031.2424.98

 International Interest Rates Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

LIBOR
 1 month 1.901.791.601.490.99
 6 months 2.492.342.091.771.42

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.382.272.181.841.23
 10 years 2.872.852.862.402.29

FED Funds Rate 1.751.581.501.411.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 6.506.686.817.0811.64

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 13
Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 25.6525.2525.2526.7523.70
 Liabilities 7 days 26.9026.5026.5028.0024.95
 Assets 7 days 28.4028.0028.0029.5026.45

Repurchase agreement rates among third parties REPO round
 1 day 25.4825.0325.7627.7822.95

Amount traded of repurchase agreements among third parties REPO round (daily average) 9.5748.7487.11010.7242.871
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

 1 month 26.3026.526.828.824.3
 2 months 26.0026.326.528.823.00
 3 months 25.7025.9026.3028.8022.50
LEBAC Rates in Dollars (1) (2)
 1 month s/os/os/os/os/o
 3 months s/os/os/os/os/o
 6 months s/os/os/os/os/o
 12 months s/os/os/os/os/o

Amount Traded of LEBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 48.59337.218355094126023534

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 20.2320.2419.8317.7315.35
 Retail 20.2620.2719.8817.7915.45

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 20.6120.5920.1618.0815.62
 ROFEX 1 month 20.6520.6220.2018.1015.61
 Amount Traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 12.13614.09914.71417.4419.286

Real (Pesos per Real) 5.936.186.115.384.89

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 24.8524.9724.4920.9916.46

 Capital Markets Apr-18Mar-18Feb-18Dec-17Apr-17

MERVAL
 Index 31.22832.26132.36327.79820.835
 Amount Traded (millions of pesos) 6056761036671418

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 109.4109.2110.2117.2109.9
 BONAR 24 (US$) 111.4112.1112.0115.6116.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 109.2110.6112.2102.6116.0

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR 24 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 249247279217284
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 407411397356431

 EMBI+ Latin America 463472467464446

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 22/12/2015 Letters in dollars settleable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for the 1 and 3 month terms, and
External segment for the 6 and 12 month terms.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the risk premium of the EMBI rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons
that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 14
8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
IIF: Investment Common Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Unified and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Agreed Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
BP: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VCP: Short-term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | April 2018 | BCRA | 15
