# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is acknowledged: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was May 6, 2018. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• During the month of May, the Monetary Policy Board of the BCRA adopted a set of measures to address the financial turbulence caused by the tightening of global financing conditions, to which some local factors were added. Faced with the disruptive dynamics shown by the foreign exchange market and the significant depreciation of the peso with respect to the currencies of other emerging countries, the monetary policy rate was raised 975 basis points (b.p.), bringing it to 40%. In turn, it expanded the corridor width for repos and raised the rate of 7-day active repos to 47%, while passive repos of the same term began to operate at 33%. Additionally, it sold foreign currency in the spot market and began to operate in the dollar futures market.

• The Central Bank continued operating in the secondary LEBAC market, carrying out purchases and sales, encouraging the adjustment of the other interest rates to the reference rates. Likewise, as of May it began to carry out LEBAC exchange operations with the objective of extending the average term of the outstanding portfolio, redeeming part of the securities maturing in June and issuing those with longer terms.

• Most of the interest rates in the money market adapted to the new reference levels of the BCRA: while those in the interbank lending markets continued to be positioned within the corridor, among the passive rates those that reacted to a greater extent were those in the wholesale segment. The BADLAR and TM20 of private banks ended the month at 30% and 31.1%, with increases of 7.2 b.p. and 8.1 b.p., respectively. In turn, the rate paid for 90-day time deposits adjustable by UVA averaged 4.4% in May.

• The net sale of dollars by the BCRA had as counterpart the non-financial private sector, which used for this purpose part of its stock of LEBAC. Mainly, those that reduced their assets issued by the BCRA were fixed-income mutual funds whose portfolios are invested primarily in these securities and which faced redemptions of their shares in the period, and holders that are not residents of the country. In this way, despite the greater demand for foreign currency, time deposits in pesos of the private sector increased both in nominal terms (4%) and when considering seasonally adjusted balances and in real terms (1%).

• Time deposits in UVA accelerated their growth rate, especially in the retail segment. It should be recalled that as of the last days of April, the minimum agreed term for this type of deposits was reduced from 180 to 90 days. This modification and the growing availability of platforms to arrange them electronically contributed to their advance. Although they still represent a small proportion of time deposits, their growth is well above the rest of the placements. At the end of 2017, the balance of time deposits denominated in UVAs was $2,200 million and at the end of May it reached $12,400 million. In May, deposits of less than $1 million increased 64%, when during the first four months of the year they presented an average monthly growth of 12%.

• In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of loans in local currency increased 0.8% in the month and its year-on-year variation stood at 20.4%. The line of mortgage loans was the one that concentrated the largest part of the total increase, growing 5.7% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In nominal terms, mortgages grew 7.5% ($12,700 million) in May, accumulating a year-on-year increase of 160%. UVA financing continued to represent more than 90% of loans to individuals. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $111,750 million in mortgage loans in UVA have been granted.

• To facilitate the liquidity management of financial entities in the face of the turbulence scenario
As mentioned, a quarterly period –from May to July– was established for the integration of reserve requirements in pesos and the minimum daily integration requirement for May was eliminated. However, given that the volatility observed in the foreign exchange market had no impact on peso deposits, banking liquidity was maintained at more than 40% of deposits, although with a change in composition, in favor of LEBACs and to the detriment of LELIQs and repurchase agreements.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 3
 2. Interest rates 2

 Monetary policy interest rates

 Facing the dynamics that the exchange market adopted
 from the last days of April, which implied that the peso
 depreciated with respect to the currencies of other
 emerging countries, at the beginning of May, the BCRA's
 Monetary Policy Council decided to increase its monetary
 policy rate by 975 basis points (b.p.), bringing it to 40%.
 Chart 2.1 Thus, between April 27 and May 4, an increase in the
 Interest Rates in Pesos monetary policy rate of 1,275 b.p. was completed, with the
 TNA, % aim of guaranteeing the disinflation process. Likewise, the
60 BCRA repo corridor was widened. The rates for
 57 1-day repo corridor operations of 7 days were placed at 47% for the
 55 1-day call active repo and 33% for the passive repo. In the 1-day
 Monetary Policy Rate segment, the active repo rate moved to 57% and the
50 passive repo rate to 28% (see Chart 2.1).

45

40 40 On May 15, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) from
 INDEC was published. The variation in prices in April
35 was 2.7% for the general level and 2.1% for the core
 component. With these results, year-on-year inflation
30 grows to 25.5%, while its core component remains at
25 22.4%. High-frequency indicators show that underlying
 inflation would have remained in May at elevated levels,
20 while general inflation would show a decline with respect
 to April due to a deceleration in the regulated component.
15
 Jan-16 May-16 Sep-16 Jan-17 May-17 Sep-17 Jan-18 May-18
Source: BCRA In this context, at its meeting on May 22, the Monetary
 Policy Council of the BCRA considered that a significantly
 Chart 2.2 higher level of real interest rates is required for the near
 in millions Open market operations and 35-day LEBAC rate LEBAC* future than that observed before the recent changes,
 VN %, TNA given that inflation is above what was projected so far in
40,000 OMA Rate 35 days Secondary Market (right axis) 50 2018 and that a scenario of greater instability in emerging
 30,000 45 markets is being faced. Thus, it decided to maintain the
 monetary policy rate at the level defined at the beginning
40
20,000 35 of the month.

 10,000 30 To guarantee the transmission of the policy rate to
 25 the rest of the market rates, the BCRA continued to
0 20 operate in the secondary market for its Letters. In this
 15 way, it conducted purchase and sale operations of LE-
-10,000 10 BAC, completing net sales of VN $13 billion.
 -20,000 5 The purchases of securities carried out by the BCRA
 -30,000 0 were concentrated mainly in the short end of the curve,
Source: BCRA acquiring VN $58 billion of the May species and VN
 *35-day LEBAC rate from secondary market interpolated $41.8 billion of the June species. Along with the increase
 in the monetary policy rate, there was an increase in LE-
 BAC yields in the secondary market. In particular, the
 interest rate of the LEBAC with the shortest residual
 maturity ended May at 40%, 850 b.p. above its level at the
 end of April (see Chart 2.2). In the monthly LEBAC
 auction, the cut-off rates were in line with the yields
 observed in the secondary market in the previous days.

 Chart 2.3 Starting on May 24, the BCRA also began to
 millions of $ Swap Operations exchange LEBAC in order to lengthen the average maturity
1,500 (May-18) of the stock in circulation. Thus, in the swap round, it decreased

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 4
**Sale Purchase increased the balance in circulation of LEBAC with maturity in June by VN $1,100 million, delivering in exchange VN $950 million of LEBAC with maturity in July and VN $50 million of securities from August, October and November, respectively (see Chart 2.3). At the time of publication of this report the maturity for the month of June is located at 571,343 million.**

**Additionally, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Letters (LELIQ), although in May financial entities reduced the stock of these securities in favor of LEBAC (see section Banking Liquidity), so at the end of the month the balance in circulation had been reduced to VN $12,310 million.**

## Interest Rates in the Market

**During May the interest rates in the money market experienced increases encouraged by the increase in the monetary policy rate and the yield of LEBAC.**

**The shorter-term interest rates adjusted to the new BCRA reference levels and in the second half of May stabilized around the center of the rate corridor established in the repurchase market. In the interbank loan markets, the interest rate on 1 business day call operations ended May at 37.6%, 6.6 p.p. above the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate on 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was located at the close of the month at 37.1%, showing an increase of 6.7 p.p. with respect to the end of April. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased $440 million, totaling approximately $16,300 million.**

**The interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days to companies moved in line with those in the interbank markets. Thus it was located at the end of May at 41.7%, showing an increase with respect to the end of April of 10.6 p.p.**

**More gradually and to a lesser extent, passive interest rates also showed increases throughout May. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended the month at 31.3%, showing an increase with respect to the last day of April of 8.1 p.p. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks was located at the end of May at 30%, 7.2 p.p. above the previous month. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days, ended May at 25.6%, 5 p.p. above the end of the previous month (see Chart 2.4).**

**The increase in active interest rates of loans agreed at fixed rates was heterogeneous, with more pronounced variations in the shorter-term lines. The interest rate on personal loans ended the month at 43.4%, showing an increase of 4.5 p.p. with respect to the end of April. With regard to the interest rates on lines intended to finance business activity, the rate charged for documents at sole signature reached at the end of the month 33%, showing an increase of 6.5 p.p. with respect to the previous month; while the interest rate on discounted documents was located at the end of May at**

[Text appears to be cut off at the end]
13 Mortgages 37.3%, increasing 12 p.p. in relation to the last day of

 12 Personal April (see Chart 2.5).

 11

 10 With respect to financing adjustable by

 9 UVA, mortgage credits were granted at an average

 8 weighted interest rate of 5.1%, showing

 7 a monthly increase of 0.5 p.p. Meanwhile, the interest

 6 rate for personal loans adjustable by UVA

 5 averaged 11.5% showing an increase of 1.3 p.p.

 4 (see Chart 2.6).

 Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18
 Source: BCRA

 On the other hand, on April 19 the BCRA arranged the re-
 duction of the minimum term –from 180 days to 90 days–
 for fixed-term deposits in UVAs 3. The rate paid for
 deposits with adjustable terms in UVA at 90 days averaged
Chart 3.1 in May 4.4%, while the rate up to 180 days reached
 thousands Variation Factors of the Monetary Base 4%, remaining practically stable with respect to the previous
 millions of $ May 2018 -average flows month.

 150

 3. Monetary Aggregates 1
 100

 50 In addition to the increase in reference interest rates,

 0 faced with turbulence that affected local markets,
 in May the BCRA carried out sales of foreign currency to the
 -50 private sector with the objective of preventing disruptive
 movements in the foreign exchange market. The monetary
 -100 contraction associated with these operations was compen-
 sated by the expansion linked to the decrease in the stock
 -150 of LEBAC, LELIQ and repos (see Chart 3.1). While finan-
 Purchases Purchases AT and LEBAC, Others BMCirc. in CC Efec- cial entities reallocated their liquidity in pesos, decreasing
 of US$ of US$ at Util. Repos Publ. BCRA tive LIQ their balances of repos and LELIQ and increasing their hol-
 Source: BCRA to S. Priv. TN and LELIQ

3 See communication "A" 6494 and http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Institucional/DescargaPDF/DownloadPDF.aspx?Id=647

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 6
 dings of LEBAC; the non-financial sector was the one that
Chart 3.2 reduced its portfolio of assets issued by the BCRA. In par-
 LEBAC and mutual fund patrimony ticular, fixed-income mutual funds (FCI) that invest mostly
 thousands mill. $ in LEBAC, whose patrimony was reduced more than 30%
 350 between April 24 and May 15 (see Chart 3.2), and non-
 resident investors were those who concentrated the largest
 300 part of the fall in the LEBAC stock. Ultimately, the demand
 for foreign currency came mainly from those who were
 250 unitholders of fixed-income mutual funds FCI and from
 residents abroad.
 200
 Thus, the net purchase of foreign currency by the non-
 LEBAC FCI financial private sector did not have as a counterpart a
 150 Fixed-income FCI Patrimony t+1 decrease in peso deposits of the private sector. On the con-
 trary, in a period in which the increase in reference inter-
 100
 est rates induced the rise in passive interest rates, time
 31-Mar-18 15-Apr-18 30-Apr-18 15-May-18 30-May-18 deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 4% in no-
 minal terms, with growth both in those made in the whole-
 sale segment (5.4%) –of $1 million and more–, as well as
Chart 3.3 those arranged by retail depositors (2.9%). Among this type
 Time deposits in UVA of the private sector of placements, although they still represent a reduced proportion,
 thousands daily balances deposits in UVAs accelerated their growth rate
 mill. $ in May: while during the first months of this year they
 10 averaged growth of 12% monthly, the balance at the end
 8 Of $1 million and more Less than $1 million of May was 64% higher than at the end of April (see Chart 3.3).
 The reduction in the minimum term for this type of place-
 6 ments that has been in effect since the last days of April
 and the growing availability for
0 arrange them through electronic channels favored their growth. On the other hand, sight deposits in pesos from the private sector also increased in nominal terms, offsetting the decline in currency in circulation held by the public, so the average balance of private M2 remained compared to April.

When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, during the month private M2 decreased 0.6%, while time deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 1%. In total, the balance of private M3 was reduced 0.1% compared to April (see Chart 3.4).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of deposits ended May at $32,100 million, a level 2.6% lower than what was recorded at the end of April, with a decline of 2.5% in private sector deposits during the course of the month (see Chart 3.5).

Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 7

## 4. Loans 14

Chart 3.5

thousands of mill. Deposits in dollars Loans to the private sector continued growing in real
of US$ terms 5 and adjusted for seasonality (see Chart
40 4.1). The total of loans, in pesos and foreign currency, 
36 presented an increase of 2.8% and in the last 12
32 months accumulated an increase of 28.4%. However,
28 it should be noted that this figure includes the impact –
24 of greater incidence compared to previous months – of the
20 depreciation of the peso against the dollar observed in the
 month (see International Reserves and Foreign Exchange
16 Total Private Sector Market section). The monthly growth of loans in local
12 currency was 0.8%, driven mainly by mortgage loans and
8 to a lesser extent by personal loans and financing granted
31-Mar-1630-Sept-1631-Mar-1730-Sept-1731-Mar-18 via advances. Thus, the year-over-year variation stood at
Source: BCRA 20.4%, adjusting for inflation.

Chart 4.1

thousands of Loans to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
millions $ (monthly average balance)

1,900 Despite the volatility observed in the foreign exchange

1,800 Pesos and Foreign Currency market, mortgage loans increased 5.7% in real terms and

1,700 Pesos adjusted for seasonality, in line with growth in previous

1,600 months (see Chart 4.2). In nominal terms, the month's

1,500 increase was 7.5% ($12,700 million), accumulating a year-

1,400 over-year increase of 160%. Financing in UVA continued

1,300 to represent more than 90% of loans to individuals. Since

1,200 the launch of this instrument, approximately $111,750

1,100 million in mortgage loans in UVA have been granted. On

1,000 the other hand, where a deceleration continued to be

900 observed was among loans with chattel mortgage
may-15nov-15may-16nov-16may-17nov-17may-18
Source: BCRA guarantees which, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality,
did not grow compared to April, while in nominal terms
Chart 4.2 they increased 1.8% ($1,700 million), with a year-over-year
 variation on the order of 55%.
Mortgage Loans in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality
% (variation of monthly average balance) %
12 120 With respect to financing intended mainly for family

10 100 consumption, personal loans increased 0.2% in real terms

8 Monthly Var. 80 and adjusted for seasonality, growth lower than in previous

 Y.o.Y. Var. (right axis) months. In nominal terms, the line grew 2.6% ($10,230

6 60 million), accumulating in the last twelve months an

4 40 increase on the order of 50%. For its part, credit card

2 20 financing presented insignificant variations in real terms
 and adjusted for seasonality, with a nominal increase of
0 0 1.7% ($5,000 million)

-2 -20

-4 -40

-6 -60

may-15nov-15may-16nov-16may-17nov-17may-18

Source: BCRA
4 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

5 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC was used, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 8

in the month. In the last twelve months they accumulated an increase of 32.5%.

Within loans with essentially commercial purposes, advances continued to grow (see Graph 4.3). In May, they presented growth of 2.1% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. The nominal

**Graph 4.3** increase was 4.8% in the month ($7,340 million) and the year-over-year variation reached 52%, increasing 7.5 p.p. with respect to April. For its part, financing instruments through documents continue to show scarce dynamism. The average monthly balance decreased 0.9% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, while in nominal terms it remained relatively stable.

thousands of | Commercial Loans in Pesos S. Pri. -Real Without Seasonality
millions $ (average monthly balance)

350
Advances
320
Documents
290

260

230

200

170

140

110
May-15 Nov-15 May-16 Nov-16 May-17 Nov-17 May-18
Source: BCRA

Thus, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector exhibited growth of 2.6% ($37,900 million), maintaining its year-over-year variation on the order of 50%.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector presented average monthly growth of 1.9% (US$300 million), driven by documents on sole signature (mainly pre-financing of exports). However, said increase was partly associated with the growth that occurred in April and which left a positive "statistical carryover" for May. The average monthly balance of loans in dollars to the private sector was located at US$16,400 million.

## 5. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹

**Graph 5.1** To facilitate the management of liquidity of financial entities in the face of the turbulence scenario
Variation of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of fin. entities in May 2018 - average flows commented, a three-month period was established –from May to

thousands of | Liquidity in pesos July– for the integration of reserve requirements in pesos and the minimum daily integration requirement for May was eliminated⁶. However,

millions of $
150 6 given that the volatility observed in the foreign exchange market did not translate into a withdrawal of

100 deposits in pesos (see Monetary Aggregates section), 

50 banking liquidity was not significantly affected and it is estimated that at the end of May financial entities

0 accumulated a partial surplus in the integration of the quarterly reserve requirements

-50 (equivalent to 0.5% of deposits).

-100

-150 Thus, in May, the growth of deposits in pesos exceeded the granting of loans to the private sector and,
Loans to Fin. to CC Effect LEBACPasses and Deposits Oblig. Others the liquidity in pesos (measured as the sum of cash
S. Priv. S. Púb. BCRA -tive LELIQ Neg. in banks, the current account of entities in the Bank

Source: BCRA

⁶ Communication "A" 6508.
Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 9

Central, the net repos with such entity and the holdings of
Chart 5.2 LEBAC and LELIQ, as a percentage of deposits in
pesos) of financial entities increased to 45%
of deposits. Likewise, there was a change in the compo-
sition of liquidity, with an increase in LEBAC holdings
recorded at the expense of repos and LELIQ
(see Charts 5.1 and 5.2).

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of
cash in banks, the current account of entities in
the Central Bank, as a percentage of deposits in dol-
lars) registered a decrease of 1 p.p. with respect to the previous month,
although it remains at elevated levels (46.5% of de-
posits). In terms of composition, the total balance of current
accounts fell 2.8 p.p., and was partially compen-
sated by the increase in cash holdings of entities
(1.8 p.p. with respect to April).

Chart 6.1 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index Market
December 17, 2015=100
110
Turbulence in the foreign exchange market concentrated dur-
105 ing the first half of the month, a period in which the
100 largest part of the peso depreciation occurred with respect to the
95 US dollar, to later decelerate
90 after the complete renewal of LEBAC maturities and the
85 persistent presence of the BCRA as a foreign currency
seller. In this way, the $/US$ exchange rate ended
80 May at 24.95, registering an increase of 20.6% with res-
75 pect to the end of the previous month. In turn, the exchange rate
70 multilateral real moved away from the values it had been presen-
Dec-15 May-16 Oct-16 Mar-17 Aug-17 Jan-18 ting after the unification of the foreign exchange market and during
Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream the course of May it registered an increase of 15.4% (see Chart 6.1).

Chart 6.2 BCRA's foreign currency sales to the private sector totaled
Stock of LEBAC, Repos and LELIQ in May US$3,396 million. Contrary to what had
% GDP (monthly averages) occurred since the foreign exchange unification, when the
14 inflow of liquid assets in foreign currency had been
13 reflected in a simultaneous increase of international
12 reserves and non-monetary liabilities of the BCRA, in this
11 period there was a decrease in the balance of international
10 reserves accompanied by a fall in the stock of
9 LEBAC, LELIQ and net repos of the BCRA. International
8 reserves ended the month at US$50,098 million,
7 while the balance of BCRA instruments net
6 of net foreign currency purchases, expressed in terms
5 LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ of GDP, was reduced to 5.2% (see Chart 6.2).
LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ net of dollar purchases since March 1, 2016
4
Mar-16 Jun-16 Sep-16 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 Sep-17 Dec-17 Mar-18
Note: The 12-month moving average of GDP was used. Nominal GDP data
were completed based on forecasts from the REM.
Source: BCRA

7 In this section, figures correspond to end-of-month values.

Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 10

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency.

Monthly Averages | Percentage Variations
Main Monetary and Financial System Variables | May-18 | Apr-18 | Dec-17 | May-17 | Monthly | Last 12 Months

Monetary Base | 1,023,680 | 1,019,735 | 982,660 | 784,356 | 0.4% | 30.5%
Monetary Circulation | 740,112 | 749,306 | 741,724 | 587,525 | -1.2% | 26.0%
Banknotes and Coins in Public Hands | 655,426 | 660,041 | 658,651 | 522,468 | -0.7% | 25.4%
Banknotes and Coins in Financial Entities | 84,685 | 89,265 | 83,071 | 65,055 | -5.1% | 30.2%
Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 1.2 | 0.9 | 7.4% | -69.4%
Current Account in the BCRA | 283,568 | 270,429 | 240,936 | 196,832 | 4.9% | 44.1%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities | 9,041 | 21,447 | 63,989 | 130,703 | -57.8% | -93.1%
Assets | 885 | 921 | 3,679 | 0 | | -68.4% | -

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) | 39,715 | 125,530 | --- | | -68.4% | -
Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value) 1.253.1641.249.3381.144.103832.9970,3%50,4%
 In pesos 1.253.164 1.249.338 1.144.103 832.997 0,3% 50,4%
 In banks 492.479 358.774 365.366 336.411 37,3% 46,4%
 In dollars 0000--

International Reserves of the BCRA 54.00960.76355.58247.707-11,1%13,2%

Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 2.108.0602.040.8111.746.2131.499.2343,3%40,6%
 Current account (2) 560.147498.235495.782419.59512,4%33,5%
 Savings account 456.005463.053450.078325.454-1,5%40,1%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 999.040986.651719.668690.7561,3%44,6%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 12.34410.4002.6531.33918,7%821,8%
 Other deposits (3) 80.52382.47278.03362.090-2,4%29,7%

 Deposits from the private sector 1.486.890 1.458.627 1.377.905 1.158.335 1,9% 28,4%

 Deposits from the public sector 621.170 582.184 368.307 340.899 6,7% 82,2%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 30.01730.26030.56227.337-0,8%9,8%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1.509.6381.471.9911.321.4631.015.1922,6%48,7%

 Loans to the private sector 1.483.003 1.445.087 1.293.529 981.173 2,6% 51,1%
 Advances 159.013151.676130.467104.6864,8%51,9%
 Documents 282.398282.424278.052205.5980,0%37,4%
 Mortgages 183.043170.315122.76270.2397,5%160,6%
 Pledged loans 98.51296.80787.09863.5291,8%55,1%
 Personal loans 401.022390.788347.652264.5872,6%51,6%
 Credit cards 307.688302.658277.787232.1931,7%32,5%
 Others 51.32850.41949.71340.3411,8%27,2%

 Loans to the public sector 26.635 26.904 27.933 34.020 -1,0% -21,7%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 16.39416.09314.84611.4151,9%43,6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1.215.5741.158.2771.154.434942.0654,9%29,0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1.671.5791.621.3301.604.5121.267.5183,1%31,9%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 2.763.4862.700.8522.404.8652.021.7042,3%36,7%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3.472.2753.315.8052.948.0612.452.5074,7%41,6%

Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 971.805971.095966.260783.4260,1%24,0%
pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1.382.1661.382.9871.394.1401.091.178-0,1%26,7%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 2.142.3162.118.6692.036.5581.680.8041,1%27,5%
in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.759.9862.651.2242.494.1002.054.7594,1%34,3%

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 11
 Average variations
 Variation factors MonthlyQuarterlyAccumulated 2018Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)NominalContribution (4)

Monetary base 3.9450,4%-5.030-0,5%41.0204,2%239.32430,5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -129.628-12,7%-193.554-18,8%-193.554-19,7%-220.414-28,1%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -6.300-0,6%33.4743,3%159.54916,2%343.84243,8%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 9.5370,9%28.4842,8%54.3005,5%147.07718,8%
Other public sector operations 1380,0%-2490,0%-1.960-0,2%-7.218-0,9%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) 127.19412,5%119.55311,6%13.1531,3%-44.144-5,6%
Others 3.0040,3%7.2610,7%9.5321,0%20.1812,6%

International Reserves of the BCRA -6.754-11,1%-8.291-13,3%-1.573-2,8% 6.302 13,2%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -6.043-9,9%-9.196-14,8%-9.196-16,5%-10.664-22,4%
 Payment to international organizations -292-0,5%-753-1,2%-905-1,6%-1.953-4,1%
 Other public sector operations -1.111-1,8%2.3563,8%8.30514,9%20.10542,1%
 Minimum cash -899-1,5%-2.463-4,0%-2.422-4,4%-5.029-10,5%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 1.5912,6%1.7642,8%2.6454,8%3.8438,1%
1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May-18Apr-18Mar-18
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.812.912.7
 Integration 13.313.112.9
 Position (1) 0.50.20.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 69.370.363.5
 30 to 59 days 19.218.625.5
 60 to 89 days 4.95.05.0
 90 to 179 days 3.03.03.0
 More than 180 days 3.53.23.0
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 23.924.024.0
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 38.341.441.2
 Position (1) 14.317.517.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 55.456.656.8
 30 to 59 days 19.218.419.3
 60 to 89 days 9.49.38.6
 90 to 179 days 10.09.48.8
 180 to 365 days 5.35.55.5
 More than 365 days 0.70.81.0
(1) Position = Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes fixed-term deposits subject to judicial proceedings.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 12
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 38.5326.8426.5129.0424.50
 Amount operated 7.6456.2745.1304.9173.406

Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 24.3220.7120.7021.4818.10
 60 days or more 25.7322.2922.3222.7518.24
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 24.2020.6620.0821.6318.99
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 28.0922.7822.7823.1819.60

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.790.570.560.500.38
 60 days or more 1.090.830.830.740.55
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.770.550.550.550.53
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.340.950.980.740.76

 Active Interest Rates May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 34.1026.1225.3528.0623.82
 Amount operated (total maturities) 1.6881.3541.2101.236913

Loans to private sector in pesos (1)

 Current account advances 40.2633.2933.0034.1430.58
 Single signature documents 31.8527.0526.7125.3521.89
 Mortgage 19.5220.3819.9618.6719.82
 Pledge 19.1217.5816.2517.4219.57
 Personal 42.1440.2440.1239.9938.31
 Credit cards n/a 43.5643.3442.2142.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 41.3228.0827.8931.2425.52

 International Interest Rates May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

LIBOR
 1 month 1.951.901.791.491.01
 6 months 2.502.492.341.771.42

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.512.382.271.841.30
 10 years 2.982.872.852.402.30

FED Funds Rate 1.751.751.581.411.00

SELIC (at 1 year) 6.506.506.687.0811.20

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 13
Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 28.1225.6525.2526.7524.25
 Passive 7 days 32.7626.9026.5028.0025.50
 Active 7 days 45.6928.4028.0029.5027.00

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 36.9325.4825.0327.7824.42

Amount operated of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 8.6439.5748.74810.7244.119
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)

 1 month 40.0026.326.528.825.5
 2 months 40.0026.026.328.825.25
 3 months 38.5025.7025.9028.8024.69
LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month s/os/os/os/os/o
 3 months s/os/os/os/os/o
 6 months s/os/os/os/os/o
 12 months s/os/os/os/os/o

Amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 59.00148.593372184126030267

 Foreign Exchange Market May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 23.7020.2320.2417.7315.71
 Retail 23.7720.2620.2717.7915.78

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 24.4620.6120.5918.0815.97
 ROFEX 1 month 24.4720.6520.6218.1016.00
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 24.15112.13614.09917.44110.174

Real (Pesos x Real) 6.525.936.185.384.91

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 28.0224.8524.9720.9917.38

 Capital Markets May-18Apr-18Mar-18Dec-17May-17

MERVAL
 Index 29.60631.22832.26127.79821.564
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 1106605676671445

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 103.2109.4109.2117.2112.1
 BONAR 24 (US$) 108.2111.4112.1115.6117.5
 DISCOUNT ($) 97.4109.2110.6102.6114.0

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR 24 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 341249247217258
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 473407411356412

 EMBI+ Latin America 493463472464440

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Dollar Letters payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for the 1 and 3-month terms, and External segment for the 6 and 12-month terms.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 14
8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

CDS: Credit Default Swaps.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.

USA: United States of America.

NBFE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y-o-y: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

IGPA: General Stock Price Index.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LFPIP: Line of Financing for Production and Financial Inclusion.

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

MULC: Unified and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.

OCT: Term Arranged Operations.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

B.P.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

S&P: Standard and Poor's.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.

VCP: Short-term Debt Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | May 2018 | BCRA | 15
