# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

   Interest rates of monetary policy | Page 4

   Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 7

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 10

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 11

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 12

8. Glossary | Page 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was August 6, 2018. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

## 1. Summary¹
• After the acceleration of inflation in June was confirmed, the Monetary Policy Council considered
that it was necessary to maintain the contractionary bias of monetary policy until the trajectory of
inflation and expected inflation align with the December 2019 target. This incorporates the presence
of risks of an exchange rate pass-through to prices greater than anticipated. Consequently, in July it
decided that the monetary policy rate remain at 40%

• In July, modifications to the monetary policy framework were also announced: the incorporation
of closer monitoring of monetary aggregates to the inflation targeting scheme; the gradual reduction
of the LEBAC stock; the consolidation of the Monetary Policy Council, transforming it from an
advisory body to a decision-making one; and the reduction in the frequency with which monetary
policy decisions are made, which is monthly from August onwards.

• The Central Bank continued operating in the secondary LEBAC market to reinforce the monetary
policy signal. The 35-day LEBAC interest rate stood at 45.5% at the end of the month, 239 basis
points above its level at the end of June.

• Passive interest rates continued with the upward trend that began to show in mid-June, following
the trajectory of LEBAC rates, until the third week of July. In the last month and a half they
accumulated increases of between 5 p.p. and 6.25 p.p. The TM20 rate of private banks ended the
month at 37.8%, showing an increase of 3.9 p.p. with respect to the end of June. Meanwhile, the
BADLAR of private banks ended July at 35.2%, 2.5 p.p. above June.

• The seasonal increase in the demand for money, associated with winter vacations and the collection
of the complementary annual half-month salary, drove the nominal growth of private M2, which
reached 4.3% in July, totaling 21.1% in the last 12 months, below inflation. Time deposits in pesos
from the private sector also grew, so private M3 increased 3.5% in July and 24.4% compared to 12
months ago. In turn, the broad monetary base –which adds the monetary base, the balance of LEBAC
and repos of financial entities and LELIQ– presented an year-on-year growth of 27.4%, also below
inflation. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, the private sector aggregates decreased again:
2% for private M2 and 1.5% for private M3.

• In nominal terms, peso loans to the private sector increased 1.2% compared to June and completed
a year-on-year growth of 47.3%. When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality,
it is observed that they interrupted the growing trend they had shown until the first part of the year:
peso loans fell back 0.9% in July, with declines in almost all credit lines. Adding foreign currency
financing, loans to the private sector registered a decrease of 1.6%, with a year-on-year variation of
21.9%. In the peso segment, the only line that grew in real terms was advances (0.8%). In contrast,
mortgage loans, which had shown sustained growth for 18 months, stopped growing in real and
seasonally adjusted terms.

• The nominal growth of loans to the private sector, below that recorded by deposits, and the surplus
in the reserve requirement position that had accumulated during the first two months included in the
quarterly period that ended in July, contributed to financial entities being able to meet higher reserve
requirements with a moderate reduction in their excess liquidity. In this way, total liquidity remains
at levels above 40% of deposits, with a shift in favor of mandatory bank reserves and to the detriment
of excess liquidity.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.
# Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 3

## 2. Interest Rates2

**Graph 2.1 Monetary Policy Interest Rates**

In June, the general price level measured by INDEC's CPI registered a monthly increase of 3.7% compared to May. As mentioned in the latest monetary policy statements, high-frequency indicators had forecast an acceleration of inflation in June, as a result of exchange rate instability observed starting in May, but they forecast a deceleration beginning in July.

The Monetary Policy Board considers it necessary to maintain the contractionary bias of monetary policy until the trajectory of inflation and expected inflation align with the December 2019 target. This incorporates the presence of risks of a greater-than-expected pass-through from the exchange rate to prices. Consequently, in July it determined that the monetary policy rate remain at 40%3.

Likewise, in July, modifications to the monetary policy framework were announced: the incorporation of closer monitoring of monetary aggregates to the inflation targeting scheme; the gradual reduction of the LEBAC stock; the consolidation of the Monetary Policy Board, transforming it from an advisory body to a decision-making one; and the reduction in the frequency of monetary policy decisions, which will be monthly beginning in August.

With the objective of reinforcing the monetary policy signal, the BCRA maintained active participation in the LEBAC secondary market during July, completing net sales for VN $45.6 billion. In the first half of the month, the BCRA had a mainly buying position, concentrating its operations in the securities maturing on July 18 (VN $30.2 billion net). Starting in the second half, following partial renewal of maturities in the primary auction, it sold securities for VN $54.7 billion net, concentrated mainly in LEBACs maturing in September. Beginning July 19, individuals purchased LEBACs for an amount greater than what they had left unrenewed in the auction, while the group comprised of mutual funds, companies, and non-resident entities recovered 90% of the decline they experienced on the maturity date of the month. Financial institutions also reversed part of the decrease in their holdings following the auction (see Graph 2.1). With respect to interest rates negotiated in the secondary market, at the beginning of the month the 35-day rate reached its peak of 56.4%, to later decline and end the month with a yield of 45.5%, 239 b.p. above its level at the end of June (see Graph 2.2).

**Graph 2.2**

**Graph 2.3**

Starting July 26, the BCRA exchanged part of the LEBACs in order to extend the average maturity of the stock in circulation. Thus, in the swap round, it decreased the outstanding balance of LEBACs maturing in August for VN $63,600 million, delivering in exchange the same amount of LEBACs maturing in September (see Graph 2.3).

Additionally, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Bills (LELIQ). In July they again increased their participation among the most liquid assets of financial institutions (see Banking Liquidity section) and at the end of the month their outstanding balance reached VN $150,241 million.

**Graph 2.4**

**Graph 2.5 Market Interest Rates**

In general, in July, fixed-rate operations were agreed at rates higher than those in June, while operations denominated in UVA were concluded at real rates similar to those of the previous month.

---

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
3 See press release at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Noticias/Comunicado_de_Política_Monetaria.asp
In a month in which increases in reserve requirement regulations came into effect (see section Liquidity of financial entities), the interest rates in the interfinancial loan markets showed volatility mainly during the first half of the month, to stabilize at values close to the monetary policy rate following the release of funds associated with the partial renewal of LEBAC maturities (see Chart 2.4). Thus, at the end of July they were located at levels similar to those at the end of the previous month. The interest rate on 1 business day call operations ended July at 38.7%, 0.1 p.p. above the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate on 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO session) was positioned at the close of the month at 38.2%, showing an increase of 0.8 p.p. compared to the end of June. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased $1,950 million, totaling approximately $18,850 million.

The interest rate on overdrafts in current accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days for companies showed a similar trajectory, recording an average monthly increase of 7.8 p.p., which is reduced to 3.2 p.p. if its value at the end of July is compared with the one it presented at the end of June (43.2%).

In the fixed-rate operations segment, passive interest rates continued with the upward trend that began to show in mid-June, following the trajectory of LEBAC rates, until the third week of July. In the last month and a half they accumulated increases between 5 p.p. and 6.25 p.p. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, Chart 2.6 from 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended the month at 37.8%, showing an increase of 3.9 p.p. compared to the end of June. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, from 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended July at 35.2%, 2.5 p.p. above June. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days, ended July at 30.9%, 1.7 p.p. above the level at the end of last month (see Chart 2.5).

Active interest rates showed more heterogeneous behavior depending on the line in question, but in general, they accumulated increases compared to June. The interest rate on personal loans averaged June at 46.8%, exhibiting an increase of 2.5 p.p. With respect to the interest rates on the lines intended to finance business activity, the rate charged for documents at sole signature averaged 39.5%, showing an increase of 3.1 p.p.; while the interest rate on discounted documents averaged 40.5%, increasing 2.3 p.p. (see Chart 2.6).

Chart 2.7 With respect to financing adjustable by UVA, mortgage loans were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 6%, similar to that observed in the previous month. In contrast, the interest rate on personal loans denominated in UVA recorded an average monthly increase of 1.2 p.p., averaging 14.1%. The reduction observed during the last days of July is due to the fact that, as it is a weighted average rate by amount, in that period there was greater participation from banks that charge lower rates, and is not due to the reduction of rates by any particular entity (see Chart 3.6).
# Translation to English

On the other hand, the rates paid for time deposits adjustable by UVA had different trajectories depending on the term of the operations. The rate paid for 90-day deposits averaged 4.1% in June (showing a decrease of 0.1 p.p.), while the rate paid for deposits around 180 days reached 4.4%, registering an increase of 0.6 p.p. explained fundamentally by the weighting of a few operations carried out at higher rates.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 6

3. Monetary Aggregates¹

Chart 3.1

Due to the seasonal increase in the demand for transactional money, on account of winter vacations and the collection of the complementary semi-annual salary payment, in nominal terms Private M2 grew 4.3% in July. Meanwhile, the broad aggregate of the private sector (Private M3) increased 3.5% compared to June. This meant that their year-over-year variations stood at 21.1% and 24.4%, respectively, decelerating compared to June.

When considering balances in real terms⁴ and adjusted for seasonality, during the month Private M2⁵ decreased 2%, while time deposits in pesos of the sector fell 0.2%. In total, the balance of Private M3⁶ was reduced 1.5% (see Chart 3.1).

Chart 3.2

Deposits in pesos of the private sector registered an average monthly growth of 3.4% nominal driven both by the seasonal growth of sight deposits and by the increase in those agreed upon as fixed term. The latter grew 2.2%, maintaining the upward trend initiated during the last week of June. This behavior was verified both in retail placements and in those of more than $1 million (see Chart 3.2), in a context in which passive interest rates also maintained an upward trend during most of the month. For its part, deposits of the public sector increased 7.3%, driven both by the placement of debt to banks (see Financial Entities Liquidity section) and by the sale of dollars that it carried out during the period, with which the total of deposits in pesos presented a monthly increase of 4.5%.

Chart 3.3

The average monthly growth of the monetary base reached 4.2% nominal, above that registered by M3, due to the increase in reserve requirements that began to take effect this month. To exclude movements of the monetary base associated with regulatory changes of this type, the BCRA began to track a broad monetary base that results from the sum of the monetary base, holdings of LEBAC and repos of financial entities and LELIQ. In July, the broad monetary base increased 3.1% and registered a year-over-year variation of 27.4% (see Chart 3.3).

In the foreign currency segment, the total balance of deposits ended July at US$31,200 million, increasing 1.1% compared to the end of June, with reductions in

⁴ Real term values were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC has been used since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.
⁵ Includes cash in the hands of the public and sight deposits of the private sector.
⁶ Includes cash in the hands of the public and the total of deposits in pesos of the private sector.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 7

placements of the public sector that were more than offset by the increase in those of the private sector. The latter grew US$930 million, maintaining during the first half of the month the upward trend of June, driven by the collection of public debt services in foreign currency, to then stabilize during the rest of the period (see Chart 3.4).

4. Loans 17
In real terms8 and adjusted for seasonality, loans to the private sector interrupted the upward trend they had shown until the first part of the year. Total loans, in pesos and foreign currency, registered a decline of 1.6%, with an year-on-year variation of 21.9%. For its part, in the local currency segment, loans fell back 0.9% in July, with declines in almost all credit lines. Year-on-year growth stood at around 15% (see Chart 4.1).

Loans in pesos granted through advances were the only ones that showed an increase in the month when considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, as they grew 0.8%. In nominal terms, their increase was 5% ($8,130 million) monthly, accumulating growth of more than 60% over the last twelve months. In contrast, financing arranged through documents continued to show a downward trend, registering a monthly decline of 3.3% adjusted for inflation and seasonality. Its nominal increase was 1% ($2,770) monthly, and 24.8% over the last 12 months.

As for loans with real guarantee, following the depreciation of the peso against the dollar in recent months, mortgages stopped growing in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, after eighteen months of sustained growth (see Chart 4.2). However, in nominal terms, they showed monthly growth of 2.7%, with a year-on-year variation of more than 150%. It is worth mentioning that financing in UVA continued to represent around 90% of loans to individuals, with a sharp decrease observed in recent months in the amounts granted, which went from a daily average of $700 million in April to $230 million in July. For its part, loans with pledge guarantee decreased in July by 2% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, while in nominal terms they remained compared to the previous month. Its year-on-year variation decelerated by around 5 p.p. to stand at 42.9% (see Chart 4.2).

When breaking down the amounts granted (new loans) in pesos to the private sector included in the lines of documents, mortgages, pledges and others according to their recipient, it can be seen that most of the deceleration in recent months was mainly related to those granted to individuals –which had been driven by mortgages in previous months–. With regard to loans granted to legal entities, in real terms, it is observed that those corresponding to larger companies did not vary significantly during 2018, although the average financing for the first 7 months of this year was 7% higher than for the same period of 2017. In the case of financing for SMEs, although the amount remained stable during the last two months, it decreased 8% when comparing what was accumulated in 2018 compared to the same period last year (see Chart 4.3).

---

**Footnotes:**

7 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. On the other hand, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

8 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 8
Regarding the rest of loans intended mainly for families, credit card financing declined 0.5% in real terms and seasonally adjusted. In nominal terms, they also decreased in July (0.5%); in part, due to the concentration of the semi-annual maturity of one of the cards intended to finance producers in the agricultural and livestock sector. Chart 4.3 In the last twelve months they accumulated growth close to 37%. For its part, personal loans showed a decrease of 0.8% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. Meanwhile, in nominal terms they grew 0.5% in the month, with a year-over-year increase of 45.6%.

Thus, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector continued to decelerate its growth rate, with a monthly variation of 1.2% and 47.3% year-over-year.

Finally, the average monthly balance of loans in dollars to the private sector was located at US$16,200 million, reflecting a decrease of 1.1% (US$180 million), which was composed of both those granted through single-signature documents (mainly pre-financing of exports) as well as credit card financing.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 9

5. Liquidity of financial entities

As mentioned in the last monetary report, in July two increases in reserve requirements came into effect. The first of them, of 3 p.p. as of July 2nd, and subsequently, another 2 p.p. as of July 18th. This latter increase can be integrated through National Treasury Bonds at Fixed Rate maturing in 2020. Chart 5.1 Likewise, the modifications in the permitted deductions in the minimum cash regime in pesos came into effect. Those linked to financing for SMEs and the "Ahora 12" program were increased, while the remaining deductions were eliminated.

Within this framework, the most important application of funds for financial entities in July was the subscription of the National Treasury bond that can be used for the integration of part of the reserve requirements (see Chart 5.1). In turn, the increase in reserve requirement ratios that must be integrated in current accounts could be fulfilled with a relatively small reduction in excess liquidity (LEBACs + LELIQs + repurchase agreements) because the entities had accumulated a surplus in the first two months included in the quarterly reserve requirement period that ended in July and because the growth of deposits far exceeded that of loans to the private sector.

Thus, the liquidity in pesos of financial entities (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, holdings of public securities for integration of the minimum cash regime, net repurchase agreements with such entity and holdings of LEBACs and LELIQs, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) recorded an increase in July, closing the month at 43.8%. The increases in reserve requirements in the last two months were reflected in a change in their composition: mandatory bank reserves and cash in banks went from representing 17.3% of deposits in May to 22.8% in July; while excess liquidity that in May reached 24.1% of deposits, in July was reduced to 21%.

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) recorded an increase of 2.4 p.p. with respect to the previous month (50.2% of deposits). In terms of composition, the total balance of current accounts increased 3.3 p.p., and was partially offset by the decline in cash holdings of the entities (0.9 p.p. with respect to April).

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 10

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market
Chart 6.1
During July, the Ministry of Finance continued with its program of daily foreign currency auctions, which had been agreed upon with the IMF, to sell part of the funds received by the Treasury to cover current expenses. For this concept, a total of US$2,100 million was auctioned during the month. In contrast, the BCRA did not intervene in the foreign exchange market (see Chart 6.1).

The sales of dollars by the Ministry of Finance and net payments of foreign currency debt explained the fall in international reserves. They ended the month at US$57,996 million, which implied a decline of US$3,885 million compared to the previous month (see Chart 6.2).

The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended July at 27.34, registering a decrease of 5.3% with respect to the level reached the previous month. With respect to the real exchange rate, it exceeded the maximum reached following the lifting of the foreign exchange controls in March 2016, and approached levels that had not been observed since the end of 2011. During the course of July it registered a fall of 6% (see Chart 6.3). Regarding foreign exchange policy, the monetary authority maintains a floating exchange rate scheme that allows it to absorb shocks (especially of external origin), with the possibility that the Central Bank carry out limited interventions to moderate disruptive movements in the foreign exchange market that could affect financial stability or the disinflation path.

Chart 6.3

9 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 11

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 12

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 13

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 14

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 15

8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos with 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual currency monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
bp: Basis Points.
pp: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value.
SDP: Short-term Debt Value.
NV: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | July 2018 | BCRA | 16
