# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest Rates | Page 4

Interest Rates of Monetary Policy | Page 4

Interest Rates of the Market | Page 5

3. Monetary Aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of Financial Entities | Page 9

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market | Page 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on April 6, 2018. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In March, the February CPI was published, which showed a monthly increase of 2.4% for the general level and 2.1% for the core component. Although estimates and high-frequency indicators from state and private sources monitored by the BCRA indicate that March core inflation will remain at elevated levels, the BCRA considers that the acceleration of inflation in recent months is transitory, since it is due to corrections in regulated prices and the rapid depreciation of the peso between December and February. Once these transitory factors are overcome, inflation will consolidate its downward trend. For this reason, the BCRA decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, that of the center of its 7-day repo corridor, at 27.25%.

• With the conviction that a depreciation greater than what has already occurred would not be justified either by real economic impacts or by the planned course of its monetary policy and that, if not prevented, would have the potential to slow down the disinflation process, the BCRA carried out foreign exchange interventions to sustain the value of the currency. Foreign exchange intervention, however, is a sporadic complement and not a substitute for monetary policy. With its intervention, it managed to contain the dynamics that the exchange rate had been showing.

• The passive interest rates, which had already interrupted their upward trend at the end of December, remained stable during March. The TM20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more – from private banks averaged 23.3% in March and the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, for 30 to 35 days – from private banks averaged 22.8%. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 20.8% in the month.

• Among active interest rates, that of personal loans averaged 40.1%, showing a decrease of 0.3 percentage points compared to February, while the rate charged for unsecured notes averaged 26.7%, remaining stable compared to the previous month.

• In March the BCRA continued carrying out open market operations in order to manage the liquidity conditions of the money market. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the market for a total of nominal value of $99.5 billion. Furthermore, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Letters (LELIQ), an instrument that began to be used on January 11 and that gradually gained participation among the liquid assets of financial entities. At the end of March, the outstanding balance of LELIQ reached a nominal value of $142,524 million. Thus, in March the expansion generated in the primary auction of LEBACs was more than offset by the absorption associated with the placement of LEBACs in the secondary market, the sales of LELIQs and passive repos.

• Private M3 real and seasonally adjusted showed a reduction of 0.2% in March, which was explained by the decrease in means of payment from the private sector and fixed-term deposits from the private sector.

• Loans to the private sector continued growing in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. The total of loans, in pesos and foreign currency, presented a monthly increase of 2% and accumulated an increase of 29.2% in the last 12 months. The growth of loans in local currency was 1.5%, with a strong boost from mortgage and personal loans. Mortgage loans have been showing a real growth rate exceeding 6% since August of last year, also showing an increase of 7.8% in March. In nominal terms, mortgages grew 8.8% ($12,800 million) and accumulated a year-on-year increase of 142%. Financing in UVA continued representing more than 90% of loans granted to individuals. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $86,600 million in mortgage loans in UVA have been granted.
1. Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest Rates 2

Monetary Policy Interest Rates

In March, the CPI for February was published, which showed a monthly increase of 2.4% for the general level and 2.1% for the core component. With these results, year-over-year inflation reached 25.4%, while its core component showed 21.6%. Data on February inflation from the Wholesale Price System was also released, with records ranging between 4.8% and 5.6% compared to the previous month. It should be noted that approximately 30% of these figures reflect administrative changes in the price paid by residential gas distributors to producers. Year-over-year variations of these indices ranged between 26.3% and 27.1%.

Although estimates and high-frequency indicators from government and private sources monitored by the BCRA indicate that March core inflation will remain at elevated levels, the BCRA considers that the acceleration of inflation in recent months is transitory and is due to corrections in regulated prices and the rapid depreciation of the peso between December and February, and that once these transitory factors are overcome, inflation will consolidate its downward trend. For this reason, the BCRA decided to maintain its monetary policy interest rate, that of the center of its 7-day repo corridor, at 27.25% (see Chart 2.1).

Four fundamental reasons support this favorable outlook.

Monetary policy is more contractionary than that observed during most of last year. Wage negotiations are being agreed in a manner consistent with the 15% target. The process of adjusting regulated prices will strongly decelerate after April. Finally, the relatively high level of the real exchange rate and the BCRA's own action lead to not foreseeing significant peso depreciation in the coming months.

In March, the Central Bank continued conducting open market operations in order to manage monetary market liquidity conditions. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the market for a total face value of $99.5 billion. The traded securities were concentrated in the species with residual terms of up to 30 days (30%) and between 30 and 60 days (40%). The yield curve showed increases in yields in the short section of around 30 basis points and 10 basis points for the two species with the shortest residual maturity (see Chart 2.2). In the monthly LEBAC auction, the cut-off rates were in line with the yields observed in the secondary market in the previous days.

Furthermore, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Letters (LELIQ), an instrument that began to be used on January 11 and gradually gained participation among financial institutions' liquid assets (see Bank Liquidity). At the end of March, the outstanding balance of LELIQ reached a face value of $142,524 million.

Thus, in March the expansion generated in the primary auction [text continues...]

---

**Footnote:**
2. The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 4
# Short-Term Interest Rates

**TNA; % (Daily Data) p.p.**

The decline in the rate on LEBAC was more than offset by the absorption associated with the placement of LEBAC in the secondary market, the sales of LELIQ and passive repos.

## Market Interest Rates

In March, short-term interest rates remained close to the center of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA (see Chart 2.1).

In the interbank lending markets, the interest rate on call operations at 1 business day averaged 26.5%, 0.4 p.p. below the value recorded the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate on 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) stood at 25%, showing an average monthly decline of 0.8 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets combined increased $1,700 million, totaling about $13,900 million.

The interest rate on advances in current accounts of more than $10 million and up to 7 days to companies followed a similar evolution to the interest rates in the interbank lending markets, showing a decline of 0.8 p.p. in its monthly average.

For its part, passive interest rates, which had already interrupted their upward trend at the end of December, remained stable during March. The TM20 rate – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more – of private banks averaged 23.3% in March, an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to February. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days in term – of private banks averaged 22.8% in March, which meant a slight monthly increase of 0.1 p.p. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 20.8% in the month, and showed no changes compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.3).

Meanwhile, active interest rates agreed at fixed or repriceable rates showed mixed behavior in March. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 40.1%, showing a decline of 0.3 p.p. compared to February (see Chart 2.4). With respect to interest rates on lines intended to finance business activity, the rate charged for documents bearing sole signature averaged 26.7%, remaining stable compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, the interest rate on discounted documents averaged 25.1% showing an increase of 0.9 p.p. This increase is explained by the lower weight of the financing line for production and financial inclusion, which was granted at lower rates.

With respect to financings adjustable by UVA, mortgage loans were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 4.8%, similar to the previous month (see Chart 2.5). In contrast, the interest rate on personal credits adjustable by UVA averaged 10.5% showing a decline of 0.8 p.p., although due to a composition issue: an increase in the amount granted by a bank that lends at a lower rate.
On the other hand, the rate paid for time deposits adjustable by UVA averaged 4.4% in March, showing an increase of 0.1 p.p. compared to February.

## 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

Private M3 3 real 4 and adjusted for seasonality presented a reduction of 0.2% in March, which was explained by the decrease in means of payment of the private sector (private M2 5) and fixed-term deposits of the private sector (see Chart 3.1).

In nominal terms, private M2 decreased 0.9%, with declines in currency in circulation and demand deposits. With respect to fixed-term placements in pesos of the private sector, they increased 4.4% in March, continuing with the growing trend that began during the last part of February. This increase was driven by retail placements and, mainly, by those of more than $1 million (see Chart 3.2), in a context in which passive interest rates remained relatively stable.

Thus, the total deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 1.4% in March. For its part, placements of the public sector rose 7.2% in the month, although said

3 Includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos of the private sector.
4 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC have been used since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.
5 Includes currency in circulation and demand deposits in pesos of the private sector.

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 6

increase was explained by the statistical carryover from the previous month. Taken together, the total deposits in pesos presented growth of 3%. In this way, total M3 6 grew in March, in nominal terms, 1.9% reaching a year-on-year variation of 34.1%, while private M3 showed growth of 27.2% y.o.y., below that recorded in the previous months.

The average monthly balance of the monetary base decreased 0.6% in March, with an increase in bank reserves that partially offset the aforementioned reduction in currency in circulation. In year-on-year terms, the monetary base increased 29.3%, 4.9 p.p. above February. This acceleration was explained by an effect in the comparison base of March 2017, a period in which reserve coefficients had been reduced by 2 p.p.

Throughout March, deposits in foreign currency increased, given that the increase in placements of the private sector more than offset the fall in placements of the public sector. Indeed, placements of the private sector grew US$370 million and reached a balance of US$26,000 million (see Chart 3.4).

In short, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 7, increased 1% in nominal terms, presenting a year-on-year variation of 29.8%.

Chart 4.1
Loans to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
thousands of millions $ (average monthly balance)

[CHART with values from 900 to 1,800 on y-axis, showing Pesos and Foreign Currency data from mar-15 through mar-18]

Pesos and Foreign Currency

## 4. Loans 1 8

In March, loans to the private sector continued growing in real terms 9 and adjusted for seasonality (see Chart 4.1). The total of loans, pesos and foreign currency presented a monthly increase of 2% and accumulated an increase of 29.2% over the last 12 months. The growth of loans in local currency was 1.5%, with a strong boost from mortgage and personal loans. Together, these lines explained practically all of the month's growth (see Chart 4.2).

Mortgage loans have been showing a growth rate exceeding 6% real since August of the past year.

Source: BCRA
6 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and peso deposits of non-financial private and public sectors.
7 Includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency.
8 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, primarily caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.
9 Real values were calculated using core inflation indices: National CPI series from INDEC were used since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the Buenos Aires City CPI, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 7

**Graph 4.2**
% Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
(contribution by credit line to monthly growth)

[Graph shows three lines: Mortgages, Personal, and Total, tracking from mar-16 to mar-18, with values ranging from approximately -2.5 to 3.5%]

Source: BCRA

The mortgages increased 6.8% in February and 7.8% in March (see Graph 4.3). In nominal terms, mortgages grew 8.8% ($12,800 million) and accumulated a year-on-year increase of 142%. Financing in UVA continued to represent more than 90% of loans granted to individuals. Thus, since the launch of this instrument, approximately $86,600 million in UVA mortgage loans have been granted. Meanwhile, loans with pledge guarantee showed in March an increase of 2.3% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. The nominal growth was 2.9% ($2,670 million) in March, accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 60%.

**Graph 4.3**
Mortgages in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality
% (variation of average monthly balance) %

[Graph shows two lines: Monthly Var. and Year-on-year Var. (right axis), tracking from mar-15 to mar-18]

Source: BCRA

Financing intended primarily for family consumption moderated its growth pace. Personal loans showed a monthly increase of 1.6% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, which was similar to that of February, but lower than the growth observed throughout 2017, a period in which the monthly expansion rate had averaged 2.3%. In nominal terms, the line showed an increase of 3.2% ($11,960 million), and the year-on-year variation was around 56% (see Graph 4.4).

For its part, credit card financing maintained its balance relatively stable. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they remained practically stable, while in nominal terms they showed an increase of 0.9% ($2,690 million).

As for loans intended essentially for commercial purposes, advances grew 2% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, the largest increase in the last four months. The nominal increase was 3.7% in the month ($5,100 million) and 32.7% year-on-year. Meanwhile, financing instruments implemented through documents showed an increase close to 1%, both in real terms adjusted for seasonality and in nominal terms.

**Graph 4.4**
% Personal Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality
(variation of average monthly balance) %

[Graph shows two lines: Monthly Var. and Year-on-year Var. (right axis), tracking over time with values ranging from approximately -40 to 40%]

In this way, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector reached a growth of 2.7% ($36,260 million), with a year-on-year variation of around 48%, which implied an acceleration of 1.8 percentage points compared to the previous month.
Finally, foreign currency loans to the private sector registered an increase of 0.9% (US$145 million). The growth in single signature documents (mainly export pre-financing) was partially offset by the decrease in credit card financing. In this way, the average monthly balance was located at US$15,850 million.

**Graphic 5.1**
**Variation of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of fin. entities**
**thousands of millions of $ March 2018 - average flows**

## 5. Liquidity of financial entities¹

During March, the liquidity in pesos of financial entities remained relatively stable, although with differentiated behavior by bank group, since while private banks reduced their liquidity, public banks increased it, mainly due to the increase in public sector deposits (see Graphic 5.1). In this way, the broad liquidity ratio in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with that entity and holdings of LELIQ and LEBAC, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained close to 43% of deposits.

The growth in broad liquidity was concentrated in LELIQ –which went from 4.6% to 6.2% of deposits–, which was partly offset by a decline in LEBAC from 19.6% to 18.2%. Likewise, banks continued with the process of reducing their cash holdings, going from 4.7% to 4.2% of deposits. On the other hand, current accounts at the BCRA remained stable at 12.9% of deposits.

**Graphic 5.2**
**Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities**
**% of deposits**

Foreign currency liquidity (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) once again showed a decline, this time of 4.2 p.p., to 47.5%, explained by successive reductions in cash in banks and the current account.

---

## 6. International reserves and foreign exchange market

**Graphic 6.1**
**Purchase / sale of foreign exchange by the BCRA in the foreign exchange market**
**millions of US$**

The Central Bank conducted interventions in the foreign exchange market during March. It is worth noting that, even in the context of establishing a floating exchange rate scheme, the monetary authority maintains the capacity to intervene in the face of potentially disruptive dynamics in the foreign exchange market. In this way, in the face of a divergence between pressure on the value of the peso and the BCRA's vision of its future monetary policy, interventions were carried out to sustain the value of the currency, with the conviction that a depreciation greater than that already occurred would not be justified either by real economic impacts or by the planned course of its monetary policy and that, if not prevented, would have the potential to slow down the disinflation process. The foreign exchange intervention, without
10 In this section the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 9

Chart 6.2 however, it is a complement and not a substitute for monetary
policy.
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
17-Dec-15=100
110 The nominal exchange rate, which had remained in

105 relative stability from August until early De-
cember of last year, had begun to register an
100
 upward trajectory toward the end of the year. Said dynam-
95 ics persisted during the first months of 2018, until

90 March 5 when the Central Bank decided to begin to

85 intervene in the foreign exchange market. With its interven-

80 tion, it managed to contain the dynamics that the exchange
rate had been showing in the previous months (see Chart 6.1).
75

70 The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended
Dec-15 May-16 Oct-16 Mar-17 Aug-17 Jan-18
Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream March at 20.14, recording an increase of 0.14% with respect
to the level observed in the previous month.

Chart 6.3 With regard to the multilateral real exchange rate, it
Thousands of BCRA International Reserves
Millions of U$S has remained stable, thanks to the implementation of the for-
65
eign exchange floating regime. Even more, it has fluctu-

55 ated since mid-2016 around a value that

45 is 22.6% higher than what it had before the unification

of the foreign exchange market at the end of 2015. During March

35 it recorded a slight decline of 2.3% (see Chart 6.2).

25

15 Given that sales of foreign currency to the private sector for US$
2.040 million (which represented a monetary absorption of
5 the equivalent of $41.284 million pesos) were partially
Mar-03 Nov-04 Jul-06 Mar-08 Nov-09 Jul-11 Mar-13 Nov-14 Jul-16 Mar-18 offset by foreign currency income associated with
Source: BCRA debt placements abroad, international reserves totaled

March with a balance of US$ 61.726 million, registering a
monthly increase of US$ 217 million (see Chart 6.3).

Chart 6.4 Finally, when we take the balance of LEBACs, repos

% GDP Stock of LEBACs, repos and LELIQs and LELIQs and subtract from it the net purchases of foreign currency
14 (monthly averages) made, we can observe that at the end of March the

13 stock of BCRA instruments minus the foreign currency that

12 entered the assets of the monetary authority, in terms of

11 GDP, remained at the levels of Feb-18, below

10 the level recorded in March 2016 (see Chart

9 6.4).

8

7

6
5 LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ
LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ net of dollar purchases since March 1-16
4
Mar-16 Jun-16 Sep-16 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 Sep-17 Dec-17 Mar-18

Note: The 12-month moving average of GDP was used. The nominal GDP data for 2017
were completed based on forecasts from the REM.

Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 10

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
Main monetary and financial system variables Mar-18 Feb-18 Dec-17 Mar-17 Monthly Last 12
months

Monetary Base 1,022,094 1,028,710 982,660 790,603 -0.6% 29.3%
Monetary Circulation 757,585 772,941 741,724 592,134 -2.0% 27.9%
Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 670,864 679,013 658,651 515,859 -1.2% 30.0%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 86,721 93,928 83,071 76,274 -7.7% 13.7%
Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 1.2 0.6 -14.5% -56.8%
Current account at the BCRA 264,509 255,769 240,936 198,469 3.4% 33.3%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities 23,203 16,714 63,989 195,030 38.8% -88.1%
Assets 65 350 3,679 0

Stock of LELIQs (at nominal value) 128,407 90,683 - - 41.6% -

Stock of LEBACs (at nominal value) 1,253,510 1,244,611 1,144,103 652,941 0.7% 92.0%

In pesos 1,253,510 1,244,611 1,144,103 652,941 0.7% 92.0%
In banks 388,864 403,552 365,366 246,989 -3.6% 57.4%
In dollars 0 0 0 0 - -
International reserves of the BCRA 61.756 62.300 55.582 51.488 -0.9% 19.9%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 2.029.332 1.970.135 1.746.213 1.497.749 3.0% 35.5%
Current account (2) 490.366 492.911 495.782 423.727 -0.5% 15.7%
Savings account 453.178 454.023 450.078 322.258 -0.2% 40.6%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 1.001.530 935.154 719.668 692.998 7.1% 44.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 8.316 7.547 2.653 901 10.2% 822.8%
Other deposits (3) 75.942 80.499 78.033 57.865 -5.7% 31.2%

Deposits of the private sector 1.435.435 1.416.078 1.377.905 1.140.582 1.4% 25.9%

Deposits of the public sector 593.897 554.056 368.307 357.167 7.2% 66.3%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 29.785 31.259 30.562 34.160 -4.7% -12.8%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 1.428.667 1.392.550 1.321.463 980.067 2.6% 45.8%

Loans to the private sector 1.401.598 1.365.341 1.293.529 944.182 2.7% 48.4%
Advances 144.192 139.075 130.467 108.640 3.7% 32.7%
Documents 278.828 275.920 278.052 197.319 1.1% 41.3%
Mortgage loans 157.949 145.148 122.762 65.245 8.8% 142.1%
Pledge loans 94.269 91.600 87.098 58.533 2.9% 61.1%
Personal loans 380.579 368.616 347.652 243.788 3.2% 56.1%
Credit cards 297.504 294.817 277.787 233.035 0.9% 27.7%
Others 48.276 50.166 49.713 37.621 -3.8% 28.3%

Loans to the public sector 27.069 27.209 27.933 35.885 -0.5% -24.6%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 15.882 15.734 14.846 10.109 0.9% 57.1%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1.161.230 1.171.925 1.154.434 939.587 -0.9% 23.6%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1.614.409 1.625.947 1.604.512 1.261.845 -0.7% 27.9%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 2.700.196 2.649.148 2.404.865 2.013.608 1.9% 34.1%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3.304.494 3.271.220 2.948.061 2.546.190 1.0% 29.8%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in 976.142 982.399 966.260 767.464 -0.6% 27.2%
pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1.390.834 1.403.808 1.394.140 1.073.496 -0.9% 29.6%
M3 (Bills and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 2.106.299 2.095.092 2.036.558 1.656.441 0.5% 27.2%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2.631.830 2.603.632 2.494.100 2.020.701 1.1% 30.2%

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 11
Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2018 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -6.616 -0.6% 39.435 4.0% 39.435 4.0% 231.491 29.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -18.500 -1.8% -18.500 -1.9% -18.500 -1.9% -27.870 -3.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 39.774 3.9% 165.849 16.9% 165.849 16.9% 380.839 48.2%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 5.987 0.6% 31.803 3.2% 31.803 3.2% 154.126 19.5%
Other public sector operations 26 0.0% -1.685 -0.2% -1.685 -0.2% -7.079 -0.9%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) -35.291 -3.4% -141.690 -14.4% -141.690 -14.4% -288.213 -36.5%
Others 1.387 0.1% 3.658 0.4% 3.658 0.4% 19.689 2.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA -544 -0.9% 6.174 11.1% 6.174 11.1% 10.268 19.9%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -913 -1.5% -913 -1.6% -913 -1.6% -1.252 -2.4%
Payment to international organizations -208 -0.3% -360 -0.6% -360 -0.6% -1.789 -3.5%
Other public sector operations 2.550 4.1% 8.499 15.3% 8.499 15.3% 23.277 45.2%
Minimum cash -1.877 -3.0% -1.836 -3.3% -1.836 -3.3% -12.102 -23.5%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -96 -0.2% 786 1.4% 786 1.4% 2.135 4.1%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
 2 Net of unified funds utilization.
 3 Net of accounted BODEN.
 4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.

 Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 mar-18 feb-18 jan-18
 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12.7 12.7 13.0
 Integration 12.9 12.9 13.2
 Position (1) 0.2 0.2 0.2
 Residual term structure of fixed-rate time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)

 Up to 29 days 62.6 63.0 66.9
 30 to 59 days 24.5 24.3 20.9
 60 to 89 days 6.9 7.0 6.6
 90 to 179 days 3.4 3.3 3.6
 more than 180 days 2.5 2.5 2.0

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 23.6 23.2 26.4
 Integration (includes application defect of resources) 40.8 42.9 54.4
 Position (1) 17.2 19.7 28.0
 Residual term structure of fixed-rate time deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)

 Up to 29 days 57.6 57.8 57.6
 30 to 59 days 19.6 19.5 19.6
 60 to 89 days 9.3 9.2 9.4
 90 to 179 days 6.7 6.6 6.7
 180 to 365 days 5.9 5.9 5.0
 more than 365 days 1.0 1.0 1.6

 (1) Position = Requirement - Integration

 (2) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

 Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 12

 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 26.51 26.99 27.42 29.04 22.77
 Amount operated 5,121 5,093 4,417 4,917 2,468

 Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 20.70 21.38 21.55 21.48 18.09
 60 days or more 22.32 22.29 22.84 22.75 18.59
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20.34 22.05 21.84 21.63 19.04
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.78 22.74 22.94 23.18 19.53

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.56 0.50 0.49 0.50 0.39
 60 days or more 0.83 0.73 0.79 0.74 0.79
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.53 0.51 0.51 0.55 0.54
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.95 0.81 0.77 0.74 0.74

 Active Interest Rates mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.35 25.16 25.28 28.06 20.33
 Amount operated (total terms) 1,210 1,260 1,139 1,236 895

 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 33.00 33.35 33.69 34.14 29.78
 Single signature documents 26.67 26.65 26.71 25.35 22.24
 Mortgages 20.11 20.21 19.79 18.67 19.09
 Pledges 16.33 16.51 17.27 17.42 18.83
 Personal 40.13 40.46 40.70 39.99 38.91
 Credit cards n/d 43.08 42.86 42.21 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 27.90 28.70 29.35 31.24 24.27

 International Interest Rates mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

 LIBOR
 1 month 1.79 1.60 1.56 1.49 0.93
 6 months 2.34 2.09 1.91 1.77 1.43

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.27 2.18 2.03 1.84 1.31
 10 years 2.85 2.86 2.58 2.40 2.48

 FED Funds Rate 1.58 1.50 1.50 1.41 0.89

 SELIC (at 1 year) 6.68 6.81 7.00 7.08 12.25

 (1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 13
 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

 BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Passive 1 day 25.25 25.25 26.02 26.75 22.75
 Passive 7 days 26.50 26.50 27.27 28.00 24.00
 Active 7 days 28.00 28.00 28.77 29.50 25.50

 Repurchase Agreement Rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 25.03 25.76 26.53 27.78 21.45
Amount operated in REPO passes between third parties daily round 8.748 7.110 9.419 10.724 3.462

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month 26.50 26.8 27.2 28.8 22.3
2 months 26.30 26.5 26.9 28.8 22.00
3 months 25.90 26.30 26.59 28.80 21.75

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
6 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o
12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount operated of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) 37.218 35.509 35121 41260 18152

Foreign Exchange Market mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 20.24 19.83 19.04 17.73 15.52
Retail 20.27 19.88 19.09 17.79 15.60

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 20.59 20.16 19.39 18.08 15.80
ROFEX 1 month 20.62 20.20 19.39 18.10 15.74
Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 14.099 14.714 13.495 17.441 8.223

Real (Pesos x Real) 6.18 6.11 5.93 5.38 4.96

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 24.97 24.49 23.24 20.99 16.58

Capital Market mar-18 feb-18 jan-18 dec-17 mar-17

MERVAL
Index 32.261 32.363 33.300 27.798 19.493
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 676 1036 1063 671 366

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 109.2 110.2 116.3 117.2 106.5
BONAR 24 (US$) 112.1 112.0 113.8 115.6 114.7
DISCOUNT ($) 110.6 112.2 112.2 102.6 120.0

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR 24 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 247 279 245 217 306
EMBI+ Argentina (3) 411 397 365 356 452
EMBI+ Latin America 472 467 460 464 446

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and
External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On Apr-27-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the effect of coupons
that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 14

8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
NFBE: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
MIF: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: Year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Stock Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in public hands, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in public hands, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in public hands, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | March 2018 | BCRA | 15
