# Monthly Monetary Report
June 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Agreement with the IMF | Page 4

3. Interest rates | Page 6

   Interest rates of monetary policy | Page 6

   Interest rates of the market | Page 7

4. Monetary aggregates | Page 8

5. Loans | Page 10

6. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 11

7. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 13

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 14

9. Glossary | Page 18

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on July 5, 2018. All figures are provisional and are subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In June, Argentine authorities and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) signed a 36-month Stand-By Agreement for an amount of US$50,000 million. The first tranche (US$15,000 million) was disbursed on June 22, following program approval. The remaining tranches are precautionary. Within the framework of this agreement, the BCRA has already suspended direct or indirect financing from the Central Bank to the Treasury and will reduce its credit exposure to the government in a predictable manner and by stages.

• The agreement provides that the inflation targeting scheme be accompanied by a flexible exchange rate policy. Foreign exchange interventions will take place only during periods of clear market dysfunction. In June, the BCRA sold foreign currency to the private sector through bilateral operations and also through auctions, for a total of US$1,269 million.

• Considering the growth rate recorded by prices, the acceleration signals of inflation that high-frequency indicators showed in June – reflecting the direct and indirect effects of significant exchange rate instability – and the uncertainties that persist from the external context, the Monetary Policy Council decided to maintain the restrictive bias of monetary policy; it kept the monetary policy rate at 40% and introduced an increase in remunerated reserve requirements of 5 p.p.

• The BCRA communicated its intention to continue carrying out open market operations through its participation in the secondary LEBAC market, affecting interest rates to reinforce the monetary policy signal. In June, the BCRA carried out net purchases during the first few days and net sales following the auction. The 35-day interest rate ended the month at 43%, 261 b.p. above its level at the end of May.

• Passive interest rates increased, mainly during the second half of June, influenced by the increase in LEBAC returns. The TM20 rate of private banks ended the month at 33.8%, 2.8 p.p. above its value at the end of May. Meanwhile, the BADLAR of private banks ended June at 32.7%, a level 2.7 p.p. higher than at the end of May. Similarly, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of up to $100,000 and up to 35 days reached 28.6% at the end of the month, completing a monthly increase of 2.9 p.p.

• The increase in passive rates had a counterpart in the growth of private sector peso-denominated placements at maturity only from the last week of June. The average monthly balance of these placements remained compared to May both in nominal terms and when considered seasonally adjusted and inflation-adjusted. In contrast, the components of private M2: demand deposits and currency in the hands of the public continued to decline in real and seasonally adjusted terms and, thus, seasonally adjusted real private M3 decreased 1.4% compared to May.

• The real balance seasonally adjusted of peso-denominated loans to the private sector remained compared to May. Most financing lines decelerated their growth rate, with the exception of credit card financing, encouraged by higher household appliance spending that is typically observed in this period in years when there is a World Cup. Mortgage loans suffered the impact of the depreciation of the peso against the dollar and decelerated their real seasonally adjusted growth rate to 3.3% monthly. Their nominal growth was 5.1% ($9,290 million), accumulating in the last 12 months an increase of more than 160%.

• To encourage financing for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the BCRA arranged, among other things, effective from July, an increase in the amounts that financial entities can deduct from reserve requirements in accordance with the loans they have granted to this type of debtor in relation to the total of loans. The maximum was also increased that they can
deduct for the financing granted within the framework of the AHORA12 program. The monetary effect of these increases will be offset by the elimination of the other deductions that were allowed until June. For its part, the increase in remunerated reserve requirements already mentioned will be as follows: 3 p.p. effective as of June 21 and 2 p.p. as of July 18, in both cases, integrable through 2020 Treasury bonds. In turn; an increase of 3 p.p. as of July 2 was established that must be fulfilled through current account balances at the BCRA.

• Within this framework, in June there was a change in the composition of bank liquidity, in favor of assets admitted to integrate reserve requirements: 2020 bonds and current accounts at the BCRA, to the detriment of LEBAC and LELIQ. The liquidity in pesos of financial entities (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repo transactions with such entity and the holding of LEBAC, LELIQ and 2020 bonds, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained stable in June, averaging 41.6%.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 3

2. Agreement with the IMF¹

In June, the Argentine authorities and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) signed a 36-month Stand-By Agreement for an amount of US$50,000 million². The first tranche (US$15,000 million) was disbursed on June 22, following program approval. The remaining tranches are precautionary.

Within the framework of the agreement, Argentina committed to deepen the economic reforms initiated in December 2015, accelerating the reduction of the national fiscal deficit and redoubling efforts to reduce inflation.

Table 1

Structural Conditionalities of Argentina's Program Associated with the BCRA

Structural Reference Points | Date
Publish a regulation to introduce foreign currency auctions for BCRA intervention in spot and forward markets | Jun-18
Establish a debt management coordination committee at a senior level between Treasury-BCRA that meets weekly and coordinates activities related to sterilization and debt issuance plans. | Sept-18
Present to Congress a new organic charter for the Central Bank, which will guarantee its operational autonomy, strengthen the monetary policy mandate, improve decision-making structures and reinforce transparency and accountability. | Mar-19
Limit BCRA counterparties for the sale of LEBACs, open market operations and repos to local banks. | Sept-19
Recapitalize the Central Bank to ensure it has an adequate level of capital as a percentage of the monetary base plus outstanding LEBAC inventory. | Dec-19

In terms of monetary policy, it implies the continuation of an inflation targeting scheme and the reinforcement of Central Bank autonomy. For this, before March 2019, a bill will be sent to Congress to reform the Organic Charter of the Central Bank, this being a structural goal of the program (Table 1).

The new proposed Organic Charter will define price stability as the principal mandate and will enable the Central Bank to establish, in consultation with the Treasury Ministry, inflation targets with three years' advance notice. Likewise, it will suspend direct or indirect financing from the Central Bank to the Treasury and will reduce its credit exposure to the government in a predictable and phased manner. It will also limit transfers to the Treasury to only realized profits, which may only occur when BCRA capital exceeds an adequate level.

Unrealized gains and losses from revaluation of foreign currency must be recorded separately in a revaluation account and not distributed.

In this regard, as of June 7, direct or indirect transfers from the Central Bank to the Treasury Ministry ended, compliance with this being

Table 2

Argentina: Proposed Quantitative Evaluation Criteria, Indicative Targets and Consultation Clauses⁽¹⁾⁽²⁾

| Proposed Evaluation Criteria | Indicative Targets | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | 2018 | | | 2019 | |
| | End-Jun. | End-Sep. | End-Dec. | End-Mar. | End-Jun. |
| **Monetary Objectives** | | | | | |
| Change in net international reserves (floor)⁽⁴⁾ | (8) | 5.5 | 5.5 | 5.5 | 7.5 |
| Change in stock of non-deliverable forwards in exchange rate (ceiling)⁽⁵⁾ | 1.0 | 0.0 | -0.5 | -1.0 | -1.5 |
| Change in Central Bank credit to government (ceiling)⁽⁶⁾ | 0.0 | -78.0 | -156.0 | -234.0 | -312.0 |
| Government financing by the Central Bank (ceiling)⁽³⁾ | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| **Consultation Clauses - Inflation** | | | | | |
| Inflation Bands (in percentage, y-o-y) | | | | | |
| External upper bound | 32 | 32 | 32 | 28 | 26 |
| Internal upper bound | 29 | 29 | 29 | 26 | 24 |
| Central inflation target | 27 | 27 | 27 | 24 | 22 |
| Internal lower bound | 25 | 25 | 25 | 22 | 20 |
| External lower bound | 22 | 22 | 22 | 20 | 18 |
| Changes in Central Bank net domestic assets (ceiling)⁽⁷⁾ | (8) | 15 | 64 | 166 | 173 | 184 |
(1) Objectives defined in the Technical Understanding Memorandum (TUM). policy a quantitative execution criterion within the pro-
(2) Based on exchange rate types of the program defined in the TUM.
(3) Continuous execution criterion. gram (Table 2).
(4) In billions of dollars. Variation is measured with respect to June 4, 2018.
(5) In billions of dollars. Variation is measured with respect to June 4, 2018.
(6) Variation is measured against the value at the end of May 2018, which reached 2,204.4 million pesos, as defined in the MTU.
(7) Variation is measured against the value at the end of May 2018, which reached 432.9 million pesos.
(8) Objectives subject to the adjusters defined in the TUM. In turn, the program aims to strengthen the balance sheet of the Central Bank, reversing the deterioration that was generated by the accumulation of instruments that do not accrue interest and that are illiquid, to the detriment of international reserves. For this, an independent evaluation of its balance sheet will be conducted and international accounting standards will be adopted, including a more transparent valuation of assets and liabilities. By December 2019, the government commits to providing financial autonomy to the Central Bank, with an adequate level

2 https://www.argentina.gob.ar/sites/default/files/argentina_loi_ -_mefm_ -_tmou_-_espanol_2.pdf

 Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 4

 of capital (Table 1). As part of this process, the Ministry of Finance intends to gradually repurchase a significant portion of Non-Transferable Notes of the Ministry of Finance held by the Central Bank. The objective is to reduce this debt by at least US$25,000 million by May 2021 (Table 2).

 For its part, the Central Bank commits to reducing the stock of LEBACs and to promote the re-intermediation of the financial sector. To this end, the repayment of government liabilities held by the Central Bank will be used to remove pesos from the market, which will decrease the Central Bank's dependence on LEBAC issuance for this purpose. To facilitate this process, a debt management coordination committee will be established with high-ranking officials from the Ministry of Finance and the BCRA, which will meet weekly and will coordinate activities related to sterilization and debt issuance plans (Table 1). Furthermore, the BCRA will limit its counterparties in its operations to local banks by the end of September 2019 (Table 1).

 Within the framework of this agreement, it is explicitly stated that international reserves should only serve to implement exchange rate and monetary policies and a floor was set for the increase in net international reserves (Table 2). It also establishes a consultation clause regarding the growth of net domestic assets of the Central Bank (Table 1).

 In this context of strengthened independence, the Central Bank established new inflation targets, which was motivated by the inflationary impulse generated by peso depreciation and increases in world energy prices. The program includes consultation bands for inflation targets (Table 2).

 The inflation targeting scheme will be accompanied by a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange rate interventions will take place only during periods of clear market dysfunction. Even in those cases, it is planned to absorb external pressures through a flexible exchange rate and very limited foreign currency sales to accommodate exchange rate pressures. In the medium term, it is planned to bring international reserves to prudent levels given Argentina's exposure to global shocks in the current and capital accounts (Table 2).

 In turn, as provided for in the agreement, the Ministry of Finance began to sell foreign currency through pre-announced auctions to meet its needs in pesos.
Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 5

3. Interest rates 3
Interest rates of monetary policy

In May the general price level measured by the CPI general level of INDEC registered an inter-annual growth of 26.3%. In turn, high frequency indicators pointed to an additional acceleration of inflation in June, reflecting the direct and indirect effects of significant exchange rate instability. Meanwhile, the external context maintains a high level of uncertainties, mainly associated with a potential trade war between central countries, possible additional increases in short-term interest rates in the US, and some signs of economic deceleration in the European economy.

Although the containment of public spending and the BCRA's commitment not to increase financing to the National Treasury will help mitigate the negative effect of the mentioned factors, the Monetary Policy Council considers that it is necessary to maintain the contractionary bias of monetary policy until the trajectory of inflation, as well as the expectations of market agents, align with the 17% target in December 2019. Consequently, in June, it determined that the monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, remain at 40%4 (see Graph 3.1). As for the repo corridor, as part of the process of normalizing monetary policy, it was decided to reduce the width of the 7-day corridor from 1,400 to 600 basis points (b.p.), and that of 1 day from 2,900 to 1,000 b.p. Thus, the 7-day rates in 35-day LEBAC* remained at 43% for the active repo and 37% for the passive repo.

On the other hand, the new BCRA authorities communicated their intention to maintain active intervention in the LEBAC secondary market, affecting the relevant rates to reinforce the monetary policy signal. In this way, in June the BCRA conducted LEBAC purchase and sale operations, completing net sales by VN$22.2 billion. In the first half of the month, foreign exchange sales were concentrated in the exchange market, so, to supply money demand, the BCRA had a mainly buying position in LEBAC, concentrating its operations in the species maturing on June 21 (VN $70.9 billion net). Starting from the second half, after the partial renewal of maturity in the primary auction, it sold species by VN $93.2 billion net, concentrated mainly in the LEBAC maturing in August. In the short end of the yield curve, the 35-day interest rate increased until reaching a maximum on June 18, prior to the auction, and then began to decline until ending the month at 43%, 261 b.p. above its level at the end of May (see Graph 3.2). In the monthly LEBAC auction, the cut-off rates were in line with the returns observed in the secondary market in the previous days.

3 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
4 See press release at http://www.bcra.gov.ar/Noticias/Comunicado_de_Política_Monetaria.asp

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 6
-2,000 Starting on May 24, the BCRA also began to exchange LEBACs in order to extend the average maturity of the outstanding stock. In June, in the swap round, the outstanding balance of LEBACs with the nearest maturity decreased by VN $5,761 million, providing in exchange the same amount of LEBACs with maturity in August (see Chart 3.3).

-4,000

-6,000 -5.761
 Maturity June Maturity August

Source: BCRA

Additionally, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Bills (LELIQ), although in June financial institutions reduced the stock of these securities to integrate reserve requirements both in current accounts and in securities and to grant loans (see Liquidity Banking section), so at the end of the month the outstanding balance of LELIQ was reduced to VN$11,898 million.

**Chart 3.4**

**Short-term Interest Rates**
TNA; % (Daily Data)
38 PF Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)

34 TM20 Private Banks
 BADLAR Private Banks

30
 **Market Interest Rates**

26

22 During June, in the interbank loan markets, interest rates followed a trajectory aligned with BCRA reference rates. The interest rate for call operations at 1 business day averaged 39.4%, 1 p.p. above the value registered the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate for operations at 1 business day between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) stood at 37.8%, showing a monthly average increase of 1.8 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets increased $615 million, totaling approximately $16,900 million.

18

14
 jan-17 mar-17 may-17 jul-17 sep-17 nov-17 jan-18 mar-18 may-18

Source: BCRA

**Chart 3.5**

**Active Interest Rates**
TNA; %
48 Discounted Documents Personal Loans Single-Signature Documents

43

The interest rate for current account advances of more than $10 million and up to 7 days for companies moved in line with those in interbank markets. Thus, averaging 43.1% in June, showing an average monthly increase of 1.8 p.p.

38

33 Passive interest rates also showed increases throughout June, influenced by the increase in LEBAC yields. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended the month at 33.9%, showing an increase of 2.8 p.p. with respect to the end of May. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended June

28

23 at 32.7%, 2.7 p.p. above May. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days ended June at 28.6%, 2.9 p.p. above the end of last month (see Chart 3.4).

18
01-may-17 01-jul-17 01-sep-17 01-nov-17 01-jan-18 01-mar-18 01-may-18

Source: BCRA

**Chart 3.6**

**UVA Active Interest Rates**
16 TNA; % Mortgage
 Personal

14

12 The trajectories of active interest rates were more heterogeneous, although in general they averaged June at values higher than those observed in May, when they had shown increasing trends. The interest rate for personal loans averaged 44.3% in June, showing an increase of 2.2 p.p. With regard to the interest rates of the lines intended to finance business activities, the rate charged for single-signature documents averaged 36.4%, showing an increase of 4.4 p.p.; while the interest rate for discounted documents averaged 38.3%, increasing 3.1 p.p. (see Chart 3.5).

10

8

6

4
 jan-17 apr-17 jul-17 oct-17 jan-18 apr-18

Source: BCRA

---

**Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 7**
## Graph 4.1 

Regarding financings adjustable by UVA, mortgage credits were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 6%, showing a monthly increase of 1 p.p., reflecting the increases announced some months ago by the entities that operate most in this segment. The interest rate of personal credits denominated in UVA registered a similar increase (1.1 p.p.), averaging 12.9% (see Graph 3.6).

In contrast, the rates paid for time deposits adjustable by UVA remained at values similar to those in May. The rate paid for 90-day deposits averaged 4.2% in June, while the rate paid for deposits around 180 days reached 3.8%, and showed an average monthly decline of 0.3 p.p..

## 4. Monetary Aggregates 1

In a context of volatility in local markets, the BCRA continued acting in the foreign exchange market to avoid disruptive movements. Mainly during the first half of June, it conducted net sales of foreign currency both to the National Treasury and to the rest of the foreign exchange market counterparties. The monetary contraction generated by these operations was more than offset by the expansion associated with the decrease in the stock of LEBACs (see Graph 4.1). The reduction in LEBAC holdings was distributed between non-financial sector holders and financial entities. The latter redirected part of these funds to increase the integration of reserve requirements both in public securities and in current account (see Banking Liquidity section). This latter situation motivated the growth of the monetary base in June (4.1%), given that currency in circulation held by the public remained relatively stable.

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 8

## Graph 4.3

Private sector deposits in pesos registered an average monthly growth of 1.9% in June, driven by the increase in sight deposits. Although time deposits maintained their average monthly balance, throughout the month they presented a declining trajectory that reversed during the last week of June. The decline was explained by the behavior of retail placements, given that deposits of more than $1 million maintained their stable balance (see Graph 4.2), in a period characterized by greater demand for liquidity by companies to cope with the payment of the supplementary semi-annual wage. For their part, public sector deposits increased 0.6%, with which the total deposits in pesos presented a monthly increase of 1.5%.

Thus, the means of payment of the private sector (Private M2) increased a monthly growth of 2%, while the broad aggregate of the private sector (Private M3) increased 1.4%. Their year-over-year variations were located at 23.6% and 25.6%, respectively, presenting in both cases a deceleration compared to May.

When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, in the month the private M2 decreased 2.1%, while time deposits in pesos of the sector remained stable. In total, the balance of private M3 was reduced 1.3% compared to May (see Graph 4.3).

In the foreign currency segment, the total balance of deposits ended June at US$30,900 million, increasing 4.2% compared to the level at the end of May, with increases in placements of the public sector and, mainly, of the private sector. The latter grew US$850 million, reversing throughout June the declining trend of the previous month (see Graph 4.4).

thousands of Loans to the Private Sector - Real Without Seasonality US$ millions (average monthly balance)
2.000
 1.900 Pesos and Foreign Currency
 5. Loans 1 5
 1.800 Pesos
 1.700 In real terms 6 and adjusted for seasonality, the total
 1.600 loans to the private sector, in pesos and foreign curren-
 1.500 cy, showed a monthly increase of 1.6%, and a year-on-year
 1.400 variation of 25.7%. However, it should be taken into
 1.300 account that this figure includes the impact of the deprecia-
 1.200 tion of the peso with respect to the dollar observed in the
 1.100 month (see section International Reserves and Foreign Ex-
 jun-15 dic-15 jun-16 dic-16 jun-17 dic-17 jun-18 change Market). In change, the balance of loans in local cur-
 Source: BCRA

5 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio
of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals)
arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations
of the period.
6 Real term values were calculated using core inflation indices: National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017,
between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City
of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

 Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 9
 remained with respect to May and in the last 12 months ac-
 Chart 5.2 cumulated an increase of 17.2% (see Chart 5.1).
 Credit Card Index in Pesos of the Private Sector
 31-Jan = 100 (daily balance in real terms) The only line of credit that did not decelerate its growth
 104 Years with World Cup with respect to May was that of financings with credit
 102 Years without World Cup cards, favored by greater consumption that usually occurs
 2018 during the football world cup season, associated with
 100
 tourism and the purchase of household appliances (more
 98 precisely televisions). Thus, the slightly downward tra-
 96 jectory that credit card financings had been presenting
 94 began to reverse with significant growth in the second half
 92 of May, which left a positive "statistical carryover" for
 90 June. In general, credit card financing has been higher
 88 from the last weeks of May in those years in which the
 31-ene 28-feb 31-mar 30-abr 31-may 30-jun
 football world cup was played (2006, 2010, 2014 and 2018;
 Source: BCRA
 see Chart 5.2). In this way, loans via credit cards grew
 2.1% in real terms and without seasonality, while in nominal
 terms they increased 5.2% in the month ($15,980 million),
 Chart 5.3 accumulating growth of 35.7% in the last twelve months.

 % Mortgages in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality %
 (variation of monthly average balance) In contrast, personal loans - another of the lines aimed
 10 120 at financing household consumption - presented a de-
 8 100 crease of 0.2% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality.
 Monthly Var. 80 In nominal terms they grew 1.6% in June, and reached a
 6 Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) year-on-year variation of 48.8%.
 4 60
 2 40 Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans
 20 decelerated markedly their rate of growth, in a context of
 0 0 strong volatility in the foreign exchange market. In real
 -2 -20 terms and adjusted for seasonality they grew 3.3% in the
 -4 -40 month (see Chart 5.2). Nominal growth was 5.1%
 -6 -60 ($9,290 million), accumulating in the last 12 months an
 jun-15 dic-15 jun-16 dic-16 jun-17 dic-17 jun-18 increase of more than 160%. Financing in UVA continued
 Source: BCRA
 to represent around 90% of loans to individuals. For its
 part, loans with chattel mortgage guarantees registered

 Chart 5.4
Thousands of Loans in Pesos to Legal Entities - Real showed a decline for the second consecutive month. In June,
millions $ (balance at end of month - pesos of Apr-18) decreased 0.9% in real terms and adjusted for sea-

400 sonality, while in nominal terms they presented an in-
380 Legal Entities - SMEs crease of 1.5% ($1,520 million). Its year-on-year growth
360 Legal Entities - Non-SMEs stood at 48.1%.

340
320 With respect to typically commercial loans, adjusted for
300 inflation and seasonally adjusted, advances stopped growing,
280 after showing an upward trend between February and May.
260 Nevertheless, in nominal terms they increased in June 1.5%
240 ($2,390 million), with a year-on-year variation of 57.8%. For
220 its part, financing conducted through documents continued
200
180 with the downward trend they have been showing since April,
 jun-15 dic-15 jun-16 dic-16 jun-17 dic-17 registering in June a decline of 1.8% in real terms and sea-
 Source: BCRA sonally adjusted. In nominal terms, the monthly decrease
 Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 10 reached 1.3% ($3,700), although in the last 12 months they
 accumulated an increase of around 32%.

 When considering the total loans granted to companies,
 according to the latest available information, it is observed
 that during the first four-month period of this year those
 granted to larger ones decelerated their growth rate, while
 those destined for SMEs began to decline (see Chart 5.4). To
 encourage the reversal of this trend, the BCRA implemented a
 Chart 6.1 series of measures. Among them, the relaxation of the mini-
 Thousands of Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of financial entities mum capital requirements of financial entities stands out,
 millions of $ June 2018 - average flows and the increase in the values that entities can deduct from
 50 their reserve requirement based on credits they grant to
 40 MiSMEs (Communication "A" 6531).
 30
 20 In summary, in June, loans in pesos to the private sector
 10 showed monthly nominal growth of 2.2% ($31,940 million),
 0 completing a year-on-year variation of 50.1%.
 -10
 -20 Finally, the average monthly balance of loans in dollars to
 -30 the private sector was placed at US$16,200 million. In this
 -40 way, they showed a monthly decrease of 0.9% (US$150 mil-
 -50 lion), distributed in similar parts between documents at sin-
 Loans to Fin. CC Effective LEBAC Repos and Deposits Oblig. Other gle signature (mainly export pre-financing) and financing with
 Priv.S. Pub.S.* BCRA -tive LELIQ Neg. credit cards.

 *Includes 2020 bond. Source: BCRA.

 6. Liquidity of Financial Entities¹

 Chart 6.2
 Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
 % of CCBCRA Integration with titles Effective Following the introduction of a quarterly period
 deposits Repos Net Leliq LEBAC
 50 Broad Liquidity –May to July– for the integration of peso reserves
 45 44.7 42.8 established the previous month, new modifications to the
 42.5 41.2 41.4 42.6 41.5 41.4 41.6
 40.1 38.9 38.5 39.7 minimum cash regime in pesos were implemented in June. First,
 40 an increase of 5 percentage points of the reserve coefficients
 35 was established (3 percentage points as of June 21 and another
 19.6 18.2 17.0
 19.3 22.0 20.4 2 percentage points as of July 18), which financial entities
 30 19.6
 20.5 19.5 will be able to integrate through National Treasury Bonds at
 25 Fixed Rate with maturity in 2020 (initially auctioned on June
 2.2 4.6 6.3 6.1 0.4 18 for that purpose). This increase in reserves, to the extent
 20 1.6 1.1
 1.1 1.5 1.7 0.8 1.1 1.0 1.9 4.0 that it is integrated in its entirety with public securities

 4.7 0.3
 15 4.1 4.2 4.9 4.7 4.2 4.3 4.0 0.9

 10
 13.2 13.2 13.7 13.3 12.9 12.9 13.1 13.3 14.9
 5
 0
jun-17 jul-17 ago-17 sep-17 oct-17 nov-17 dic-17 ene-18 feb-18 mar-18 apr-18 may-18 jun-18 mentioned, does not generate an expansion of the monetary base.

* LEBAC at effective value.
Source: BCRA

Secondly, with effect from July 2, a new increase in reserve requirement coefficients of 3 percentage points was established. Unlike the modification detailed above, this increase cannot be integrated with public securities, but must be complied with through funds in current accounts.

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 11

Additionally, changes were made to the permitted deductions in the minimum cash regime that will be in effect from July. Those linked to financing for SMEs (to encourage loans to that sector) and the AHORA 12 program were increased,

**Graph 7.1**
BCRA purchase/sale of foreign currency in the exchange market
millions of US$ were eliminated while the remaining deductions. From the combination of both factors, a neutral monetary effect is foreseen.

2,500 Purchase/sale of foreign currency to the National Treasury 29.0
Purchase/sale of foreign currency to other counterparties Of the aforementioned modifications, the only one that came into 
2,000 Reference exchange rate (right axis) 28.0 effect in June was the first part of the increase in reserve
1,500 27.0 requirements that can be integrated with government securities.
1,000 25.0 This explains part of the change in the composition of bank
24.0 liquidity in pesos in June. In this period, financial entities, in addition to purchasing the bond for reserve requirement
500 23.0 integration, also reduced their holdings of LEBAC and LELIQ
0 22.0 to grant loans and to increase their reserve requirement
-500 21.0 integration in current accounts (see Graph 6.1).
20.0
-1,000 19.0
-1,500 18.0
01-jan 21-jan 10-feb 02-mar 22-mar 11-apr 01-may 21-may 10-jun
Source: BCRA Thus, the liquidity in pesos of financial entities (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and holdings of LEBAC, LELIQ and 2020 bond, as a percentage of deposits in pesos) remained stable in June, averaging 41.6%, with a decrease in surplus liquidity and an increase in assets admitted to meet the reserve requirement obligation.

**Graph 7.2**
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
17-dec-15=100
110
105 For its part, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of deposits in
100 dollars) registered an increase of 1.2 percentage points with respect to the previous month (47.5% of deposits), in a period in which deposits in
95 foreign currency increased, while loans were reduced.
90
85 7. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market 7
80
75 In June, the Ministry of Finance began to sell through daily auctions part of the dollars from the financing provided by the IMF. Although the initial
70 schedule contemplates the sale of US$100 million daily for 75 business days, if necessary, it can be readjusted if peso needs justify it. For example,
dic-15 may-16 oct-16 mar-17 ago-17 ene-18 during the last two days of June, US$150 million were auctioned. For this concept, a total of US$800 million was auctioned in the month. Additionally, the
Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream BCRA sold foreign currency to the private sector as it had been doing, through bilateral operations, and also through auction, for a total of US$1,269 million

7 In this section, the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 12

(see Graph 7.1, which does not include the foreign currency auctioned by the Ministry of Finance).

In this way, the peso/US dollar exchange rate ended June at 28.9, registering an increase of

**Graph 7.3**
# 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

## International Reserves of the BCRA 15.7% with respect to the level reached at the end of

millions of U$S May. With respect to the multilateral real exchange rate,
65 it continued moving away from the values presented after the uni-
fication of the foreign exchange market, and during the course of
55
June it registered an increase of 15.4% (see Chart 7.2). It should be
45 noted that the monetary authority has ratified the
floating exchange rate scheme that allows it to absorb
35
shocks (especially of external origin), limiting the
sales of international reserves to periods in which there is
25
a clear dysfunction of the foreign exchange market.

15 International reserves ended June with a balance of US$ 61,881 million, which implied an increase
5 of US$11,783 million with respect to the previous month (see Chart
abr-03 dic-04 ago-06 abr-08 dic-09 ago-11 abr-13 dic-14 ago-16 abr-18 7.3). Said increase was explained by the dis-
Source: BCRA bursement of the first tranche of the stand-by program agreed
upon with the IMF (see IMF Agreement section).

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 13

**Main monetary and financial system variables** | **jun-18** | **may-18** | **dic-17** | **jun-17** | **Monthly** | **Last 12 months**
Monetary base | 1,065,530 | 1,023,680 | 982,660 | 810,231 | 4.1% | 31.5%
Monetary circulation | 744,527 | 740,112 | 741,724 | 605,680 | 0.6% | 22.9%
Banknotes and coins in possession of the public | 657,714 | 655,402 | 658,651 | 542,779 | 0.4% | 21.2%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities | 86,812 | 84,709 | 83,071 | 62,900 | 2.5% | 38.0%
Cancellation checks | 0.5 | 0.3 | 1.2 | 0.4 | 72.6% | 19.2%
Current account at the BCRA | 321,003 | 283,568 | 240,936 | 204,550 | 13.2% | 56.9%

**Stock of BCRA Repos**
Liabilities | 24,460 | 9,041 | 63,989 | 107,590 | 170.6% | -77.3%
Assets | 0 | 885 | 3,679 | 0 | | 

**Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value)** | 7,935 | 39,715 | - | - | -80.0% | -
**Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value)** | 1,145,401 | 1,253,164 | 1,144,103 | 893,062 | -8.6% | 28.3%
In pesos | 1,145,401 | 1,253,164 | 1,144,103 | 893,062 | -8.6% | 28.3%
In banks | 459,355 | 492,479 | 365,366 | 356,047 | -6.7% | 29.0%
In dollars | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | -

**International reserves of the BCRA** | 53,347 | 54,009 | 55,582 | 45,376 | -1.2% | 17.6%

**Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 2,140,320 | 2,108,048 | 1,746,213 | 1,537,112 | 1.5% | 39.2%
Current account (2) | 643,021 | 560,108 | 495,782 | 434,409 | 14.8% | 48.0%
Savings account | 475,919 | 456,012 | 450,078 | 349,209 | 4.4% | 36.3%
Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER / UVA | 923,368 | 999,048 | 719,668 | 687,677 | -7.6% | 34.3%
Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER / UVA | 14,059 | 12,344 | 2,653 | 1,449 | 13.9% | 870.5%
Other deposits (3) | 83,953 | 80,535 | 78,033 | 64,368 | 4.2% | 30.4%

**Deposits of the private sector** | 1,515,171 | 1,486,893 | 1,377,905 | 1,187,550 | 1.9% | 27.6%

**Deposits of the public sector** | 625,149 | 621,155 | 368,307 | 349,563 | 0.6% | 78.8%

**Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 30,062 | 30,015 | 30,562 | 26,419 | 0.2% | 13.8%

**Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 1,542,472 | 1,509,829 | 1,321,463 | 1,042,526 | 2.2% | 48.0%

**Loans to the private sector** | 1,515,080 | 1,483,140 | 1,293,529 | 1,009,452 | 2.2% | 50.1%
Advances | 161,402 | 159,015 | 130,467 | 102,298 | 1.5% | 57.8%
Documents | 278,679 | 282,385 | 278,052 | 211,013 | -1.3% | 32.1%
Mortgage loans | 192,334 | 183,043 | 122,762 | 73,584 | 5.1% | 161.4%
Pledge loans | 100,064 | 98,542 | 87,098 | 67,546 | 1.5% | 48.1%
Personal loans | 407,460 | 400,985 | 347,652 | 273,815 | 1.6% | 48.8%
Credit cards | 323,815 | 307,841 | 277,787 | 238,644 | 5.2% | 35.7%
Others | 51,326 | 51,329 | 49,713 | 42,551 | 0.0% | 20.6%

**Loans to the public sector** | 27,392 | 26,690 | 27,933 | 33,075 | 2.6% | -17.2%

**Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 16,251 | 16,393 | 14,846 | 12,358 | -0.9% | 31.5%
Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1,300,736 1,215,510 1,154,434 977,189 7.0% 33.1%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,776,655 1,671,522 1,604,512 1,326,398 6.3% 33.9%
M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits 2,798,035 2,763,450 2,404,865 2,079,892 1.3% 34.5%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3,600,131 3,472,205 2,948,061 2,506,848 3.7% 43.6%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 ((Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current 978,751 971,770 966,260 810,907 0.7% 20.7%
account in pesos)
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,409,222 1,382,145 1,394,140 1,139,857 2.0% 23.6%
M3 ((Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits 2,172,886 2,142,295 2,036,558 1,730,329 1.4% 25.6%
in pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,872,544 2,759,989 2,494,100 2,102,059 4.1% 36.7%

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 14

Average variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2018 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 41,850 4.1% 43,436 4.2% 82,871 8.4% 255,300 31.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -38,911 -3.8% -213,965 -20.9% -232,465 -23.7% -265,075 -32.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -86,439 -8.4% -92,739 -9.1% 73,111 7.4% 258,204 31.9%
Temporary Advances and Utility Transfers 16,946 1.7% 39,443 3.9% 71,246 7.3% 126,063 15.6%
Other public sector operations -5,705 -0.6% -5,980 -0.6% -7,665 -0.8% -12,241 -1.5%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) 150,376 14.7% 305,219 29.9% 163,529 16.6% 124,395 15.4%
Others 5,583 0.5% 11,457 1.1% 15,115 1.5% 23,954 3.0%

BCRA International Reserves -662 -1.2% -8,409 -13.6% -2,235 -4.0% 7,971 17.6%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1,566 -2.9% -9,849 -15.9% -10,762 -19.4% -12,599 -27.8%
Payment to international organizations 4,297 8.0% 3,751 6.1% 3,385 6.1% 2,465 5.4%
Other public sector operations -4,213 -7.8% -4,407 -7.1% 4,100 7.4% 16,252 35.8%
Minimum cash 478 0.9% -108 -0.2% -1,944 -3.5% -2,278 -5.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 341 0.6% 2,204 3.6% 2,986 5.4% 4,132 9.1%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Jun-18 May-18 Apr-18

Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Requirement 14.5 14.7 12.8
Integration 14.8 13.3 13.1
Position (1) 0.4 -1.4 0.3

Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (2)

Up to 29 days 70.2 69.3 70.3
30 to 59 days 18.1 19.2 18.6
60 to 89 days 5.1 4.9 5.0
90 to 179 days 3.3 3.0 3.0
More than 180 days 3.3 3.5 3.2

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 23.9 23.9 24.0
Integration (includes defect in application of resources) 39.8 38.6 41.4
Position (1) 15.9 14.7 17.5

Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
used for the calculation of the requirement (2)

Up to 29 days 54.3 55.4 56.6
30 to 59 days 18.1 19.2 18.4
60 to 89 days 13.1 9.4 9.3
90 to 179 days 9.2 10.0 9.4
180 to 365 days 4.9 5.3 5.5
More than 365 days 0.4 0.7 0.8

(1) Position = Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

Source: BCRA
# Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 15

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Passive Interest Rates | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
Rate | 39.67 | 38.52 | 26.84 | 29.04 | 24.77
Amount traded | 6,391 | 7,651 | 6,329 | 4,917 | 3,768

Fixed Term Deposits
In pesos
30-44 days | 26.52 | 24.32 | 20.71 | 21.48 | 18.16
60 days or more | 28.19 | 25.73 | 22.30 | 22.75 | 18.36
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 26.02 | 24.12 | 20.66 | 21.63 | 19.15
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 30.44 | 28.09 | 22.78 | 23.18 | 19.77

In dollars
30-44 days | 0.95 | 0.79 | 0.57 | 0.50 | 0.37
60 days or more | 1.28 | 1.09 | 0.83 | 0.74 | 0.70
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.09 | 0.80 | 0.55 | 0.55 | 0.48
BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.92 | 1.38 | 0.95 | 0.74 | 0.70

Active Interest Rates | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
Gross interest rate at 30 days | 35.85 | 34.10 | 26.12 | 28.06 | 24.10
Amount traded (total terms) | 1,632 | 1,688 | 1,354 | 1,236 | 870

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
Advances on current account | 44.28 | 40.26 | 33.29 | 34.14 | 30.77
Documents on signature only | 36.42 | 32.03 | 27.05 | 25.35 | 21.26
Mortgages | 22.93 | 19.52 | 20.38 | 18.67 | 19.14
Pledged loans | 21.93 | 18.63 | 17.53 | 17.42 | 18.78
Personal loans | 44.31 | 42.14 | 40.24 | 39.99 | 37.62
Credit cards | n/d | 44.15 | 43.58 | 42.21 | 39.39

Advances on current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 43.18 | 41.32 | 28.08 | 31.24 | 25.66

International Interest Rates | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

LIBOR
1 month | 2.07 | 1.95 | 1.90 | 1.49 | 1.17
6 months | 2.50 | 2.50 | 2.49 | 1.77 | 1.43

US Treasury Bond
2 years | 2.53 | 2.51 | 2.38 | 1.84 | 1.34
10 years | 2.91 | 2.98 | 2.87 | 2.40 | 2.19

FED Funds Rate | 1.90 | 1.75 | 1.75 | 1.41 | 1.14

SELIC (at 1 year) | 6.50 | 6.50 | 6.50 | 7.08 | 10.25

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

---

# Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 16

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
Passive 1 day | 32.20 | 28.12 | 25.65 | 26.75 | 24.25
Passive 7 days | 35.40 | 32.76 | 26.90 | 28.00 | 25.50
Active 7 days | 44.60 | 45.69 | 28.40 | 29.50 | 27.00

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO session
1 day | 38.17 | 36.93 | 25.48 | 27.78 | 24.97

Amount traded of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO session (daily average) | 10,513 | 8,643 | 9,574 | 10,724 | 4,755

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
1 month | 47.00 | 40.0 | 26.3 | 28.8 | 25.5
2 months | 42.90 | 40.0 | 26.0 | 28.8 | 25.25
3 months | 43.00 | 38.50 | 25.70 | 28.80 | 24.75

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
1 month | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o
3 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o
6 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o
12 months | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o | n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average) | 45,845 | 59,001 | 48,593 | 41,260 | 23,361

Foreign Exchange Market | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

Spot Dollar
Wholesale | 26.65 | 23.70 | 20.23 | 17.73 | 16.12
Retail | 26.73 | 23.77 | 20.26 | 17.79 | 16.17

Forward Dollar
NDF 1 month | 27.46 | 24.46 | 20.61 | 18.08 | 16.37
ROFEX 1 month | 27.42 | 24.47 | 20.65 | 18.10 | 16.39
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) | 25,282 | 24,151 | 12,136 | 17,441 | 9,671

Real (Pesos per Real) | 7.05 | 6.52 | 5.93 | 5.38 | 4.89

Euro (Pesos per Euro) | 31.08 | 28.02 | 24.85 | 20.99 | 18.13

Capital Market | jun-18 | may-18 | apr-18 | dec-17 | jun-17

MERVAL
Index | 29,336 | 29,606 | 31,228 | 27,798 | 21,583
Amount traded (millions of pesos) | 1,137 | 1,106 | 605 | 671 | 438

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) | 100.0 | 103.2 | 109.4 | 117.2 | 112.8
BONAR 24 (US$) | 106.4 | 108.2 | 111.4 | 115.6 | 116.3
DISCOUNT ($) | 90.1 | 97.4 | 109.2 | 102.6 | 112.8

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR 24 spread vs. US Treasury Bond | 383 | 341 | 249 | 217 | 280
EMBI+ Argentina (3) | 530 | 473 | 407 | 356 | 409
EMBI+ Latin America | 527 | 493 | 463 | 464 | 445
(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015, Letters in dollars payable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of 1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16, the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction of the coupon effect that could not be collected since mid-2014).

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 17

9. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Mutual Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Index of Share Prices.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MULC: Single and Free Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Negotiated Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
b.p.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | June 2018 | BCRA | 18
