# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

   Interest rates of monetary policy | Page 4

   Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 7

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 11

8. Glossary | Page 15

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was March 6, 2018. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• In February, the Consumer Price Index (IPC) from INDEC for January was released, showing a monthly increase in the general price level of 1.8%, and 1.5% for the core component. In this context, considering that high-frequency indicators suggest that February inflation was higher than January's, the BCRA decided to maintain its monetary policy rate, the center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 27.25%.

• Interest rates in the interbank loan markets moved within the BCRA's repo corridor, with monthly average values lower than those of January, reflecting the changes in the monetary policy rate from last month. Passive interest rates declined compared to January, highlighting the fall in the TM20 of private banks, whose monthly average level decreased by 0.3 p.p. For its part, active interest rates interrupted the upward trend they had been showing through January.

• The BCRA continued managing monetary market liquidity conditions by selling LEBAC in the secondary market and also LELIQ. The latter were introduced in January and have gradually gained participation among the liquid assets of financial entities: at the end of February the outstanding balance of LELIQ reached VN $154,565 million. In February, the monetary contraction generated by LEBAC and LELIQ sales more than offset the expansion associated with the partial renewal of the monthly maturity of LEBAC.

• Considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, private M3 increased 0.3% in February, decelerating compared to previous months, following a moderation in the growth of time deposits in pesos from the private sector. At least part of the deceleration of these placements was associated with the placement of debt in pesos by the National Government, which attracted funds from investors who had been allocating an important part of their portfolio towards time deposits; in particular, insurance companies.

• In real and seasonally adjusted terms, total loans, in pesos and foreign currency, increased 2.9% in February and accumulated an increase of 23.8% in the last 12 months. Meanwhile, loans in local currency grew 2.5%. The most dynamic lines were mortgage loans, credit card financing and personal loans.

• In the peso segment, mortgage loans continued to be the highest growth, reaching an average monthly seasonally adjusted increase of 7.2% real over the last 7 months. In nominal terms, mortgage loans exhibited an increase of 7.6% ($10,200 million), accumulating growth of 128.6% over the last 12 months. Month after month, financing in UVA continues to gain participation in the total of loans to individuals, totaling 94% of the total in the last month. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $75,000 million in mortgage loans in UVA have been granted.

• The sale of dollars by the National Government provided deposits to public banks, widely exceeding the growth of loans to the private sector, which translated into an increase in banking liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such entity and the holding of LEBAC and LELIQ, as a percentage of deposits in pesos), which rose to 42.6%, 1.4 p.p. above January. The growth was composed of greater holdings of LELIQ.

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the figures referenced are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 3

2. Interest Rates 2

Graph 2.1

Secondary Market Rate Curve Monetary Policy Interest Rates

TNA; % (last day of each month)

28.0 27-Feb-18 30-Jan-18 30-Dec-17

27.5 In February the Consumer Price Index was published
27.0 (CPI) from INDEC for January. The increase in the general price level was 1.8%, while the core component 26.5 grew 1.5%. Year-on-year inflation reached 25%, 26.0 while its core component remained at 21.1%. During the period, inflation data from the Wholesale Price System were also released, which showed 25.5 monthly increases of between 4.6% and 5%, driven by primary and imported products, on which 25.0 the depreciation of the peso and the increase in international agricultural and oil prices had an impact over the days. Year-on-year increases 24.5 were located between 21.7%, for the Basic Producer Price Index (IPP), and 22.4%, 0306090120150180210240270300 for the Internal Wholesale Price Index (IPIM).
Source: BCRA

In turn, at the time of making decisions regarding the 2 Monetary Policy Rate, the high-frequency indicators that the BCRA monitors suggested that February inflation was Graph 2. going to be higher than that of January and that of the 2 last quarter of 2017. With all available information, the TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos BCRA decided to maintain its monetary policy rate, the 45 center of the 7-day repo corridor, at 27.25%.

40

35 In February, the Central Bank continued conducting open market operations in order to manage the liquidity 30 conditions of the monetary market. In this way, it sold LEBACs in the secondary market for a total of VN $72.2 25 billion. The securities traded were concentrated in species 20 with residual maturity of up to 30 days (32%) and between 30 and 60 days (31%). The yield curve at the end of 15 the month showed a change in slope compared to that of BCRA repo corridor at 1 day Call at 1 day late January, with decreases in the yields of the shorter species (see Graph 2.1).

10

Jan-16Apr-16Jul-16Oct-16Jan-17Apr-17Jul-17Oct-17Jan-18
Source: BCRA Furthermore, the BCRA continued placing Liquidity Letters (LELIQ), an instrument that began to be used on January 2.3 Graph 11 and gradually gained participation among the liquid assets Short-Term Interest Rates of financial entities (see Banking Liquidity). At the end of TNA; % (Daily Data) February, the outstanding balance of LELIQ reached VN 30 PF of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) $154,565 million.
LEBAC 35 Days - Secondary Market
28 TM20 Private Banks
BADLAR Private Banks

26 Thus, in February, the expansion generated in the primary 24 placement of LEBACs was more than offset by the absorption associated with the placement of LEBACs in the 22 secondary market, sales of LELIQs, and passive repos.

20

18

16

14
Jan-17Mar-17May-17Jul-17Sept-17Nov-17Jan-18
Source: BCRA

2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).

Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 4

**Market Interest Rates**

During February, shorter-term interest rates continued 2.4 Graph to be located close to the center of the interest rate Active Interest Rates corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market TNA; % (see Graph 2.2).
43 Discounted Documents Personal Loans Single-Signature Documents

38

33 In interbank lending markets, the interest rate on 1-day business call operations averaged 26.9%, 0.5 p.p. below the 28 value recorded in the previous month, adjusting to the level of monetary policy rate set in January. Similarly, the 23 average interest rate on 1-day business operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) was 18 located at 25.8%, registering an average monthly decrease of 0.8 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets 13 decreased by $2,500 million, totaling around $12,200 million.
01-Jan-1701-Mar-1701-May-1701-Jul-1701-Sept-1701-Nov-1701-Jan-18
Source: BCRA
The rate of advances in current account for companies of
Graph 2.5 more than $10 million and up to 7 days showed a decline

TNA; % monthly average of 0.6 p.p., following an evolution
14 Active Interest Rates UVA
 similar to the interest rates of the interbank loan
13 Mortgage markets.

12 Personal

11 Passive rates, which had begun to show a

10 decline in January following the movements of interest rates

9 LEBAC once the postponement of the long-term inflation
 target was announced, continued to exhibit a decreas-

8 ing trajectory in February. The TM20 rate – interest
 rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more –

7 of private banks averaged 23.3% in February, 0.3 p.p.

6 below January. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest
 rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, 30 to
5
 35 days maturity– of private banks averaged 22.7% in
4 February, which meant a monthly decline of 0.2 p.p. In
02-Jan-1702-Mar-1702-May-1702-Jul-1702-Sept-1702-Nov-1702-Jan-18 the retail segment, the downward trajectory was tem-
 Source: BCRA porarily interrupted during days of bank strikes, in which
 agreed operations were reduced to those conducted through
 electronic channels. The interest rate paid for fixed-term
 deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days aver-
Graph 3.1 aged 20.7% in the month, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p.
 (see Graph 2.5).

 Meanwhile, the active interest rates for operations agreed
 at fixed or renegotiable rates ceased to increase during
 the month. The interest rate for personal loans averaged
 40.5%, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p. with respect to
 January. With regard to interest rates on credit lines
 intended to finance business activity, the rate charged for
 documents at first signature averaged 26.7%, showing a
 monthly decline of 0.1 p.p., while the interest rate for
 discounted documents averaged 24.2%, evidencing a decline
 of 0.2 p.p. (see Graph 2.5).

 With respect to financing adjustable by UVA, mortgage
 credits were granted at a weighted average rate by amount
 of 4.7%, showing a slight increase of 0.1 p.p. with respect
 to the previous month. In contrast, the rate for personal
 credits adjustable by UVA averaged 11.4%, showing a decline
Graph 3.2 of 0.2 p.p.; however, the decline was mainly explained
 by the fall in the amount granted by an entity that lends at
 a rate above the average (see Graph 2.6).

 On the other hand, the rate paid for fixed-term deposits
 adjustable by UVA averaged 4.3% in February, showing
 a decline of 0.6 p.p. with respect to January.

 3. Monetary Aggregates 1

 The real balance 3 and seasonally adjusted Private M3 4
 showed a monthly growth of 0.3% in February. Fixed-term
 deposits of the private sector remained practically un-
 changed with respect to January, while private M2 5
 increased 0.4%, driven by currency in circulation held by
 the public and demand deposits of the private sector
 (Graph 3.1).
**Chart 3.3** In nominal terms, private M2 decreased 0.9%, a seasonally expected behavior, which was a consequence of the reduction in demand deposits and, mainly, of currency in circulation held by the public. For its part, the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector grew 1.8%, favored by the statistical carryover from January. In real terms and without seasonality, these deposits moderated their positive contribution to the growth of private M3, after showing a high contribution during the four previous months. The deceleration of fixed-term deposits is explained, at least in part, by the issuance of debt in pesos by the National Government 6, which would have attracted a proportion of investors who had been allocating part of their portfolio to fixed-term deposits; especially insurance companies. On the other hand, the smaller number of business days due to strikes resulted in greater volatility of balances, due to delays that occurred in renewing maturities (see Chart 3.2).

3 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC was used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC was used, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI from the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the private sector.

5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and demand deposits in pesos from the private sector.

6 On February 7, the National Government issued a bond maturing in 2019 for face value of $70,481 million. See https://www.minfinanzas.gob.ar/resultado-de-la-licitacion-de-bonos-en-pesos-y-letras-del-tesoro-en-dolares-estadounidenses/

*Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 6*

Public sector deposits in pesos increased 25.6% in nominal terms, driven mainly by National Treasury funds, which continued selling part of the foreign currency obtained through debt issuance (of which the BCRA purchased US$3,000 million in January and US$5,000 million in February). These funds were directed toward fixed-term placements.

**Chart 3.4** In this way, total M3 7 grew 4.6% in nominal terms, reaching a year-on-year variation of 31.9%, while private M3 registered growth of 27.3% y.o.y., similar to the previous months.

On the other hand, the monthly average balance of the monetary base remained stable, as the increase in bank reserves compensated for the aforementioned reduction in currency in circulation held by the public. The expansive effect generated by the purchase of dollars from the National Treasury was completely sterilized by the contraction associated with LEBAC operations, Repos, and LELIQ (see Chart 3.4).

Throughout February, the balance of deposits in foreign currency decreased as a consequence of the reduction in public sector placements. This decline was
**Chart 4.1** associated with the sale of dollars by the National Treasury. For its part, private sector deposits in dollars grew US$220 million, partially reversing the seasonal decline in January that would be linked to the personal assets tax (see Chart 3.4).

*Thousands of Private Sector Loans - Real Without Seasonality
of millions $ (monthly average balance)*

1,700
1,600 Pesos and Foreign Currency - Pesos
1,500
1,400
1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
Feb-15 Feb-16 Feb-17 Feb-18

*Source: BCRA*

In short, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3* 8, increased 3.5% in nominal terms, presenting a year-on-year variation of 31%.

**4. Loans 19**

During the course of February, loans to the private sector continued growing in real terms 10 and deseasonalized (see Chart 4.1). The total of loans, pesos and foreign currency, presented a monthly increase
# FOOTNOTES AND MONETARY REPORT SECTION

7. Includes cash in circulation held by the public and peso deposits from non-financial private and public sectors.

8. Includes cash in circulation held by the public and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency.

9. Monthly variations in loans are adjusted by accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of loans in portfolio from entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" refers to loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in the balance consists of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations for the period.

10. Monthly variations in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices, while real year-over-year variation was calculated using the general CPI level: National CPI series from INDEC have been used since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 7

of 2.9% and accumulated an increase of 23.8% in the last 12 months. Meanwhile, loans in local currency grew 2.5% in February.

**Graph 4.2**
**Mortgages in Pesos - Real Without Seasonality**
% (variation in average monthly balance)                    %
10                                                          100
8    Monthly Var.                                          80
6    Y-o-y Var. (right axis)                               60
4                                                          40
2                                                          20
0                                                          0
-2                                                        -20
-4                                                        -40
-6                                                        -60
Feb-15 Aug-15 Feb-16 Aug-16 Feb-17 Aug-17 Feb-18

Source: BCRA

Among loans granted with real guarantee, mortgage loans once again proved to be the most dynamic, reaching an average monthly increase of 7.2% in real terms over the last 7 months. (see Graph 4.2). For their part, pledge loans showed an increase of 1.2% in real terms.

In nominal terms, mortgage loans exhibited an increase of 7.6% ($10,200 million), accumulating growth of 128.6% over the last 12 months. Month after month, financing in UVA continued gaining participation in the total of loans to individuals, totaling 94% of the total in the last month. Since the launch of this instrument, approximately $75,000 million in UVA mortgage loans have been granted. As for pledge loans, they increased 2.3% in the month ($2,050 million), showing a year-over-year variation of 61%.

**Graph 4.3**
**Consumer Loans in Pesos Pvt. Sec. - Real Without Season.**
thousands of         (average monthly balance)
millions $
380    Personal Loans
350    Credit Cards
320
290
260
230
200
Feb-15 Feb-16 Feb-17 Feb-18

Source: BCRA

With respect to loans intended essentially for commercial purposes, financing implemented through documents showed a decline of 1.9% ($5,400 million) in nominal terms, although reaching a year-over-year expansion rate of 39.6%. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they recorded a decline of 0.2%. For their part, advances had a nominal increase of 5.1% ($6,800 million), registering a year-over-year expansion rate of 26.2%. This line grew 1.3% in real terms, seasonally adjusted during the month.

Regarding loans intended mainly for family consumption, credit card financing exhibited a nominal increase of 2.9% ($8,200 million), accumulating growth of 27.6% over the last 12 months. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they grew 3.3% in February. Personal loans increased 3% ($10,800 million) in the month, with a year-over-year variation of 57.3%. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they increased 1.5% in February. (see Graph 4.3). This real growth

**Graph 4.4**

thousands of    **Loans in Foreign Currency to the Private Sector**
millions of     Variation of average monthly balances
US$  US$ millions
1,000           16
                14
600
200 showed a deceleration compared to the previous months: seasonally adjusted
 12 -200 Single-signature documents personal loans had reached
 
 -600 Credit cards
 10 -1.000 Rest to increase around 2.5% real in October and November
 
 Feb-17May-17Ago-17Nov-17Feb-18 of 2017 and went on to grow at 2% real in December and
 8
 January past. This trajectory coincided with smaller
 6 amounts granted in UVAs, segment in which interest rates
 
 4 increased during recent months (see interest rates section
 
 2 of the market)
 
 0 In this way, in nominal terms, loans in
 Feb-15Ago-15Feb-16Ago-16Feb-17Ago-17Feb-18
Source: BCRA pesos to the private sector reached a growth of
 
 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 8
 2.3% ($31,200 million), with a year-on-year variation
 Graph 5.1 of around 46.6%, which implied an increase of 0.7
 Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of fin. entities p.p. compared to the previous month.
 
 thousands of February 2018 -average flows
 millions of $ Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector
 120 continued increasing its monthly growth rate,
 
 100 registering an average increase of 3.3% in February.
 
 80 However, it was associated mainly with "statistical
 
 60 drag" that implied the increase that occurred during
 
 40 January, since during most of February they remained
 
 20 relatively stable. The monthly increase was composed
 
 0 mainly of single-signature documents (mainly pre-
 
 -20 financing of exports). Thus, loans in dollars reached
 
 -40 an average monthly balance of US$15,700 million
 Loans to Fin. to CC Effective LEBAC Repos LELIQ Dep. Dep. Oblig. Others
 Priv. S. Pub. BCRA Priv. S. Pub. Neg. (see Graph 4.4).
 Source: BCRA
 5. Liquidity of financial entities 1
 
 Graph 5.2
 In the month of February there was a new increase in peso
 liquidity of financial entities that is explained mainly by
 the increase in public sector deposits, which far exceeded
 the growth of loans (see Graph 5.1). In the local currency
 segment (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current
 account of entities at the Central Bank, net repos with
 such entity and the holding of LEBAC and LELIQ, as a
 percentage of peso deposits) an increase of 1.4 p.p. was
 observed to 42.6% of deposits.
 
 The growth of broad liquidity is explained almost entirely
 by the increase in LELIQ –they went from 2.1% to 4.6%
 of deposits–, which was accompanied by an increase in
 LEBAC holdings. The counterpart of part of these
 increases was a reduction of 0.9 p.p. of repos maintained
 at the BCRA. Also, banks
 Graph 6.1 began to reduce their cash holdings, although
 thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA they remained high for this part of the year due to
 millions of U$S the impact of several days without banking activity.
 70 On the other hand, due to changes in the composition of
 
 60 deposits, that is, greater participation of fixed terms
 –with a lower reserve requirement rate than sight deposits–
 50 current accounts at the BCRA went from 13.3% of
 deposits to 12.9% (which implies a surplus equivalent
 40 to 0.2% of deposits in the Minimum Cash position).
 
 30
 On the other hand, in a context of falling public sector
 20 deposits and slight increase in loans, liquidity in foreign
 currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of
 10Oct-05Feb-07Jun-08Oct-09Feb-11Jun-12Oct-13Feb-15Jun-16Oct-17 entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of dollar
 
 Source: BCRA deposits) showed a decline of 3.7 p.p., to 51.8%.
 
 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 9
 6. International reserves and foreign
 Graph 6.2 exchange market
 
 % GDP Stock of LEBAC, repos and LELIQ
 14 (monthly averages) International reserves ended February with a
# 13 balance of US$61,509 million, 0.6% below the level

# 12 reached at the end of January (see Chart 6.1).

# 11
# 10 It is worth noting that during the month of February the Central

# 9 Bank purchased dollars from the National Treasury for a total

# 8 of US$5,000 million

# 7
# 6 The BCRA continues with its policy of accumulating reserves,
# 5 LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ which has as its counterpart the increase of
# LEBAC + Repos + LELIQ net of dollar purchases since 1-Mar-16 LEBAC, net repos and LELIQ. This occurs because,
# 4 when sterilizing the effect of foreign exchange purchases, the
# Mar-16 Jun-16 Sept-16 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 Sept-17 Dec-17 BCRA's balance expands. Thus, if we take the balance of
# Note: The 12-month moving average of GDP was used. The nominal GDP data for 2017 were said liabilities minus the net purchases of foreign currency made,
# completed based on forecasts from the REM.
# Source: BCRA it is observed that at the end of February the stock of
# BCRA instruments minus the foreign currency that entered the
# asset of the monetary authority, in terms of GDP, is
# lower than that recorded in March 2016 (the moment
# Chart 6.3 in which the process of absorption of the excess
# Real Multilateral Exchange Rate Index monetary balances ended after the elimination
# 17-Dec-15=100 of exchange restrictions in December 2015). In this
# 110 way, the BCRA continues to reduce its debt in net
# 105 terms in relation to GDP, improving its balance sheet
# 100 (see Chart 6.2).
# 95
# In February, the peso exchange rate registered a deprecia-
# 90 tion against the US dollar of 2%, ending the period
# 85 at a value of 20.12 $/US$. The real multilateral exchange
# 80 rate remained practically stable during the month.
# Since mid-2016, under an exchange rate floating regime,
# 75 it has fluctuated around a value that is 22% higher
# 70 than what it had before the unification of the foreign
# Dec-15 May-16 Oct-16 Mar-17 Aug-17 Jan-18 exchange market in late 2015.
# Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

# 11 In this section the figures correspond to values at the end of each month.

# Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 10

# 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
# Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

| **Main monetary and financial system variables** | **Monthly Averages** |       |       |       | **Percentage Variations** |      |
|----------------------------------------|Feb-18|Jan-18|Dec-17|Feb-17|Monthly|Last 12 months|
| Monetary base | 1,028,710 | 1,026,680 | 982,660 | 827,036 | 0.2% | 24.4% |
| Monetary circulation | 772,941 | 780,543 | 741,724 | 602,749 | -1.0% | 28.2% |
| Bills and Coins in the hands of the public | 679,005 | 688,663 | 658,651 | 516,312 | -1.4% | 31.5% |
| Bills and Coins in financial entities | 93,936 | 91,879 | 83,071 | 86,436 | 2.2% | 8.7% |
| Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 1.4% | -72.3% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 255,769 | 246,137 | 240,936 | 224,287 | 3.9% | 14.0% |

| **Stock of BCRA Repos** | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities | 16,714 | 33,378 | 63,989 | 135,059 | -49.9% | -87.6% |
| Assets | 350 | 789 | 3,679 | 0 | | |

| **Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value)** | 90,683 | 41,047 | — | — | 120.9% | — |
| **Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value)** | 1,244,611 | 1,164,239 | 1,144,103 | 620,220 | 6.9% | 100.7% |
| In pesos | 1,244,611 | 1,164,239 | 1,144,103 | 620,220 | 6.9% | 100.7% |
| In banks | 403,552 | 375,518 | 365,366 | 257,060 | 7.5% | 57.0% |
| In dollars | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | — | — |

| **BCRA International Reserves** | 62,300 | 60,626 | 55,582 | 48,464 | 2.8% | 28.5% |

| **Deposits from private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 1,970,102 | 1,843,473 | 1,746,214 | 1,492,684 | 6.9% | 32.0% |
| Current account (2) | 492,858 | 510,459 | 495,782 | 396,548 | -3.4% | 24.3% |
| Savings account | 454,025 | 472,315 | 450,079 | 326,782 | -3.9% | 38.9% |
| Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA | 935,076 | 782,253 | 719,668 | 710,541 | 19.5% | 31.6% |
| Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA | 7,547 | 4,816 | 2,653 | 595 | 56.7% | 1269.1% |
| Other deposits (3) | 80,596 | 73,631 | 78,033 | 58,262 | 9.5% | 38.3% |

| **Deposits from private sector** | 1,416,038 | 1,402,182 | 1,377,907 | 1,129,113 | 1.0% | 25.4% |

| **Deposits from public sector** | 554,065 | 441,291 | 368,307 | 363,571 | 25.6% | 52.4% |

| **Deposits from private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 31,259 | 32,924 | 30,562 | 31,454 | -5.1% | -0.6% |
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,392,427 1,361,232 1,321,463 971,135 2.3% 43.4%

Loans to the private sector 1,365,217 1,334,093 1,293,529 931,001 2.3% 46.6%
Advances 139,071 132,285 130,467 110,221 5.1% 26.2%
Documents 275,928 281,375 278,052 197,677 -1.9% 39.6%
Mortgage loans 145,147 134,910 122,762 63,495 7.6% 128.6%
Pawn loans 91,589 89,540 87,098 56,918 2.3% 60.9%
Personal loans 368,575 357,737 347,652 234,250 3.0% 57.3%
Credit cards 294,756 286,538 277,787 230,979 2.9% 27.6%
Other 50,149 51,707 49,713 37,461 -3.0% 33.9%

Loans to the public sector 27,210 27,139 27,933 40,134 0.3% -32.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,734 15,232 14,846 9,672 3.3% 62.7%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1,171,863 1,199,122 1,154,434 912,861 -2.3% 28.4%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 1,625,888 1,671,437 1,604,513 1,239,643 -2.7% 31.2%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 2,649,107 2,532,137 2,404,867 2,008,998 4.6% 31.9%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3,271,183 3,160,538 2,948,062 2,501,179 3.5% 30.8%

Private monetary aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 982,372 996,079 966,260 764,846 -1.4% 28.4%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 1,403,785 1,416,848 1,394,141 1,075,484 -0.9% 30.5%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 2,095,043 2,090,846 2,036,559 1,645,427 0.2% 27.3%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 2,603,592 2,583,345 2,494,101 2,003,637 0.8% 29.9%

Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 11

Average variations

Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2018 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base 2,030 0.2% 122,228 13.5% 46,051 4.7% 201,674 24.4%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -5,452 -0.7%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 97,355 9.5% 144,382 15.9% 126,075 12.8% 357,903 43.3%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 752 0.1% 46,650 5.1% 25,816 2.6% 169,729 20.5%
Other public sector operations -130 0.0% -1,591 -0.2% -1,712 -0.2% -7,206 -0.9%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) -96,536 -9.4% -70,870 -7.8% -106,400 -10.8% -334,010 -40.4%
Other 590 0.1% 3,657 0.4% 2,271 0.2% 20,710 2.5%

International Reserves of the BCRA 1,674 2.8% 8,308 15.4% 6,718 12.1% 13,836 28.5%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% -88 -0.2%
Payment to international organizations -133 -0.2% -229 -0.4% -152 -0.3% -1,752 -3.6%
Other public sector operations 3,503 5.8% 7,081 13.1% 5,948 10.7% 21,436 44.2%
Minimum cash requirement -1,762 -2.9% 460 0.9% 40 0.1% -7,952 -16.4%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 67 0.1% 996 1.8% 882 1.6% 2,191 4.5%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

feb-18 jan-18 dec-17
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 12,713,013.4
 Integration 12,913,213.7
 Position (1) 0.20.20.3
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits at fixed %
 rate used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 63.066,968.8
 30 to 59 days 24.320,921.2
 60 to 89 days 7.06,65.4
 90 to 179 days 3.33,63.3
 more than 180 days 2.52,01.2

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 23.226,424.1
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 42.954,446.1
 Position (1) 19.728,022.0
 Residual maturity structure of time deposits at fixed %
 rate used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 57.857,654.9
 30 to 59 days 19.519,621.3
 60 to 89 days 9.29,49.3
 90 to 179 days 6.66,67.6
 180 to 365 days 5.95,04.4
 more than 365 days 1.01,62.5

(1) Position = Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial time deposits.

Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 12

Rates in percentage nominal annual basis and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 26.99 27.42 29.04 23.59
 Amount traded 5,093 4,417 4,917 4,056

Time Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21.38 21.55 21.48 18.39
 60 days or more 22.29 22.84 22.75 18.81
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 21.69 21.84 21.63 19.18
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.74 22.94 23.18 20.02

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.50 0.49 0.50 0.38
 60 days or more 0.73 0.79 0.74 0.58
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.49 0.51 0.55 0.50
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.79 0.77 0.74 0.68

 Active Interest Rates Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.16 25.28 28.06 21.46
 Amount traded (total maturities) 1,260 1,139 1,236 783

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

 Overdrafts in current account 33.35 33.69 34.14 29.70
 Documents at sole signature 26.65 26.71 25.35 21.93
 Mortgage 20.21 19.79 18.67 19.08
 Pledge 16.66 17.27 17.42 18.97
 Personal 40.46 40.70 39.99 39.07
 Credit cards n/d 42.86 42.21 39.39

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 28.79 29.35 31.24 24.97

 International Interest Rates Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

LIBOR
 1 month 1.60 1.56 1.49 0.78
 6 months 2.09 1.91 1.77 1.35

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.18 2.03 1.84 1.19
 10 years 2.86 2.58 2.40 2.42

FED Funds Rate 1.50 1.50 1.41 0.75

SELIC (at 1 year) 6.81 7.00 7.08 12.88

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, whereas from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 13

Rates in percentage nominal annual basis and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Liabilities 1 day 25.25 26.02 26.75 22.75
 Liabilities 7 days 26.50 27.27 28.00 24.00
 Assets 7 days 28.00 28.77 29.50 25.50

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 25.76 26.53 27.78 22.94

Amount traded in repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 7,110 9,419 10,724 6,491

LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 26.75 27.22 28.8 22.8
 2 months 26.50 26.92 28.8 22.51
 3 months 26.30 26.59 28.80 22.00

LEBAC rates in dollars (1) (2)
 1 month n/o n/o n/o n/o
 3 months n/o n/o n/o n/o
 6 months n/o n/o n/o n/o
 12 months n/o n/o n/o n/o

Amount traded of LEBAC in secondary market (daily average) 35,509 35,121 41,260 10,337

 Foreign Exchange Market Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 19.83 19.04 17.73 15.59
 Retail 19.88 19.09 17.79 15.68

Dollar Future
 NDF 1 month 20.16 19.39 18.08 15.86
 ROFEX 1 month 20.20 19.39 18.10 15.81
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 14,637 13,495 17,441 7,227

Real (Pesos x Real) 6.11 5.93 5.38 5.02

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 24.49 23.24 20.99 16.60

 Capital Market Feb-18 Jan-18 Dec-17 Feb-17

MERVAL
 Index 32,363 33,300 27,798 19,493
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 1,036 1,063 671 382

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 110.21 116.31 117.2 107.3
 BONAR 24 (US$) 112.0 113.8 115.6 115.2
 DISCOUNT ($) 112.2 112.2 102.6 120.0
Country Risk (basis points)
 Spread BONAR 24 vs. US Treasury Bond 279245217315
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 397365356453

 EMBI+ Latin America 467460464450

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Dollar Letters redeemable in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of
1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction
of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).

 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 14
8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days term.
BCBA: Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
BOVESPA: Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).
CAFCI: Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.
CDS: Credit Default Swaps.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
USA: United States of America.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
EMBI: Emerging Markets Bonds Index.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Institute of Capital Markets.
IGBVL: General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.
IGPA: General Stock Price Index.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LFPIP: Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and
sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and
total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and
total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MULC: Sole and Free Foreign Exchange Market.
MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.
NDF: Non Deliverable Forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
OCT: Forward Arranged Operations.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PFPB: Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
b.p.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
S&P: Standard and Poor's.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.
VCP: Short-Term Debt Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

 Monetary Report | February 2018 | BCRA | 15
