# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2018

## Contents

1. Summary | Page 3

2. Interest rates | Page 4

 Monetary policy interest rates | Page 4

 Market interest rates | Page 5

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 6

4. Loans | Page 8

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 9

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 10

7. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 12

8. Glossary | Page 16

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on February 6, 2018. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

1. Summary 1
• Given the context of a new path of inflation targets and a projection of a more moderate annual increase
in regulated prices than in previous years, the BCRA considered that the contractionary bias of monetary
policy was at an elevated level and decreased its monetary policy rate
–the center of the 7-day repo corridor– on two occasions during January, for a total of 150 basis
points (b.p.), bringing it to 27.25%.

• Interest rates in the interbank lending markets moved within the BCRA's repo corridor,
decreasing following the changes in the monetary policy rate. Passive interest rates interrupted the upward
trajectory they had shown until the end of last year and, in particular, those paid on deposits of larger amounts,
began to show declines. The interest rate charged on discounted documents followed an evolution similar to
passive rates, while those applied to longer-term financing maintained the upward trend they had been showing.

• As of January 11, the BCRA incorporated a new instrument to manage the liquidity of the monetary
market: liquidity letters (LELIQ). LELIQ are 7-day letters, which can be traded in the secondary market. The
BCRA's counterparties in this market can only be financial entities for their own portfolio. During the course of
January they were gaining participation as a destination for excess bank liquidity and at the end of January the
outstanding balance of LELIQ reached VN $69,259 million.

• Considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, private M3 increased
1.2% in January, while private M2 remained stable with respect to December. Thus, for the third consecutive
month, time deposits in pesos were the component that contributed most to the increase in private M3. Within
time deposits, the evolution of those over $1 million stood out; in part, encouraged by the growth of those
made by financial service providers.

• Loans to the private sector prolonged their upward trend in real and deseasonalized terms. Total loans,
in pesos and foreign currency, exhibited a monthly increase of 3%, while loans in local currency grew 1.5%. In
the last 12 months, total credit accumulated a growth of 26.6% in real terms.

• In the peso segment, mortgage loans continued to be those with the highest growth,
reaching an average monthly deseasonalized increase of 7.4% real in the last 3 months. In nominal terms,
mortgage loans showed a monthly increase of 9.9% ($12,150 million), accumulating in the last 12 months a
growth of 118.2%. It should be noted that UVA financing continued to increase its participation in total loans
to individuals, covering 93% of the amount granted in the last month. Since this instrument was launched,
$65,800 million in UVA mortgages have been granted.

• In a period in which credit growth is seasonally low, the increase in peso deposits far exceeded that of
credits to the private sector and financial entities increased their liquid assets. Bank liquidity in local currency
(measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities in the Central Bank, net repos with such
entity and the holding of LEBAC and LELIQ, as a percentage of peso deposits) showed an increase of 1.6 p.p.
to 41.3% of deposits. The growth concentrated in the new BCRA instrument, LELIQ, which in the month
represented 1.9% of peso deposits.

1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 3
2. Interest rates 2

Monetary policy interest rates
Interest Rates in Pesos

During January, shorter-maturity interest rates were positioned within the center of the interest rate corridor established by the BCRA in the repo market, following a downward trajectory in line with the decrease in the policy rate (see Graph 2.3).

---

**Footnotes:**
2 The interest rates referred to in this section are expressed as annual nominal rates (TNA).
3 In the last week of 2017 the deferral of the long-term inflation target (5% annually) to the year 2020 was announced, along with new intermediate targets of 15% for 2018 and 10% for 2019.
20 In interbank lending markets, the interest rate for call operations at 1 business day averaged 27.4%, 1.6 p.p. below the value registered the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) stood at 26.6%, registering an average monthly decline of 1.3 p.p. The average daily amount traded in both markets decreased by $1,800 million, totaling around $13,800 million.

The interest rate on advances in current accounts to companies of more than $10 million and up to 7 days showed an average monthly decline of 1.9 p.p., following an evolution similar to the interest rates of interbank lending markets.

Passive rates stopped increasing following the movement of LEBAC rate levels once inflation target changes were known at the end of 2017. Initially they remained relatively stable and during the last days of January they began to decline. The TM20 rate – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more – of private banks averaged 23.6% in January, 0.6 p.p. below December. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 23% in January, which meant a monthly decline of 0.3 p.p. compared to December. In the retail segment the change in trend was less drastic, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 20.9% in the month, a level similar to the previous month (see Chart 2.5).

In contrast, the majority of active interest rates on operations agreed at fixed or renegotiable rates continued increasing during the first weeks of January and only began to show an incipient stability during the last days of the month. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 40.7%, showing an increase of 0.7 p.p. compared to December. Regarding interest rates on lines designed to finance business activity, the rate charged for documents at sole signature averaged 26.7%, showing an average monthly increase of 1.4 p.p., while the interest rate on discounted documents showed a trajectory more similar to that of passive rates and averaged 24.4%, evidencing an increase of 0.2 p.p. (see Chart 2.5).

Regarding financings adjustable by UVA, mortgage credits were granted at an average rate weighted by amount of 4.6%, remaining practically stable compared to the previous month. In contrast, the rate for personal credits adjustable by UVA continued increasing and averaged 11.6% in the month, showing an increase of 1.7 p.p. compared to December (see Chart 2.6).

Meanwhile, the rate paid on fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVA averaged 4.9% in January, showing a decline of 0.2 p.p. compared to December.

3. Monetary Aggregates 1
FOOTNOTES:

4 Real values were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC was used from January 2017, the CPI GBA from INDEC between May 2016 and December 2016, and the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires between July 2012 and December 2015, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

5 Includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos from the private sector.

6 Includes currency in circulation and sight deposits in pesos from the private sector.

7 Resolution 41.057-E/2017 of the Superintendency of Insurance of the Nation.
-20 and LELIQ (see Chart 3.4). It is worth mentioning that, when
 Purchases Purchases AT and Passes LEBAC BCRA Circ. in CC Effec- considering the balances at the end of the month, the mon-
 of US$ of US$ Util. and LELIQ Pub. tive etary base decreased 3.5% in January.
 to S. Priv. to TN
 Source: BCRA
 The average monthly balance of deposits in foreign cur-
 rency increased 7.5% in the month, driven by the inflow
 of funds from a National Treasury debt issuance. Mean-
 Chart 3.5 while, private sector dollar deposits maintained an aver-
 Deposits of the private sector and FCI in dollars age monthly balance similar to December, as much of the
 thousands of mill. thousands of mill. increase they had shown then was reversed. This evolution
 27 of US$ of US$ 7 was a "mirror" of that shown by the equity of common
 Private sector deposits in US$ investment funds (FCI) in foreign currency: in December
 26 FCI Equity US$ (right axis) 6 there was a redemption of fund shares that were tempo-
 rarily placed in deposits – possibly due to the differential
 25 5
 treatment that FCIs and deposits have as the taxable base
 24 4 for the tax on personal property – and in January the in-
 23 3 verse movement was observed.
 22 2 In sum, the broadest monetary aggregate, M3*, 9 in-
 21 1 creased 7.2% in nominal terms, presenting a year-over-
 20 0 year variation of 33.9%.
 Dec-31-16 Mar-31-17 Jun-30-17 Sept-30-17 Dec-31-17
 Source: BCRA

8 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits of the private and public non-financial sectors.
9 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos and in foreign currency.

 Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 7
 4. Loans 110

 Chart 4.1
 thousands of Loans to the Private Sector - Real Seasonally Adjusted In January, loans to the private sector continued their
 millions $ (average monthly balance) upward trend in real terms 11 and seasonally adjusted

1,600 (see Chart 4.1). The total of loans, in pesos and foreign
1,500 Pesos and Foreign Currency Pesos currency, showed a monthly increase of 3%, while loans
 in local currency grew 1.5%. In the last 12 months, the
1,400 total of loans in pesos and foreign currency accumulated
1,300 growth of 26.6% in real terms.
1,200
 In the peso segment, mortgage loans continued to be
1,100 those with the highest growth, reaching an average
1,000 monthly increase seasonally adjusted of 7.4% real in the
 900 last 3 months (see Chart 4.2). For their part, pledged
 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18 loans increased 1.6% in real terms and adjusted for sea-
 Source: BCRA sonality.
 Chart 4.2 In nominal terms, mortgage loans presented an increase
 % Mortgages in Pesos - Real Seasonally Adjusted 9 of 9.9% ($12,150 million), accumulating in the last 12
 (monthly average balance variation) % 80 months growth of 118.2%. It should be noted that UVA
 7 70 financing continues to increase its share of the total
 Monthly Var. 60 loans to individuals, totaling 93% of the total in the last
 5 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 50 month. Since this instrument was launched, approximately
 3 40 $65,800 million in UVA mortgages have been granted.
 30 On the other hand, pledged loans increased 2.8% in the
 1 20 month ($2,400 million), presenting a year-over-year vari-
 10 ation of 64.2%. It should be noted that in this line together
-1 with the personal loans line, approximately $26,700 mil-
 0
 lion in UVA personal and pledged loans have been granted.
-3 -10
 -20 Loans with essentially commercial purpose moderated
-5 their pace of nominal growth in January, as usually occurs
 -30 due to the lower activity associated with the summer
-7
 recession. In this way, the financings instru-
 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17 Jan-18
 Source: BCRA
 Chart 4.3
 Consumer Loans in Pesos S. Priv. - Real Seasonally Adjusted
 thousands of (average monthly balance)
 millions $
360 Personal
340 Credit cards mentioned through documents showed an in-
320 crease of 1.2% ($3,300 million) in nominal terms,
300 reaching an annual expansion rate of 42.6%.
280 In real terms and adjusted for seasonality they re-
mained stable compared to December. For their part, ad-
260 vances had a nominal increase of 1.4% ($1,800
240 million), reaching an annual expansion rate
220 of 25.8%. This line grew 0.5% in real terms
200 seasonally adjusted during the month.
 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18
 Source: BCRA

10 The monthly variations of loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused
by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report "amounts
granted" or "new loans" are understood as loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation of
the balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.
11 Values in real terms were calculated with core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used
since January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI
of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

 Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 8
 Regarding loans intended mainly for
 Graph 4.4 consumption of families, credit card
 thousands of Foreign Currency Loans to the Private Sector financing showed a nominal increase of 3.2%
 millions of US$
 millions Balance variation averages ($8,800 million), with growth of 23.9% in the
 16 US$ monthly
 1,000 last 12 months. In real terms and adjusting for sea-
 14 600 sonality they remained stable. In contrast, personal
 200 loans are one of the lines that has shown greater
 12 -200 Single-signature documents
 -600 Credit cards dynamism in recent months, encompassing part of the
 10 -1,000 Other credits granted for the purpose of vehicle
 purchase. In nominal terms they grew 2.9%
 Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18
 8 ($10,080 million) in the month, so its year-on-year
 6 variation stood at 58.6%. Thus, in real terms and
 adjusted for seasonality, they increased 2.4% in January. (see
 4 Graph 4.3).
 2
 In this way, financing to the private sector in pe-
 0 sos showed a nominal increase of 3.1% ($40,560 million),
 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17 Jan-18 while its year-on-year variation stood at
 Source: BCRA 46%.

 Graph 5.1 Finally, foreign currency loans to the private sector
 Var. of the main assets and liabilities in pesos of fin. entities raised its monthly growth rate for
 thousands of January 2018 - average flows the second consecutive month, to 2.8% in January. Said increase
 millions of $ was explained mainly by the recovery in the
 80 expansion rate of single-signature documents (mainly
 70 pre-financing of exports) and the contribution of
 60 credit card financing, in line with its
 50 seasonal behavior. Thus, loans in dollars
 40 reached a monthly average balance of US$15,198 mil-
 30 lion (see Graph 4.4).
 20
10

**5. Liquidity of financial entities**

| Loans to Fin. | to CC | Cash | LEBAC | Passes | LELIQ | Dep. | Dep. | Oblig. | Other | ras¹ |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| S. Priv. | S. Pub. | BCRA | S. Priv. | S. Pub. | Neg. |

Source: BCRA

In a period in which loan growth is seasonally low, the increase in peso deposits far exceeded that of credits to the private sector and financial entities increased their liquid assets (see Graph 5.1). Bank liquidity in local currency (measured as the sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, net passes with said entity and the holding of LEBAC and LELIQ, as a percentage of peso deposits) increased 1.6 p.p. to 41.3% of deposits.

The greater part of excess bank liquidity was directed to the new BCRA instrument, LELIQ (see Interest Rates section) which came to represent 1.9% of peso deposits. On the other hand, due to the partial reversal in the seasonal changes in the composition of deposits observed in December; that is, greater participation of sight placements, with a higher reserve requirement rate, current accounts at the BCRA went from 13.7% of deposits in December to 13.4% in January.

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 9

Regarding liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks and the current account of entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of dollar deposits), due to a greater increase in deposits compared to loans, an increase of 2.2 p.p. was recorded in relation to the previous month.

**Graph 6.1**
Thousands of International Reserves of the BCRA
millions of U$S

[Scale from 10 to 70]

Oct-05 Feb-07 Jun-08 Oct-09 Feb-11 Jun-12 Oct-13 Feb-15 Jun-16 Oct-17

Source: BCRA

**6. International reserves and foreign exchange market**

International reserves ended January with a new record balance of US$62,024 million, which implied an increase of US$6,969 million compared to the previous month (see Graph 6.1). The placement of public debt by the National Treasury in international markets for almost US$9,000 million explained most of the monthly increase.

Part of those dollars, US$3,000 million, were purchased by the Central Bank in January, achieving an improvement in its balance sheet by increasing the participation of those more liquid assets in foreign currency.

**Graph 6.2**
% GDP Stock of LEBAC, passes and LELIQ
(monthly averages)

[Scale from 4 to 13]

Mar-16 Jun-16 Sept-16 Dec-16 Mar-17 Jun-17 Sept-17 Dec-17

Note: The 12-month moving average of GDP was used. The nominal GDP data for 2017 were completed based on forecasts from the REM.
Source: BCRA

The accumulation of international reserves continues as one of the central axes of BCRA policy, which has as its counterpart the increase in notes and passes, since, by sterilizing the monetary effect of foreign currency purchases, the BCRA's balance sheet expands. In this way, when net dollar purchases made are subtracted from the balance of LEBAC, passes and LELIQ, it is observed that in January the stock of BCRA instruments net of dollar purchases made since 1-Mar-16 minus the foreign currency that entered its assets, in terms of GDP, was lower than that recorded in March 2016 (the moment in which the process of absorption of monetary surpluses existing in the market following the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions in December 2015 was concluded). Thus, the BCRA continued to reduce its debt in net terms in relation to GDP, improving its balance sheet (see Graph 6.2).

**Graph 6.3**
Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
17-Dec-15=100

[Scale from 100 to 110]

The reference exchange rate of the peso / United States dollar ended January at 19.65, presenting an increase of 4.7% compared to the close of the previous month. For its part, the
95 multilateral real exchange rate during January experienced an increase of 7.5% (see Graph 6.3). It is worth noting
90 that it has remained stable since mid-
85 2016, within a floating exchange rate regime,

80 fluctuating around a level that is 21.5% higher

75 than what it had before the unification of the foreign exchange market

70 at the end of 2015. It is important to note that a floating

Dec-15 May-16 Oct-16 Mar-17 Aug-17 Jan-18
Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

12 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 10
exchange rate allows the economy to better absorb external shocks and helps avoid the accumulation of macroeconomic imbalances.

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 11

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages / Percentage Variations
Main Monetary Variables and Financial System / Jan-18 / Dec-17 / Jan-17 / Monthly / Last 12 Months

Monetary base / 1,026,680 / 982,660 / 815,486 / 4.5% / 25.9%
Monetary circulation / 780,543 / 741,724 / 599,160 / 5.2% / 30.3%
Bills and Coins in public hands / 688,654 / 658,582 / 520,090 / 4.6% / 32.4%
Bills and Coins in financial entities / 91,889 / 83,140 / 79,070 / 10.5% / 16.2%
Cancellation Checks / 0.3 / 1.2 / 0.8 / -75.3% / -63.8%
Current Account at BCRA / 246,137 / 240,936 / 216,326 / 2.2% / 13.8%

Stock of BCRA Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities / 33,378 / 63,989 / 75,674 / -47.8% / -55.9%
Assets / 789 / 3,679 / 314

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) / 41,047 / — / — / — / —

Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value) / 1,164,239 / 1,144,103 / 643,368 / 1.8% / 81.0%

In pesos / 1,164,239 / 1,144,103 / 643,368 / 1.8% / 81.0%
In banks / 375,518 / 365,366 / 291,270 / 2.8% / 28.9%
In dollars / 0 / 0 / 0 / — / —

BCRA International Reserves / 60,626 / 55,582 / 41,190 / 9.1% / 47.2%

Deposits of private sector and public sector in pesos (1) / 1,843,487 / 1,745,917 / 1,440,720 / 5.6% / 28.0%
Current account (2) / 510,419 / 495,359 / 431,196 / 3.0% / 18.4%
Savings account / 472,374 / 450,204 / 325,377 / 4.9% / 45.2%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA / 782,246 / 719,665 / 628,144 / 8.7% / 24.5%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA / 4,816 / 2,653 / 465 / 81.5% / 936.2%
Other deposits (3) / 73,633 / 78,036 / 55,538 / -5.6% / 32.6%

Private sector deposits / 1,403,313 / 1,378,080 / 1,113,816 / 1.8% / 26.0%

Public sector deposits / 440,175 / 367,837 / 326,903 / 19.7% / 34.6%

Deposits of private sector and public sector in dollars (1) / 32,924 / 30,563 / 25,080 / 7.7% / 31.3%

Loans to private sector and public sector in pesos (1) / 1,361,263 / 1,321,518 / 954,996 / 3.0% / 42.5%

Loans to private sector / 1,334,130 / 1,293,564 / 913,880 / 3.1% / 46.0%
Advances / 132,306 / 130,468 / 105,195 / 1.4% / 25.8%
Documents / 281,349 / 278,056 / 197,272 / 1.2% / 42.6%
Mortgage loans / 134,911 / 122,760 / 61,841 / 9.9% / 118.2%
Pledge loans / 89,522 / 87,098 / 54,508 / 2.8% / 64.2%
Personal loans / 357,728 / 347,648 / 225,582 / 2.9% / 58.6%
Credit cards / 286,619 / 277,825 / 231,419 / 3.2% / 23.9%
Others / 51,695 / 49,710 / 38,063 / 4.0% / 35.8%

Loans to public sector / 27,133 / 27,954 / 41,115 / -2.9% / -34.0%
Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) / 15,233 / 14,844 / 9,261 / 2.6% / 64.5%

Total Monetary Aggregates (1)

M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) / 1,199,073 / 1,153,942 / 951,287 / 3.9% / 26.0%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) / 1,671,447 / 1,604,147 / 1,276,664 / 4.2% / 30.9%
M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) / 2,532,141 / 2,404,501 / 1,960,810 / 5.3% / 29.1%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) / 3,160,527 / 2,947,727 / 2,361,806 / 7.2% / 33.8%
# Private Monetary Aggregates

**M1** (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts in pesos) | 996.045 | 966.193 | 776.350 | 3.1% | 28.3%

**M2** (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) | 1.416.873 | 1.394.200 | 1.084.838 | 1.6% | 30.6%

**M3** (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 2.091.967 | 2.036.664 | 1.633.907 | 2.7% | 28.0%

**M3*** (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 2.584.448 | 2.494.213 | 1.995.923 | 3.6% | 29.5%

---

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 12

## Average Variations

| Variation Factors | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2018 |  | Last 12 months |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
| **Monetary Base** | 44.021 | 4.5% | 138.830 | 15.6% | 44.021 | 4.5% | 211.194 | 25.9% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | -5.452 | -0.7% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury | 28.720 | 2.9% | 71.210 | 8.0% | 28.720 | 2.9% | 289.581 | 35.5% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits | 25.065 | 2.6% | 60.371 | 6.8% | 25.065 | 2.6% | 173.839 | 21.3% |
| Other public sector operations | -1.582 | -0.2% | -1.957 | -0.2% | -1.582 | -0.2% | -7.481 | -0.9% |
| Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) | -9.864 | -1.0% | 4.922 | 0.6% | -9.864 | -1.0% | -260.305 | -31.9% |
| Others | 1.681 | 0.2% | 4.284 | 0.5% | 1.681 | 0.2% | 21.013 | 2.6% |
| **International Reserves of the BCRA** | 5.044 | 9.1% | 8.933 | 17.3% | 5.044 | 9.1% | 19.436 | 47.2% |
| Intervention in the foreign exchange market | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | -88 | -0.2% |
| Payment to international organizations | -19 | 0.0% | -289 | -0.6% | -19 | 0.0% | -1.767 | -4.3% |
| Other public sector operations | 2.446 | 4.4% | 5.902 | 11.4% | 2.446 | 4.4% | 19.293 | 46.8% |
| Minimum cash | 1.802 | 3.2% | 2.482 | 4.8% | 1.802 | 3.2% | -222 | -0.5% |
| Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | 815 | 1.5% | 838 | 1.6% | 815 | 1.5% | 2.254 | 5.5% |

---

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

2 Net of unified funds utilization.

3 Net of BODEN accounted for.

4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being performed.

**Sources:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Accounting and SISCEN Information System.

---

# Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | jan-18 | dec-17 | nov-17 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Domestic Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** | | |
| Requirement | 13.0 | 13.4 | 13.0 |
| Integration | 13.2 | 13.7 | 13.2 |
| Position (1) | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.2 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits used for the requirement calculation** (2) | **%** | | |
| Up to 29 days | 66.9 | 68.8 | 68.6 |
| 30 to 59 days | 20.9 | 21.2 | 20.8 |
| 60 to 89 days | 6.6 | 5.4 | 5.7 |
| 90 to 179 days | 3.6 | 3.3 | 3.6 |
| More than 180 days | 2.0 | 1.2 | 1.3 |
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** | | |
| Requirement | 26.0 | 24.1 | 24.1 |
| Integration (includes default in application of resources) | 51.5 | 46.1 | 46.3 |
| Position (1) | 25.5 | 22.0 | 22.2 |
| **Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits used for the requirement calculation** (2) | **%** | | |
| Up to 29 days | 57.6 | 54.9 | 55.5 |
| 30 to 59 days | 19.6 | 21.3 | 19.1 |
| 60 to 89 days | 9.4 | 9.3 | 10.4 |
| 90 to 179 days | 6.7 | 7.6 | 8.2 |
| 180 to 365 days | 5.0 | 4.4 | 3.6 |
| More than 365 days | 1.6 | 2.5 | 3.2 |

(1) Position = Requirement - Integration

(2) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.

**Source:** BCRA

---

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 13

Interest rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | Jan-18 | Dec-17 | Nov-17 | Jan-17 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (15 days)** | | | | |
| Rate | 24.11 | 29.04 | 27.94 | 24.11 |
| Amount traded | 4.395 | 4.917 | 5.424 | 4.395 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | | |
| **In pesos** | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 21.55 | 21.48 | 20.82 | 18.40 |
| 60 days or more | 22.84 | 22.75 | 21.84 | 18.95 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 21.84 | 21.63 | 21.70 | 19.11 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 22.93 | 23.18 | 22.55 | 19.76 |
| **In dollars** | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 0.49 | 0.50 | 0.46 | 0.38 |
| 60 days or more | 0.79 | 0.74 | 0.72 | 0.61 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.49 | 0.55 | 0.48 | 0.44 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.74 | 0.74 | 0.80 | 0.55 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | Jan-18 | Dec-17 | Nov-17 | Jan-17 |
Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 25.28 28.06 27.76 23.51
 Amount traded (total terms) 1.139 1.236 1.343 767

Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 33.69 34.14 32.58 30.26
 Documents on Sole Signature 26.71 25.35 24.19 22.53
 Mortgage Loans 19.78 18.67 17.31 19.20
 Pledged Loans 16.37 17.42 17.83 18.82
 Personal Loans 40.69 39.99 39.30 39.77
 Credit Cards n/d 42.21 41.26 39.39

 Current Account Advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 29.37 31.24 29.29 25.39

 International Interest Rates Jan-18 Dec-17 Nov-17 Jan-17

LIBOR
 1 month 1.56 1.49 1.29 0.77
 6 months 1.91 1.77 1.63 1.34

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.03 1.84 1.70 1.20
 10 years 2.58 2.40 2.35 2.43

FED Funds Rate 1.50 1.41 1.25 0.75

SELIC (at 1 year) 7.00 7.08 7.50 13.24

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to
the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 14
Interest rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Jan-18 Dec-17 Nov-17 Jan-17

BCRA Repurchase Agreement Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 26.02 26.75 26.52 22.75
 Liabilities 7 days 27.27 28.00 27.77 23.86
 Assets 7 days 28.77 29.50 29.27 25.64

Interest Rates on Repurchase Agreements Between Third Parties REPO Session
 1 day 26.53 27.78 26.90 23.40

Amount Traded on Repurchase Agreements Between Third Parties REPO Session (daily average) 9.419 10.724 10.083 9.167
Interest Rates on LEBAC in Pesos (1)
 1 month 27.24 28.8 28.8 23.5
 2 months 26.90 28.8 29.1 23.47
 3 months 26.59 28.80 29.25 23.10

Interest Rates on LEBAC in Dollars (1) (2)

 1 month n/d n/d n/d n/d
 3 months n/d n/d n/d n/d
 6 months n/d n/d n/d n/d
 12 months n/d n/d n/d n/d

Amount Traded of LEBAC in the Secondary Market (daily average) 35.121 41.260 26188 11806

 Foreign Exchange Market Jan-18 Dec-17 Nov-17 Jan-17

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 19.04 17.73 17.48 15.91
 Retail 19.09 17.79 17.53 15.97

Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 19.39 18.08 17.83 16.06
 ROFEX 1 month 19.39 18.10 17.84 16.17
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 13.495 17.441 11.151 6.666

Real (Pesos x Real) 5.93 5.38 5.36 4.98

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 23.24 20.99 20.54 16.91

 Capital Market Jan-18 Dec-17 Nov-17 Jan-17

MERVAL
 Index 33.300 27.798 27.268 18.736
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 1063 671 652 435

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 116.31 17.2 116.2 106.8
 BONAR 24 (US$) 113.8 115.6 115.6 114.5
 DISCOUNT ($) 112.2 102.6 103.4 119.1

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR 24 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 245 217 249 333
 EMBI+ Argentina (3) 365 356 370 466

 EMBI+ Latin America 460 464 468 472

(1) These correspond to averages of the results of the auctions held each month.
(2) As of 12/22/2015 Letters in dollars settled in the same currency are divided into Internal segment for terms of
1 and 3 months, and External segment for terms of 6 and 12 months.
(3) On 27-Apr-16 the EMBI risk premium rose more than 100 b.p. due to technical factors (price correction
of the effect of coupons that could not be collected since mid-2014).
# GLOSSARY

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDRs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**USA:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Price Index of Shares.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LFPIP:** Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Bond.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Productive Financing Program.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**bp:** Basis Points.

**pp:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Unit of Purchasing Power.

**VCP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

---

Monetary Report | January 2018 | BCRA | 16
