# Monthly Monetary Report
September 2018

## Contents

1. Synthesis | Page 3

2. New framework of monetary policy | Page 4

3. Monetary aggregates | Page 5

4. Loans | Page 6

5. Liquidity of financial entities | Page 8

6. Interest rates | Page 9

7. International reserves and foreign exchange market | Page 9

8. Monetary and financial indicators | Page 12

9. Glossary | Page 16

Queries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

The statistical closing of this report was on October 4, 2018. All figures are provisional and
subject to revision.

## 1. Synthesis¹
• The BCRA adopted as of October 1st a new monetary policy scheme with strict control of monetary aggregates.
It committed to not increase the monetary base (which includes currency in circulation in the hands of the public, cash in banks and current accounts in pesos of financial entities at the BCRA) until June 2019. Because in the coming months there will be high inflation rates due to the pass-through to prices of the August increase in the peso/dollar exchange rate, this commitment implies that the monetary base will contract in real terms. To avoid an excessive monetary contraction, the target monetary base will be adjusted by the seasonal effect that increases the demand for monetary base in December and June.

• In operational terms, this change of scheme implied that the BCRA proceeded to conduct daily auctions of 7-day LELIQs.
The BCRA announces a tentative amount and the minimum placement rate. Once the bids are received, it determines the cut-off rate and awards with multiple prices. By controlling quantities, the monetary policy rate, the weighted average of what was placed each day, varies in each auction. In turn, the BCRA can inject or absorb liquidity through purchases or sales of LELIQs in the secondary market and limited its intervention in the repo market to operations with 1-day maturity. The active repo rate is defined daily and results from multiplying a coefficient between 1.01 and 1.5 and the maximum rate paid by the current LELIQs, while the passive repo rate is the result of multiplying a coefficient between 0.5 and 0.99 by the minimum rate announced for the current LELIQs.

• The monetary target is complemented with the definition of intervention and non-intervention zones for the exchange rate. The non-intervention zone was initially defined –as of October 1st– between 34 and 44 pesos per dollar and is adjusted daily at a rate of 3% per month until the end of 2018. The BCRA will allow free floating of the peso within this zone. In the event that the exchange rate is above the non-intervention zone, the BCRA will conduct daily auctions of sales of foreign currency for up to US$150 million. These sales will generate an additional contraction of the monetary base that will tend to correct excessive depreciation. In the event that the exchange rate is below the non-intervention zone, the BCRA may conduct auctions of purchases of foreign currency and define whether or not it withdraws from the market the pesos with which these purchases are made.

• In September the BCRA continued with the unwinding of the LEBAC stock. In a manner similar to what was implemented the previous month,
banks were unable to bid for their own portfolio and directed their liquidity mainly to LELIQs, while holders from the non-financial sector that did not renew their LEBACs turned to buying securities issued by the National Treasury, to deposits in pesos or else demand foreign currency.

• On this occasion, the net placement of National Treasury letters carried out following the maturity of LEBACs was equivalent to 40% of the decline in the LEBAC stock in the hands of non-financial sector holders, double what was observed in August. These funds went on to increase public deposits and, through the banks that received them, returned to the BCRA via LELIQs.

• Another investment alternative that captured part of the decline in the LEBAC stock was the fixed-term deposit segment, which accelerated its growth rate following the maturity of these securities, mainly in the bracket of larger amounts. During the month, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 3.1% in nominal terms. It should be noted that, effective as of October, the BCRA provided that financial entities may integrate the total requirement of minimum cash in pesos corresponding to the net increase in fixed-term deposits with LELIQs. In this way, it encourages the capture of this type of deposits, remunerating their
reserve requirements and favoring the increase of the rates that depositors receive. Another one of the incentives arranged to favor savings in
pesos is the enabling of the possibility that banks pay interest on fixed-term deposits on a periodic basis, and not necessarily
at maturity, as long as it is within a period of no less than 30 days.
• The increase in deposits in pesos and, mainly, the recent increases in the reserve requirement coefficients that must be met
through balances in current accounts at the BCRA generated a rise in demand for monetary base associated with bank reserves,
while currency in circulation continued to decline. Thus, 78% of the average monthly increase of 6.2% of the monetary base
was explained by changes in peso reserve requirements. Once excluded, the increase in the monetary base was in line with the increase in total M3 (1.7%), which includes currency in circulation and the total of deposits in pesos. Private
M3 (currency in circulation and deposits in pesos of the private sector) also increased in nominal terms (1.4%),
while, when adjusted for seasonality and inflation, it maintained the downward trend that it has been showing since the beginning of this
year.
• In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector decreased 3.6% compared to
August, with declines across all financing lines. In nominal terms, they grew 1.3% monthly and their year-on-year growth
was at 39%, decelerating 5 p.p. compared to August.
• The unwinding of LEBACs and changes in minimum cash requirements, in a context of loan deceleration,
led to an increase in banking liquidity in pesos with a notable change in its composition. Broad liquidity (current accounts
at the BCRA, cash and holdings of LELIQs, LEBACs and 2020 bond) reached 47.2% of deposits, 1.4 p.p. above August. Of
the total, 37.7% were assets to meet reserve requirements and cash maintained by financial entities (10.9 p.p. more than in August),
while the remainder corresponded to excess or voluntary liquidity (9.5 p.p. less than the previous month).
• To reinforce the contractionary nature of monetary policy, in the face of the continuation of the LEBAC unwinding process, the
BCRA arranged a new increase in the reserve requirement coefficients on deposits in pesos starting in October. It is an increase of
3 p.p. for deposits of the largest financial entities and can be met with LELIQs or NOBACs.
1 Except where otherwise indicated, the figures referred to are monthly averages of daily data.

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 3

2. New monetary policy framework

The BCRA adopted as of October a new monetary policy scheme, with strict control of monetary aggregates. It committed to not increase the level of the monetary base (currency in circulation held by the public + cash in banks + current accounts in pesos of financial entities at the BCRA) until June 2019. Taking into account that during the coming months there will be high inflation rates due to the pass-through to prices of the August increase in the peso/dollar exchange rate, this commitment implies that the monetary base will contract in real terms. To avoid an excessive monetary contraction, the target monetary base will be adjusted by the seasonal effect that increases the demand for monetary base in December and June (see Chart 2.1).

The implementation of this monetary aggregate control scheme implies changes in the BCRA's operational framework. As of October the BCRA conducts daily LELIQ auctions, announcing the amount and minimum interest rate for placement. LELIQ allocation is carried out with multiple prices and the monetary policy rate is the average placement rate. In turn, the BCRA can buy or sell these securities in the secondary market if it considers it necessary to inject or absorb liquidity in an additional manner. On the other hand, repo operations are limited to transactions with a 1-day term, with interest rates that are also determined daily: that of active repos results from multiplying the maximum cut-off rate of current LELIQs by a factor that can vary between 1.01 and 1.5, while that of passive repos results from multiplying the minimum announced rate for current LELIQs by a factor that can vary between 0.5 and 0.992.

The monetary base target is complemented by the definition of intervention and non-intervention exchange rate zones. The non-intervention zone is initially defined between $34 and $44, will be adjusted daily at a rate of 3% monthly until year-end and will be recalibrated at the beginning of next year. The BCRA will allow free floating of the peso within this zone (see Chart 2.2).

In the event that the exchange rate is above the non-intervention zone, the BCRA will conduct daily sales of foreign currency of up to US$150 million. These sales will not be sterilized, generating

2 See Communication "A" 6576.

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 4

an additional contraction of the monetary base that will tend to correct excessive depreciation.

In the event that the exchange rate is below the non-intervention zone, the BCRA may buy foreign currency. Only at this signal of increased money demand can the monetary authority decide to increase the monetary base backed by the increase in reserves.

3. Monetary aggregates¹

In September the BCRA continued with the gradual reduction of the LEBAC stock. In the month's auction it set a maximum amount of VN $150 billion for the placement of LEBAC to holders that were not financial entities, approximately VN $140 billion below the maturity that these holders concentrated. Financial entities were excluded from among potential LEBAC buyers and channeled their liquidity surpluses mainly toward LELIQs (see Liquidity section banking).
The funds released by the partial renewal of LEBAC maturity of holders that are not financial entities were allocated in part to the foreign exchange market and mainly to increase deposits in pesos, both from the private sector as well as from the public sector, the latter associated with the subscription of National Treasury bills.

The growth of deposits and the latest increases arranged for reserve requirement coefficients that must be integrated through current accounts at the BCRA (3% on the total of deposits for banks in group A as of August 16 and 5% of sight deposits as of September 19 for banks with more than 1% of private deposits) motivated an increase in the monetary base due to greater demand for bank reserves (see Chart 3.3 Chart 3.1). Thus, the monetary base presented an average monthly growth of 6.2%; of this increase 78% was associated with higher reserve requirements.

Once the effect of reserve requirements was excluded, the increase in the monetary base was in line with the increase in total M3³, which in September was 1.7%. Deposits from the public sector increased 2.4%, stimulated by the placement of National Treasury debt. Private M3⁴ increased 1.4% in September, driven by deposits from the private sector and presented a year-on-year variation of 25.8%. For its part, the decrease in currency in public hands was more than offset by the increase in sight deposits, so Private M2⁵ registered growth of 0.6% in September, accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 19.2%.

Chart 3.4 Deposits in pesos from the private sector presented a monthly growth of 2.8% in nominal terms, with increases in sight placements and, fundamentally, in those agreed at fixed term. The latter grew 3.1%, essentially due to deposits of more than $1 million (see Chart 3.2), which increased driven by funds released after the LEBAC maturity. To encourage the capture of term funds, effective from October, the BCRA allows the total reserve requirement of net increase in fixed-term deposits to be integrated in LELIQ or NOBAC. The remuneration of reserve requirements through this mechanism encourages the increase in rates paid to depositors. In turn, it was also provided that financial entities can pay interest before the maturity of deposits, with a frequency not less than 30 days.

When considering balances in real terms⁶ and adjusted for seasonality, the monetary aggregates of the private sector maintained the downward trend they have been showing since the beginning of this year. In particular, in September private M2 decreased 2.6%, while fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector fell Chart 4.1 0.6%. In total, the balance of private M3 was reduced 2.1% (see Chart 3.3).

In the foreign currency segment, the total balance of deposits ended September at US$30,800 million, with reductions in placements from the public sector and from the private sector. Although the latter decreased US$810 million throughout the month, they showed stabilization and some recovery during the second fortnight (see Chart 3.4).

4. Loans 17

In real terms⁸ and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector continued with the
5 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits in pesos from the private sector.

6 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI from the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

7 Monthly variations in loans are adjusted for accounting movements, fundamentally caused by transfers of credits in the portfolio of entities to financial trusts. In this report, "amounts granted" or "new loans" are understood to be loans (new and renewals) arranged in a period. In contrast, the variation in balance is composed of loans arranged, minus amortizations and cancellations of the period.

8 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC, and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI from the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

---

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 6

downward trend that they have been showing since mid-year. In September, they declined 3.6%, with widespread falls across all credit lines. Real year-on-year growth stood at 3.5% (see Chart 4.1).

With respect to lines intended mainly to finance businesses, advances decreased 1.9% adjusted for inflation and seasonality; whereas, in nominal terms, they grew 1.3% monthly, accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 56.7%. For their part, financing instruments arranged through documents decreased 6% in real terms and without seasonality. In nominal terms, the decrease was 1.2% monthly, with a year-on-year variation of 11%.

Regarding loans intended mainly for families, credit card financing declined in the month 1.5% in real terms and without seasonality. In nominal terms, they showed an average monthly increase of 4.5%, favored by the positive "statistical carryover" left by August. Its year-on-year growth stood at 39%. For their part, personal loans continued declining (see Chart 4.2). Adjusted for inflation and seasonality, they registered a decline of 3.4% in September. Meanwhile, their nominal growth was 1.3% monthly, with a year-on-year increase of 38%.

As for loans with real guarantee, the real balance adjusted for seasonality of mortgage loans began to show a downward trend, reflecting in September a decrease of 2.3%. Meanwhile, in nominal terms they grew 1.5% and its year-on-year variation stood at 122.3%. UVA financing continued to represent around 90% of loans to individuals, with an average daily amount of $160 million being granted in September, observing a sharp decline after the maximum reached in April (see Chart 4.3). For their part, pledge loans showed in the month a decline of 4.4% adjusted for inflation and without seasonality, while in nominal terms they maintained their balance essentially stable. Its year-on-year variation stood at 29.4%, around 7 p.p. below that observed in the previous month. This occurred in a context of declining sales in the automotive market: in the first eight months of the year, sales to dealers registered a decline of 7.8% compared to the same period in 2017, according to the latest available information from ADEFA, and in August in particular accumulated a decline of 31.9% in year-on-year terms.

Thus, in nominal terms, loans in pesos to the private sector grew 1.3% monthly and its growth
# Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 7

year-on-year was located around 39%, decelerating
5 p.p. with respect to August.

Finally, the balance of loans in dollars to the private
sector ended September at US$15,900 million, accu-
mulating throughout the month a decrease of 3.4%
Graph 5.1 (US$560 million). The same was explained both by the
behavior of documents on sole signature (mainly pre-
financing of exports) as well as by financings with credit
cards, whose balance reached the lowest level since early
2015 (see Graph 4.4).

5. Liquidity of financial1 entities

In September, the increase in peso deposits again exceeded
that of loans (see Graph 5.1), therefore broad banking
liquidity increased 1.4 p.p. with respect to August up to
47.2% (broad liquidity is defined as the sum of current
accounts at the BCRA, cash and holdings of LELIQ, LEBAC
and 2020 bond; as a percentage of peso deposits). In turn,
its composition changed as a result of the unwinding of
LEBAC and the changes in reserve requirements that began
to take effect.

Graph 5.2 Specifically, in September two modifications to the
reserve requirement regime came into effect. In the first
instance, as of September 1st an increase of 5 p.p. of
the coefficients applicable to peso deposits was provided
for banks included in Group "A", which can be integrated in
current accounts at the Central Bank or through LELIQ or
NOBAC9. In the second instance, as of September 19th
another increase of 5 p.p. in reserve requirements came
into effect for banks that have at least 1% of private
deposits. In this case, reserve requirements linked to sight
deposits must be integrated in current accounts, while
those linked to time deposits can also be integrated
through LELIQ or NOBAC10.

Thus, a fall in banking liquidity maintained in LEBAC and
an increase in the integration of reserve requirements both
in current accounts and in LELIQ was verified (see
Graph 5.2).

To reinforce the contractionary nature of monetary policy
and contribute to compliance with 0 growth of the monetary
base, as of October an increase of 3 p.p. of the reserve
requirement coefficients on peso deposits came into effect

9 Communication "A" 6556.
10 Communication "A" 6569.

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 8

Graph 6.1 for financial entities of greater size, which can be
integrated with LELIQ or NOBAC. It was also provided that
the total requirement for minimum cash on the net increase
in time deposits with respect to September 30th can be
integrated with these securities. In a complementary way,
to provide flexibility to financial entities to respond to
interest rate signals, the minimum daily integration was
reduced from 50% to 25% of the previous month's
requirement11.

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of
cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central
Bank, as a percentage of dollar deposits) registered a fall
of 1.6 p.p. with respect to the previous month, although
it remained at elevated levels, equivalent to 48.7% of
deposits.

6. Interest rates12

Graph 6.2
After the increase of 15 percentage points resolved as of August 30, until September 27 the BCRA maintained the monetary policy rate, corresponding to LELIQ placements, at 60% and on the last business day of the month it increased it to 65%. Interest rates in the interbank lending markets aligned with the trajectory of the monetary policy rate (see Graph 6.1). The interest rate on 1-business-day call operations ended September at 61.71%, 4.5 percentage points above the value recorded at the end of the previous month. For its part, the average interest rate on 1-business-day operations between financial entities in the guaranteed market (REPO round) stood at the close of the month at 54.2%, presenting an increase of 3.3 percentage points with respect to the end of August.

The interest rate on current account advances of more than $10 million and up to 7 days for companies ended September at 72.2%, completing an increase of 10.3 percentage points with respect to the end of August.

Following the increase in the monetary policy rate at the end of August, in the fixed-rate operations segment, passive interest rates maintained rising trajectories in September. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 43.7% in September, 7.1 percentage points above August. Meanwhile, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 41.7%, showing an increase of 6.6 percentage points. In the retail segment, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days averaged 36.7% exhibiting an average monthly increase of 5.7 percentage points (see Graph 6.2).

With greater volatility, mainly associated with the participation that different financial entities had each day in the total amount negotiated in each segment, active interest rates also showed rising trends in September. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 56.5%, exhibiting an increase of 7.9 percentage points. With regard to interest rates on lines intended to finance business activity, the rate charged for single-signature documents averaged 50.8%, showing an increase of 9.3 percentage points; while the interest rate on discounted documents averaged 51.3%, showing an increase of 10.6 percentage points (see Graph 6.3).

With respect to financing adjustable by UVA, mortgage credits were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 6.1%, similar to that observed in the previous month. Meanwhile, the interest rate on personal credits averaged 14.5%, showing an average monthly increase of 0.6 percentage points (see Graph 2.5).

For its part, interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVA had different trajectories depending on the maturity of the operations. That paid on 90-day deposits averaged 4.5% in September (0.4 percentage points below the average of the previous month), while the rate paid on deposits around 180 days reached 4.6%, showing an increase of 0.3 percentage points.

7. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market
During September, the BCRA sold foreign currency to the private sector for a total of US$1.988 million, with the objective of preventing disruptive fluctuations in the exchange rate (see Graph 7.1). The BCRA's dollar sales added to the decline in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA –which reflected the evolution of dollar deposits from the private sector– explained the fall in the country's international reserves for the month. In this way, at the end of September they presented a balance of US$49.003 million, which represents a decrease of US$3.654 million compared to the previous month.

13 In this section the figures correspond to the values at the end of each month.

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 10

The peso/US dollar exchange rate ended September at 40.9, registering an increase of 10.2% with respect to the level reached the previous month. Regarding the real exchange rate, it continues fluctuating around values that have not been observed since the end of 2008. In the course of September, it registered an increase of 7.9% (see Graph 7.2).

Starting in October, the BCRA complements the monetary target with the definition of foreign exchange intervention zones, as explained in the section "New monetary policy framework".

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 11

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 12

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 13

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 14

Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 15

8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**BCBA:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**BOVESPA:** Stock index of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Brazil).

**CAFCI:** Argentine Chamber of Investment Funds.

**CDS:** Credit Default Swaps.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DEGs:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EE.UU.:** United States of America.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**EMBI:** Emerging Markets Bonds Index.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**i.a.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**IGBVL:** General Index of the Lima Stock Exchange.

**IGPA:** General Price Index of Shares.

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LFPIP:** Financing Line for Production and Financial Inclusion.

**LIBOR:** London Interbank Offered Rate.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3\*:** Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelable checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MULC:** Single and Free Foreign Exchange Market.

**MSCI:** Morgan Stanley Capital Investment.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**OCT:** Forward Arranged Operations.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligations.

**PFPB:** Bicentennial Production Financing Program.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**P.B.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**PyMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

**S&P:** Standard and Poor's.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Unit of Purchasing Power.

**VCP:** Short-Term Debt Value.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

---

*Monetary Report | September 2018 | BCRA | 16*
