# Monthly Monetary Report
## October 2018 Monthly Monetary Report
October 2018

## 1. Summary

Starting in October, the new monetary policy framework began to be implemented. The BCRA committed to not increase the balance of the monetary base above the average level it presented in September ($1,271 billion). In October the established target was met: the average monthly balance of the monetary base resulted in $1,252 billion, 1.5% below the September level.

The implementation of the new framework is carried out through daily auctions of LELIQ, in which a indicative placement amount and minimum interest rate are announced daily. The amount of LELIQ awarded determines the daily expansion of the monetary base and the cut-off interest rate. At the end of October, the average rate resulting from the placement of LELIQ was located at 68%, compared to the 65% that had been set at the end of September.

To absorb the expansion associated with the continuation of the LEBAC unwinding process, in October the BCRA ordered an increase of 3 p.p. in the minimum cash requirements on peso deposits, which can be integrated with LELIQ.

It also provided that the increase in the reserve requirement corresponding to the growth of time deposits can be completely integrated with LELIQ. This favored the transmission of the LELIQ rate towards the fixed-term rate. The TM20 of private banks averaged 53.8% in October, 10.2 p.p. above September, while the BADLAR of private banks averaged 50.7%, 8.9 p.p. more than last month.

Better yields led to time deposits moving from an average monthly nominal growth of 3.5% in the July-September quarter to 10.5% in October. Part of this growth was fed by funds released from the partial renewal of LEBAC and also by placements that were previously on demand.

Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with the downward trend they have been showing since mid-year. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they showed a decline of 5.3% in October, observing a generalized decrease in all credit lines. The evolution of loans to companies (non-agricultural) had as a correlate the unwinding of part of their position in foreign currency, which reflects the substitution of funding sources.

The statistical closing of this report was on November 7, 2018.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 1

## 2. Monetary Base

Starting in October, the Central Bank adopted a new monetary policy scheme, of strict control of monetary aggregates. Specifically, it committed to not increase the level of the monetary base¹ with respect to the average monthly level of September ($1,271 billion) until June 2019.²³ In October the established target was met: the average monthly balance of the monetary base resulted in $1,252 billion, 1.5% lower than the September level (see Chart 2.1).

**Chart 2.1** | **Chart 2.2**
---|---
thousands of | **Monetary Base** thousands of | **Factors of Variation of the Monetary Base**
millions of $ | (average monthly balance) millions of $ | October - average flows
1,500 | | 250
1,400 | Observed | 200
1,300 | Target | 150 | Other counterparties
1,200 | | 100 | Banks
1,100 | | 50
1,000 | | 0 | Integration of Reserves
900 | | -50 | "Drag" of operations from September
800 | | -100
700 | | -150
600 | Purchases of US$ / Purchases of US$ at TN / AT and LEBAC Utility / Other Public BCRA / BCRA Circ. in CC / Cash / LELIQ | -200 | 
| | | -250

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA
The monthly reduction in the monetary base was composed of decreases in cash in circulation held by the public ($11,500 million; 1.7%) and, to a lesser extent, in non-remunerated bank reserves, which include the balances of current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank and cash in financial entities (see chart 2.2). In particular, the absence of growth in cash in banks was related to the possibility –in effect as of October– that financial entities use their balances of cash in pesos not earmarked for interbank clearing to purchase Cash Compensation Notes (NOCOM). 4 These securities, with a 30-day term, accrue an interest rate equivalent to 1/5 of the LELIQ rate. The balance of NOCOM averaged $1,800 million in October.

The balances of current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA fell 1.6% ($8,400 million). The main factors that contributed to their decrease were modifications in minimum cash requirements and the considerable change in the composition of deposits in favor of fixed-term placements –both from the private sector and from the public sector– and to the detriment of those held on demand.

The changes in reserve requirements included the increase of 3 percentage points in the reserve requirement coefficients on deposits in pesos, eligible for integration with LELIQ5, intended mainly to counteract the expansionary monetary effect associated with the continuation of the process of unwinding the LEBAC stock; and the incorporation of the possibility of integrating the entire marginal reserve requirement –corresponding to net increase– of fixed-term deposits in pesos with LELIQ. This latter measure favored the transfer from the rate that banks obtain from their LELIQ holdings to the rates they pay to their depositors and resulted in the acceleration of growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector to 10.5% monthly (see Broad Monetary Aggregates and Passive Interest Rates). In this way, in October, the monetary expansion linked to the reduction of the LEBAC balance was compensated mainly by the increase in the LELIQ stock, intended fundamentally to meet reserve requirements. (see Chart 2.2).

The placement of LELIQ –the mechanism chosen to implement control of monetary aggregates– was carried out through daily auctions, in which the indicative amount to be placed and the minimum interest rate for assignment are announced. Starting from the 65% interest rate that was in effect for LELIQ at the end of September, the weighted average interest rates by amounts of the auctions increased during the first week of October, reaching 73.5%, and then began to decline, especially after the release of funds resulting from the partial renewal of the LEBAC maturity, until reaching 68% at the end of the month. In turn, as participants gradually incorporated information from successive results, bids concentrated in narrower bands of interest rates (see Chart 2.3).
Interest rates in the interfinancial loan markets aligned with those resulting from LELIQ auctions: while the rate for 1 business day call operations ended October at 67.2%, 5.4 p.p. above the value registered at the end of the previous month, the average interest rate for 1 business day operations between financial entities in the repo market was positioned at the close of the month at 60.7%, completing a monthly increase of 6.5 p.p. The distribution of operations among the different channels through which liquidity is reallocated among third parties (not including the BCRA) also began to reflect the gradual consolidation of LELIQ as the main instrument for liquidity management. In October, the amount traded in the secondary LELIQ market increased, while the amounts operated in the repo and call markets decreased (see Chart 2.4).

Chart 2.3 Chart 2.4

LELIQ Auction Interest Rates TNA, % Interest Rates in Pesos
TNA; % 75
100 Repo among third parties 1 day Call 1 day Monetary Policy Rate
 Accepted Bids Rejected Bids 70
 95 65 thousands of Daily average amount traded
 millions of $
 90 Cut-off Rate Average Rate 60 16 Repo among third parties Call LELIQ
 14 0.6 0.8
 85 55 12 3.0
 80 50 10 7.3 7.0
 8 6.6
 75 45 6
 4 6.9 5.4
 70 40 2 4.2
 35 0
 65 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18
 60 30
 25
 55 20

 50 15
 01-Oct 08-Oct 16-Oct 23-Oct 30-Oct Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18 Jul-18 Oct-18
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 33. Broad Monetary Aggregates and Passive Interest Rates

Due to the greater response that larger deposits typically show—which concentrate business placements—to changes in yields, the rates paid in those segments reflected more notably the pass-through of increases in the reference rate to those obtained by depositors (see Chart 3.1). Nevertheless, behavior was heterogeneous among different financial entities, as observed in the evolution of TM 20 dispersion—interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity—of private banks, which in recent weeks reflected the more aggressive attitude of some particular banks (see Chart 3.2). This translated into incipient changes in the distribution by entity of fund capture at fixed terms. In summary, the TM20 of private banks averaged 53.8% in October, 10.2 p.p. above September, while the BADLAR—interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days maturity—of private banks averaged 50.7%, showing a monthly increase of 8.9 p.p.

Chart 3.1 Chart 3.2

%; TNA TM20 and LELIQ p.p.
 TNA; % Short-term Interest Rates
 60 (Daily Data) 80 Standard deviation daily TM20 rate (5-day moving avg.; right axis) 16
 TM20 Private Banks
 56 Fixed-term deposits of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) 70 LELIQ Rate 14
 TM20 Private Banks
 52 BADLAR Private Banks 60 12

 48
 50 10
 44
 40 40 8

 36 30 6

 32 20 4

 28
 24 10 2

 20 0 0
 01-Jun-18 01-Jul-18 01-Aug-18 01-Sep-18 01-Oct-18 11-Jan-18 11-Mar-18 11-May-18 11-Jul-18 11-Sep-18
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

This evolution of passive interest rates Chart 3.3
allowed financial entities to capture a high proportion of the funds released following the partial renewal of LEBAC maturity that was in the hands of holders of the non-financial private sector and also to produce a transfer of sight deposits toward fixed-term deposits. In nominal terms, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector accelerated their monthly growth rate from an average of 3.5% during the July-September quarter to 10.5% in October (see Chart 3.3).
# Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 4

**Graph 3.4** The increase in time deposits of the private sector was what drove the nominal monthly growth of 2.8% of Private M3.6 In contrast, both cash in circulation held by the public and sight deposits decreased and explained the monthly reduction of 1.3% of Private M2, which accumulates in the last twelve months a nominal increase of 15.2%.7 When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, it is verified that the monetary aggregates of the private sector maintained the downward trend they have been showing since the beginning of this year. In particular, in October, private M2 decreased 4.8% (see Graph 3.4), while private M3 was reduced by 0.4%, despite the real increase in time deposits in pesos of the private sector.

In the foreign currency segment, the total balance of deposits ended October at US$30,800 million, with a reduction in placements of the public sector that was partially offset by the increase of those of the private sector. The latter grew US$230 million throughout the month, leaving behind the downward trajectory they had shown during the days of greater exchange rate volatility, between late August and the first half of September.

## 4. Loans to the Private Sector and Active Interest Rates

Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with the downward trend they have been showing since mid-year (see Graph 4.1). In real terms8 and adjusted for seasonality, they presented a decline of 5.3% in October, with a generalized decrease observed in

6 Private M3 includes cash in circulation held by the public and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
7 Private M2 includes cash in circulation held by the public and sight deposits in pesos of the private sector.
8 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the GBA CPI from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

---

Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 5

all credit lines. In nominal terms they also registered a monthly decrease, although in the last twelve months they accumulated an increase of 31.8% (see Graph 4.2).

In a context of acceleration of inflation and depreciation of the peso, mortgage loans left behind the dynamism they had shown during 2017 and until April of this year, a period of strong growth in loans denominated in UVA. Thus, in October they grew 1% in nominal terms, equivalent to a decrease of 3.2% adjusted for inflation and without seasonality. Mortgage credits in UVA were granted at an average weighted interest rate by amount of 6%, similar to that observed in the previous month.
On the other hand, in line with the decline in sales in the automotive market observed throughout the year, the amounts granted in pawn loans showed a new monthly decrease (see Graph 4.3). In turn, the participation of those denominated in UVA went from around 25% in the previous months to more than 50% in October, since they decreased at a lower rate than those granted at fixed rates. Those denominated in UVA were granted at an average rate of 16.2% (+1.7 p.p. with respect to September), while those granted without inflation adjustment were agreed at an average rate of 29.5% (+4.6 p.p. in the month). In this context, the balance of pawn loans remained stable in nominal terms with respect to September, which meant it fell back 4.7% in real terms and without seasonality.

Among the main lines intended mainly to finance companies, adjusted for seasonality, advances and documents registered decreases in real terms of 9.6% and 7.1%, respectively, and also in nominal terms. The interest rates charged in these segments stopped increasing during the last days of the month and, in particular, that of documents at sole signature showed a decline, driven by specific operations (see Graph 4.4). Loans in pesos to the private sector continued with the downward trend that they have been showing since mid-year. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they presented a decline of 5.3% in October, with a generalized decrease observed in all credit lines. The evolution of loans to non-agricultural companies had as its counterpart the unwinding of part of its position in foreign currency, which reflects the substitution of funding sources.

Regarding loans intended mainly for families, both credit card financing and personal loans continued to decline in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, with a decline of 3.3% and 4.1% monthly, in each case. In nominal terms, these lines presented insignificant variations.

Finally, the balance of loans in dollars to the private sector decreased 2.3% (US$375 million), with the average monthly balance standing at US$15,780 million. Documents at sole signature (mainly pre-financing of exports) explained almost the entirety of the monthly decline.

## 5. Banking Liquidity

The combination of the increase in deposits in pesos and the decline in loans led to an increase in banking liquidity in October.¹⁰ Due to the changes in the implementation of monetary policy and the increase in reserve requirements that can be integrated with the bills issued by the BCRA, the increase was made up entirely of greater holdings of LELIQ. In this way, voluntary liquidity continued to decrease, which is not allocated to reserve integration or intended to cover the cash needs of financial entities (see Graphs 5.1 and 5.2).

**Graph 4.3**
Pawn Loans in pesos and Sale of Automobiles
thousands of millions $ units
[Chart showing two lines: "Pawn Loans - Average daily real amount (October-18 prices; right axis)" and "Sale of automobiles to dealers" from Oct-13 to Oct-18]
Source: BCRA and ADEFA.

**Graph 4.4**
Active Interest Rates
TNA; %
[Chart showing three lines: "Discounted Documents," "Personal Loans," and "Documents at Sole Signature" from January-18 to October-18]
Source: BCRA

**Graph 5.1 and 5.2**
Variation of assets and liabilities in pesos of financial entities
thousands of October, average flows
millions of $
[Chart showing bar graph with values ranging from -50 to 200]

---

¹⁰ See Report on the Evolution of the Foreign Exchange Market and Foreign Exchange Balance: http://www.bcra.gob.ar/PublicacionesEstadisticas/Mercado_de_cambios.asp

Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 6
-100
 Loans to Fin. to CC Effective LEBAC Repos LELIQ Dep. Dep. Dep. Others
 Priv. S. Pub. S. BCRA Priv. S. Pub. S. Non-Res.
 Source: BCRA

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash in banks, the current account of entities at the Central Bank, as a percentage of deposits in dollars) registered an increase of 2.2 p.p. compared to the previous month, averaging 50.8% of deposits during the month of October. The increase is explained by increases of 1 p.p. each in cash in banks and in current accounts at the BCRA.

10 Defined as the sum of current accounts at the BCRA, cash and holdings of LELIQ, LEBAC, 2020 bond and NOCOM; as a percentage of deposits in pesos.

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 76. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

Starting in October, the implementation of the new monetary regime restored stability in the foreign exchange market. Thus, the peso/US dollar exchange rate moved downward within the non-intervention foreign exchange zone and ended the month at 36.2, registering a decline of 11.5% with respect to the level reached the previous month (see Chart 6.1). The real exchange rate stood at levels similar to those of mid-2010, registering a decrease of 15.3% during October (see Chart 6.2).

 Chart 6.1 Chart 6.2
 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
 17-dec-15=100
 170

 160

 150

 140

 130
 120 124.3
 119.9
 110 107.6

 100

 90

 80

 70
 aug-07dec-08apr-10aug-11dec-12apr-14aug-15dec-16apr-18
 Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

International reserves ended October with a balance of US$53,995 million, which implied an increase of US$4,952 million compared to the end of September. Said increase was explained by the disbursement of the second tranche of the stand-by program agreed with the IMF.

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 87. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables average
 oct-18 sep-18 dec-17 oct-17 Monthly Last 12
 months

Monetary Base 1,252,103 1,270,761 982,660 887,850 -1.5% 41.0%
 Monetary Circulation 748,146 758,377 741,724 675,524 -1.3% 10.8%
 Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 647,648 659,162 658,652 610,490 -1.7% 6.1%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 100,498 99,215 83,071 65,034 1.3% 54.5%
 Settlement Checks 0.3 0.3 1.2 0.3 3.0% -24.2%
 Current Account at the BCRA 503,957 512,384 240,936 212,326 -1.6% 137.4%

Stock of BCRA Repos
 Liabilities 7,899 10,374 63,989 66,637 -23.9% -88.1%
 Assets 0 0 3,679 257

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 513,539 320,495 - - 60.2% -

Stock of LEBAC (at nominal value) 268,002 496,706 1,144,103 1,109,942 -46.0% -75.9%
 In pesos 268,002 496,706 1,144,103 1,109,942 -46.0% -75.9%
 In banks 29,102 106,509 365,366 350,972 -72.7% -91.7%
 In dollars 0 0 0 0 - -

International Reserves of the BCRA 48,952 50,303 55,582 51,692 -2.7% -5.3%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 2,483,952 2,420,404 1,746,325 1,590,872 2.6% 56.1%
 Private Sector Deposits 1,728,361 1,652,252 1,377,906 1,262,064 4.6% 36.9%
 Current Account (2) 338,093 342,016 307,609 286,228 -1.1% 18.1%
 Savings Account 467,306 471,229 427,879 364,299 -0.8% 28.3%
 Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 847,504 770,851 587,942 564,401 9.9% 50.2%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 19,191 13,393 1,903 1,132 43.3% 1594.8%
 Other deposits (3) 56,267 54,764 52,573 46,004 2.7% 22.3%

 Public Sector Deposits 755,592 768,152 368,419 328,809 -1.6% 129.8%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 30,856 30,790 30,536 28,982 0.2% 6.5%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,576,467 1,593,461 1,321,449 1,205,374 -1.1% 30.8%
Loans to the private sector 1,550,089 1,566,584 1,293,516 1,175,708 -1.1% 31.8%
 Advances 165,566 173,750 130,466 118,736 -4.7% 39.4%
 Documents 264,408 274,346 278,052 256,865 -3.6% 2.9%
 Mortgage loans 207,146 205,160 122,762 101,506 1.0% 104.1%
 Pawn loans 99,983 100,633 87,098 81,377 -0.6% 22.9%
 Personal loans 422,295 420,892 347,638 319,821 0.3% 32.0%
 Credit cards 345,360 342,865 277,787 251,422 0.7% 37.4%
 Others 45,330 48,938 49,713 45,981 -7.4% -1.4%

 Loans to the public sector 26,378 26,876 27,933 29,666 -1.9% -11.1%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 15,826 16,202 14,846 14,453 -2.3% 9.5%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1,194,783 1,355,515 1,154,437 1,046,696 -11.9% 14.1%

 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 1,715,038 1,878,298 1,604,514 1,425,895 -8.7% 20.3%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in 3,131,601 3,079,566 2,404,978 2,201,363 1.7% 42.3%
pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 4,276,749 4,268,774 2,947,727 2,708,991 0.2% 57.9%

Private monetary aggregates

 M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 985,741 1,001,178 966,262 896,719 -1.5% 9.9%

 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 1,453,048 1,472,407 1,394,141 1,261,018 -1.3% 15.2%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in 2,376,009 2,311,414 2,036,559 1,872,554 2.8% 26.9%
pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 3,389,419 3,363,729 2,493,654 2,302,478 0.8% 47.2%

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 9 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2018 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -18,658 -1.5% 141,363 12.7% 269,444 27.4% 364,253 41.0%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -29,787 -2.3% -159,856 -14.4% -410,753 -41.8% -410,753 -46.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -36,796 -2.9% -104,928 -9.4% -38,767 -3.9% 3,723 0.4%
Temporary Advances and Profit Transfers -12,857 -1.0% -34,523 -3.1% 33,016 3.4% 68,323 7.7%
Other public sector operations 1,629 0.1% 27,710 2.5% -4,510 -0.5% -4,886 -0.6%
Sterilization (Repos, LEBAC and LELIQ) 47,984 3.8% 353,436 31.8% 614,683 62.6% 629,469 70.9%
Others 11,168 0.9% 59,522 5.4% 75,774 7.7% 78,377 8.8%

BCRA International Reserves -1,351 -2.7% -11,151 -18.6% -6,630 -11.9% -2,740 -5.3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -760 -1.5% -4,532 -7.5% -15,968 -28.7% -15,968 -30.9%
 Payment to international organizations -1 0.0% -70 -0.1% 13,635 24.5% 13,365 25.9%
 Other public sector operations -737 -1.5% -5,056 -8.4% -5,481 -9.9% -2,024 -3.9%
 Minimum cash requirement 326 0.6% -498 -0.8% -971 -1.7% -291 -0.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -168 -0.3% -994 -1.7% 2,155 3.9% 2,178 4.2%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund usage.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information Regime.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
oct-18sep-18ago-18
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 20,120,718,0
 Integration 20,020,918,2
 Position (1) -0,20,20,2
 Maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 73,973,973,9
 30 to 59 days 16,416,416,4
 60 to 89 days 4,14,14,1
 90 to 179 days 4,34,34,3
 more than 180 days 1,31,31,3
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24,224,224,2
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 43,743,743,7
 Position (1) 19,519,519,5
 Maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (2)
 Up to 29 days 56,456,456,4
 30 to 59 days 18,018,018,0
 60 to 89 days 11,711,711,7
 90 to 179 days 10,810,810,8
 180 to 365 days 3,03,03,0
 more than 365 days 0,10,10,1
(1) Position= Requirement - Integration
(2) Excludes fixed-term judicial deposits.
* Does not include the requirement or integration of minimum cash carried out with public sector securities or Leliq.
** Data corresponding to August and September are estimated.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 10 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates oct-18sep-18ago-18dic-17oct-17

Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 69.60 60.30 45.52 29.04 25.99
 Amount traded 6,6076,9667,2514,9174,232

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 47.7339.1632.4721.4819.71
 60 days or more 47.13 38.95 32.63 22.75 20.17
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 48.94 39.84 32.55 21.63 20.76
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 50.8641.7535.1523.1821.60

 In dollars
 30-44 days 1.371.250.990.500.45
 60 days or more 1.702.341.210.740.76
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.541.391.200.550.51
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.461.431.500.740.78

 Active Interest Rates oct-18sep-18ago-18dic-17oct-17

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 50.76 46.60 41.29 28.06 26.22
 Amount traded (total terms) 1,9371,8061,6891,2361,236
Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 73.70 63.57 51.78 34.14 31.49
 Documents on signature alone 62.1050.8441.5625.3522.64
 Mortgages 41.65 36.94 33.95 18.67 18.83
 Pledged loans 29.55 24.84 21.31 17.42 18.41
 Personal loans 63.2656.5648.6539.9938.36
 Credit cards n/a 49.93 47.31 42.21 39.39

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 78.1367.7649.8531.2427.13

 International Interest Rates oct-18sep-18ago-18dic-17oct-17

LIBOR
 1 month 2.29 2.18 2.07 1.49 1.24
 6 months 2.69 2.57 2.52 1.77 1.54

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 2.86 2.76 2.64 1.84 1.54
 10 years 3.163.002.892.402.36

FED Funds Rate 2.25 2.04 2.00 1.41 1.25

SELIC (at 1 year) 6.506.506.507.088.07

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 11 Interest Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates oct-18sep-18ago-18dic-17oct-17

BCRA repurchase rates
 Liabilities 1 day 51.7550.0036.3626.7524.61

Repurchase rates between third parties REPO wheel
 1 day 63.5756.6544.0327.7824.88

Amount traded in repurchase agreements between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 4,1405,3896,90810,7249,770

LELIQ Rate 71.5960.2543.86- -
LEBAC rates in pesos (1)
 1 month 57.0045.045.028.826.5
 2 months 57.0045.045.028.826.84
 3 months n/a45.0042.7528.8027.00

Amount traded in LEBAC in the secondary market (daily average)1,3035,827208614126029983

 Foreign Exchange Market oct-18sep-18ago-18dic-17oct-17

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 37.0538.6230.2017.7317.46
 Retail 37.1238.5030.3117.7917.52

Dollar Forward
 NDF 1 month 38.67 30.07 17.40 17.40 17.40
 ROFEX 1 month 38.82 39.97 31.19 18.10 17.82
 Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 34,28832,43627,11117,44110,929

Real (Pesos x Real) 9.85 9.39 7.66 5.38 5.47
Euro (Pesos per Euro) 42.54 44.94 34.85 20.99 20.52

Capital Markets Oct-18 Sep-18 Aug-18 Dec-17 Oct-17

MERVAL
 Index 29,606 31,351 26,995 27,798 27,105
 Amount traded (millions of pesos) 789 1,162 928 671 742

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 86.6 87.4 88.9 117.2 116.9
 BONAR 24 (US$) 97.5 96.2 98.7 115.6 116.3
 DISCOUNT ($) 88.1 83.1 80.1 102.6 108.6

Country Risk (basis points)
 BONAR 24 Spread vs. US Treasury Bond 685 752 656 217 231
 EMBI+ Argentina 660 673 669 356 354
 EMBI+ Latin America 542 554 546 464 433

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 128. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDRs: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in public hands, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in public hands, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOBAC: Central Bank Notes.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Informational Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Acquisitive Value.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | October 2018 | BCRA | 13
