# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2018

## 1. Summary

In December, the BCRA once again met its monetary base objective. The monthly average balance stood at $1,337 billion, $14 billion below the target for the month, achieving an overperformance marginally lower than the $16 billion objective determined in the December meeting of the COPOM. Among its components, the evolution of cash in circulation in the public's hands stood out, which presented an increase greater than seasonally expected, reversing the trend it had shown throughout the year.

The BCRA completed the process of liquidating the LEBAC stock. The monetary expansion generated by the maturity of these securities was only partially offset through LELIQ, which made it possible to address both the partial recovery and the seasonal increase in the demand for transactional money.

Part of the increase in the demand for transactional money meant a deceleration in the growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector, due to the liquidity needs of companies, higher than in the previous months. The monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits from the private sector grew 3% in December.

The absorption of liquidity through LELIQ continued to be carried out through daily auctions. The average interest rates of LELIQ auctions decreased until December 6 and then remained relatively stable. This stability in rates reflects the greater demand for cash and its lower elasticity to interest rates. At the end of the year, the average rate paid for LELIQ was 59.3%, 1.5 percentage points below that observed at the end of November and 14.2 percentage points below the maximum it had reached on October 8.

The interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits in pesos decreased with respect to November, reflecting part of the change in trend of the LELIQ rate. In particular, the BADLAR of private banks ended December at 49.5%, 1.8 percentage points below the end of November. A similar trajectory was followed by the TM20 of private banks, which ended the year at 51.7%, accumulating a monthly decline of 3 percentage points.

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, peso loans to the private sector decreased 4.8% compared to the previous month, with declines recorded in all financing lines. In this context, some lines registered decreases in their interest rates. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 63.9%, showing a decrease of 0.7 percentage points, and the rate charged for discounted documents averaged 58.8%, 4.3 percentage points below last month.

The statistical closing of this report was on January 7, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

For the third consecutive month, the BCRA met its
monetary base target.¹ It is worth recalling that this Chart 2.1
target is from December 6.3% higher than the
monthly average of September, given that it
accounts for the seasonal increase in the demand
for transactional money associated with the col-
lection of half of the annual supplementary salary
and other extraordinary payments, end-of-year
celebrations and the beginning of the vacation
period. The monetary base averaged $1,337 bil-
lion, $14 billion below the target of $1,351
billion (see Chart 2.1), achieving an overperfor-
mance marginally lower than the $16 billion ob-
jective determined in the December meeting of
the Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM).
Chart 3.2
The average interest rates for LELIQ auctions decreased until December 6 and subsequently remained relatively stable; at year-end, the average rate paid for LELIQ was 59.3%, 14.2 percentage points below the maximum that had been reached on October 8 and 1.5 percentage points below that observed at the end of November. The increase in the LELIQ rate that took place until this last date and the changes in reserve requirements – which included the possibility of integrating the total requirement corresponding to the extension of terms

³ Private M3 includes cash in circulation and the total of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector.
# Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 3

fixed in remunerated assets– favored the growth of rates paid by time deposits until the end of October, while in November and December they began to reflect part of the change in trend of the LELIQ rate. In particular, the BADLAR of private banks ended December at 49.5%, 1.8 p.p. below the end of November and 2 p.p. below the maximum reached at the end of October. A similar trajectory was followed by the TM20 of private banks, which ended the year at 51.7%, accumulating a monthly decline of 3 p.p. (see Chart 3.2).

## 4. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates

In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of loans to the private sector decreased for the third consecutive month (-2.3%), although the year-over-year variation stood at 19.1%. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, they decreased 4.8% in the month and accumulated a decline of 19.4% during the year (see Chart 4.1 and Chart 4.2).

Chart 4.1 Chart 4.2

All credit lines registered declines, including those Chart 4.3
intended to finance family consumption, which had
been making a positive or neutral contribution to
the growth of total loans in pesos. In this regard,
credit card financing accumulated a decline of
12.7% in real terms during the year. This occurs in
a context of declining sales in shopping centers,
which –according to the latest available data– in
October showed a real year-over-year decline of
18.7% (see Chart 4.3). For its part, personal loans
completed an annual decrease of 18% in real
terms.

Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 4

The interest rate on personal loans averaged
Chart 4.4 63.9%, showing a decline of 0.7 p.p. With regard
to interest rates on lines intended to finance
business activity, they showed heterogeneous
behaviors associated with the different participa-
tion that different financial entities had at each
moment of the month. While the rate charged
on single-signature documents averaged 64.9%,
showing an increase of 1.8 p.p.; the interest rate
on discounted documents averaged 58.8%, 4.3
p.p. below the previous month (see Chart 4.4).

## 5. Liquidity of financial entities

Chart 5.1

In this context of declining loans, financial
entities allocated funds from the increase in
deposits to increase their liquidity in pesos,
which reached 54.9% of deposits in December
(see Chart 5.1). As in the previous month, encash-
able reserves with LELIQ showed a high increase
(2.7 p.p.), which was associated with growth in
time deposit placements. In parallel, the expiry of
the last issue of LEBAC occurred, which on average
represented 0.1% of deposits.

With regard to liquidity in foreign currency, with a monthly average of 55.5% of deposits, it showed an increase of 3 p.p. compared to November, which was driven mainly by the increase in cash.

## 6. International reserves and foreign exchange market

During December, the stability presented by the foreign exchange market meant that the peso/US dollar exchange rate was located near the floor of the non-intervention zone (see Chart 6.1). The dollar price ended the year at $37.81, registering a decline of 0.56% with respect to the level reached at the end of November. The real exchange rate continued to fluctuate around values similar to those of mid-2010 and in the course of December.

The balance of international reserves ended December at US$65,806 million, which implied an increase of US$14,613 million compared to the previous month (see Chart 6.2). Said increase was
Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 5 explained both by the disbursement of the third tranche of the stand-by program agreed with the IMF as well as by the expansion of the swap with the People's Bank of China.

The lower volatility of the exchange rate was evident both in the spot market and in the forward market. In the futures market, in a context of lower demand, the BCRA chose not to renew the contracts previously offered, closing its position in said market at zero at the end of 2018. The latter allowed the over-fulfillment of the target established in the agreement with the IMF regarding the futures position. Likewise, the floor established in the net international reserves for the end of December was also met.

Chart 6.1 Chart 6.2

Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 6

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 10

8. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Letters.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Letters.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | December 2018 | BCRA | 11
