# Monetary Report
Monthly
November 2018 Monetary Report Monthly
November 2018

## 1. Summary

In November, the BCRA once again met its monetary base target. The average monthly balance of the monetary base was located at $1,256 billion in November, 1.1% ($14.5 billion) below that of last September.

The BCRA continued with the process of unwinding the LEBAC stock. Most of the funds released were in the hands of the non-financial sector, which allocated them mainly to increase fixed-term deposits. In turn, financial entities directed the deposits captured and the resources they received from their own LEBAC holdings to increase their LELIQ balances. Ultimately, the expansion associated with the decrease in the LEBAC balance was almost completely sterilized through the increase in the LELIQ stock.

Liquidity absorption through LELIQ continued to be carried out through daily auctions. During the course of the month, the average interest rate resulting from these placements maintained a downward trend and at the end of November it was located at 60.75%, 7.3 p.p. below the value recorded at the end of October.

The interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits in pesos averaged values higher than those of October. In particular, the TM20 of private banks averaged 54.9% in November, 1.1 p.p. above October. At the end of November, the rates offered for fixed-term deposits began to reflect the fall in the reference rate of monetary policy (LELIQ).

Under these conditions and in a period in which the demand for foreign currency by individuals and companies remained at reduced levels, the average monthly balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector grew 10.3% ($89.1 billion) in November, completing an increase of 21.9% ($171.8 billion) in the last two months.

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector decreased 4.6% compared to the previous month, with declines recorded in all financing lines. However, in real terms, in November the amount granted for loans to companies stopped falling, both for SMEs and for larger ones.

The statistical closing of this report was on December 6, 2018.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 1

## 2. Implementation of Monetary Policy and Banking Liquidity

Within the framework of the monetary aggregates control scheme, the average monthly balance of the monetary base was located at $1,256 billion in November, 1.1% ($14.5 billion) below that of last September, which meant that the BCRA again met its monetary base target (see Graph 2.1).¹ The average monthly balance of the monetary base was similar to that of October (0.3% higher). The fall in currency in the hands of the public (-2.2%) was offset by an increase in current accounts at the BCRA (3%), in line with the growth of deposits and the requirement of non-remunerated reserve requirements.
The limited increase in the monetary base was the counterpart of the almost complete sterilization, through LELIQ, of the monetary expansion associated with the unwinding of LEBAC. The decrease in the stock of LEBAC continued under conditions similar to those already adopted in the previous months. Financial entities were not permitted to renew their LEBAC holdings and only partial renewal by the rest of the holders was accepted. Thus, non-financial sector holdings accounted for 87% of the monetary expansion associated with the decrease in the balance of LEBAC in circulation. Most of these funds were directed towards fixed-term placements in pesos from the private sector, which accumulated an average monthly increase of $89.1 billion. In turn, financial entities allocated the deposits they captured and the funds they received after the maturity of their own LEBAC holdings to increase their LELIQ balances (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.2

Financial entities

1 The monetary base includes currency in the hands of the public, cash in banks and current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA.

Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 2 Chart 2.3 The increase in LELIQ holdings of financial entities was greater than required by reserve requirement regulations. In addition to assets equivalent to 34.2% of peso deposits to comply with the reserve requirement demanded by regulations (including what can be deposited in current accounts, LELIQ and the 2020 bond), banks maintained cash to attend to their usual operations at 3.9% of deposits and excess liquidity composed mainly of LELIQ and, to a lesser extent, by the remaining balance of LEBAC (for a total that represented 14.6% of deposits; see Chart 2.3).2

The absorption of liquidity through LELIQ continued to be carried out through daily auctions. The average placement rates of these letters continued to show sustained decline, especially during the first three weeks of the month. Even the minimum interest rate for placement announced in each auction, which had been maintained at 65% in October and during the first days of the month under analysis, was reduced to 60% as of November 14. At the end of November, the average LELIQ placement rate was 60.75%, 7.3 p.p. below the value recorded at the end of October and 12.8 p.p. lower than the maximum it had reached in early last month. It is worth noting that this decrease in rates occurred in the context of overperformance of the monetary base target and the persistence of the peso's exchange rate against the United States dollar at levels close to the lower limit of the non-intervention exchange rate band. For its part, interest rates in interbank loan markets accompanied the trajectory of the LELIQ rate (see Chart 2.4).

3. Broad monetary aggregates and passive interest rates

The response of passive interest rates to the decrease in the LELIQ rate was more moderate than that shown by interbank loan market rates. As of mid-October they stopped increasing and remained relatively stable. In particular, the TM20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 54.9% in November, 1.1 p.p. above October, while the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks averaged 51.3%, showing an increase of 0.6 p.p. with respect to last month (see Chart

2 The reserve requirement requirement figures are provisional and correspond to estimates.
# Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 3

3.1). Only during the last days of November was an incipient decline in the rates paid for larger amount placements observed. The nominal values observed implied positive real interest rates, which continued to favor the growth of time deposits in pesos from the private sector, which once again became the most dynamic component of private M3.3 The monthly average balance of time deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 10.3% ($89.1 billion), completing an increase of 21.9% ($171.8 billion) in the last two months (see Graph 3.2).

 Graph 3.1 Graph 3.2

The notable dynamism of time deposits in pesos coincided with a notable decline in foreign currency purchases by individuals and companies during October and November.4

Unlike what occurred in the placement segment more related to savings, means of payment (Private M2) presented a nominal decline adjusted for seasonality for the second consecutive month.
 Graph 3.3 The nominal variation mentioned for currency in
 circulation continues in negative territory when
 considering seasonally adjusted balances and
 reaches -4.6% when adjusted for seasonality and
 prices. Demand deposits in pesos from the
 private sector also fell (-3.9%) in seasonally
 adjusted real terms. In short,
 considering balances in real terms and
 adjusted for seasonality, Private M2 fell 4.4%,
 while Private M3 grew 0.3% (see Graph 3.3).5

3 Private M3 includes currency in circulation and deposits from the private sector in pesos.
4 See the "Report on the Evolution of the Foreign Exchange Market and Foreign Exchange Balance" at http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Pdfs/PublicacionesEstadisticas/Informe_Octubre_18.pdf
5 Values in real terms were calculated using core inflation indices: the National CPI series from INDEC were used from January 2017, between May 2016 and December 2016 the CPI GBA from INDEC and between July 2012 and December 2015 the CPI from the City of Buenos Aires, base Jul-11/Jun-12.

 Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 4

## 4. Loans to the Private Sector and Active Interest Rates

In November, loans in pesos to the private sector decreased 4.6% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality compared to the previous month (see Graph 4.1), with declines recorded in all financing lines. In nominal terms, the balance without seasonality was reduced for the second consecutive month (1.1%; see Graph 4.2).

 Graph 4.1 Graph 4.2

When considering the latest available information on the real balance of loans in pesos disaggregated by type of creditor –which includes data through September– it is observed that those granted to individuals maintained an upward trend during the first five months of this year and then began to decline, driven mainly by the evolution of mortgage and personal credits. In contrast, loans granted to companies maintained a downward trend since the end of 2017 (see Graph 4.3). Nevertheless, the information corresponding to amounts granted, which also includes disbursements in October and November, indicates that the granting of credit to companies stopped falling in real terms in the last month, with interest rates that also stabilized (see Graph 4.4).

 Graph 4.3 Graph 4.4
**Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 5**

The interest rates on loan lines primarily intended for families also began to stabilize over the course of October; fundamentally in the segment of financing denominated in pesos and with fixed interest rates. In particular, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 64.5%, showing an increase of 1.1 percentage points. Meanwhile, among loans denominated in UVA, mortgage credits were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 5.6%, showing a decrease of 0.5 percentage points with respect to the previous month, while the interest rate on personal credits averaged 18.3%, 2.1 percentage points above last month. In this latter case, the increase was explained by the different weightings that the various borrower segments had over the course of the period: when lending is concentrated in borrowers considered higher risk, the weighted average cost of the line increases (see Graph 4.5).

**5. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market**

Net demand for foreign currency by individuals and companies was moderate during November, which contributed to the peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate remaining close to the floor of the non-intervention zone during most of the month. The dollar price ended November at $38.02, registering a 5% increase with respect to the level reached at the end of the previous month (see Graph 5.1). The real exchange rate was located at levels similar to those of mid-2010, and over the course of November it registered an increase of 4.7% (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 | Graph 5.2

The balance of international reserves ended November at US$51,193 million, which implied a decrease of US$2,762 million with respect to the previous month, explained mainly by net payments of foreign currency debt by the national government. The BCRA did not intervene in the foreign exchange market.

Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 6

**7. Monetary and Financial Indicators**

Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 7
Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 8
Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 9
Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 10

**8. Glossary**
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days maturity.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

DEG: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

FCI: Common Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

i.a.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IPC: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product.

P.B.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

PyMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and for 30 to 35 days maturity.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | November 2018 | BCRA | 11
