# Monetary Report
Monthly
April 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
April 2019

## 1. Summary

In March, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Committee decided to extend the 0% growth target for the monetary base (MB) until December. Therefore, it set the monthly average target for the MB at the level reached in February: $1,343 billion (net of the expansion from foreign currency purchases and the seasonal increase in December). In April, the monthly average of the MB reached $1,325 billion, so the BCRA again exceeded its objective, this time by $18 billion (1.4%).

The average LELIQ rate increased 5.8 percentage points between the end of March and April, placing itself at 73.9% at the end of the latter month. Interest rates on fixed-term deposits continued to partially replicate the increase in the monetary policy rate. For example, the TM20 of private banks ended the month at 55%, 6.1 percentage points above its value at the close of March.

To promote a more effective transmission of variations in the BCRA's reference rate towards the returns received by depositors, effective from May, the BCRA enabled financial entities to capture customer deposits without a prior contractual relationship.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 1.3% ($14.5 billion) in April and 1.8% when considering the seasonally adjusted balance. Thus, they accumulated growth of 71% over the last 12 months.

The seasonally adjusted balance of peso loans to the private sector decreased 0.2% in April, with lower dynamism in financing with credit cards compared to previous months. In contrast, credits granted through documents resumed growth. In this segment, loans destined for SMEs with subsidized interest rates are being disbursed.

To reinforce the contractionary bias of its monetary policy and in the face of increased exchange rate volatility, at the end of April, the BCRA announced that it could sell foreign currency even when the exchange rate is within what it had previously defined as a non-intervention zone. It also increased from US$150 to US$250 million the amount of daily sales stipulated above that range. In April, the BCRA did not carry out operations in the spot foreign exchange market.

The balance of international reserves ended April at US$71,662 million, US$5,475 million above the level at the end of March. Said increase was explained by the disbursement of the fourth tranche of the stand-by program agreed with the IMF, which was partially offset by National Treasury foreign currency debt payments.

The statistical closing of this report was on May 7, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates
In mid-March, the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) tightened its Monetary Base (MB) target, establishing a growth of 0% until the end of 2019 from the level recorded in February, $1.343 billion, net of the expansion from foreign currency purchases and the seasonal increase in December.¹ In April, the monthly average of the MB reached $1.325 billion, so the BCRA once again exceeded its objective, this time by $18 billion (1.4%; see Graph 2.1). The MB presented an increase of 0.8% in April, explained mainly by the increase in monetary circulation (1.2%), since the other component of the MB, the current account at the BCRA, remained stable with respect to March.

The seasonally adjusted monthly increase in currency in circulation by the public was the highest of recent months, standing at 3.4%, encouraged by increases in allocations received by sectors that typically make more intensive use of cash money starting in March, recipients of social benefits and retirees. Nevertheless, in the last 12 months the nominal growth of currency in circulation by the public was well below that of prices, reaching 7%. For its part, demand deposits of the private sector also grew in nominal terms (1.2%), showing a seasonally adjusted increase of 2.4%. When measured in terms of GDP, both currency in circulation by the public and demand deposits in pesos of the private sector are at minimum levels for recent years (see Graph 2.2).

Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector were the component of private M3 that grew the most in nominal terms in April. The monthly average balance of this type of placements increased 1.3% ($14.5 billion; see Graph 2.3) and 1.8% when considering the seasonally adjusted balance. The monthly growth was composed mainly of company placements, accompanying the increase in the equity of money market investment funds, which invest around 50% of their portfolio in fixed-term deposits, concentrated in the first half of the month.

Passive interest rates remained stable for most of April, partially accompanying the increase in the policy interest rate during the last days of the month. The TM20 rate – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended the month at 55%, 6.1 percentage points above the closing value in March. In turn, the interest rate paid for fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days increased 6.7 percentage points throughout the month and stood at 46.2% at the end of April (see Graph 2.4). The average LELIQ rate increased 5.8 percentage points between the end of March and April, standing at 73.9% at the end of the latter month.

It is worth noting that, effective as of May, the BCRA enabled financial entities to capture fixed-term placements in pesos from clients with whom they do not have a prior contractual relationship, with the objective of encouraging competition and promoting a more effective pass-through from the monetary policy rate to the returns received by depositors.² To promote transparency, the BCRA began publishing on its website a comparative table with the interest rates offered by different financial entities.³

3. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates
In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector presented a decrease of 0.2% in April, completing a variation of 4% in the last 12 months. The reversal of the sign of the monthly variation with respect to the two previous months was explained mostly by the lower dynamism of credit card financing.

The monthly decrease recorded in credit card financing was 0.5% (nominal seasonally adjusted) and in the last twelve months accumulated a nominal growth close to 20%. For its part, personal loans grew for the third consecutive month: 0.3% in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, with a year-on-year variation of 8.3%.

Within commercial loans, advances recorded a decrease of 0.5% in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, while documents increased 0.2% during the month. It is worth mentioning that financing continued to be granted at preferential rates to SMEs, although the participation of discounted documents with rates lower than 30% (TNA) was lower than that of the previous month (going from 25% in total operations in March to 16% in April). Interest rates on these lines increased during the month: the rate charged for loans granted in the form of single-signature documents averaged 60.5%, 4.2 percentage points above March, while the average discount rate on documents averaged 52.7%, with a monthly increase of 6.5 percentage points.

Regarding loans with real guarantees, the balance without seasonality of mortgage loans showed an increase of 0.5%, while chattel loans continued to decline in April (-0.6% nominal and adjusted for seasonality). Interest rates on these lines showed no significant changes during the month. In the segment of operations in UVA, which encompasses almost all mortgages and half of chattel loans, the interest rate on mortgage loans averaged 6.2% and on chattel loans 14.8%.

In summary, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector declined 4% in April.

## 4. Liquidity of financial entities

In April, broad liquidity in pesos of financial entities – which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, cash, LELIQ and the National Treasury bond admitted to integrate reserve requirements – increased again since, although the total of deposits in pesos decreased through placements by the public sector, there was also net cancellation of loans (see Graph 4.1).

Similarly to what was observed in previous months, the monthly increase in liquidity was composed of the holding of LELIQ of "free availability", which is not intended to meet reserve requirements (see Graph 4.2).

## 5. International reserves and foreign exchange market

On April 16, the COPOM decided to reduce the update rate of the limits of the foreign exchange reference zone to 0% for the remainder of the year. That is, the lower and upper limits will remain constant at 39.755 and 51.448, respectively, until December 31, 2019. If the exchange
Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 5

exchange rate would be located below the zone, the BCRA will not perform dollar purchases until June 30 next. During the course of April, the peso/US dollar exchange rate was located within the exchange rate reference zone. The dollar price ended the month at $44.01, registering an increase of 1.5% with respect to the level reached at the end of March (see Graph 5.1). The real exchange rate, although it is located below the maximum it had reached in September 2018, continues to be positioned above the average registered between mid-2016 and March 2018. During the course of April it showed a decline of 1.8% (see Graph 5.2).

On April 29, due to the high volatility observed in the last days of the month, the COPOM informed that the BCRA may perform dollar sales even if the exchange rate were located below $51.448 and that, if the exchange rate were located above this level, the amount of daily sales stipulated reaches US$250 million. Likewise, it may determine the realization of additional interventions to counteract episodes of excessive volatility if it deems it necessary.

The balance of international reserves ended April at US$71,662 million, which implied an increase of US$5,475 million with respect to the previous month. Said increase was explained by the disbursement of the fourth installment of the stand-by program agreed with the IMF, which was partially compensated by foreign currency debt payment of the National Treasury.

4 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-010419.asp
5 Until 28/04/2019 it was called "non-intervention zone".
6 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-290419.asp

Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 6

6. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 10

7. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
BP: Basis Points.
pp: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | April 2019 | BCRA | 11
