# Monetary Report
Monthly
March 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
 March 2019

## 1. Summary

  In March, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Committee decided to extend the 0% growth target for the monetary
 base (MB) until December. Therefore, it set the average monthly target for the MB at the level reached in
 February: $1,343 billion (net of the expansion from foreign currency purchases and the seasonal increase in
 December). The average monthly Monetary Base (MB) for March was $1,314 billion, which implied an over-
 compliance of $29 billion (2%) with respect to the new target.

  During the month, cash in circulation remained stable in nominal terms with respect to February and in
 seasonally adjusted terms grew 2.3% in a month in which the incomes of retirees and recipients of social
 allowances were adjusted, groups that make more intensive use of cash. Meanwhile, bank current accounts
 at the BCRA, the main transmission channel of monetary policy in the current framework, was the component
 that explained the monthly decrease in the MB.

  As a counterpart to monetary restriction, the reference interest rate reacted upward. During March, the
 monetary policy interest rate increased 18 basis points and stood at 68.2% at the end of the month. The
 increase in the LELIQ interest rate was partially passed through to the rates received by depositors. In the
 segment of fixed-term deposits of larger amounts, the TM20 rate of private banks ended the month at 48.9%,
 10.6 basis points above the value it presented at the close of February.

  Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 1.5% with respect to February and accumu-
 lated growth of 72% in the last 12 months. The 53% monthly growth was composed of placements
 denominated in UVA.

  Loans in pesos to the private sector increased for the second consecutive month (0.5%) when comparing
 seasonally adjusted nominal balances. Among the lines that drove the increase is the granting of loans to
 SMEs with preferential interest rates, which led to financings through documents increasing 0.7% in nominal
 and seasonally adjusted terms.

  In terms of interest rates, the greater impact of this line was on financings in the form of document
 discounts, whose average rate stood at 46.3%, 3.6 basis points below that of February. In contrast, the rate
 on documents with sole signature followed a trajectory more similar to that of the rest of short-term rates,
 with a decline until mid-February and an increase thereafter. It averaged March 56.3%, showing a monthly
 increase of 4.1 basis points.

 The statistical closing of this report was April 5, 2019.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

In March, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Committee decided to extend the 0% growth target for the
monetary base (MB) until December. Therefore, it set the average monthly target for the MB at the
level reached in February: $1,343 billion (net of the expansion from foreign currency purchases and
the seasonal increase in December).1 The average monthly MB for March was $1,314 billion, which
implied an overcompliance of $29 billion (2%).

The decrease in the average monthly balance of the MB was composed of the fall in bank reserves
and the nominal stability of cash in circulation. In seasonally adjusted terms, cash in circulation
grew 2.3% in a month in which the incomes of retirees and recipients of social allowances were
adjusted, groups that make more intensive use of cash.
As a counterpart to monetary restriction, the reference interest rate reacted endogenously upward. During March, the monetary policy interest rate increased 18 percentage points and stood at 68.2% at the end of the month (see Chart 2.2).2 The increase in the interest rate on LELIQs was partially passed through to those received by depositors. In the segment of time deposits of larger

Chart 2.2 Chart 2.3

amounts, the TM20 rate –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity– of private banks ended the month at 48.9%, 10.6 percentage points above the value it presented at the close of February. This segment of time deposits is accessed mainly by financial services provider companies –mutual investment funds and insurance companies– which also account for most of the placements made in remunerated sight deposits

1 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-140319.asp
2 During the month of April, the BCRA will absorb the necessary liquidity to sustain a minimum rate of 62.5%. See
http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Noticia-copom-0104.asp

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 2

remunerated. In this latter market, which is highly concentrated in a reduced number of financial entities, the interest rate received by financial services provider companies on remunerated sight deposits increased 10 percentage points, reaching 43.6% at the end of March.

In March, the average balance of remunerated sight placements was equivalent to Chart 2.4
10% of the total sight deposits in pesos of the private sector and less than 5% of the total deposits in pesos of the private sector. Nevertheless, they concentrated approximately half of the nominal increase in the average monthly balance of private sight deposits, which totaled 3.5% and rose to 6.4% when considering seasonally adjusted balances. This acceleration in the nominal growth of sight deposits along with that presented by currency in circulation led private M2 to grow 2% in nominal terms and 4.7% when seasonally adjusted (see Chart 2.4).

Chart 2.5 In contrast, time deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 1.5% ($17 billion) in nominal terms, decelerating its growth rate compared to previous months. This deceleration was related mainly to the evolution observed between mid-February and the first week of March, while during the following three weeks it resumed an upward trend (see Chart 2.5). Between mid-February and March there was also a change in the composition of the increase in fixed-term deposits, in favor of placements denominated in UVA, which concentrated 53% of the average monthly increase. Some financial entities adopted a more aggressive stance to capture deposits, increasing the interest rates paid on placements in this segment. Although the average monthly rate of fixed-term deposits in UVA of more than 90 days stood at 6.3%, it ranged from minimums close to 2% to maximums around 8%.

When considering balances in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, there was an increase of 1.1% in Private M2 and a decrease of 0.4% in Private M3, motivated by the reduction in time deposits (3.4% real without seasonality) and currency in circulation (1.2% real without seasonality), which were offset by the increase in sight placements (2.7% real without seasonality).

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 3

3. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates
In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector grew again, presenting an increase of 0.5% and accumulating year-on-year growth of 8% (see Graph 3.1). The monthly increase was composed of commercial loans and those destined for consumption, while those granted with real collateral remained almost unchanged compared to the previous month.

Among commercial loans, those granted through documents received the boost from financing at subsidized interest rates, destined for SMEs, which began to be granted starting in March. In the case of discounted documents, this resulted in an increase in the share of financing granted at interest rates below 30% (see Graph 3.3). The total financing instrumented through documents –which includes discounted documents, single signature and purchased– presented a nominal deseasonal­ized increase of 0.7%.

Graph 3.2 Graph 3.3

The granting of loans to SMEs with preferential rates was concentrated during the first days of March, which meant that during that period a marked decline in the weighted average rate by amount of discounted documents was observed, which subsequently reversed as the weighting of this segment of operations diminished. The average monthly discount rate for documents stood at 46.2%, 3.6 percentage points below that of February. In contrast, the rate for single signature documents followed a trajectory more similar to that of the rest of short-term rates, with a decline until mid-February and an increase from then on. Thus, it averaged 56.3% in March showing a monthly increase of 4.1 percentage points (see Graph 3.2).

Among those destined mostly to the consumption of families, financing with credit cards increased 1% and personal loans remained stable. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 60.9%, 1.3 percentage points below that observed in February. On the other hand, among loans with real collateral, the balance without seasonality of mortgage loans remained practically unchanged, with an average rate for those granted in UVA of 5.8%. Pawn loans decreased 0.5%.

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector continued to decrease, registering a variation of -3% monthly.

4. Liquidity of financial entities

Graph 4.1 In March, the total deposits in pesos decreased, because the increase in the placements of the private sector was more than offset by the fall in those of the public sector. Nevertheless, financial entities increased their funding in pesos through the collection of loans and the sale of dollars, whereby broad liquidity –which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, cash, LELIQs and the National Treasury bond admitted to integrate reserve requirements– in terms of deposits increased 1.7 percentage points with respect to February. In turn, given the lower needs for integration of reserve requirements in current accounts, in the month there was a redistribution of liquidity in favor of LELIQs (see Graph 4.1).

5. International reserves and foreign exchange market
During March, the peso/US dollar exchange rate continued fluctuating within the non-intervention zone. The dollar price ended the month at $43.35, registering an increase of 11.2% with respect to the level reached at the end of February (see Chart 5.1). Between April 1 and June 30, 2019, the limits of the non-intervention zone will be updated daily at a monthly rate of 1.75%, in accordance with the guidelines established in the BCRA Monetary Policy Committee communiqué of March 14.³ The real exchange rate, although it was located below the maximum that it had reached in September 2018, was above the average it recorded between mid-2016 and March 2018. During the course of March it registered an increase of 4.4% (see Chart 5.2).

³ http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-140319.asp

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 5 Chart 5.1 Chart 5.2

The balance of international reserves ended March at US$66,187 million, which implied a decrease of US$1,828 million with respect to the previous month. The monthly decline was explained mainly by the payment of foreign currency debt by the National Treasury.

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 6 Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 10 7. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | March 2019 | BCRA | 11
