# Monetary Report
Monthly
January 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
 January 2019

## 1. Summary

  The BCRA again met its monetary base (MB) target in January. The average MB was located at $1,346 billion, 1%
 ($12 billion) below the target and 0.7% above December.

  The exchange rate was located below the non-intervention zone during most of the month and the BCRA purchased
 US$560 million. The pesos injected through these purchases added $6.8 billion to the January MB target and added $20.9
 billion to the MB targets for the following months, to which the impact of purchases made from February onwards must be added.

  The performance of the foreign exchange market had as its counterpart the increase in demand for peso savings instruments. In
 particular, fixed-term deposits in pesos grew $81.3 billion (8.4%) compared to December and accumulated a year-on-year
 increase of 68.6%.

  The liquidity injection associated with currency purchases drove a decrease in the rate paid for LELIQs, which at the
 end of January was located at 53.7%, 5.6 p.p. below the value recorded at the end of 2018 and 19.8 p.p. lower than the
 maximum reached on October 8.

  The decrease in interest rates on LELIQs was passed on to interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits, which maintained
 a downward trend, more pronounced in the segment of larger deposits. The TM20 of private banks ended the month at
 46%, 5.7 p.p. below the level it showed a month earlier.

  Loans in pesos to the private sector showed a decline of 3.7% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. Mortgage loans
 showed a moderate nominal increase compared to the previous month (0.2%). Financing through this line was almost
 exclusively composed of those denominated in UVA, which were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount
 of 5.9%.

  The balance of international reserves increased US$1,005 million in January, to US$66,811 million, driven by BCRA
 currency purchases.

 The statistical closing of this report was on February 6, 2019.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 2. Monetary Aggregates

The BCRA again met its monetary base (MB) target Chart 2.1
in January.¹ The monetary scheme in force
contemplates corrections in the MB target
corresponding to currency purchases by the
Central Bank when the exchange rate is below
the non-intervention zone. This was the case
during most of the month and the BCRA
purchased US$560 million. The pesos injected
through these purchases increased by $6.8
billion the MB target for January, which went
from $1,351 billion to $1,358 billion. The
currency purchases in January imply an upward
correction of $20.9 billion to the MB targets for
the following months, to which the monetary
effect of those made from February onwards
must be added.

The average MB was located, in January, at $1,346 billion, 1% ($12 billion) below the
target and 0.7% above December (see Chart 2.1).

Chart 2.2 Chart 2.3
The counterpart of the foreign exchange market's performance was the increased demand for peso-denominated savings instruments. In particular, private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos grew 8.4% ($81.3 billion) in January (see Graph 2.2), accumulating a nominal growth of 68.6% over the last 12 months. Among time placements, the increase concentrated in the segment of larger-amount deposits. Part of this dynamic was associated with the growth of the assets of money market and fixed-income mutual funds, which allocate 40% and 16% of their portfolios, respectively, to fixed-term deposits. The increase in these deposits more than offset the decline in sight deposits in pesos from the private sector (-3.1% nominal and -0.7% when seasonally adjusted).

1 The monetary base includes cash in circulation with the public, cash in banks, and current accounts of entities at the BCRA.

Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 2

Cash in circulation with the public was on average high: it increased 4.3% in nominal terms and 2.6% nominal seasonally adjusted. This dynamic is primarily due to the "statistical carryover" from December to January. However, during the course of the month, cash in circulation declined in line with its usual behavior (see Graph 2.3).

When considering balances in real and seasonally adjusted terms, we see a decline in sight deposits, against stability in cash in circulation with the public and an increase in fixed-term placements. Ultimately, total cash in circulation with the public and sight deposits in pesos from the private sector (Private M2) fell 1.7% compared to the previous month, and the private M3 aggregate, which additionally includes fixed-term deposits, declined 0.5%.

3. Liquidity Management and Passive Interest Rates

Graph 3.1 Graph 3.2

To comply with the BM target, the BCRA conducts daily auctions of an indicative amount of LELIQ. The interest rate is determined endogenously in these auctions. The liquidity injection associated with currency purchases drove down the rate paid by LELIQ, which at the end of January stood at 53.7%, 5.6 p.p. below the value recorded at the end of 2018 and 19.8 p.p. lower than the maximum reached on October 8 (see Graph 3.1).

The interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits reflected the evolution of the LELIQ rate and maintained a downward trend, more pronounced in the segment of larger-amount deposits. In particular, the TM20 – the interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with a maturity of 30 to 35 days – from private banks ended the month at 46%, 5.7 p.p. below the level it presented one month earlier.

4. Loans to the Private Sector and Active Interest Rates

In January, loans in pesos to the private sector presented a decline of 3.7% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality. In nominal terms, the balance without seasonality had a variation of -1.4% in January. Thus, the year-over-year nominal growth continued to decelerate and stood at 14%.

Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 3

Among the different credit lines, those Graph 4.1
primarily destined to finance companies
showed the most significant declines (see
Graph 4.1), with monthly declines –nominal
seasonally adjusted– of 4.8% for advances
and 4.6% for documents.

The interest rates charged on the different
lines had differentiated evolutions. On one
hand, the rate on loans granted through
single-signature documents averaged 65.2%,
showing an increase of 0.4 p.p.. On the other
hand, the rate applied to the discount of documents, which by concentrating shorter-term operations captures more quickly the changes in reference rates, had a decline of 1 p.p. compared to December, and averaged 57.7%.
Mortgage loans continued to decelerate, although they still showed a moderate nominal increase compared to the previous month (0.2%). Financing through this line was almost exclusively comprised of those denominated in UVA, which were granted at a weighted average interest rate by amount of 5.9%, showing a decline of 0.1 p.p. compared to the previous month.

## 5. Liquidity of Financial Entities

 **Graph 5.1**
 Financial entities allocated the increase in their deposits mainly to purchase LE-LIQ. Thus, the monthly increase in broad liquidity in pesos was composed of the growth in holdings of bills of "free availability", not affected by the compliance of reserve requirements (see Graph 5.1).

 On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency averaged 56% of deposits in January, almost unchanged compared to its level in December (+0.1 p.p.).

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

The peso/US dollar exchange rate was located slightly below the floor of the non-intervention zone during most of January, which led the BCRA to purchase foreign currency in the exchange market through daily auctions, following the guidelines defined in the communiqué of the Monetary Policy Committee issued at the beginning of the year (see Graph 6.1).²

 **Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2**

The dollar price ended the month at $37.04, registering a drop of 2% compared to the level at the end of December. The real exchange rate continued to fluctuate around values similar to those at the end of 2011, and during the course of January it registered a decrease of 0.4% (see Graph 6.2).

BCRA's dollar purchases (US$560 million) and the gain from the US dollar quotation against other currencies (US$660 million) explain the growth of US$1,005 million in the balance of international reserves during January, reaching US$66,811 million at the end of the month.

² See communiqué from 2-Jan-19 at http://www.bcra.gob.ar/PoliticaMonetaria/comunicados.asp

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 6 Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 9

## 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

DEG: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

FCI: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

i.a.: year-on-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute

IPC: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product.

P.B.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage points.

PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Acquisition Value Unit

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | January 2019 | BCRA | 10
