# Monetary Report
Monthly
June 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
 June 2019

## 1. Summary

  For the ninth consecutive month, the BCRA met its Monetary Base (BM) objective. The monthly average of
 the BM was $1,341.9 billion in June, slightly below the target of $1,343.2 billion.

  The average LELIQ rate ended the month at 62.69%, 8 p.p. below that registered at the end of May. The TM
 20 of private banks decreased 6.5 p.p. The rate paid for retail deposits (of up to $100 thousand) was even
 more resistant to decline and decreased only 1.2 p.p., in a framework of greater competition among banking
 entities following the incorporation of web fixed-term deposits for non-clients.

  The average monthly rate paid for fixed-term deposits in pesos of 30 days was 49.95% (TNA). Considering
 inflation expectations for the month, it implied a positive real interest rate of 1.5% monthly
 (19.4% in annual terms).

  The monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector increased $32.2 billion
 (2.7%) in nominal terms, increasing in real and seasonally-adjusted terms for the first time since
 February (1.9%).

  The figures involved in operations through immediate debits (DEBIN) continued showing the impact
 of the new web fixed-term deposits. The number of operations through DEBIN went from less than 600
 in April, to 37,900 in May and 50,600 in June. In turn, the amounts operated increased from $6.6 million,
 to $7,000 million in May and $10,500 million in June.

  Both currency in circulation and sight deposits of the private sector remained practically constant with
 respect to May in real and seasonally-adjusted terms. Thus, private M3 registered a real seasonally-adjusted
 increase of 0.8%, mainly explained by the growth of fixed-term placements.

  The nominal balance and seasonally-adjusted balance of loans in pesos to the private sector increased 0.1%
 in June. The greater financing granted through advances was practically offset by the
 fall in some of the other credit lines.

 The statistical closing of this report was July 4, 2019.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

For the ninth consecutive month the BCRA met its Graph 2.1
monetary base (BM) objective. In June, the
average of the BM was $1,341.9 billion, slightly
below the target of $1,343.2 billion.

The BM balance was at a level similar to that
registered in May, with a decline in current accounts
of financial entities and an increase in currency in
circulation. The latter was explained by the seasonality
of the month and the evolution of prices, since when
considering the real seasonally-adjusted balance it is observed that currency in circulation remained
practically constant compared to May (see Graph 2.2). Something similar occurred with sight
deposits of the private sector. Thus the balance of private M2, which adds currency in circulation and sight
deposits in pesos of the private sector, remained at 10.3% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). These are
historically minimum levels (see Graph 2.3).

 Graph 2.2 Graph 2.3

 Graph 2.4
 In contrast, the monthly average balance of fixed-term
 deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 2.7%
 ($32.2 billion) in nominal terms, 1.9% in real and
 seasonally-adjusted terms. This is the first increase in
 real terms since February (see Graph 2.4). Entirely
 explained by the dynamism of fixed-term placements,
 private M3 registered a monthly real seasonally-adjusted
 increase of 0.8%.
70% of the monthly growth in time deposits was composed of placements by families, which sustained the growing trend they have been showing since the beginning of May, when web time deposits were implemented (see Chart 2.5). The implementation of web time deposits was carried out through transactions with Immediate Debit (DEBIN). The number of operations through DEBIN went from less than 600 in April, to 37,900 in May and 50,600 in June. In turn, the amounts traded increased from $6.6 million, to $7,000 million in May and $10,500 million in June.1

Companies had a lower participation than individuals in the monthly increase in time deposits because in June they need more liquid resources to pay the annual complementary salary.

The introduction of web time deposits for non-customers managed to inject competition among banks for this deposit segment, by allowing financial entities to attract time deposits without a prior contractual relationship. In this framework, the margin between the average rate paid for peso deposits and the "theoretical maximum rate" decreased from 5.7 p.p. at the end of May to 2.6 p.p. at the end of June (see Chart 2.6), which explains the resistance to downward movement in deposit interest rates, especially for retail deposits.2 While the average LELIQ rate was reduced 8 p.p. in June, ending at 62.69%, the TM 20 of private banks decreased 6.5 p.p., the one paid for deposits of up to $100 thousand fell only 1.2 p.p. in the same period.

The average monthly rate paid for 30-day time deposits in pesos was 49.95% (TNA). Considering inflation expectations for the month, it implied a positive real interest rate of 1.5% monthly (19.4% in annual terms).

Chart 2.5 Chart 2.6

## 3. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates

The nominal balance and seasonally adjusted balance of peso loans to the private sector increased 0.1% in June, remaining relatively stable. The greater financing granted through advances was practically offset by the decline in some of the other credit lines.

Chart 3.1 Chart 3.2

For the second consecutive month, advances increased in nominal terms and without seasonality. In June their average monthly balance grew 3.3%. The total advances rate averaged 72.5%, remaining relatively stable (see Chart 3.3). Meanwhile, financing granted through documents continued to show a decrease, which in June was 0.6%, similar to the previous month.

Chart 3.3 Regarding loans destined mainly for family consumption, credit card financing increased its balance – nominal and seasonally adjusted – by 0.3%. Thus, in the last 12 months they accumulated a nominal growth of 17%. On the other hand, personal loans showed a seasonally adjusted nominal decline of 0.3%. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 67%, remaining unchanged from the previous month.

Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgage loans maintained their monthly expansion rate at around 0.5% (in nominal terms and seasonally adjusted), while pledge loans continued to decline (2.1% in June). The interest rates for both lines registered average monthly values similar to those in May, the rate on mortgage loans adjustable by UVA averaged 5.8%, while the rate on pledge loans adjustable by UVA averaged 14.8% in June.
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, peso-denominated loans to the private sector continued showing a downward trend, registering a monthly decline of 2.5%.

Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 4

According to this loan performance and deposit growth, banking liquidity in pesos continues at historical highs. In particular, broad liquidity in pesos–which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, Graph 3.4, cash, LELIQs and the National Treasury bond accepted to integrate reserve requirements– was equivalent to 63.1% of peso deposits (see Graph 3.4).

It is worth mentioning that in June several aspects of the minimum cash regime in pesos were modified: liabilities of entities with commercial establishments from credit card sales in a single payment were excluded from the calculation base of the requirement; the reserve coefficients applicable to time deposits at a distance were reduced; and the reserve requirement for judicial deposits with a fixed term was differentiated according to their residual term.³

## 4. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

Graph 4.1 Graph 4.2

The international reserves balance ended June at US$64,278 million, which implied a decrease of US$501 million compared to the previous month, explained mainly by debt cancellations of the National Treasury. During June, the peso/US dollar exchange rate remained within the exchange rate reference band, with a downward trend, ending the month at $42.45, a level 5.4% lower than that shown at the end of May (see Graph 4.1). The real exchange rate, although located below the maximum it had reached in September 2018, continues to be positioned above the average recorded between mid-2016 and March 2018. Over the course of June it recorded a decline of 5.6% (see Graph 4.2).

³ See Communication "A" 6706.

Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 5

## 5. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 6 Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 9

## 6. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

DEG: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

FCI: Common Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

i.a.: year-on-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IPC: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product.

P.B.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Acquisition Value.

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | June 2019 | BCRA | 10
