# Monetary Report
Monthly
May 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
May 2019

## 1. Summary

For the eighth consecutive month, the BCRA met its Monetary Base (MB) objective. The monthly average of the MB reached $1,342.6 billion in May, which implied an overfulfilment of $0.6 billion, compared to the target of $1,343.2 billion.

To favor the transmission of movements in the BCRA's reference rate towards the returns received by depositors, as of May the BCRA enabled financial institutions to capture customer deposits without a prior contractual relationship. The implementation of web fixed-term deposits for non-customers was complemented with the publication of a comparative table of the rates paid by different financial institutions, both to their customers and to those who are not.

The implementation of these placements was carried out through immediate debits (DEBIN). The number of operations carried out with DEBIN increased from 592 in April to 37,927 in May, while the amounts involved grew from $6.6 million accumulated in April to more than $6,950 million in May.

In this context, the balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector moved from showing stability in April to registering a clear upward trend during the course of May. The level on May 31st was 4% ($46,700 million) higher than the end of April and, in particular, the segment of deposits of less than $1 million increased by 5.3%.

In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector grew 0.9% in May, driven fundamentally by credit card financing and loans granted through advances.

The statistical closing of this report was on June 6, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 1

## 2. Monetary Aggregates

For the eighth consecutive month, the BCRA met its Monetary Base (MB) objective. The monthly average of the MB reached $1,342.6 billion in May, which implied an overfulfilment of $0.6 billion, since the target remained at $1,343.2 billion, because there were no purchases or sales of foreign currency by the BCRA during the course of the month (see Graph 2.1).

Compared to April, the MB presented an increase of 1.3%, composed of the increase of 0.8% in currency circulation and 2.2% in current accounts of financial institutions at the BCRA. Unlike what had been happening during the first months of this year, in May the growth in the demand for reserve requirements was related to both the increase in deposits in pesos from the private sector as well as from the public sector. The latter had decreased uninterruptedly since December 2018 until April, while in May they grew 6.9%. During the course of this month, to the proceeds from the sale of dollars in the market were added the income received by the public sector from the collection of the corporate income tax.

The monthly average balance of deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 2.3%. In particular, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector registered a monthly average increase of 1.4%, while the balance on May 31st was 4% ($46,700 million) higher than the end of April. During the month, a change in trend was observed in the evolution of the balance of fixed-term deposits from the private sector; somewhat more drastic in the case of placements from households, which had remained virtually unchanged during March and April (see Graph 2.2). It is worth noting that, with the objective of increasing the transmission of movements in the reference rate towards those received by depositors, as of this month the BCRA enabled financial institutions to capture
Chart 2.2 Chart 2.3

fixed-term deposits web for clients without a prior contractual relationship. 1These operations are implemented

1 Communication A 6667.

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 2through Immediate Debits (DEBIN) and their evolution allows us to appreciate the impact of this measure.
The number of operations carried out with DEBIN went from 592 in April to 33,927 in May, while
the amounts involved grew from $6.6 million accumulated in April to more than
$6,950 million in May (see Chart 2.3).

Chart 2.4 The new modality for arranging fixed-term deposits
was bolstered by greater transparency through
the publication of a comparative table of
interest rates paid by different financial
entities for online time placements, both to
their clients and to those who are not.2 These measures encouraged competition and favored the increase in
the interest rates paid by financial entities. Thus, the average rate paid for the
total of time deposits in pesos ended in
May at 51.65%, 4.6 p.p. above the value
recorded on April 29th.3 This contrasts with the downward evolution of the LELIQ rate, which ended the month at 70.7%, after accumulating a
monthly decline of 3.2 p.p. and of 2.4 p.p. with respect to April 29th (see Chart 2.4). These interest rates
paid for time placements turned out to be positive in real terms. For example, the nominal annual rate of
30-day time placements averaged 50.2% in May and implied an annualized real interest rate of 14.2%.4

Demand deposits of the private sector grew 3.4% in nominal terms. This increase,
added to that of currency in circulation held by the public, led to private M2 totaling a nominal increase of 2.6% and of 0.7% in real and seasonally adjusted terms. Meanwhile, private M3 decreased
0.3% compared to the previous month in real terms and adjusted for seasonality.

3. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates

In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector grew
0.9% in May, driven fundamentally by credit card financing and advances. The year-on-year variation stood at around 2.2%, decelerating 1.9 p.p. with respect to the previous month (see Charts 3.1 and 3.2).

Credit card financing reversed the decline of the previous month, presenting an increase of 4.5%, in nominal terms and without seasonality; in a period in which there were some general promotions for online purchases and other specific ones encouraged by some financial entities. Thus, in the last twelve months they accumulated a nominal growth of 22.2%. On the other hand,

2 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/BCRAyVos/Plazos_fijos_online.asp
3 Variations are considered with respect to April 29th because on April 30th there was no activity in bank branches
and the rate observed that day is not strictly comparable with those of the rest of the days.
4 Monthly interest rate annualized considering the median of expectations for the general price level
published in http://www.bcra.gob.ar/PublicacionesEstadisticas/Relevamiento_Expectativas_de_Mercado.asp

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 3personal loans maintained their balance relatively stable, with an average monthly interest rate of 67%, 3.8 p.p. above that of April.

Chart 3.1 Chart 3.2

Among commercial loans, the financing granted through advances stood out, which
showed a nominal increase and without seasonality of 2.4%, in the month in which companies
demand liquidity to meet the tax payment deadlines typical of May. Thus, they halted the
downward trend they have been showing since October of last year. For their part,
documents registered a slight decline in the month (0.5%), with a lower share of the
financing that had been granted to SMEs at preferential rates.
## Chart 3.3
Regarding loans with real guarantees, mortgages continued growing around 0.5% monthly (in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality), while prendary credits decreased 1.1% in May. The granting of prendary loans maintains a downward trend since the beginning of 2018, as also occurs with the sale of automobiles (see Chart 3.3).

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector continued declining, although at lower rates: they had fallen more than 5% during the last months of 2018, while in the month under analysis they decreased 2%.

This evolution of loans and the aforementioned one for deposits was consistent with a level of broad liquidity in pesos—which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, cash, LELIQ and the National Treasury bond admitted to integrate reserve requirements—equivalent to 63.2% of deposits.

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 4

## Chart 3.4
Similarly to what was observed in the previous months, most of the liquidity in pesos was composed of the holding of LELIQ "of free availability," which is not intended to meet reserve requirements (see Chart 3.4).

## 4. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

During the course of May, the peso/US dollar exchange rate was located within the foreign exchange reference zone. Following the COPOM statement at the end of April (see April monthly monetary report), the volatility of the exchange rate decreased considerably and in May the BCRA did not intervene in the spot exchange market.⁵ The dollar price ended the month at $44.87, registering an increase of 2% with respect to the level reached at the end of April (see Chart 5.1).

## Charts 4.1 and 4.2

The real exchange rate, although located below the maximum it had reached in September 2018, continues to be positioned above the average recorded between mid-2016 and March 2018. During the course of May it showed a decline of 2.8% (see Chart 5.2).

The balance of international reserves ended May at US$64,779 million, which implied a decrease of US$6,883 million compared to the previous month. This decline was explained mainly by the payment of foreign currency debt by the National Treasury (Paris Club and BONAR).

⁵ http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-290419.asp

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 5

## 5. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 6
Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 7
Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 8
Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 9

## 6. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDR:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Common Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** Year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Notes.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands, canceling checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands, canceling checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation in the public's hands, canceling checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Market.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Purchasing Power Unit.

**FV:** Face Value.

---

Monetary Report | May 2019 | BCRA | 10
