# Monetary Report
Monthly
February 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
February 2019

## 1. Summary

The Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) once again exceeded the Monetary Base (MB) target in February.
The average balance of the MB was $1,343 billion, $41 billion (3%) below the target of $1,384 billion.
The February target included an increase of $33.5 billion due to the purchase of US$560 million from January plus the average effect of the US$418 million acquired in February.

The average LELIQ rate fell significantly during the first days of the month, accelerated by the inflow of capital from abroad. On February 8th, the BCRA established that each financial entity's holding of LELIQ would be limited by the deposits it captures or by its Computable Equity Responsibility. This meant a limit on positioning in BCRA liabilities for very short-term external capital flows, which produced the partial reversal of the decline in the reference interest rate.

At the end of February, the average LELIQ rate was 50.13%, 3.6 p.p. lower than its level at the end of January. Interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits replicated partially the trajectory of the BCRA rate, with a slight increase during the last days of the month. Thus, for example, the BADLAR for private banks stood at 37.1% at month-end, showing a monthly decline of 7.4 p.p.

The average monthly balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector grew 6.8% in nominal terms ($71 billion), and completed an increase of 77% over the last 12 months. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality they rose 1.7%, completing five months of uninterrupted growth.

In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of peso loans to the private sector increased 0.5%, after four consecutive months of negative variations. During the month there was growth in loans more oriented toward consumption and a fall in commercial loans. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, peso loans to the private sector decreased 2.6% compared to January.

Interest rates on commercial loans maintained a persistently declining trajectory. The rate applied to single-signature documents averaged 52.3% and the corresponding rate for document discounting stood at 49.8%, with monthly decreases of 12.9 p.p. and 7.9 p.p., respectively. Among entities that grant personal loans, greater dispersion of interest rates was observed and a concentration of the increase in amounts granted in those entities that presented the greatest reductions in rates.

The statistical closing of this report was on March 8, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

The Central Bank of the Argentine Republic Chart 2.1
(BCRA) once again exceeded the Monetary
Base (MB) target in February. The average
balance of the MB was $1,343 billion, which
implied an overperformance of $41 billion
(3%) with respect to the target of $1,384
billion (see Chart 1). The February target
included an increase of $33.5 billion with
respect to the original due to the BCRA's
dollar purchases: $20.9 billion as a result
of the full effect of the US$560 million
acquired in January, plus $12.6 billion
corresponding to the average effect of the
US$418 million from February. To moderate the impact of short-term inflationary dynamics on inflation expectations, the BCRA's Monetary Policy Committee announced that it will maintain the overperformance of the monetary base target over the next three months, through May inclusive.¹
The average monthly balance of the BM decreased 0.2% with respect to January, with a decline in monetary circulation (cash in the hands of the public and cash in banks), associated mainly with its seasonal behavior, partially offset by the increase in the balance in current accounts at the BCRA, to meet reserve requirements. In effect, cash in the hands of the public decreased 2.7% in nominal terms, but when adjusted for seasonality showed a monthly growth of 0.3%. In turn, the growth of reserve integration was fundamentally linked to the increase in fixed-term deposits from the private sector.

Graph 2.2 Graph 2.3

Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector grew in February 6.8% in nominal terms ($71 billion), an increase concentrated in the segment of larger amounts (more than $1 million), and reached an increase of 77% in the last 12 months. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality they grew 1.7%, completing five months of uninterrupted growth (see Graph 2.2). Although they did not have a significant participation in the increase of the average monthly balance of total placements, fixed-term deposits denominated in UVA showed a change in trajectory during the course of February, in a period in which the interest rates paid in the segment also increased. The rate paid for 90-day deposits averaged 5.8%, 1 p.p. above the previous month, while the rate paid for deposits around 180 days reached 7.6%, increasing 0.3 p.p. with respect to January.

In contrast, the average monthly balance of Graph 2.4
demand deposits from the private sector fell 0.5%
in nominal terms, while, when seasonally adjusted increased 1.6% with respect to January.

When considering the balances in real terms and
adjusted for seasonality, the private M2, which
includes cash in the hands of the public and
demand deposits in pesos from the private
sector, decreased 2.1%, while the private M3,
which adds the rest of the deposits from the
private sector in pesos, presented a reduction
of 0.2% in the month, due to the fact that the
growth of fixed-term deposits offset most of
the decline in private M2 (see Graph 2.4).

3. Liquidity management and passive interest rates

The average rate of LELIQ was more volatile Graph 3.1
than in previous months. At the beginning of
February there was a significant decline in the
reference interest rate, accelerated by the
inflow of capital from abroad. On February 8,
the BCRA arranged that the LELIQ position
that each financial entity could maintain would
be limited by the deposits it captured or by its
Computable Equity Responsibility.2 In practice,
this meant a limit on positioning in BCRA
liabilities for very short-term external capital
flows and partially reversed the decline in the
reference interest rate. At the end of February,
the average LELIQ rate was 50.13%, 3.6 p.p.
lower than its level at the end of January. The
interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits
partially replicated the trajectory of the BCRA

2 Communication A 6647.

Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 3

rate, with a slight increase during the last days of the month. Thus, for example, the BADLAR –interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30 to 35 days maturity– of private banks was positioned at 37.1% at the end of the month, showing a decline of 7.4 p.p. with respect to the end of January (see Graph 3.1).

4. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates
In nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, the balance of loans in pesos to the private sector increased 0.5%, after four consecutive months of negative variations. However, year-on-year growth continued to decelerate and was positioned at 11% (see Chart 4.1). The lines that grew in February were those destined mostly for family consumption: credit card financing increased 2.5% and personal loans 0.5%. Meanwhile, loans destined mostly for commercial purposes continued to decline, although at a slower pace than in previous months, both those granted through documents and through advances fell approximately 2% in February. Among loans with real guarantee, the 0.8% increase in mortgage loans was practically offset by the 0.7% decrease in pledge credit loans (see Chart 4.2).³

Chart 4.1 Chart 4.2

Chart 4.3 Chart 4.4

³ The variations mentioned in this paragraph are calculated on seasonally adjusted values.

Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 4

The interest rates charged for commercial loans continued to fall. The rate applied to single-signature documents averaged 52.3% and the corresponding rate for document discounts was positioned at 49.8%, with decreases of 12.9 p.p. and 7.9 p.p., respectively (see Chart 4.3). On the other hand, the interest rate for personal loans averaged 62.3%, 1.8 p.p. below that observed in January. In this segment there was an increase in the dispersion of rates charged by different financial entities, observing that those banks that applied lower levels were also those that most increased the amounts granted.

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector showed a monthly decline of 2.6%.

5. Liquidity of financial entities

Chart 5.1 As in previous months, financial entities allocated the increase in peso deposits primarily to meet reserve requirements – in current accounts and in LELIQs – and to the purchase of LELIQs of "free availability", which are not linked to the fulfillment of Minimum Cash requirements. Thus, the increase in broad liquidity in pesos of financial entities – which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, cash, LELIQs and the National Treasury bond admitted to meet reserve requirements – was explained by the greater holding of LELIQs (see Chart 5.1).

On the other hand, liquidity in foreign currency averaged 54.8% of deposits in February, registering a decline of 1.2 p.p. compared to January, fundamentally due to the fall in public sector deposits.

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market

During the first half of February, the peso/US dollar exchange rate was positioned slightly below the non-intervention zone, which allowed the BCRA to purchase foreign currency in the exchange market through daily auctions, in accordance with the guidelines established in the BCRA Monetary Policy Committee statement of January 31 (see Chart 6.1).⁴ The dollar price ended the month at $39, registering an increase of 5.3% compared to the level reached at the end of January.⁵ The real exchange rate, although positioned below the maximum it had reached in September 2018, was above the average registered between mid-2016 and March 2018 (see Chart 6.2).

Chart 6.1 Chart 6.2

⁴ http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Comunicado-31-enero-2019.asp

Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 5
The BCRA's dollar purchases totaled Chart 6.3
US$418 million, which contributed to international
reserves ending the month at US$68.015 million,
US$1.204 million above their level at the end of
January. The current balance of international re-
serves is almost triple that of the BCRA's remuner-
ated liabilities in pesos (LELIQ and repos). In turn,
international reserves net of the BCRA's dollar
liabilities averaged in February a balance equiva-
lent to 74% of remunerated liabilities in pesos,
the highest level in recent years (see Chart 6.3)

5 Reference Exchange Rate, Communication A 3500.

 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 67. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 7 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 10 8. Glossary

 ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
 BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
 BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
 BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
 CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
 CNV: National Securities Commission.
 SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
 EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
 EM: Minimum Cash.
 FCI: Investment Fund.
 FF: Financial Trust.
 GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
 y.o.y.: year-over-year.
 IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
 CPI: Consumer Price Index.
 LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
 LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
 M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
 M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
 M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
 MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
 NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
 NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
 ON: Negotiable Obligation.
 GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
 B.P.: Basis Points.
 p.p.: Percentage points.
 SMEs: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
 ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
 SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
 IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
 TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
 TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
 UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
 VN: Nominal Value.

 Monetary Report | February 2019 | BCRA | 11
