# Monetary Report
Monthly
September 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
September 2019

## 1. Summary

In September, the average monthly balance of private sector peso deposits remained almost unchanged compared to the previous month in nominal terms. Its stability was the result of an increase in sight deposits (8.4% nominal; 9.1% nominal seasonally adjusted), offset by a decline in time deposits (-5.6% nominal; -5.3% nominal seasonally adjusted).

Time deposits, which had fallen during August, stabilized in September. The behavior of Investment Funds (FCI), especially money market FCI, influenced this dynamic, which reversed the equity decline observed in August. The recovery of deposits by financial service providers and other legal entities compensated for the decrease in placements of individuals throughout the month.

The FCI also influenced the evolution of deposits in current accounts. As of September 17, the BCRA modified the way it determines the interest rate it pays for the repos it conducts with FCI, which came to be set at a value equivalent to 0.7 of the overnight passive repo rate of financial entities at the BCRA. In practice, this change meant an increase in repo remuneration for FCI and a transfer of funds from deposits in commercial banks to repos at the BCRA. At the end of September, FCI maintained a repo balance of $85 billion. The total amount of deposits in remunerated current accounts plus the balance of repos with the BCRA remained relatively stable compared to the previous month.

The BCRA Monetary Policy Committee (COPOM) announced new Monetary Base (BM) targets, which in September and October contemplate growth of 2.5% monthly. The targets will be adjusted according to the net foreign exchange operations carried out by the BCRA from the date of publication of the announcement. In the case of September, the adjusted target was set at $1,370.4 billion. The average monthly balance of the Monetary Base (BM) was $1,342 billion.

To guarantee the contractionary nature of monetary policy, COPOM increased the lower limit for the interest rate of Liquidity Bills (LELIQ) from 58% to 78%, during the inflation peak. For October, this limit was set at 68%, in a manner consistent with market projections regarding a deceleration in the inflation rate. The LELIQ rate reached a maximum of 86% on September 10 and then gradually declined to reach 79.2% at the end of the month, 4.1 percentage points below the level at the end of August. The interest rates paid on time deposits in pesos showed greater stability. For example, the BADLAR for private banks was at 58.9% at the end of September, 0.8 percentage points above the level at the end of August. In turn, the rate paid on deposits of up to $100,000 of individuals ended September at 55.3%, which implied an increase of 1.3 percentage points during the month.

Private sector dollar deposits ended September at a level of US$21,380 million. After reaching decline rates exceeding 3% daily during the last days of August and the first days of September, the withdrawal of dollar deposits was reduced to daily values close to 0.4% of the stock towards the end of the month under analysis. Financial entities addressed the withdrawal of dollar deposits mainly with balances in current accounts they maintained at the BCRA and with the collection of part of the dollar loans. Banking liquidity in dollars remained at elevated levels, averaging 50.6% of deposits in this currency, with a higher proportion of cash than in previous months.
In September, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their expansion rate, presenting a monthly increase of 2.4% in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality. The lines destined mainly for businesses were those that grew the most. The nominal balance and adjusted for seasonality of advances registered in the month an increase of 10.5%, while that of documents grew 6%. In the latter case, in a context of falling single-signature documents in dollars, because certain companies chose to refinance their debt in foreign currency, taking credit in pesos.

The statistical closing of this report was October 4, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | September 2019 | BCRA | 2. Monetary Aggregates

In September, the monthly average balance of peso deposits from the private sector remained almost unchanged compared to the previous month in nominal terms. Its stability was the result of an increase in sight deposits (8.4% nominal; 9.1% nominal seasonally adjusted), offset by a fall in time placements (-5.6% nominal; -5.3% nominal seasonally adjusted).

Fixed-term deposits, which had fallen during August, stabilized from the first days of September (see Graph 2.1). This behavior was influenced by Mutual Investment Funds (FCI), especially money market FCI, which had experienced a strong redemption of shares in August and a recovery of their assets during September (see Graph 2.2). This recomposition and the consequent arrangement of fixed-term deposits by financial service providers and other legal entities, offset the decrease in placements by individuals throughout the month. In this way, the nominal fall in peso time deposits of the private sector is reduced to 2.8% when comparing the balance at the end of September with that recorded at the end of August.

Graph 2.1 Graph 2.2

The FCI also influenced the evolution of current account deposits. As of September 17, the BCRA modified the way it determines the interest rate it pays for the repos it conducts with the FCI. It came to be set at a value equivalent to 0.7 of the rate of 1-day passive repos of financial entities at the BCRA. In practice, this change meant an increase in repo remuneration for FCI and a transfer of funds from deposits in commercial banks to repos at the BCRA. At the end of September, the FCI maintained a balance of repos of $85 billion pesos. The total amount of remunerated current account deposits plus the balance of repos with the BCRA remained relatively stable compared to the previous month.

The evolution of private deposits mentioned together with an increase of 1.6% in currency in circulation held by the public (2.7% nominal seasonally adjusted) led to private M3 growing 1.7% in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality. This variation implies that it decreased 4.4% compared to the previous month in real terms and adjusted for seasonality.¹
The Monetary Policy Committee of the BCRA (COPOM) announced new MB targets, which in September and October contemplate a growth of 2.5% monthly. The targets will be adjusted in accordance with the net foreign exchange operations carried out by the BCRA from the date of publication of the statement.2

In the case of September, the variation of the MB is considered with respect to the bimonthly target of July-August, so the original target was $1,376.8 billion. The monetary effect of the net sales of foreign exchange carried out by the BCRA was $6.4 billion, so the adjusted target was placed at $1,370.4 billion. In September, the monthly average balance of the Monetary Base (MB) was $1,342.1 billion, 2.2% above August.

Graph 2.3

In the foreign currency segment, deposits of the private sector ended September at a level of US$21,380 million, 19.7% below the balance at the end of August. After reaching falling rates exceeding 3% daily during the last days of August and the first days of September, the withdrawal of dollar deposits was reduced to daily values close to 0.4% of the stock toward the end of the month under analysis.

## 3. Liquidity of financial entities

Financial entities met the withdrawal of dollar deposits primarily with balances in current accounts that they maintained at the BCRA and with the collection of part of the loans in foreign currency. In September, banking liquidity in dollars remained at elevated levels, averaging 50.6% of foreign currency deposits, with a higher proportion of cash than in previous months (see Graph 3.1).

In the peso segment, broad liquidity (which includes balances in current accounts at the BCRA, cash holdings of financial entities, and LELIQs and repos), also remained at elevated values. It was equivalent to 60.8% of peso deposits. As for composition, an increase in passive repos with the Central Bank and lower LELIQ balances stand out (see Graph 3.2).

1 Private M3 is the sum of cash in circulation and peso deposits of the private sector.
2 See http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Decisiones-del-Comite-de-Politica-Monetaria-180919.asp

Monetary Report | September 2019 | BCRA | 3 Graph 3.1 Graph 3.2

## 4. Passive interest rates

In its statement of September 18, to guarantee the contractionary nature of monetary policy, COPOM increased the lower limit for the interest rate of Liquidity Bills (LELIQ) from 58% to 78% in September, during the inflationary peak. For October, this limit was set at 68%, in a manner consistent with market projections regarding a deceleration in the inflation rate.3

Graph 4.1 The LELIQ rate reached a maximum of 86% on September 10 and then descended gradually until reaching 78.4% at the end of the month, 4.9 percentage points below the level at the end of August.

The interest rates paid on time deposits in pesos showed greater stability. For example, the BADLAR of private banks was located at 58.9% at the end of September, 0.8 percentage points above the level at the end of August. In turn, the rate paid on deposits of up to $100 thousand from individuals ended September at 55.3%, which implied an increase of 1.3 percentage points during the month.

3 See http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Decisiones-del-Comite-de-Politica-Monetaria-180919.asp

Monetary Report | September 2019 | BCRA | 4

## 5. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates

In September, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their expansion rate, presenting a monthly increase of 2.4% in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality (see Graph 5.1).
The credit lines destined mainly to businesses were the ones that grew the most. The nominal balance and seasonally adjusted advances registered a monthly increase of 10.5%, while that of documents grew 6%. This occurred in a context of falling documents at sole signature in dollars, because certain companies chose to refinance their debt in foreign currency, taking another credit in pesos (see Graphs 5.2 and 5.3). The high participation that loans destined to refinance dollar debts had in the granted amounts –with interest rates below financing granted in the same segment– explained the fall in the average interest rate of loans granted through documents at sole signature in pesos which, averaging 62.1%, fell 7.9 p.p. with respect to August.

Graph 5.2 Graph 5.3

Regarding credit lines destined to consumption, financing with credit cards presented an increase of 1.6% (nominal and seasonally adjusted), while personal loans decreased 1.3% in September. The interest rate of personal loans averaged 76.7%, showing a monthly increase of 7.8 p.p.

Regarding loans with real guarantee, pledged loans presented a monthly fall of 1.6% in nominal terms and without seasonality. In the segment granted in pesos at fixed rate, the rate charged for pledged loans averaged 30.2%, showing an increase of 3.5 p.p. with respect to August, while the rate of those adjustable by UVA averaged 15%, almost unchanged with respect to the previous month. For their part, mortgage loans grew 0.4% in the month, in a month in which the interest rate of operations adjustable by UVA –which cover almost the totality of mortgages– averaged 7.5%.

In real terms and seasonally adjusted, loans in pesos to the private sector continued showing a downward trend, registering a monthly fall of 3.6%.

The decrease in loans in foreign currency between the last day of August and that of September was 12.8% (U$S 1,970 million) and was composed mainly by the decrease in financing through documents at sole signature.

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

The balance of international reserves ended September at US$48,703 million, which implied a fall of US$5,397 million with respect to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). Said fall was explained by the decrease in current accounts in dollars of financial entities at the BCRA (associated with the fall in deposits in foreign currency), sales of dollars by the Central Bank and payments of National Treasury debt.

Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2

During September the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate decreased 3% and ended at 57.7. The multilateral real exchange rate registered a more pronounced decrease than the nominal, although it remained well above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Graph 6.2).

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDR: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

FCI: Common Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of peso deposits of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

BP: Basis Points.

pp: percentage points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Purchasing Value.

NV: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | September 2019 | BCRA | 11
