# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2019 Monthly Monetary Report
December 2019

## 1. Summary

• In December, the collection of the semi-annual complementary salary, year-end holidays, and the start of vacation generate a seasonal increase in money demand more associated with transactions. In this particular year, to these factors was added the effect of extraordinary payments to sectors that typically make more intensive use of cash in circulation, such as retirees and beneficiaries of social allowances. Thus, cash in the hands of the public registered an average monthly increase of 12.6% (7.0% in seasonally adjusted terms), while the average monthly balance of sight deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 14.4% compared to the previous month (6.5% when adjusted for seasonality).

• The average monthly growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector was 3.5% and 5.1% in seasonally adjusted terms. During the first weeks of the month, the impulse for these placements came from investment funds, which captured liquid resources from companies before the payment of the semi-annual complementary salary. Once the payment was made, these funds and sight placements fed the term balances of individuals.

• Loans in pesos to the private sector moderated their growth rate, following 5 consecutive months of acceleration, registering an average monthly increase of 2.0%, considering nominal values and without seasonality. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, total loans in pesos to the private sector showed a contraction of 2.1% in the month, completing the year with a real decline of 25.2%. In 2020 the BCRA will stimulate credit supply to the private sector, addressing the working capital needs derived from the state of emergency in which the country finds itself, and promoting the participation of long-term productive financing, particularly that destined for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises.

• In December the Board of Directors of the BCRA decided to lower the lower limit of the LELIQ interest rate on two occasions, for a total of 8 percentage points, bringing it to 55%. Passive interest rates fell between 4 percentage points and 5 percentage points in the month. In particular, the TM20 of private banks ended the year at 40.5% (TNA), 4.6 percentage points below the level it reached at the end of November.

• Among the interest rates charged on loans in pesos, those that decreased the most were those applied to commercial loans, which are currently more concentrated in shorter-term operations than the rest of the lines. Thus, the discount rate for documents stood at 51.9%, falling on average 5.8 percentage points compared to November, while the rate applied to loans granted through single-signature documents averaged 57%, showing an average monthly decline of 5.3 percentage points.

• In the foreign currency segment, starting in mid-December, deposits from the private sector exhibited a reversal in the trend they had been showing, partly driven by the repatriation of funds from the tax benefits established under Law 27.541. This growth more than offset the decline observed in the first half of the month, causing the balance to expand 5.4% between the last day of November and December.

• The balance of international reserves ended December at US$44,781 million, which implied an increase of US$1,009 million compared to the close of the previous month. Following the modifications to the conditions of access to the exchange market established at the end of October, the BCRA was a net buyer of foreign currency and in December acquired US$1,121 million.

The statistical closing of this report was on January 7, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.
Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

In December, the evolution of the different components of monetary aggregates is strongly asso-
ciated with seasonal factors such as the collection of the half-year supplementary salary, the
greater spending by families during the holiday period and the beginning of the summer recess.
From the last days of 2019, the impact of these variables was accentuated by some of the eco-
nomic measures implemented. Specifically, there was the payment of an extraordinary subsidy¹ to
retirees and pensioners with minimum benefits and to beneficiaries of Universal Child Allowance
(AUH).

These factors imply an increase in the demand for money more associated with transactions, typi-
cally currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits in pesos by the private sector.
Thus, in nominal terms, the monthly average balance
 Graph 2.1 of sight deposits in pesos by the pri-
 vate sector increased 14.4% compared to the previ-
 ous month and 6.5% when adjusted for seasonality.
 On the other hand, currency in circulation held by
 the public registered an average monthly increase
 of 12.6%, which reduces to 7.0% in seasonally
 adjusted terms (see Graph 2.1). If it is also deflated
 by the evolution of retail prices, the growth of cur-
 rency in circulation held by the public in the last
 month of the year was 2.7%, thus interrupting 4
 consecutive months of declines.

The average monthly growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos by the private sector was 3.5% in
nominal terms compared to November, a rate slightly higher than that of the previous month (2.2%).
The higher growth rate in December Graph 2.2
resulted in part from the statistical carryover from the
previous month, when an acceleration of this type
of deposits was observed following the modifi-
cation of the conditions of access to the foreign
exchange market² (see Graph 2.2). The growth of
fixed-term deposits came during the first weeks of
the month from placements by financial service
provider companies –mutual funds and/or insur-
ance companies– and during the last

¹ This subsidy was implemented through Decree 73/2019. For retirees and pensioners, the subsidy is $10,000 pesos, of
which $5,000 were collected on December 27th and the rest will be received in January. For the AUH it is a single
installment of $2,000 per child that was received in December.
² See Communication A 6815 which, among other things, established a limit of US$200 monthly for access to the
foreign exchange market by natural persons.

 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 210 days of those made by families. This is consistent with the maintenance of liquid resources
by companies in mutual funds until the day they made the payment of bonuses and the subsequent
placement at fixed-term of at least a portion of the collection by individuals from December 18th
onwards. Adjusted for seasonality, the average monthly growth of fixed-term deposits in pesos by
the private sector amounted to 5.1%.

In real terms and seasonally adjusted, all components of private M3 (sum of currency in circulation
held by the public and deposits in pesos by the non-financial private sector) showed growth, after
5 consecutive months of contractions (see Graph 2.3). Private M3 registered a real increase adjusted
for seasonality of 1.8% (of which 0.7 p.p. correspond to the increase in currency in circulation held
by the public and 0.8 p.p. to the increase in sight deposits). The private M3 to GDP ratio would
have increased 0.4 p.p. in the month, reaching 16.4%, although it remains at minimum levels for
recent years (see Graph 2.4).

 Graph 2.3 Graph 2.4
In the foreign currency segment, private sector deposits showed a reversal in the downward trend in mid-December, partly driven by the repatriation of funds based on the tax benefits established under Law 27.541³. Thus, in the second half

 Chart 2.5 of the month, an increase of US$1,500
 million was observed in the balance of dollar
 deposits from the private sector, which equates to an expansion
 of 8.6%. This growth more than compensated for the
 decline observed in the first half, making
 the balance expand 5.4% between the last
 day of November and December. Given the continuous
 decline observed in the balance in recent
 months, the monthly average contracted 1.6% with respect
 to November and 35.5% with respect to the same
 period of the previous year (see Chart 2.5).

³ Regulated by Decree 99/2019, which defines the rates applicable to calculate the tax on personal assets for those who effect the repatriation of part of their assets abroad.

 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 3. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates

 In December, loans in pesos to the private
 Chart 2.1 sector moderated its growth rate,
 after 5 consecutive months of acceleration,
 registering an average monthly increase of
 2.0%, considering nominal values and without seasonality adjustment. The year-on-year increase in
 local currency financing was at 17.5% and persists
 at levels considerably lower than those of
 inflation. The moderation in the nominal growth rate
 of peso loans is explained mainly by the evolution of
 credit card financing (see Chart 2.1).

Regarding the evolution of the different loan lines, credit card financing registered a nominal expansion without seasonality adjustment of 2.1%, after having grown at a rate close to 10% last November (due to the strong acceleration of these financings at the end of October). In year-on-year terms, this line registered an increase close to 48% nominal. For its part, personal loans continued declining. In December they fell 0.7% with respect to November, in nominal terms and without seasonality adjustment.

With regard to commercial financing, the nominal balance and seasonality-adjusted advances Chart 3.2 registered an increase of 3.3% in the
 month, while documents grew 5.5%. This
 growth occurred in a context of declining
 interest rates charged for these lines.

With respect to loans with real guarantee,
pawn loans presented a monthly decline
of 2.8% in nominal terms and without seasonality
adjustment, accumulating 16 consecutive
months of contraction. The behavior of pawn loans is closely linked
to the evolution of the automotive sector, which presents a year-on-year contraction in 0 km
vehicle registrations of 35% (see Chart 3.2). Mortgage financing fell in nominal terms

 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 4 and without seasonality adjustment 0.4% in the month,
 Chart 3.3 which implies a year-on-year nominal growth of
 2%.

 In short, in real terms and adjusted for
 seasonality, total loans in pesos
 to the private sector presented a contraction of
 2.1% in the month, completing the year with a
 real decline of 25.2% (see Chart 3.3). In 2020 the
 BCRA will stimulate credit supply to the private
 sector, addressing the working capital needs
 derived from the state of emergency situation in which the country finds itself, and
 promoting the participation of long-term
 productive financing, particularly Chart 3.4
 that destined for micro,
 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)⁴.
Loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly fall was 6.7% (US$770 million), accumulating a contraction of 33.6% compared to July of last year. This contraction in dollar loans was due almost entirely to what happened with those granted through promissory note documents (see Chart 3.4).

4. Liquidity of financial entities

In the peso segment, the increase in deposits exceeded that of loans and financial entities increased their liquidity in repurchase agreements and in current accounts at the BCRA (see Chart 4.1). In any case, banking liquidity in pesos averaged 58.8% of deposits in December, 1.6 p.p. above the previous month (see Chart 4.2).

4 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Objetivos-y-planes-2020.asp

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 5

It should be noted that a two-month computation period applies for the integration of reserve requirements in local currency that includes December 2019 and January 2020 and that the integration of reserve requirements is lagged, which means that in December reserve requirements are integrated on deposits recorded in November. Thus, the relative stability of the balance of current accounts at the BCRA in terms of the balance of deposits in December – with high seasonal growth – was compatible with a partial excess in the integration of the Minimum Cash regime, which would be offset in January.

Chart 4.1 Chart 4.2

Chart 4.3 Chart 4.4

In the foreign currency segment, the decline in the average balance of loans to the private sector exceeded that of deposits (see Chart 4.3), so banking liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash and current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA) recorded an increase for the third consecutive month, averaging 58.1% of deposits in this denomination (see Chart 4.4).

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 6

5. Interest rates

Chart 5.1 In December, the BCRA Board decided to lower the floor of the LELIQ interest rate on two occasions, for a total of 8 p.p., bringing it to 55% as of day 27 (see Chart 5.1).

The rates paid on time deposits also declined during December. In particular, the TM20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days term – of private banks ended the year at 40.5% (TNA), 4.6 p.p. below the level reached at the end of November, while the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30 to 35 days term – of private banks accumulated a similar monthly decline, 4.8 p.p., ending up at 39.4% at the end of December.

Among the rates charged on loans in pesos, those that declined the most were Chart 5.2 those applied to commercial loans, which are currently more concentrated in shorter-term operations than the rest of the lines. Thus, the discount rate on documents was placed at 51.9%, declining on average 5.8 p.p. compared to November, while the rate applied to loans granted through promissory note documents averaged 57% showing an average monthly decline of 5.3 p.p. In turn, the rate on total advances averaged 65.5% showing an average monthly decline of 6.5 p.p. In contrast, for financing intended for consumption, the interest rate on personal loans was on average 71.6%, showing a decline of 2.6 p.p. (see Chart 5.2).

5 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/El-BCRA-fijo-limite-inferior-LELIQ.asp
http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/BCRA-fijo-limite-tasa-LELIQ-55.asp

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 7

6. International reserves and foreign exchange market
The balance of international reserves closed December at US$44,781 million, which implied an increase of US$1,009 million compared to the close of the previous month. Following the modifications in the conditions of access to the foreign exchange market established at the end of October, the BCRA was a net buyer of foreign currency and in December acquired US$1,121 million (see Graph 6.1).

Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2

During December, the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate remained practically unchanged, ending at 59.90. For its part, the multilateral real exchange rate decreased until ending the month at 122.4, remaining above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Graph 6.2).

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 8. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 10 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 11 Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 12. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y.o.y.: Year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | December 2019 | BCRA | 13
