November 2019 Monetary Report Monthly
November 2019

## 1. Summary

The average monthly balance of private deposits in pesos grew 1% compared to October in nominal terms, with an increase in term placements (2.2%) and a decline in demand deposits (-0.3%).

The decline in demand deposits was composed of placements of larger amounts. Investment Funds (FCI) allocated a higher proportion of their portfolio toward repurchase agreements in the BCRA and decreased their balances of remunerated demand deposits in commercial banks. In November, the average monthly balance of FCI repurchase agreements in the BCRA was $69,500 million higher than what they maintained in the previous month. Overall, demand deposits in pesos from the private sector and FCI repurchase agreements in the BCRA increased 5% in November.

Term deposits in pesos from the private sector changed their trend beginning with the modifications to the conditions for accessing the foreign exchange market implemented from late October onwards. Since then, the balance increased for both household and business placements. Between the last day of October and the last day of November, term deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 5.6% in nominal terms ($64.4 billion).

The average monthly balance of the Monetary Base (BM) was $1,569.7 billion, 13.2% higher than in October. This increase was explained mainly by the increase in current account balances of financial entities in the BCRA to comply with the new conditions of the Minimum Cash regime. Starting this month, the integration with LELIQs by part of the required reserves on demand deposits was no longer permitted, which motivated an increase in the demand for BM. Excluding the effect of this regulatory change, the monthly growth of the BM is reduced to 2.2%. The BM balance was $92.8 billion below the target established for November.

In mid-month, the LELIQ interest rate reached the minimum level of 63% that the COPOM had set for November, thus completing a monthly decline of 5 percentage points. The interest rates paid on term deposits in pesos also showed declines throughout the month. Among those operated for larger deposits, the TM20 of private banks ended the month at 45.1%, 4.3 percentage points below its level at the end of October.

Dollar deposits from the private sector continued to slow their rate of decline. In November they fell 3.5%, compared to 10.7% in October and 19.7% in September. They ended the period under review at US$18,400 million. Banking liquidity in foreign currency increased for the second consecutive month, to 56% of dollar deposits, because financial entities continued recovering funds from the decline in the balance of dollar loans.

Loans in pesos to the private sector continued to accelerate, registering a seasonally adjusted average monthly increase of 4.1%. The monthly dynamism of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the evolution of credit card financing and, to a lesser extent, by the growth of commercial loans.

The balance of international reserves ended November at US$43,772 million, which represented an increase of US$512 million compared to the close of the previous month. Based on the modifications to access to the foreign exchange market established from late October, the BCRA returned to being a net buyer of foreign currency and in November acquired US$2,202 million. These operations compensated for the decline in reserves due to payments of the National Government's debt.

The statistical closing of this report was December 5, 2019.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited provided the source is stated: Monetary Report – BCRA
Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 2. Monetary Aggregates

In November, the monthly average balance of private sector deposits in pesos increased 1% compared to October in nominal terms, registering an increase in time deposits (2.2%) and a decline in sight deposits (-0.3%).

Graph 2.1 Graph 2.2

The decrease in sight deposits was concentrated in placements of larger amounts (see Graph 2.1) and can be explained by the portfolio allocation of Money Market Mutual Funds (FCI). It should be recalled that as of mid-September, the way in which the repo rate that the FCI operate with the BCRA is determined was modified. In practice, this meant that the remuneration of these operations at the BCRA became aligned with what these investors obtain from sight deposits in commercial banks. In particular, as of late November, the average remuneration received by financial service providers (mainly FCI and insurance companies) for their sight deposits was below the repo rate at the BCRA. In this context, money market FCI allocated an increasing proportion of their assets towards repos (see Graph 2.2). In November, the monthly average balance of FCI repos at the BCRA was

Graph 2.3 $69,500 million higher than what they maintained the previous month. Altogether, sight deposits in pesos from the private sector and FCI repos at the BCRA increased 5% in November.

Time deposits in pesos from the private sector showed a change in trend as of late October, when conditions for access to the foreign exchange market were modified, mainly for individuals.¹ Since then they have again shown an upward trajectory, both those conducted by individuals

¹ See Communication A 6815 which, among other things, established a limit of US$200 monthly for individuals' access to the foreign exchange market.

Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 2

and those arranged by companies. Between the last day of October and November, time deposits in pesos from the private sector increased 5.6% in nominal terms ($64.4 billion; see Graph 2.3). Deposits adjustable by Purchasing Power Units (UVAs) grew in a higher proportion than the rest (16.2% between late October and November), although they continue to represent a small magnitude (1.5% at the end of November) in relation to the total balance of time deposits from the private sector.

Graph 2.4

Currency in circulation in the hands of the public also increased in nominal terms compared to October, registering a monthly average growth of 0.6%. When adjusted for seasonality, it maintained the monthly growth rate that had been reached the previous month, 1.4%.

In real terms and seasonally adjusted, all components of private M3 (sum of currency in circulation in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector) continued declining. Private M3 totaled a real decline adjusted for seasonality of 3% (see Graph 2.4).
In November, in addition to the increase in currency in circulation held by the public and the evolution of peso deposits, there was a regulatory change that also generated an increase in demand for Monetary Base (MB), through the current accounts of financial entities. As of this month, it was no longer allowed that the integration of reserve requirements on sight deposits be carried out with LELIQ.2 Thus, practically the entire average monthly increase (13.2%) of the MB was composed of the increase in peso current accounts of financial entities. When excluding the effect of this regulatory change, the monthly growth of the MB is reduced to 2.2%. The average monthly balance of the MB reached $1,569.7 billion and was $92.8 billion below the target. In December and January a joint period will be used to measure compliance with Minimum Cash requirements in pesos and, in accordance with this, the COPOM established a bimonthly target for the MB for the same period, of $1,732 billion, which will be adjusted by the remaining effect of the BCRA's foreign exchange purchases in November and those carried out during the bimonthly period.3

In the foreign currency segment, deposits from the private sector continued to decrease its rate of decline. In November they fell 3.5%, compared to 10.7% in October and 19.7% in September. They ended the month under analysis at US$18,400 million (see Chart 2.5).

## 3. Liquidity of financial entities

Banking liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash and current accounts of financial entities in the BCRA) increased for a second consecutive month because financial entities continued recovering funds based on the decline in the balance of dollar loans. Thus, in November, liquidity in dollars averaged 56% of deposits in this denomination (see Chart 3.1).

In the peso segment, financial entities used part of their liquidity to grant loans, mainly to the private sector, which generated a decline in the level of banking liquidity compared to October (see Chart 3.2). At the same time, to adapt to changes in the Minimum Cash regulations, which no longer allowed the integration of reserve requirements on sight deposits in LELIQ, they changed the composition of their most liquid assets in favor of current accounts in the BCRA and to the detriment of LELIQ (see Chart 3.3).

## 4. Passive interest rates

In the middle of the month, the interest rate on LELIQ reached the minimum level of 63% that the COPOM had set for November, thus completing a monthly decline of 5 p.p. The interest rates paid on fixed-term peso deposits also showed declines throughout November. Among those operated for deposits of larger amounts, the TM20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended the month at 45.1%, 4.3 p.p. below its level at the end of October; while the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks was at 44.2%, showing a decline of 4.5 p.p. compared to the end of October. Meanwhile, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days ended November at 42.6%, 5.7 p.p. below the previous month (see Chart 4.1).

## 5. Loans to the private sector and active interest rates
In November, loans in pesos to the private sector continued to accelerate, registering a seasonally adjusted average monthly increase of 4.1% and an interannual rate of change of 13.5% that also gained momentum (see Graph 5.1). This evolution of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the behavior of credit card financing and, to a lesser extent, by that of commercial loans (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 Graph 5.2

Regarding lines intended for consumption, credit card financing registered an average monthly expansion of 9.6% without seasonality. In interannual terms, this line registers an increase of 40.1%. Although the interannual variation in real terms remains negative, in recent months a certain improvement has been observed with the reduction of the rate of decline. This behavior is linked to the evolution of economic activity indicators and household income. Indeed, in recent months a slower rate of decline has been observed in the real wages of workers, which translated into an incipient greater commercial activity and, consequently, greater financing with credit cards. Another traction factor for credit card financing in recent months was the reduction in interest rates of the Ahora 12 program and the expansion of the program in terms of days of validity and product categories covered (see Graph 5.3).4

Graph 5.3 In contrast, personal loans in nominal terms without seasonality contracted for the seventh consecutive month (-0.9% monthly), accumulating since May a reduction of 4.7% and of 4.2% in interannual terms. The interest rate on personal loans averaged 74.2%, showing a more moderate decline than the passive rates, of 1.3 p.p. compared to October.

On the side of commercial lines, the nominal balance adjusted for seasonality of advances registered in the month an increase of 2.4%, while that of documents grew 4.3%. In both cases, daily growth was observed until the end of October. From then on, the balance of loans granted through documents stabilized while that of advances began to decline (see Graphs 5.4 and 5.5). The interest rates on these lines decreased. The discount rate on documents was placed at 57.7%, declining on average 5.5 p.p., while the rate applied to documents at sole signature averaged 62.3%, showing an average monthly decline of 5.4 p.p. Meanwhile, the rate of total advances averaged 70.6% showing an average monthly decline of 7 p.p.

Graph 5.4 Graph 5.5

Regarding loans with real guarantee, pledge loans presented a monthly decline of 2.1% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 15 consecutive months without positive variation. For their part, mortgage loans remained unchanged in the month. The interest rates on adjustable mortgage loans by UVA averaged 7.2% in November, while the (fixed) interest rate on pledge loans averaged 33.3% in November, 2.6 p.p. above October.

4 The changes in the AHORA 12 Program entered into force in June.

In real and seasonally adjusted terms, loans in pesos to the private sector presented a contraction of 0.1% in the month, a rate similar to that of the previous month. In interannual terms, the variable registered a contraction of 26.9%, which implies an improvement of 9.3 p.p. compared to the minimum reached in June (-36.1% i.a.).
In the foreign currency segment, loans to the private sector continued to decrease. In November they fell 9.3% (US$ 1,200 million), accumulating a contraction of 28.8% compared to last July. This decline in dollar loans was composed almost entirely by the line of documents at sole signature.

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market
The balance of international reserves closed November at US$43,772 million, which implied an increase of US$512 million with respect to the close of the previous month. Based on the modifications in access to the foreign exchange market established at the end of October, the BCRA returned to being a net buyer of foreign currency and in November purchased US$2,202 million. These operations compensated for the decline in reserves due to payments of National Government debt (see Chart 6.1).

Chart 6.1 Chart 6.2

During November the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate remained practically unchanged, closing at 59.86. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, declined until the end of the month at 122.2, remaining above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Chart 6.2).

Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 77. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 8 Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 9 Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 10 Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 118. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Mutual Investment Fund.
FF: Financial Trust.
GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.
y-o-y: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
AER: Annual Effective Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.
FV: Face Value.

Monetary Report | November 2019 | BCRA | 12
