# CONTENTS

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 8 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 9 | 5. Interest rates

Page 10 | 6. International reserves

Page 12 | 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 16 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was October 6, 2020. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 1. Summary

In September, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private presented, in nominal terms and without seasonality, an increase of 2.5%, which was the lowest since December 2019. This implies that at constant prices it would continue to remain relatively stable. Within it, demand deposits made a negative contribution to the month's growth, unlike time deposits, which completed five consecutive months of expansion. Meanwhile, the contribution of currency in circulation would have been null.

The average monthly growth of private sector time placements was 6%, accumulating in the last 12 months an increase exceeding 80%. In real terms, the month's increase would be located at 3.5%, while the year-over-year rate of change registered a historical maximum at around 30%.

The BCRA board of directors decided to raise, as of October, the interest rate at which it remunerated one-day reverse repos by 5 percentage points, bringing it to 24%. Thus, it seeks to increase the attractiveness of short-term financial instruments in local currency. Within the framework of the update of Monetary Policy guidelines, the BCRA stated that it will manage the stock of LELIQ in order to minimize the impact of the increase in the reverse repo rate on the cost of sterilization. In this context, the monetary authority provided that as of October financial entities must reduce by 20 percentage points their net position in excess LELIQ with respect to that recorded in September.

Loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly expansion of 2.5% in nominal terms and without seasonality, driven fundamentally by lines intended mainly for commercial purposes. In real terms, they would have remained stable.

Among the lines promoted by the BCRA within the framework of the health emergency, the line for working capital for SMEs and Health Service Providers stands out, which by the end of September had accumulated disbursements of $483,084 million. This implied a growth of 19% average monthly in the disbursed amounts. Thus, loans in pesos to the private sector accumulated between March and September a growth of 33% nominal without seasonality (12.7% real).

Complementing the measures already adopted to alleviate the financial burden on families in the context of the pandemic, the BCRA extended until December that unpaid installments of financing (excluding credit cards) must be transferred to the end of the life of the loan, only being able to charge compensatory interest at the contractual rate.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 2. Monetary aggregates
In September, the broad private monetary aggregate M3¹ continued to moderate its growth rate. In nominal terms and without seasonality, it presented an increase of 2.5%, which was the lowest since December 2019. This implies that at constant prices it would continue to remain stable². Within it, the contribution of currency in circulation held by the public would have been null. For its part, demand deposits made a negative contribution to monthly growth, in contrast to time deposits, which completed five consecutive months of expansion. (see Chart 2.1). In effect, time deposits exhibited an average monthly increase of 6% in nominal terms, accumulating in the last 12 months a growth exceeding 80%. In real terms, the monthly increase would be located at 3.5%, while the year-on-year rate of change would reach a historical maximum at around 30% (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Private M3. Real without seasonality
(monthly variation and contribution by component to growth)

Chart 2.2 | Private sector time deposits. Real
(variation of monthly average balance)

The increase in time deposits was composed of both placements of less than $1 million and those of more than $1 million. Regarding time deposits denominated in UVA, in the second part of the month a certain recomposition in the balance was observed. Thus, after presenting a downward trend since the beginning of June, they registered between September 30 and August 31 an increase of 5.5% (see Chart 2.3).

In relation to deposits at variable rate according to the dollar exchange rate (DIVA), it should be noted that the BCRA seeks to encourage their capture to allocate to the prefinancing of exports without generating a mismatch between currencies. For this reason, it modified the way in which the "Net Global Position in Foreign Currency" is determined, by providing that the amount of export prefinancings whose funding in foreign currency is charged to liabilities linked to the evolution of the dollar exchange rate must be deducted³.

For its part, private M2 presented a slight increase (0.6%) in nominal terms and without seasonality, while in real terms it would have decreased 1.7%. Among its components, currency in circulation held by the public remained relatively stable throughout the month, while transactional deposits showed a slight downward trend (see Chart 2.4). Considering the seasonally adjusted series, the former exhibited a nominal increase of 2.3%, which would imply that, at constant prices, it would have remained at the August level (-0.1%). For its part, demand deposits presented in September a variation of -0.2% s.e. at current prices, which would imply a decrease of 2.5% s.e. at constant prices.

Chart 2.3 | Private sector time deposits
(Daily evolution Index 19-mar=1)

Chart 2.4 | Private M2 and components
(Daily evolution Index 19-mar=1)

In the dollar segment, the balance of private sector deposits began to show a downward trend from mid-September. Thus, they ended the month at U$S16,147 million, decreasing U$S1,018 million with respect to the close of August. This occurred in a context in which new regulatory modifications were introduced that affect the foreign exchange market⁴ (see International Reserves Section). It is worth noting that the high liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities has allowed them to face deposit withdrawals without difficulties (see Liquidity Section).

---

¹ Includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
² Indec will publish the September inflation data on October 14.
³ Communication "A" 7101.
Finally, the Monetary Base presented, on average and at current prices, a monthly decrease of 0.7% ($16,050 million), equivalent to a decline of around 3% in real terms (see Chart 2.5). Net sales of foreign currency to the private sector became the main absorption factor and more than compensated for the liquidity expansion associated with the public sector, fundamentally through the transfer of profits and temporary advances. From the demand side, the increase was concentrated in currency in circulation held by the public, while bank reserves (current account of entities at the BCRA and cash in banks) registered a decrease.

4 Communications "A": 7105, 7106.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 4 Chart 2.5 | Monetary Base
(variation of monthly average balance)

## 3. Loans to the Private Sector

In September, loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly expansion of 2.5% in nominal terms and without seasonality (see Chart 3.1). All lines, with the exception of advances, contributed positively to the month's expansion (see Chart 3.2). In real terms, loans to the private sector would have remained stable. Thus, loans in pesos to the private sector accumulated between March and September a growth of 33% nominal s.e. (12.7% real) and of 51.3% (9.3% real) compared to the same period of the previous year.

Chart 3.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(without seasonality; variation of monthly average balance) (without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

Commercial lines were those that presented the greatest dynamism by expanding 2.2% nominal without seasonality. Thus, they were positioned 115.1% above the value registered in the same month of the previous year (55.3% at constant prices). Within this type of financing, discounted documents became the line with the greatest growth, presenting an average monthly increase of 8.5% s.e., followed by Single Signature Documents (1.7% s.e.). Meanwhile, Current Account Advances registered a contraction of 1.9% s.e. in the month (see Chart 3.3).

Likewise, those promoted by the BCRA within the framework of the health emergency continued to stand out. The line for working capital for MSMEs and Health Service Providers accumulated disbursements of $483,084 million as of the last day of September. This implied a growth of 19% average monthly in the amounts disbursed. The destinations that accumulated the largest disbursements continued to be for working capital (excluding salaries and coverage of bounced checks) and for the coverage of postdated checks (see Chart 3.4).

Chart 3.3 | Commercial loans in pesos to the priv. sec. Chart 3.4 | Financing for MSMEs and health services
(daily balance by credit line) at rates lower than 24% (amounts disbursed; accumulated to Sep-20)

On the other hand, through the MSME Plus line, intended for companies without bank financing, $2,553 million were granted as of the end of September (additionally $313 million are approved but not yet disbursed). The number of companies that accessed this line amounted to 5,791, of which 4,382 did so with FOGAR guarantees.
In parallel, financing lines continued to be granted at subsidized rates included within the "Emergency Assistance Program for Work and Production" (ATP). In September, these lines were intended for the payment of salaries for companies with up to 800 employees, whose billing would have had an year-on-year growth between 0% and 40% as of July (at a single interest rate of 15% p.a.). During the month, almost $1,618 million were granted, reaching 79,991 workers. Recently, with the sixth tranche of the ATP, it was determined that credit will continue to be available for companies whose billing presented year-on-year growth of between 0% and 40% as of August, maintaining the rate at 15% p.a. The credit will continue to be convertible into a subsidy for those companies that maintained or increased the number of workers compared to pre-pandemic levels 5.

Among loans intended for consumption, personal loans showed a nominal expansion of 1.6% s.a. during the month, the largest increase in the last 2 years, although in real terms it would imply a decline close to 0.8% s.a. (see Chart 3.5). Meanwhile, credit card financing softened its growth pace, registering an expansion of 1.3% s.a. (which would be equivalent to a real decline of 1.0%).

5 The conditions to access the subsidy were maintained in relation to the fifth tranche of the ATP.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 6 Chart 3.5 | Personal loans in pesos without seasonality

Complementing the measures already adopted to ease the financial burden on families in the context of the pandemic, the BCRA extended until December the measure that establishes that unpaid installments of financing (excluding credit cards) must be incorporated at the end of the credit's life, only being able to charge compensatory interest at the contractual rate 6.

With regard to lines with real collateral, pawn loans presented in September a monthly increase of 5.4% in nominal terms and without seasonality, with some deceleration compared to the previous month, but still above the values of recent years (see Chart 3.6). In year-on-year terms, growth was also verified (2.6% y.o.y.). In real terms, the expansion would have been 3.0%, with a decline of 26.0% in year-on-year terms. The growth of pawn loans is linked to a certain recovery in registration levels (+13.3% in September). On the other hand, mortgage financing maintained null growth, both in monthly and year-on-year terms. Unlike what occurred with automobiles, this market remains with very few operations.

Chart 3.6 | Pawn loans in pesos without seasonality

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decrease. The monthly decline was 5.1% (US$331 million), accumulating a contraction of 57.3% over the last twelve months.

6 See Communication "A" 7107.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 7 It should be noted that the BCRA intends to reduce the participation of large companies in the financing lines that financial entities offer for pre-financing of exports, so that those large companies with access to international credit markets take advantage of the new conditions generated by the normalization of sovereign debt, freeing up financing margin for local credit to SMEs. Thus, it recently ordered that financial entities may only agree and disburse new financing in foreign currency to the set of companies covered by the definition "Large Exporters" with prior approval of the monetary authority 7.

4. Liquidity of financial entities
During September, broad banking liquidity in local currency 8 registered a slight decline, standing at an average of 63.7% of deposits. In this way, it continues at historically elevated levels (see chart 4.1).

As for the composition of liquidity, the stock of LELIQs used for the integration of minimum cash as a percentage of deposits increased by 0.6 p.p., reflecting the greater growth of time deposits over demand deposits. Meanwhile, excess LELIQs decreased their participation, as did current accounts at the BCRA (by 1.1 p.p. and 0.7 p.p., respectively). For its part, net repos with the BCRA increased by 0.4 p.p. Finally, cash in banks continued the process of gradual reduction following the peak observed in April.

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

In terms of liquidity composition, within the framework of the update of the Monetary Policy guidelines, the BCRA maintained that it will manage the stock of LELIQs in order to minimize the impact of the increase in the passive repos rate on the cost of sterilization. In this context, the monetary authority decided that as of October, financial entities must reduce by 20 p.p. their net excess position in LELIQs with respect to that registered in September9.

It is worth mentioning other regulatory changes that will have an impact on banking liquidity, such as the increase from 35 to 50% of the percentage to be deducted from the minimum cash requirement for new financing corresponding to the "Ahora 12" Program, effective from October10. On the other hand, the division of banks into three groups (A, B, and C) based on the size of their assets was established, modifying the minimum cash rates on time deposits corresponding to entities in group C (made up of the smallest ones)11. Finally, it is worth noting that since September, financial entities that capture deposits constituted by natural persons for an amount of up to $1 million at the minimum interest rate in effect since August have the possibility of expanding their net excess position of LELIQs by 13% of the average monthly balance of those deposits from the previous month12.

For its part, banking liquidity in foreign currency continued to increase, and in September it averaged 76.5% of deposits, 2.1 p.p. more than in August. The increase in liquidity concentrated in current accounts at the BCRA, while cash in banks, in terms of deposits, presented a slight decline (see chart 4.2).

5. Interest Rates 13

The BCRA board decided to raise, as of October, the interest rate at which it remunerated 1-day passive repos by 5 p.p., bringing it to 24%. Thus, it seeks to increase the attractiveness of short-term financial instruments in local currency.

In September, passive interest rates remained around the levels of the minimum rates set by the BCRA. It should be recalled that the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits in pesos for natural persons for an amount of up to $1 million is at 33.06% n.a. (38.57% e.a.), while that for the rest of private sector deposits stands at 30.02% (34.52% e.a.). In this way, the minimum remuneration charged to retail savers continued to be above that corresponding to the wholesale segment (see Chart 5.1). Regarding interbank market interest rates, both the 1-day Call rate and the repo rate between third parties remained relatively stable throughout the month, with an average of 15.4% and 18.7%, respectively.
9 Communication "A" 7122.
10 Communication "A" 7114.
11 Communication "A" 7108.
12 Communication "A" 7078.
13 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 9 Graph 5.1 | Passive and interbank interest rates Graph 5.2 | Active interest rates

For its part, the majority of active interest rates applied to commercial credits registered declines in the month (see Graph 5.2). The rate corresponding to document discounts continued with the downward trend that began last month and, in this way, averaged 22.7%, 1.4 percentage points less than in August. It should be noted that this line concentrates a large part of the operations carried out with SMEs at the maximum interest rate of 24%. Meanwhile, the rate charged for single-signature documents remained relatively stable throughout the month, despite the volatility inherent to the line. On average it stood at 29.1%, decreasing 0.5 percentage points compared to August. For its part, the rate applied to advances continued with the downward trend observed since May and stood, on average, at 30.9%, 1.4 percentage points below that of the previous month. Finally, the interest rate for personal loans averaged 51.6%, registering a slight increase compared to the previous month (0.5 percentage points).

6. International Reserves

The balance of international reserves of the Central Bank stood at US$41,379 million at the end of September, which implied a decline of US$1,463 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). Said decrease was explained, fundamentally, by net foreign currency sales by the BCRA (US$1,618 million).

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.7% between the end of August and the end of September, closing the month at 76.2. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, experienced a slight appreciation until closing the month at a value of 118.4, partially reversing the increase observed since mid-May. In this way, the MRER continues to be positioned at a competitive level, with values similar to those at the beginning of the year (see Graph 6.2).

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 10 Graph 6.1 | International reserves Graph 6.2 | Multilateral real exchange rate index
(daily data)

It should be noted that, effective as of September 16, the BCRA adopted new regulations on the foreign exchange market14. In order to promote a more efficient allocation of foreign currency, in coordination with the AFIP, a withholding mechanism was established against the payment of Income Tax and Personal Property Tax of 35% for operations of formation of external assets by natural persons and purchases with cards (debit and credit) in foreign currency. Thus, it seeks to discourage the demand for foreign currency made by natural persons for purposes of hoarding and card expenses, maintaining the limit of US$200 monthly.

On the other hand, the regulations are complemented with other regulations aimed at avoiding disruptive operations by non-resident investors on financial markets; favoring the development of the local capital market; establishing guidelines for a renegotiation of external private debt compatible with the normal functioning of the foreign exchange market, and prioritizing small and medium-sized enterprises in the allocation of credit for pre-financing of exports.

In this way, as announced in the Monetary Policy guidelines updated at the beginning of October, the foreign exchange regulations seek to avoid temporary imbalances that could affect the position of international reserves15.

14 See Communications "A" 7105 and "A" 7106.
15 The Monetary Policy Guidelines were updated at the beginning of October and can be consulted at:
https://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/actualizacion-lineamientos-politica-monetaria.asp.
# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 117. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 12 Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 13 Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 14 Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 158. Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Bank Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2020 | BCRA | 16
