# Monetary Report
Monthly
March 2020 Monthly Monetary Report
March 2020

## 1. Summary

Following the declaration of the so-called coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic, in our country, measures began to be adopted to mitigate the spread of the virus. Among them, on March 16, the granting of licenses and the remote work modality for employees of the public and private sectors was established, and as of March 20, "social, preventive and mandatory isolation" was established.

Within this framework, as of mid-March, the evolution of monetary aggregates began to differ from what is usual for this time of year, observing higher growth of the broad private monetary aggregate M3. The National Government implemented a set of measures to mitigate the economic impact of reduced activity on different sectors, and in turn, the non-financial private sector—in particular, companies—accelerated the use of loans in pesos to meet their liquidity needs, which increased the participation of secondary money creation in the growth of monetary aggregates.

From the second half of March onwards, an increase in the demand for transactional money was observed as a result of the combination of different factors: precautionary motives, the impossibility of arranging time deposits in person, and the collection of an extraordinary subsidy intended for recipients of social allowances and retirees during the last days. Thus, in real and seasonally adjusted terms, cash in circulation completed an average monthly increase of 2.6%, while sight deposits in pesos from the private sector registered an average monthly growth of 6.6%.

Between March 20 and 31, part of the time deposits in pesos were not renewed. 65% of the decline in the stock of time placements during that period resulted in growth of immobilized balances, which would reflect the concentration of this behavior among account holders who usually conduct their operations in person. The average monthly balance of time deposits from the private sector grew 4.0% with respect to February in nominal terms (1.4% in real terms), while the sum of fixed-term deposits and immobilized balances completed an average monthly growth of 4.8%.

Loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate. In nominal terms and without seasonality, they presented an average monthly increase of 3.4%, the highest in the last four months, with a year-on-year variation of 25.2%. The lines intended essentially for companies (advances, documents and other loans) were those that drove the month's growth, due to the greater need for funds caused by the interruption of many productive activities as a consequence of "social, preventive and mandatory isolation."

Active interest rates showed different behaviors in March, although in all cases they completed declines during the month. Those applied to commercial lines had a period of temporary increase in the third week, and then resumed downward trajectories. The discount rate for documents averaged 36.63%, declining 2.2 p.p. with respect to February, while the rate applied to documents on sole signature averaged 40.1%, showing a monthly decline of 1.5 p.p.
The BCRA adopted a set of measures aimed at mitigating the economic impact of the health emergency. Among them, it provided for a reduction in reserve requirements for those financial entities that grant loans at a maximum interest rate of 24% p.a. to SMEs -with at least 50% of the amount of these financing required to be allocated to working capital lines- or to health service providers to purchase supplies and medical equipment. In turn, it strengthened the incentives for credits to SMEs intended for the payment of salaries, granting them greater weighting when calculating the reduction in the reserve requirement. Additionally, it established that financial entities should begin to reduce their excess LELIQ holdings -those that exceed the amounts admitted as integration of the Minimum Cash requirement- as of March 20.

In nominal terms and without seasonality, credit card financing grew 1.9% in March. During the next month, the evolution of this line will be influenced by various measures. First, due to the extension of mandatory quarantine until April 12, credit card payment due dates were postponed until the 13th of the same month. A reduction in the maximum financing rate was also established, from 55% p.a. to 49% p.a. Additionally, the Ahora 12 program was extended for 3 months, until June 30, and new items were added, such as food and medicines, in addition to online purchases in fixed installments.

The statistical closing of this report was April 6, 2020.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

On March 11, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the so-called coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic. In our country, following the first case registered on March 3, measures began to be adopted to mitigate the spread of the virus. Among them, on March 16, the granting of licenses and remote work modality for employees of the public and private sectors¹ was established, and as of March 20, "social, preventive and mandatory isolation"² was established.

In this context, as of mid-March, the evolution of monetary aggregates began to differ from what is usual for this time of year, with higher growth of private M3³ being observed, driven mainly by private M2⁴. It should be noted that the National Government established a set of measures to mitigate the impact of reduced activity on different sectors⁵. In turn, the non-financial private sector -particularly companies- accelerated the use of peso-denominated loans to meet their liquidity needs, which increased the participation of secondary money creation in the growth of monetary aggregates.

Specifically, as of the second half of March, an increase in demand for transactional money was observed as a result of the combination of different factors: precautionary motives, the impossibility of arranging time deposits in person, and the collection of extraordinary subsidies intended for beneficiaries of social allowances and retirees⁶ during the last days (see Charts 2.1 and 2.2). Thus, currency in circulation completed an average monthly increase of 2.2% in nominal terms and 2.6% in real and seasonally adjusted terms, while sight deposits in pesos from the private sector registered a nominal average monthly growth of 8.5%, which reached 6.6% when adjusted for expected inflation and seasonality.

¹ Resolution 207/2020 of the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security.
2 Decree 297/2020 established the initial period of "preventive and mandatory social isolation" between March 20 and 31. Subsequently, it was extended until April 12.
3 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
5 https://www.argentina.gob.ar/coronavirus/medidas-gobierno
6 Decree 309/2020.

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 2 of the month. Ultimately, private M2 showed monthly growth of 4.8% in real and seasonally adjusted terms.

Although the arrangement of time deposits through electronic channels gained participation in the total operations carried out, there is still a significant proportion that is usually conducted at branch offices. As of March 20, bank branches were closed to the general public7, which would explain the notable increase in immobilized balances in the private sector from that date onwards. This type of deposit reflects the balances of time deposits that were not renewed at maturity and that do not have an order to be automatically transferred to any savings account or current account deposit at that time. Indeed, between March 20 and 31, the increase in immobilized balances in pesos in the private sector was equivalent to 56% of the decline in fixed-term deposits in pesos (see Graph 2.3). Thus, the average monthly balance of time deposits in the private sector grew 4.0% compared to February in nominal terms (1.4% in real terms), while the sum of fixed-term deposits and immobilized balances completed an average monthly growth of 4.8%. In total, private M3 registered an average monthly increase, in real and seasonally adjusted terms, of 4.2% (see Graph 2.4).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of private sector deposits ended March at US$18,100 million, 2.3% below the level presented at the end of February. The majority of the decline was concentrated between March 13 and 20.

3. Loans to the private sector

In March, loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated their growth rate. In nominal terms and without seasonality, they presented an average monthly increase of 3.4%, the highest of the last four months, with a year-on-year variation of 25.2% (see Graph 3.1). The credit lines essentially destined for companies (advances, documents and other loans) were those that drove the month's growth (see Graph 3.2), due to the greater need for funds

7 As of April 3, branch office service was enabled for ANSES benefit recipients.

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 3 caused by the interruption of many productive activities as a consequence of "preventive and mandatory social isolation."

Graph 3.1 Graph 3.2

Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector - Without Seasonality thousands of Commercial Lines in Pesos to the Private Sector
(contribution by credit line to monthly growth) millions of $
5 % 710
690 2020 2019
4
670 2018 2017
3
2 650
1 630
0 610
-1 590
-2 Documents Personal Advances Cards
Collateral Other loans
-3 570
550
mar-18 jun-18 sep-18 dic-18 mar-19 jun-19 sep-19 dic-19 mar-20 29-feb 31-mar 30-abr 31-may

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
In this context, the BCRA adopted a set of measures aimed at mitigating the economic impact of the health emergency⁸. Among them, it provided for a reduction in reserve requirements for those financial entities that grant loans with a maximum interest rate of 24% p.a. to SMEs - with at least 50% of the amount of such financing destined to working capital lines - or to health service providers to purchase supplies and medical equipment⁹. In turn, it strengthened the incentives for credit to SMEs intended for the payment of wages, granting them greater weighting when calculating the reduction in reserve requirement¹⁰. Complementarily, it established that financial entities begin to reduce their excess LELIQ holdings - those that exceed those admitted as integration of the Minimum Cash requirement - starting March 20¹¹.

Considering monthly average values without seasonality, loans primarily for commercial purposes showed a nominal monthly growth rate of 9.7%, one of the highest in recent years, with year-on-year growth close to 52%. Among them, the advance line was the one that maintained a sustained growing trend during the second half of the month, which could reflect easier access conditions in operational terms compared to the rest. Thus, advances grew 11.5% in the month and its year-on-year variation accelerated 18 p.p. compared to February, reaching 69.6%. For its part, new financing instruments through documents concentrated in the third week of the month and the monthly average balance completed an increase of 6.3%, totaling year-on-year growth that stood at 35.4%. Finally, the rest of commercial loans (included under the denomination of "other" loans in BCRA statistics) noted an increase of 17.7% in March.

⁸ The measures adopted by the BCRA can be consulted at
http://www.bcra.gob.ar/noticias/coronavirus-BCRA.asp
⁹ Communications "A" 6937 and 6943.
¹⁰ Communication "A" 6949.
¹¹ Communication "A" 6937.

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 4 As for lines intended for consumption, in nominal terms and without seasonality, credit card financing grew 1.9% in March, and over the last twelve months accumulated an increase of 52%. It should be noted that during the next month the evolution of this line will be influenced by various measures. First, due to the extension of mandatory quarantine until April 12, credit card payment dates were postponed until the 13th of the same month; customers of the entities will be able to pay them until that date without any surcharge. A reduction in the maximum financing rate from 55% p.a. to 49% p.a. was also provided¹². Additionally, the Ahora 12 program was extended by 3 months, until June 30, and new categories were added, such as food and medicines, in addition to online purchases in fixed installments. For its part, personal loans maintained their monthly growth rate of 0.6%.

With regard to loans with real collateral, mortgage loans reflected a nominal decline of 0.6%, reversing the increase from the previous month. It is worth noting that the National Government provided for the freezing of the monthly payment of mortgage credit until September 30, provided that it is a single dwelling and that it is occupied. The payment cannot exceed the amount corresponding to the month of March. This measure also applies to UVA credits. Additionally, it is worth mentioning that the Ministry of Housing will relaunch the Procrear plan to boost the construction sector and make possible the purchase or renovation of homes. On the other hand, loans with pledge collateral continued to decrease. In March, these credits, adjusted for seasonality, declined 0.9% in nominal terms.
In summary, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, total loans in pesos to the private sector reflected an increase of 0.8% in the month, after 23 consecutive months of declines. In year-over-year terms, they accumulated a decrease of 17.2% in real terms (see Graph 3.3).

On the other hand, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. In the last month they fell back 5% (US$490 million), accumulating a contraction of around 40% compared to last July (the last maximum of the series). The decline in dollar loans was comprised of the line of documents on the signature alone.

## 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Although the growth of loans in pesos to the private sector accelerated in March, its magnitude continued to be less than the increase in deposits in pesos. In this way, broad bank liquidity in local currency¹³ increased by the equivalent of 0.4 percentage points of deposits, averaging 64.5%. (see Graph 4.1).

Its composition was influenced by different regulatory changes. First, it should be recalled that at the end of February, modifications were made to some of the deductions from the Minimum Cash requirement, which came into effect in the month under review. Specifically, the scope of deductions for financing within the framework of the NOW 12 program and for loans granted to SMEs at lower interest rates¹⁴ was expanded. During March, as mentioned in the "Loans to the private sector" section, to encourage loans more specifically intended to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on SMEs, a new deduction was added for financing intended for working capital, purchase of sanitary supplies and the payment of salaries. The limit of the reduction of the Minimum Cash requirement admitted by NOW 12 financing was also increased again (from 4% to 6% of deposits). All these measures imply lower balances in current accounts at the BCRA.

In turn, to free up funds that could be allocated to financing some of the sectors most affected by the coronavirus pandemic, it was arranged that as of March 20, financial entities had to divest themselves of part of the LELIQs that exceed those admitted for the integration of Minimum Cash in pesos. This obligation meant a transfer of funds from LELIQs to current accounts at the BCRA during the last days of the month.

The combination of these factors made the balance of current accounts at the BCRA and the

---

¹² Communication "A" 6949.

*Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 5*

¹³ *Wide bank liquidity in local currency*

¹⁴ *Now 12 and SME loan programs with preferential interest rates*
10 stock of excess LELIQ in terms of
 17.4 15.9 19.2 17.6 18.1 15.1 15.5
 10.2 10.0 9.5 10.1 10.3 11.9 deposits would average a level similar to that of
 0
 Mar-19 Apr-19 May-19 Jun-19 Jul-19 Aug-19 Sep-19 Oct-19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Jan-20 Feb-20 Mar-20 February.
 Source: BCRA
On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment, the average monthly decline in loans
slightly exceeded that of deposits, so banking liquidity15 remained in absolute terms and increased
in relation to deposits. In this way, liquidity in dollars averaged

13 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA,
LELIQ holdings, eligible securities to meet reserve requirements and NOCOM.
14 For more details see Monthly Monetary Report of February 2020.
15 Includes current accounts at the BCRA and cash in banks.

 Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 665.3% of deposits in February, mainly through current accounts at the BCRA (see
Chart 4.2).
5. Interest rates
During the month under analysis, the BCRA Chart 5.1.
 TNA; % Passive rates and monetary policy
Board decided to lower the lower limit of the monetary policy rate 90
 PF for Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)
on one occasion, from 40% to 38% n.a.16 Monetary policy rate
 80 TM20 Private Banks
Moreover, as of March 20 it reduced the rate BA D LA R Private Banks
at which it remunerated 1-day passive repurchase 70
agreements by 4 p.p. to 11.4% n.a. 60

 50
The interest rates paid on fixed-term deposits 40
showed a downward trajectory, although not 30
homogeneous throughout the month. In general, for 20
the total of operations and in the wholesale segment, ene-19 mar-19 may-19 jul-19 sep-19 nov-19 ene-20 mar-20
the monthly declines observed were distributed
   Source BCRA
in similar parts during the first week of the
month, following the reduction in the monetary policy rate, and during the last two days of the month, following the
reduction in the holdings of remunerated assets (LELIQ) of financial entities and the decline in the BCRA repurchase
rate. In particular, the TM20 – interest rate on fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days maturity – of
private banks ended March at 27%, 5.6 p.p. below its level at the end of February. In the retail segment the decline was
smaller: the interest rate paid on fixed-
   Chart 5.2. term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days
 TNA; % Active interest rates
 100 Discounted Documents also ended March at 27%, 2.1 p.p. less
 Personal Loans
 90 Single-Signature Documents than at the end of the previous month (see Chart 5.1).
 Total Advances
 80 Advances up to 7D. - +$10 M - Private Banks
 Active interest rates showed different
 70
 behaviors in March, although in all

 60 cases they completed declines during the month. Those

 50 applied to commercial lines had a period of

 40 transitory increase, the third week, and then

 30 resumed downward trajectories. The discount rate
 ene-19 mar-19 may-19 jul-19 sep-19 nov-19 ene-20 mar-20
 Source BCRA for documents averaged 36.6%, declining 2.2 p.p. with
   respect to February, while the rate applied to single-signature documents averaged 40.1%, showing
a monthly decline of 1.5 p.p. Meanwhile, the total advance rate averaged 47.8%, showing a decline of
5.6 p.p. in monthly average.

16 http://www.bcra.gob.ar/Noticias/Tasa-politica-monetaria-050320.asp

 Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 7 The interest rate on personal loans showed a downward trajectory throughout the month and
averaged 59.6%, showing a decline of 4.4 p.p. (see Chart 5.2).
6. International reserves and foreign exchange market
At the close of March, the balance of international reserves stood at US$43,561 million, which implied a decrease of US$1,229 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Chart 6.1).

During the month, the BCRA was a net buyer of foreign currency for US$135 million, while the debt payments of the National Government and the BCRA were the operations that explained most of the monthly decline in international reserves.

Chart 6.1

thousands of 17-dec-15=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
millions of u$s International Reserves daily data Chart 6.2 170
90 160

80 150

70 140

60 130

50 120
110 113.7

40 100

30 90

20 80 Average
jun-16 / mar-18:

10 70 89.8

0 60
jan-03 jan-05 jan-07 jan-09 jan-11 jan-13 jan-15 jan-17 jan-19aug-07 dec-08 apr-10 aug-11 dec-12 apr-14 aug-15 dec-16 apr-18 aug-19

Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

During the month the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 3.6%, closing March at 64.47. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, registered a decline to 113.7 at the end of the month, due to the greater depreciation carried out by the country's main trading partners. In any case, it remained above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Chart 6.2).

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 87. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system variables
mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 mar-19 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary base 1,941,048 1,860,024 1,692,948 1,314,388 4.4% 47.7%
Monetary circulation 1,179,646 1,141,869 1,136,813 807,136 3.3% 46.2%
Bills and Coins in public hands 1,032,194 1,009,833 1,002,339 698,403 2.2% 47.8%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 147,452 132,035 134,473 108,732 11.7% 35.6%
Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
Current account at the BCRA 761,402 718,156 556,135 507,253 6.0% 50.1%

Stock of BCRA Repurchase Agreements
Liabilities 17,612 20,051 482,227 3,412 -12.2% 416.1%
Assets 0000

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,503,406 1,404,754 993,128 963,936 7.0% 56.0%

BCRA International Reserves 44,263 44,731 45,196 67,958 -1.0% -34.9%

Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 3,935,945 3,707,090 3,501,567 2,750,834 6.2% 43.1%
Private sector deposits 3,239,853 3,038,883 2,841,938 2,128,057 6.6% 52.2%
Current account (2) 764,160 698,045 685,280 396,971 9.5% 92.5%
Savings account 868,107 806,034 724,188 521,166 7.7% 66.6%
Fixed term non-adjustable by CER/UVA 1,453,457 1,400,966 1,323,478 1,118,716 3.7% 29.9%
Fixed term adjustable by CER/UVA 57,070 51,336 30,210 28,300 11.2% 101.7%
Other deposits (3) 97,059 82,502 78,782 62,903 17.6% 54.3%

Public sector deposits 696,092 668,207 659,628 622,778 4.2% 11.8%

Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 20,724 21,150 21,592 34,153 -2.0% -39.3%

Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 1,960,593 1,905,387 1,891,242 1,539,600 2.9% 27.3%

Private sector loans 1,896,899 1,838,905 1,826,811 1,514,987 3.2% 25.2%
Advances 243,740 219,035 220,577 143,986 11.3% 69.3%
Documents 309,169 289,837 291,326 228,241 6.7% 35.5%
Mortgages 213,198 213,952 214,586 211,675 -0.4% 0.7%
Pledges 74,824 75,670 77,256 90,681 -1.1% -17.5%
Personal 408,268 403,929 401,046 422,052 1.1% -3.3%
Credit cards 566,515 565,127 553,012 372,946 0.2% 51.9%
Others 81,185 71,354 69,007 45,405 13.8% 78.8%

Public sector loans 63,694 66,482 64,431 24,613 -4.2% 158.8%

Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 9,366 9,854 10,161 15,850 -5.0% -40.9%
Total Monetary Aggregates (1)
M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in 2.030.720 1.928.032 1.937.258 1.280.801 5.3% 58.6%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 2.968.782 2.803.371 2.728.157 1.849.705 5.9% 60.5%

M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total 44.0%
deposits in pesos) 4.968.139 4.716.924 4.503.906 3.449.238 5.3%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 6.281.018 6.016.538 5.801.357 4.858.834 4.4% 29.3%

Private Monetary Aggregates

M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account 5.2% 64.0%
priv. in pesos) 1.796.354 1.707.878 1.687.620 1.095.375

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 2.664.461 2.513.913 2.411.808 1.616.541 6.0% 64.8%

M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos +
total private deposits in pesos) 4.272.047 4.048.717 3.844.278 2.826.461 5.5% 51.1%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + C 5.428.957 5.193.177 4.988.741 4.058.485 4.5% 33.8%

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 9 Average Variations

Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 81.023 4.4% 206.974 11.9% 206.974 11.9% 626.659 47.7%

Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 4.189 0.2% 65.873 3.8% 65.873 3.8% -201.537 -15.3%

Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 0 0.0% -9.423 -0.5% -9.423 -0.5% -84.165 -6.4%

Transitory Advances and Transfer of Profits 163.008 8.8% 338.935 19.5% 338.935 19.5% 769.632 58.6%

Other public sector operations -28.179 -1.5% -8.320 -0.5% -8.320 -0.5% -57.068 -4.3%

Sterilization (Repo Operations and LELIQ) -60.494 -3.3% -180.605 -10.4% -180.605 -10.4% 185.469 14.1%

Others 2.500 0.1% 514 0.0% 514 0.0% 14.328 1.1%

BCRA International Reserves -469 -1.0% -90 -0.2% -90 -0.2% -23.696 -34.9%

Intervention in the foreign exchange market 68 0.2% 1.103 2.5% 1.103 2.5% -3.403 -5.0%

Payment to international organizations -254 -0.6% -726 -1.6% -726 -1.6% 13.417 19.7%

Other public sector operations 294 0.7% 478 1.1% 478 1.1% -26.536 -39.0%

Minimum Cash 86 0.2% 1.941 4.4% 1.941 4.4% -4.924 -7.2%

Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -662 -1.5% -2.886 -6.5% -2.886 -6.5% -2.250 -3.3%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjustment for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

2 Net of the use of unified funds.

3 Net of BODEN accounted.

4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and Informative System SISCEN.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

mar-20 feb-20 jan-20

Bi-monthly integration
Dec-Jan

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos

Requirement 28.4 28.2 27.4

Integration in current accounts 18.9 19.1 17.9

LELIQ Integration 26.9 26.5 16.4

BOTE Integration 3.7 3.3 3.8

Term deposit residual maturity structure %
used for the calculation of the requirement (1)

Up to 29 days 72.3 72.3 72.3

30 to 59 days 19.0 19.0 19.0

60 to 89 days 5.3 5.3 5.3

90 to 179 days 2.8 2.8 2.8

More than 180 days 0.6 0.6 0.6
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 49.8 48.4 43.6
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 60.7 60.7 60.7
 30 to 59 days 19.3 19.3 19.3
 60 to 89 days 8.8 8.8 8.8
 90 to 179 days 8.8 8.8 8.8
 180 to 365 days 2.4 2.4 2.4
 More than 365 days 0.0 0.0 0.0
(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
* The data are provisional.
* * The data corresponding to the bi-monthly period December-January are estimated for requirement and residual maturity.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 10 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 P a s s i v e I n t e r e s t R a t e s mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 30.60 34.81 39.48 50.09 55.06
 Amount traded 8,795 9,590 8,425 7,385 11,765

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 28.23 32.25 35.29 40.89 39.09
 60 days or more 29.31 32.81 36.12 41.26 39.75
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 30.63 32.39 35.35 41.10 40.23
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 29.49 33.52 36.48 41.75 41.27

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.82 1.19 1.35 1.56 1.25
 60 days or more 1.08 1.65 1.87 2.34 1.82
 BADLAR Total (more than US $1 million, 30-35 days) 0.70 1.32 1.50 1.89 1.37
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US $1 million, 30-35 days) 1.40 1.20 1.27 1.42 1.35

 A c t i v e I n t e r e s t R a t e s mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19

Repurchase agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 31.37 35.21 35.33 41.10 42.79
 Amount traded (total of terms) 43,069 41,987 29,656 18,780 2,978

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Advances in current account 47.41 53.12 60.12 66.45 62.96
 Documents at sole signature 40.00 41.60 50.49 56.99 56.07
 Mortgages 30.59 38.34 44.08 47.51 44.94
 Pledges 23.88 24.12 31.54 30.54 22.60
 Personal loans 59.51 63.99 69.07 71.63 60.80
 Credit cards 59.47 68.56 76.46 81.77 64.98

 Advances in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 m 38.62 43.08 50.62 58.80 61.23

 I n t e r n a t i o n a l I n t e r e s t R a t e s mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19

LIBOR
 1 month 0.91 1.64 1.67 1.75 2.49
 6 months 0.95 1.69 1.84 1.90 2.67

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.48 1.35 1.52 1.61 2.40
 10 years 0.90 1.53 1.76 1.85 2.55
FED Funds Rate 0.80 1.75 1.75 1.75 2.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 4.07 4.28 4.50 4.68 6.50

(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond
to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 11 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 R e f e r e n c e I n t e r e s t R a t e s mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
 Passive 1 day 15.29 22.72 41.08 53.70 50.53

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO trading
 1 day 29.53 36.04 27.60 39.91 55.18

Amount traded of repurchase agreements between third parties REPO trading (daily average) 21,787 18,445 10,025 3,792 17,708

LELIQ Rate 38.63 45.44 51.82 61.37 62.43

 F o r e i g n E x c h a n g e M a r k e t mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 63.12 61.35 60.01 59.87 41.51
 Retail 62.75 61.13 60.53 60.53 41.55
Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 65.96 63.91 62.11 64.26 42.89
 ROFEX 1 month 65.86 63.61 62.06 63.75 44.89
 Amount traded (total of terms, millions of pesos) 23,644 22,362 13,732 15,870 49,776

Real (Pesos x Real) 13.04 14.13 14.46 14.57 10.80

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 69.99 66.93 66.60 66.51 46.89

 C a p i t a l M a r k e t mar-20 feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 mar-19
# MERVAL

**Index** | 29.123 | 39.096 | 41.294 | 37.141 | 33.511
**Amount Traded (millions of pesos)** | 904 | 904 | 904 | 885 | 829

## Government Bonds (at par)

**DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law)** | 43.7 | 59.5 | 64.7 | 70.2 | 83.8
**BONAR 24 (US$)** | 35.7 | 44.0 | 49.9 | 52.1 | 91.9
**DISCOUNT ($)** | 58.9 | 65.0 | 64.3 | 52.0 | 83.3

## Country Risk (basis points)

**EMBI+ Argentina** | 3.254 | 2.012 | 1.928 | 2.073 | 749
**EMBI+ Latin America** | 606 | 420 | 416 | 431 | 539

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

---

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 128. Glossary

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDR:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Common Investment Fund.

**FF:** Financial Trust.

**GBA:** Greater Buenos Aires.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Notes.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad monetary aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.

**TNA:** Nominal Annual Rate.

**UVA:** Unit of Purchasing Power.

**VN:** Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | March 2020 | BCRA | 13
