# Monetary Report
Monthly
May 2020 Monetary Report Monthly
May 2020

## 1. Summary

In May, the broad private monetary aggregate M3 moderated its expansion rate, following the historical record registered in April. Although all its components showed an increase, the greatest contribution to growth came from demand deposits and currency in the hands of the public. The average monthly increase of private M2 - without seasonality - was 9.8% nominal and 7.0% in real terms. Thus, means of payment moderated their growth rate.

In terms of GDP, monetary aggregates gained around 4 percentage points so far this year, placing themselves at values similar to those at the end of 2015, a time when they began to show a downward trend until reaching, at the end of last year, historically low levels.

Favored by the measures adopted by the BCRA to protect savings in pesos of individuals and legal entities, establishing a minimum yield, time deposits in pesos to the private sector grew on average 8.1% nominal (5.4% in real terms). At the end of May, the balance of time placements stood 7.1% above the levels observed before the "social, preventive and mandatory isolation".

Specifically, the BCRA determined that, as of May 18, the minimum interest rate, equivalent to 70% of the monetary policy rate (26.6% p.a. and 30.09% e.a.) be extended for all time deposits in pesos of the private sector, thus including legal entities, while removing the amount limit. Effective from the same date, the BCRA board decided to increase the rate at which it remunerated one-day reverse repos by 3.8 percentage points to 19%. Additionally, it determined that from June the minimum rate for deposits in pesos of the private sector will be 79% of the LELIQ rate, which is equivalent to 30.02% p.a. and 34.52% e.a., allowing financial institutions to increase their excess LELIQ position by 18% based on deposits they capture at that minimum rate.

Driven by commercial financing, loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and without seasonality, registered an expansion of 4.7% monthly (2.1% at constant prices). Although the growth in May implies a moderation with respect to April, this rate still stands among the highest of recent years.

The BCRA continued adopting measures to favor credit to MSMEs. Thus, it extended the deduction of the minimum cash requirement for those entities that grant loans to companies that do not have loans granted by financial entities through the SME Plus line. For its part, the main line, to MSMEs and Health Service Providers, accumulates disbursements of $217,586 million at rates below 24%, of which $7,000 million corresponded to health service providers. Zero-rate credit is another recently created line to ease the financial situation of self-employed workers and flat-rate taxpayers. In May, 286,051 loans were granted (about 16,000 credits per day) for a total amount of $35,869 million of which $11,620 million have already been credited.

The statistical closing of this report was June 4, 2020.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates
In May, the broad private monetary aggregate M3¹ moderated its expansion rate, following the historical record registered in April. Adjusted for seasonality, it grew 7.9% nominally on average during the month, which is equivalent to a growth of 5.2% in real terms². Unlike what occurred the previous month, all components showed an increase, although the greatest contribution to growth came from demand deposits and currency in circulation held by the public. The average monthly increase in private M2³ - without seasonality - was 9.8% nominal and 7.0% in real terms. Thus, means of payment moderated their growth rate (see Charts 2.1).

In terms of GDP⁴, monetary aggregates gained around 4 percentage points so far this year, placing themselves at values similar to those at the end of 2015, the moment when they began to show a downward trend until reaching, at the end of last year, historically low levels (see Charts 2.2)

Chart 2.1                                                          Chart 2.2
Monthly Variation of Private M2 - Without Seasonality        Monetary Aggregates as a Percentage of GDP
% (monthly average balances)                                      %GDP (on monthly average series without seasonality)

Within private M2, demand deposits presented a nominal increase of 9.8% and 7.1% adjusted for expected inflation, when considering the series without seasonality. During the month of May, the collection of the Emergency Family Income (IFE)⁵ continued to have an impact, one of the measures adopted by the National Government within the framework of the health emergency to sustain the income of the most vulnerable sectors. The transfer of these funds to savings accounts in the private sector, added to the greater preference for more liquid assets that usually accompanies periods of uncertainty, meant that demand deposits showed, from the first week of the month, a softer decline in relation to that observed in previous years. Even, in the third week of the month an increase was verified, when demand deposits typically decrease, to then resume the expected downward trend according to their seasonality (see Chart 2.3). For its part, currency in circulation held by the public grew steadily during the first weeks of May and then remained relatively stable, without registering the typical mid-month decline (see Chart 2.4). In this way, it completed an average monthly increase of 10.3% in nominal terms, equivalent to 7.5% real. Several factors contributed to its growth: on one hand, the beneficiaries of the aforementioned resources typically make more intensive use of cash, on the other hand, the demand for precautionary money would continue to be high as long as the pandemic lasts.

Chart 2.3                                                          Chart 2.4
Thousands of  Demand Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector    Currency in Circulation Held by the Public
Millions of $  daily balance - index base avg. 7 days as of 29-Feb-20  daily balance - index base avg. 7 days as of 29-Feb-20
Thousands of
Millions of $

---

¹ Includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
² All real variables were deflated by the Core REM inflation expectations for May, corresponding to the April survey.
³ Includes currency in circulation held by the public and demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
⁴ The GDP used to construct the aggregates/GDP ratios corresponds to the 12-month moving average.
⁵ Intended for unemployed persons, informal workers, self-employed workers in the lowest categories and domestic workers (Decree 310/2020).

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 2
1.800 1.210 2018

1.700 1.160 2017

1.600 1.110

1.500 1.060

1.400 1.010

1.300 960
29-feb 31-mar 30-abr 31-may 29-feb 31-mar 30-abr 31-may
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Benefiting from the measures adopted by the BCRA to protect savings in pesos of individuals and 
legal entities, establishing a minimum return (see "Interest Rates" Section), time deposits in pesos 
to the private sector grew on average 8.1% in nominal terms (5% in real terms). The accumulated 
growth between the closing of May and April 30 was $135,850 million (9.3%), with 70% of the in-
crease concentrated in the latter part of the month, starting from May 18, when the minimum inter-
est rate began to apply to all time deposits in pesos of the private sector, without amount limits⁶. 
In this way, the balance at the end of May stood 7.1% above the levels observed before the "Manda-
tory Preventive Social Isolation" (see Chart 2.5). Distinguishing by amount stratum, the month's 
growth was composed mainly of placements of more than $20 million, a segment in which enter-
prises and financial service providers mainly operate (see Chart 2.6).

Within time deposits, those denominated in UVA, which also guarantee positive remuneration in 
real terms, registered an average monthly nominal increase of 14.1%, driven by pre-cancellable 
placements. These reached an average balance close to $28,000 million, more than double that ob-
served in April, while traditional placements showed a decrease of 7.6% in the month.

⁶ Communications "A" 7018.

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.5 Chart 2.6
Time Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector
thousands of Daily Balance Minimum Rate 19-mar=1
millions $ Reopening Com. "A" 7018 1.25 Fixed Term - More than $20 mill.
1.700 Quarantine Start 1.20 Fixed Term - Less than $20 mill.
 +7.1% 1.15 Fixed Term - Total
1.600 1.10

1.500 1.05
 +8.9% 1.00
1.400 0.95

 0.90
1.300 0.85

 0.80
1.200
 01-jan 21-jan 10-feb 01-mar 21-mar 10-apr 30-apr 20-may
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

For its part, the Monetary Base presented a Chart 2.7
slight increase in May: 0.6% ($13,200 million) Variation Factors of the Monetary Base
on average. The main expansion factor thousands of Avg. May-20/ Avg. Apr-20
was financing to the National Treasury through millions of $
temporary advances and profit transfers, in a 500
period in which the National Government is 400
carrying out various measures to contain the 300
crisis associated with the health emergency. 200
Part of this expansion was sterilized through 100
passive repurchase agreements and LELIQ. 0
Also generating an absorption of the monetary -100
base were net sales of dollars and some opera- -200
tions with the public sector (see Chart 2.7) -300
Purchases AT and Other Repurchase Other BM Circ. in Cash Eff-
of US$ Util. Pub and LELIQ Public BCRA ect
to Priv. Sec.
Source: BCRA

Finally, dollar deposits declined throughout the month. At the end of May, their balance stood at 
US$16,850 million, 5.1% less than the balance at the end of the previous month. However, they 
still remain well above the minimums observed in early 2014.

3. Loans to the private sector
Chart 3.1 Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal

% monthly var. s.e. Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos terms and without seasonality, registered

8 an expansion of 4.7% monthly in May (2.1% at

6 constant prices). Although the month's growth

4 implied a moderation compared to April,

2 this rate still stands among the highest of

0 recent years (see Chart 3.1). The monthly growth

-2 of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the

-4 evolution of commercial financing. In this way,

-6 the total of the fi-
-8 Financings in Pesos Accumulated Since March
may-02 may-04 may-06 may-08 may-10 may-12 may-14 may-16 may-18 may-20
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 4

growth of 15.8% nominal s.e. (7.7% real) and of 39.5% (-5.6% real) with respect to the same period of the previous year.

The demand for commercial credit continued to be linked to the funding needs of companies in order to meet the payment of their debts and maintain the stock of working capital. Unlike what happened in April, a greater number of sectors were able to resume the development of their commercial activity due to certain flexibility of the "mandatory preventive social isolation"7.

In effect, commercial lines registered an expansion of 14.0% monthly s.e., being the only Chart 3.2
Thousands of Main Commercial Lines in Pesos to the Private Sector Thousands of
millions of $ millions of $
lines that contributed positively to the monthly growth of loans. Thus, these lines 420 Advances 120
Documents at sight
Discounted documents (right axis)
 370 366.9 100
registered in the fifth month of the year an expansion of 111% year-on-year. Within this type
of financings, the heterogeneity observed in April was maintained, with the documents at sight 71.8 80
 320
line being the main vehicle through which credit was channeled (see Chart 3.2). The latter 60
showed a nominal increase without seasonality of 31.6%, marking the second consecutive 270
 255.6 40
month with rates exceeding 30%. Thus, the accumulated increase of this line since March was
approximately 90%. Discounted documents began to show some dynamism in the fifth month 220 20
of the year, although their growth is considerably lower than that of documents at sight. Mean-
 170 0
while, advances in current account showed certain stability during the month.

Chart 3.3 In May, the BCRA continued to adopt measures

Financings for SMEs and Health Services at Rates Below 24% to promote credit to SMEs. At the beginning of
amounts disbursed – accumulated as of May 29
the month, the deduction of the minimum cash requirement was extended for those entities
Other Working capital 103.2
that lend to SMEs at a rate below 24% to companies that are not reported in the "Central
Payment of salaries 52.4 Registry of Debtors of the Financial System", that is, that do not have loans granted by financial
entities (see "Liquidity" Section)8. This line was called SME plus. The line for SMEs and
Deferred checks coverage 45.6
Health Service Providers accumulated disbursements of $217,586 million at rates below
Other* 9.4
24%. Of these, only $7,000 million corresponded to health service providers. The rest, which
Health Service 7.0
Thousands of millions of $ corresponds to financings for SMEs, was distributed as follows: 49% for working capital
(excluding salaries), 25% for payment of salaries and the remaining 26% for other purposes
 0 20 40 60 80 100 120
(see Chart 3.3). The average daily rate of disbursements during May was $4,000 million. On
*For SMEs not included in lines with at least 50% working capital.
Source: BCRA

7 Decree 459/2020. This regulation enables local authorities to permit the carrying out of activities with the corresponding protocols in departments or districts that meet certain epidemiological and sanitary requirements, with the exception of the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, where the presence of the virus is greater.

8 Communication "A" 7006.

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 5

the last day of the month, $18,000 million remained approved but not yet disbursed and $11,600 million that were still in the approval process.
Credit at zero interest is another recently created line to alleviate the financial situation of self-employed workers and monotax payers9. In May, 286,051 loans were granted (approximately 16,000 credits per day) for a total amount of $35.869 billion (see Chart 3.4). Because this line provides that the accreditation of funds be done in three months, only $11.620 billion pesos were credited. In the same period, 79,845 new cards were issued for the accreditation of these funds, since the regulation contemplates the issuance of a new card in case the client does not have one with the entity.

Regarding loans more associated with consumption, both credit card financing and personal loans showed contractions in the month, an atypical situation for these lines in recent years (see Chart 3.5). This behavior would be associated with the sharp contraction in household income and consumption, in the context of isolation. In particular, credit cards recorded a decline of 0.3% in the month, despite measures taken by the government to relieve the financial burden facing families and promote credit card consumption10. For its part, personal loans also showed a decline in the month (0.9%).

Among the lines with real guarantee, pawn loans presented a monthly decline of 2.1% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 21 consecutive months without positive variations and a year-over-year decline of 19.2%. This poor performance of the lines for car purchases occurred in a context where there was some recovery in dealer sales, although it still stands 43% below the level registered a year ago. On the other hand, mortgage financing again fell in nominal terms and without seasonality 0.4% in the month, which implies null year-over-year growth in nominal terms. Due to the continuity of isolation, it is also likely that the number of deeds was at historically low levels, although above the 7 deeds registered in April in CABA11.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decrease. The monthly decline was 7.4% (US$640 million), accumulating a contraction of 49.7% compared to last July (last maximum of the series). This contraction of loans in dollars continued responding almost entirely to what happened with documents at sight only.

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities
During the month of May, broad banking liquidity in local currency (which includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ, bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements and NOCOM) registered a slight decline, averaging 63.9% of deposits (see Graph 4.1). However, there were movements in the composition of liquidity that responded to regulatory changes ordered by the BCRA in the context of the health emergency.

In the first place, current accounts of entities at the Central Bank registered a decline of 3.2 percentage points during the month of May as a consequence of several factors. First, the elimination of reserve requirements for sight deposits of Money-Market Mutual Funds was ordered as of the end of April¹². Second, a new minimum cash facility was introduced for 40% of financing granted to SMEs at a rate of up to 24%, provided they are not reported in the "Financial System Debtor Registry"¹³. Third, it was established that, as of May 18, entities may integrate LELIQ to meet the entire minimum cash requirement in pesos for time deposits and investments (with the exception of what can be integrated with National Treasury Bonds)¹⁴. This regulation contributed to the decline in current accounts, with the increase in LELIQ for integration as a counterpart. Fourth, it was ordered that, as of May 11, banks must reduce their excess LELIQ position by an additional 1% with respect to their position on March 19. As a consequence, a reduction can be observed in the balances of LELIQ – Remainder, and an increase in Net Repos as a counterpart. For its part, cash in banks declined 0.4 percentage points during the month, following the strong increase recorded in April.

It was also permitted to integrate minimum cash with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos at fixed rate maturing May 2022"¹⁵. Since these bonds were auctioned toward the end of May, the corresponding effect on the composition of banking liquidity will be observed in the month of June. Finally, it should be noted that as of next month, entities may increase their excess LELIQ position by the equivalent of 18% of deposits captured at a minimum rate of 79% of the LELIQ rate, an effect that will also be recorded in June¹⁶.

In the foreign currency segment, banking liquidity (sum of current accounts at the BCRA and cash in banks) continued to increase and averaged 69.3% of deposits, in a context of decline in both dollar-denominated loans and deposits (see Graph 4.2). Thus, the high liquidity of financial entities allows them to...

---

¹¹ Data published by the Notaries' Association of the City of Buenos Aires.
https://www.colegio-escribanos.org.ar/index.php/category/estadisticas-de-escrituras/
¹² Communication "A" 6992.
¹³ Communication "A" 7006.
¹⁴ Communication "A" 7018.
47.7 46.6 44.7 42.8 33.1 38.3 37.2 40.4 43.6 48.4 49.8 50.2 56.3 face without major difficulties the withdrawal of
30
 deposits from the private sector.
20

10
 9.5 10.1 10.3 11.9 17.4 15.9 19.2 17.6 18.1 15.1 15.5 17.5 13.0
 0
 May-19 Jun-19 Jul-19 Aug-19 Sep-19 Oct-19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Jan-20 Feb-20 Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20
Source: BCRA

5. Interest Rates

The interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits reflected the impact of the measures adopted by the BCRA to encourage savings in pesos, seeking to guarantee households and companies a positive return in real terms. In this sense, during the first part of the month a floor was set for the interest rate on deposits of individuals of up to $4 million17, and as of May 18, the minimum interest rate was extended for all fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector, thus including legal entities, while the amount limit was removed18.

Furthermore, the BCRA board decided to increase, as of May 18, the rate at which it remunerate reverse repurchase agreements at 1 day by 3.8 percentage points to 19% annualized.

15 Communication "A" 7016.
16 Communication "A" 7027.
17 Communication "A" 7000.
18 Communication "A" 7018.

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 8In this way, the interest rate paid to retail Chart 5.1
 savers remained throughout the month at the Annualized %; Passive rates and monetary policy rates
 level of the minimum rate, which was set at 90
 70% of the monetary policy rate, which equaled 80
 26.6% annualized and 30.1% effective annualized. 70
 Meanwhile, interest rates in the wholesale 60
 segment showed an upward tendency during 50
 the first half of the month, converging from 40
 May 18 to the minimum interest rate of 26.6%. PF of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days)
 In particular, the interest rate for fixed-term 30 Monetary policy rate
 deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 20 MP Rate Private Banks
 days maturity – from private banks increased 10 BADLAR Private Banks
 8.8 percentage points compared to the value May-19 Jul-19 Sep-19 Nov-19 Jan-20 Mar-20 May-20
 observed at the end of the previous month, Source BCRA
 while the BADLAR of private banks – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – recorded an increase of 8.1 percentage points compared to April 30 (see Chart 5.1).

It should be noted that, as of June, the minimum interest rate will be 79% of the monetary policy rate (30.02% annualized and 34.52% effective annualized), with financial entities being able to increase their holdings of LELIQ based on the deposits they capture at said interest rate (see Section "Liquidity")19.

 Chart 5.2 On average, most active interest rates
 Annualized %; Active Interest Rates  Discounted Documents
 Personal Loans decreased in May, reflecting in the case of
 80 Documents at Sole Signature  commercial financing, the impact of lines at
 Total Advances subsidized rates of 24%.

 70

 60 In this sense, the interest rate applied to the dis-

 50 count of documents was placed at 25.2%, 4.8 percentage

 40 points below that of April, while the corresponding

 30 rate for documents at sole signature remained
 relatively stable at 28.7%. For its part, the rate of
 20
 total advances averaged in May at 35.5%, registering
 May-19 Jul-19 Sep-19 Nov-19 Jan-20 Mar-20 May-20
 Source: BCRA a decline of 3.8% compared to the previous month. Finally, the interest rate charged for personal loans reached 50.8%, positioning itself around 2 percentage points below the April average (see Chart 5.2).

19 This provision is mandatory for financial entities of Group A and branches of foreign banks classified as systemically important, while for the remaining entities it is optional in nature.
See Communication "A" 7027.

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 96. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market
At the end of May, the balance of international reserves of the Central Bank stood at US$42,588 million, which implied a decrease of US$980 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). During the month, the BCRA was a net seller of foreign currency by US$711 million, while there was an additional decline of around US$400 million due to payments to international organizations, while the minimum cash accounts increased approximately US$350 million.

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.5% between end of April and end of May, closing the month at 68.53. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, experienced a slight depreciation closing the month at a value of 114.1, after remaining relatively stable since mid-March (see Graph 6.2).

Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2

thousands of 17-Dec-15=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
millions of u$s International Reserves daily data 170

90 160

80 150

70 140

60 130

50 120

40 110 114.1

30 100

20 90

Average 80
10 Jun-16 / Mar-18:
89.8
0 70

Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09 Jan-11 Jan-13 Jan-15 Jan-17 Jan-19 Aug-07 Dec-08 Apr-10 Aug-11 Dec-12 Apr-14 Aug-15 Dec-16 Apr-18 Aug-19

Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 107. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary and financial system variables
May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 May-19 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary base 2,181,264 2,168,039 1,941,048 1,342,639 0.6% 62.5%
Monetary circulation 1,430,270 1,330,994 1,179,646 823,540 7.5% 73.7%
Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public 1,245,831 1,139,145 1,031,977 717,812 9.4% 73.6%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities 184,438 191,848 147,669 105,727 -3.9% 74.4%
Cancellatory checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
Current account at the BCRA 750,994 837,046 761,402 519,099 -10.3% 44.7%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities 609,530 359,478 17,612 4,431 69.6% 13,657.5%
Assets 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0%

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,261,107 1,229,920 1,517,923 1,033,700 2.5% 22.0%

BCRA international reserves 43,084 43,735 44,263 67,701 -1.5% -36.4%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 4,602,808 4,279,545 3,936,171 2,821,625 7.6% 63.1%
Deposits of the private sector 3,811,719 3,564,944 3,240,136 2,205,398 6.9% 72.8%
Current account (2) 986,102 897,911 765,571 423,722 9.8% 132.7%
Savings account 1,129,576 1,054,248 867,791 535,217 7.1% 111.1%
Fixed-term deposit not adjustable by CER / UVA 1,527,591 1,403,143 1,453,263 1,149,652 8.9% 32.9%
Fixed-term deposit adjustable by CER / UVA 52,980 57,348 57,053 30,345 -7.6% 74.6%
Other deposits (3) 115,469 152,294 96,459 66,463 -24.2% 73.7%

Deposits of the public sector 791,089 714,601 696,035 616,228 10.7% 28.4%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 19,615 20,513 20,724 34,978 -4.4% -43.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 2,155,656 2,077,361 1,961,626 1,540,282 3.8% 40.0%

Loans to the private sector 2,113,560 2,019,976 1,897,659 1,517,016 4.6% 39.3%
Advances 309,295 305,557 244,022 146,839 1.2% 110.6%
Documents 442,021 352,252 308,928 224,576 25.5% 96.8%
Mortgages 212,331 212,933 213,227 212,461 -0.3% -0.1%
Pledges 71,690 73,057 74,810 88,650 -1.9% -19.1%
Personal loans 400,290 405,376 408,212 423,207 -1.3% -5.4%
Credit cards 550,774 561,928 567,134 376,298 -2.0% 46.4%
Other 127,158 108,874 81,325 44,984 16.8% 182.7%

Loans to the public sector 42,096 57,385 63,968 23,266 -26.6% 80.9%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 8,199 8,840 9,363 15,924 -7.3% -48.5%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 2,505,801 2,285,386 2,031,774 1,343,229 9.6% 86.6%
M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 3.681.999 3.399.179 2.969.514 1.931.384 8,3% 90,6%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in
 pesos) 5.848.640 5.418.690 4.968.147 3.539.438 7,9% 65,2%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 7.178.983 6.768.190 6.280.990 5.111.850 6,1% 40,4%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current accounts in
 pesos) 2.231.934 2.037.057 1.797.547 1.141.534 9,6% 95,5%
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 3.361.510 3.091.305 2.665.338 1.676.751 8,7% 100,5%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits
 in pesos) 5.057.551 4.704.090 4.272.113 2.923.210 7,5% 73,0%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 6.224.407 5.893.481 5.428.986 4.295.833 5,6% 44,9%

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 11 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 13.224 0,6% 321.240 17,3% 447.191 25,8% 838.625 62,5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -58.881 -2,7% -48.247 -2,6% 13.436 0,8% -253.973 -18,9%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury 0 0,0% 0 0,0% -9.423 -0,5% -84.165 -6,3%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 371.970 17,2% 794.582 42,7% 970.510 56,0% 1.398.714 104,2%
Other public sector operations -68.757 -3,2% -114.735 -6,2% -94.851 -5,5% -128.381 -9,6%
Sterilization (Repurchase Agreements and LELIQ) -235.851 -10,9% -310.803 -16,7% -430.914 -24,8% -107.655 -8,0%
Others 4.744 0,2% 444 0,0% -1.567 -0,1% 14.085 1,0%

BCRA International Reserves -651 -1,5% -1.647 -3,7% -1.269 -2,9% -24.617 -36,4%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -879 -2,0% -709 -1,6% 326 0,7% -4.179 -6,2%
 Payment to international organizations -423 -1,0% -873 -2,0% -1.349 -3,0% 2.529 3,7%
 Other public sector operations 424 1,0% 874 2,0% 1.058 2,4% -14.808 -21,9%
 Minimum cash 741 1,7% 801 1,8% 2.657 6,0% -5.662 -8,4%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -514 -1,2% -1.740 -3,9% -3.960 -8,9% -2.497 -3,7%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified fund utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 25,7 27,5 28,4
 Integration in current accounts 16,2 19,4 18,9
 LELIQ Integration 18,6 19,1 26,9
 BOTE Integration 3,5 3,3 3,5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 71,9 71,9 71,9
 30 to 59 days 20,0 20,0 20,0
 60 to 89 days 4,7 4,7 4,7
 90 to 179 days 2,6 2,6 2,6
 more than 180 days 0,7 0,7 0,7

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24,0 24,0 24,0
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 56,3 50,0 49,8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 59,2 59,2 59,2
 30 to 59 days 20,9 20,9 20,9
 60 to 89 days 8,3 8,3 8,3
 90 to 179 days 8,8 8,8 8,8
 180 to 365 days 2,7 2,7 2,7
 more than 365 days 0,2 0,2 0,2
(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
* The data is provisional.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 12 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
# REFERENCE INTEREST RATES May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 17.00 12.35 15.29 53.70 63.46

Repo rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 10.77 8.15 29.53 39.91 64.50

Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) 4,343 8,322 21,787 3,792 15,681

LELIQ Rate 38.00 38.00 38.63 61.37 71.79

 Foreign Exchange Market May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 67.73 65.76 63.12 59.87 44.88
 Retail 67.62 65.45 62.75 60.53 44.98

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 71.72 68.88 65.96 64.26 46.73
 ROFEX 1 month 69.73 68.34 65.86 63.75 49.71
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 35,789 28,941 23,666 15,870 60,273

Real (Pesos x Real) 12.00 12.32 13.04 14.57 11.24

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 73.85 71.43 69.99 66.51 50.20

 Capital Market May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

MERVAL
 Index 38,234 29,555 29,123 37,141 33,625

Government Bonds (at par)
 DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Leg.) 42.5 38.7 43.7 70.2 77.9
 BONAR 24 (US$) 31.4 27.6 35.7 52.1 82.8
 DISCOUNT ($) 68.5 54.8 58.9 52.0 61.5

Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 2,976 3,803 3,254 2,073 922
 EMBI+ Latin America 624 711 606 431 575

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 13 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 14.07 8.03 30.14 50.09 70.31
 Amount operated 8,172 6,914 9,399 7,385 8,257

Fixed Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 23.45 21.34 28.21 40.89 50.31
 60 days or more 24.04 21.95 29.32 41.26 50.45
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 21.85 18.93 28.71 41.82 54.86
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 22.36 19.03 29.88 42.70 55.13
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 22.82 20.40 28.29 41.10 52.37
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 23.57 20.84 29.49 41.75 52.44

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.77 0.80 0.82 1.56 1.28
 60 days or more 0.91 1.01 1.09 2.34 1.72
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.86 0.94 0.99 1.89 1.39
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1.11 1.14 1.26 1.42 1.41

 Active Interest Rates May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

Collateralized loans in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 21.28 17.52 31.37 41.10 53.31
 Amount operated (total terms) 35,897 44,371 43,069 18,780 3,211

Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 35.08 38.63 47.48 66.45 72.75
 Single-signature documents 28.70 27.94 40.01 56.99 62.18
 Mortgages 25.25 28.69 30.59 47.51 56.85
 Pledged loans 22.72 23.54 23.88 30.54 23.44
 Personal loans 50.80 53.06 59.70 71.63 67.01
 Credit cards 43.37 47.80 57.45 81.77 67.73

 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 20.89 21.63 38.66 58.80 73.28

 International Interest Rates May-20 Apr-20 Mar-20 Dec-19 May-19

LIBOR
 1 month 0.19 0.68 0.91 1.75 2.44
 6 months 0.63 1.07 0.95 1.90 2.57

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.17 0.22 0.48 1.61 2.20
 10 years 0.67 0.65 0.90 1.85 2.38

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.80 1.75 2.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 3.08 3.75 4.07 4.68 6.50

(1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 14 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDR:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Common Investment Fund.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** effective annual.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**s.e.:** seasonally unadjusted.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**ANN:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Acquisition Value Unit.

Monetary Report | May 2020 | BCRA | 15
