# Monetary Report
Monthly
July 2020 Monetary Report Monthly
 July 2020

 1. Summary

  In July, the broad monetary aggregate private M3 in real terms and without seasonality, continued moderating its expansion rate from the maximum observed in April. Time deposits explained, for the second consecutive month, the largest part of the aggregate's growth while the means of payment continued decreasing their contribution.

  The evolution of time placements reflected the positive impact of the minimum interest rate scheme, ensuring a positive return in real terms for all depositors in the private sector. Thus, in July time deposits completed a monthly growth of 7.4% at current prices, which implied an increase of 4.7% at constant prices. Although they moderated their expansion rate with respect to May and June, such growth rates are still historically high, both in nominal and real terms.

  Advancing with its policy of protecting savings in national currency, the BCRA decided to increase, as of August, the floor of the interest rate that financial entities must pay for time deposits in pesos of natural persons for up to $1 million, from 79% to 87% of the monetary policy rate. Thus, retail savers will receive a minimum return of 33.06% n.a. (38.57% e.a.) for their deposits. Additionally, the BCRA increased to 0.75 the coefficient that determines the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with early cancellation option in UVA, increasing said interest rate from 26.6% to 28.5%.

  Loans in pesos to the private sector maintained a high expansion rate in July, although they continued moderating with respect to the maximum reached in April. In nominal terms and without seasonality, the expansion was 3.5% monthly (0.9% at constant prices). This increase was driven mainly by credit card financing, which completed an average monthly increase, without seasonality, of 9.2% nominal (6.5% real). Among the factors that contributed to its growth stand out loans at 0% rate and the increase in financing with the "Ahora 12" program, the latter recently showed expansion given its preferential conditions in a context of household consumption recovery.

  Within the commercial lines, those associated and driven by the BCRA in the economic emergency stand out. The line for SMEs and Health Service Providers accumulated at the close of the month disbursements of $343,777 million at rates below 24%, of which $8,300 million corresponded to health service providers. The rest of the financing to SMEs was distributed as follows: 48% to working capital (excluding salaries), 29% coverage of post-dated checks and the remaining 23% to other destinations. For its part, the SME Plus line, intended for companies without bank financing, with data as of July 31, served 4,193 companies, of which 3,239 did so with FOGAR guarantees. The total amount granted was $1,828 million and there remain to be disbursed $187 million that have already been approved.

 The statistical closing of this report was August 6, 2020.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates
The broad monetary aggregate M3 private1 in real terms and without seasonality, continued moderating its expansion rate from the maximum observed in April, presenting in July a real growth of 2.2% (see Graph 2.1, 4.9% in nominal terms and without seasonality)2. Time deposits, for the second consecutive month, explained most of the growth of the broad aggregate of the private sector.

Time deposits exhibited a monthly growth of 7.4% at current prices, which implied an increase of 4.7% at constant prices. Although they softened their expansion rate with respect to May and June, these growth rates still turn out to be historically high, both in nominal and real terms (see graph 2.2). The daily evolution of time placements reflects the positive impact of the minimum interest rate policy, which ensures positive remuneration in real terms for all private sector depositors. Discriminating the balance by type of account holder,3 sustained growth has been verified since mid-May in both individual and legal entity lines (see graph 2.3). It should be noted that within the latter, financial service providers are found, such as Money Market Investment Funds that increased their equity in this period, with a portfolio invested in slightly more than 40% in time placements.

In a context of moderation in the pace of price growth, depositors showed a greater preference for time placements in pesos to the detriment of those denominated in UVA, which maintained the downward trend initiated in June. The same was explained by both time placements in UVA with early redemption option as well as traditional UVA time placements.

Following the modifications to the variable remuneration time investment regime that the BCRA introduced in June4, an increase was observed in those associated with dollar exchange rates. Although their contribution to total growth of time deposits is still not significant, as of the end of July they accumulated $4,100 million.

Regarding means of payment, considering the series adjusted for seasonality, currency in circulation recorded in July a nominal increase of 3.5% (0.9% in real terms), the lowest growth rate of the last eight months. Meanwhile, demand deposits grew 3.3% nominal (0.7% at constant prices), presenting a variation similar to that of the previous month.

For its part, the balance of dollar deposits of the private sector ended the month at US$16,980 million, accumulating growth of US$196 million compared to the close of June. Throughout the month, behavior was not homogeneous, with an increase of US$320 million observed during the first two weeks, which was partially offset by the decline in the last part of the month. Likewise, the increase was concentrated in savings account placements of individuals in the lower amount stratum (up to US$10,000).
Finally, the Monetary Base in nominal terms presented an increase of $154,437 million on average in July (see Chart 2.4). On the demand side of the Monetary Base, it is worth noting that it has positive seasonality in this month fundamentally due to the demand for currency in the hands of the public that is usually observed in July following the collection of the semi-annual complementary salary. On the supply side, the expansion was associated with transfers to the National Treasury that resulted in lower amounts than in the previous months, in a context in which the National Government continues to carry out various programs aimed at mitigating the economic impact of the health emergency. Part of the monetary expansion was sterilized through passive repos and LELIQ.

4 On one hand, it determined that investments with a fixed term with variable remuneration with returns determined based on the value of cereals, oilseeds and the exchange rate of the United States dollar, will be limited to persons – human or legal entities – with agricultural activity and for an amount of up to 2 times the total value of their sales of cereals and/or oilseeds registered as of November 1, 2019. On the other hand, the BCRA decided that hedge coverage of exchange rate risk will not be required in fixed-term investments with variable remuneration based on the United States dollar. See Communications "A" 7018 and "A" 7029.

Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 3. Loans to the Private Sector

Loans in pesos to the private sector maintained a high expansion rate in July, although they continued to moderate compared to the maximum reached in April (see Chart 3.1). In nominal terms and without seasonality, the expansion was 3.5% monthly (0.9% at constant prices). In July, credit card financing was the main factor explaining the growth in loans. Although commercial lines contributed positively to credit expansion, they did so in a smaller magnitude (see Chart 3.2). This dynamic is partly linked to the partial opening of the economy, which allowed some recovery of family and business income. In this way, loans in pesos to the private sector accumulated from March a nominal growth of 25% without seasonality (11.8% real) and 48.7% (1.7% real) compared to the same period of the previous year.

Chart 3.1 Chart 3.2

The nominal growth of credit card financing was 9.2% without seasonality (which is equivalent to a real increase of 6.5%). One of the factors that contributed to its growth were zero-rate loans, which are credited to credit cards (see Chart 3.3). These loans intended for monotributistas and self-employed individuals accumulated in the first 31 days of July a total amount of $58,828 million, of which $47,733 million were effectively disbursed. It is worth recalling that the accreditation of funds is carried out in three consecutive monthly installments. Also, 160,964 new credit cards were issued for the accreditation of these funds for customers who did not have any. It is worth noting that the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (AFIP) extended until September 30 the deadline to request the credit5.

Among the measures that also contributed to the growth of credit card financing, the dynamism presented by those associated with the "Ahora 12" program stands out. In recent months they registered sustained growth in the number of operations, particularly in the interior of the country. Also positively influenced was the maximum interest rate of credit card financing, which since April has been 43% annualized6. Meanwhile, personal loans showed a nominal increase of 1% without seasonality in the month (in real terms it implied a decline of 1.5% without seasonality).
The demand for commercial credit, linked to Graph 3.4, associated with the funding needs of companies in order to face the payment of salaries and maintain their working capital stock, registered a moderation in July. On one hand, the partial opening of the economy influenced this, which allowed some recovery in company billing. On the other hand, the fact that many SMEs had already accessed financing lines at subsidized interest rates had an impact. Overall, commercial lines registered an expansion of 0.7% monthly s.e., positioning themselves 123% above the value recorded in the same month of the previous year (52.7% at constant prices).

Within this type of financing, single signature documents continued to be the main vehicle through which credit was channeled, while a gradual growth continued to be observed in the balance of discounted documents (see Graph 3.4). Meanwhile, overdrafts in current accounts continued showing a declining trend.

Graph 3.5 Within commercial lines, the emergency lines promoted by the BCRA stand out. The line for SMEs and Health Service Providers accumulated disbursements of $343,777 million at rates below 24% by the last day of July. Of these, $8,300 million corresponded to health service providers. The remainder, which corresponds to financing for SMEs, was distributed as follows: 48% to working capital (excluding salaries), 29% to coverage of post-dated checks and the remaining 23% to other destinations (see Graph 3.5). At the close of the

5 General Resolution 4783/20 of AFIP
6 Communication "A" 6964.

Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 5 month, $10,450 million remain approved but not yet disbursed and $10,500 million that are still in the approval process.

The SME Plus line, intended for companies without bank financing, with data as of July 31, served 4,193 companies, of which 3,239 did so with FOGAR guarantees. The total amount granted was $1,828 million and additionally there are $187 million approved but not yet disbursed.

It should be noted that within the framework of the fourth stage of the Emergency Assistance Program for Employment and Production (ATP), which was recently announced, a new financing line will be launched at subsidized interest rates for companies whose annual billing has not expanded by more than 30%, whose use will be exclusive for the payment of salaries, and do not have more than 800 employees. The interest rate of these credits will depend on the rate of billing increase7. This line was recently regulated by the BCRA and also established that the amounts will be credited to the workers' salary accounts8. In this way, the policy of financial assistance to companies at subsidized rates is reinforced.

Graph 3.6 With regard to lines with real guarantees, pawn loans presented in July a monthly increase of 4.3% in nominal terms and without seasonality, the second positive variation after 21 consecutive months without expansions (-11.7% y.o.y.). In real terms, they grew 1.7%, which implied a reduction in the rate of year-over-year contraction (see Graph 3.6). This reversal in the trend is linked to the evolution of the quantity of motor vehicles sold which, according to data from the Association of Motor Vehicle Dealers of the Argentine Republic (ACARA), also show a moderation in year-over-year decline. On the other hand, mortgage financing maintained zero growth, both in monthly and year-over-year terms. Unlike what occurred with motor vehicles, this market remains with very few operations.
Finally, foreign currency loans to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly decline was 7.8% (US$589 million), accumulating a contraction of 56.7% compared to last July (the last peak in the series). This contraction in dollar loans continued responding almost entirely to what happened with promissory notes.

7 Administrative Decision 1343/2020. As specified, those companies whose billing has increased between 0% and 10% will have an interest rate of 0%, between 10% and 20% of 7.5% and between 20% and 30% of 15%. Furthermore, the credit will have a grace period of 3 months and will be paid in 12 months.
8 Communication "A" 7082.

Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 64. Liquidity of financial entities
Graph 4.1

During the month of July, broad banking liquidity in local currency (which includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repos agreed with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs, bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements and NOCOMs) registered an increase of 0.7 p.p. and averaged 65.2% of deposits, in a context where the growth of deposits exceeded that of loans (see Graph 4.1). Thus, it continues to be positioned at historically elevated levels.

In terms of liquidity composition, the stock of LELIQ as a percentage of deposits remained practically unchanged, with an increase in LELIQs used for minimum cash integration, associated with the growth of fixed-term deposits, and a decline in the rest. Meanwhile, net repos with the BCRA increased their share by 1.4 p.p. of deposits. For its part, cash in banks registered an increase of 0.2 p.p. in terms of deposits, remaining at a level similar to that of previous months.

Regarding the latest modifications to the minimum cash regime, it should be mentioned that as of July, the unified computation of minimum cash positions in pesos for the periods July/August and December of one year/January of the following year was discontinued9. Furthermore, the expansion of the deduction of minimum cash in pesos corresponding to financing granted at an interest rate of up to 24% came into effect, including a special tranche for large companies that invest in capital goods produced by national SMEs10.

Finally, as of the month of August, the limit of the net excess position of LELIQ will be expanded by the positive difference between the limit for the spot position of the rules on "Global net position of foreign currency" and the monthly average of daily balances of the spot position observed11. On the other hand, as of September, financial entities that capture deposits from natural persons of up to $1 million at the minimum interest rate in effect since August will be able to expand their net excess position of LELIQ by 13% of the monthly average balance of those deposits from the previous month.12

9 Communication "A" 7046.
10 Communication "A" 7054.
11 Communication "A" 7077.
12 Communication "A" 7078.

Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 7 Graph 4.2

In a month in which dollar loans continued to decline, while deposits showed a slight increase, banking liquidity in foreign currency registered an increase for the tenth consecutive month and averaged 71.8% of deposits. The increase in liquidity was concentrated in cash in banks, while current accounts at the BCRA, in terms of deposits, presented a decline (see graph 4.2).

5. Interest rates 13
Moving forward with its policy to protect peso savings, the BCRA decided to raise, starting in August, the floor on the interest rate that financial entities must pay for fixed-term deposits in pesos from individuals for up to $1 million, from 79% to 87% of the monetary policy rate14. Thus, retail savers will receive a minimum remuneration of 33.06% (38.57% e.a.) for their deposits. This provision is mandatory for financial entities in Group A and branches of foreign banks classified as systemically important (G-SIB), while for the remaining entities it is optional. Those that capture deposits at the minimum interest rate will be able to expand their net surplus position in LELIQ starting in September (see "Liquidity" Section). Likewise, the BCRA increased to 0.75 the coefficient that determines the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with early cancellation option in UVA, with said rate increasing from 26.6% to 28.5%.

During July, passive interest rates were located around the current minimum interest rates: 30.02% nominal annual, which is equivalent to an annual effective rate of 34.52%. In a scenario of liquidity in the money market, interbank interest rates remained at low levels. The 1-day Call rate showed a certain downward trend throughout July, after remaining mostly stable since mid-May. Thus, it ended the month at 15.6%, 0.6 p.p. below that observed at the end of June. For its part, the third-party repo rate, although it presents greater volatility, remained essentially stable around 13.6% (see Graph 5.1).

Most active interest rates remained relatively stable throughout the month. The exception was the interest rate applied to advances, which showed a decrease of 1.2 p.p. compared to the previous month and thus averaged 33.4%. Meanwhile, the interest rate for promissory notes averaged 31%, while the corresponding rate for document discounting registered a monthly average of 26.4%, presenting in both cases limited variations with respect to June. It should be noted that these lines are influenced by the SME lines at a maximum rate of 24%. For its part, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 50.6%, registering a slight increase (0.3 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 Graph 5.2

# 6. International Reserves

At the end of July, the Central Bank's international reserves balance stood at US$43,386 million, which implied an increase of US$98 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). The BCRA's net sales of foreign currency were more than offset by net disbursements from International Organisms to the National Treasury, the increase in minimum cash accounts, and gains from the valuation of net external assets.

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.6% between the end of June and the end of July, ending the month at 72.26. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, experienced a certain depreciation until closing the month at a value of 120.5, accumulating an increase of 10 p.p. since mid-May. In this way, the MRER is located at levels similar to those at the beginning of the year (see Graph 6.2).

Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2

# 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

# 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and for 30 to 35 days maturity.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDR:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Common Investment Fund.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Notes.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Notes.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Market.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** effective annual.

**NDF:** Non deliverable forward.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**s.e.:** without seasonality.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and for 30 to 35 days maturity.

**TNA:** Nominal Annual Rate.

**UVA:** Acquisition Value Unit.

Monetary Report | July 2020 | BCRA | 14
