Monetary Report
Monthly
February 2020 Monetary Report Monthly
 February 2020

1. Summary

  The average real monthly growth without seasonality of private M3 was 4.3% in February and was composed principally
 by deposits, both on demand and time deposits, since cash in circulation held by the public, in the absence of specific
 factors that had driven it during that period (for example, extraordinary payments to retirees and social benefit recipients),
 significantly reduced its growth. The increase in demand deposits came fundamentally from the transfer of funds to
 financial entities from repurchase agreements of Mutual Investment Funds at the BCRA, following the elimination of this
 type of operations.

  The average monthly balance of time deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 7.3% in nominal terms and
 4.7% in real terms. As of this month, the option to save through UVA time deposits with early prepayment starting from
 30 days was implemented. 24% of the average monthly increase in time deposits in pesos of the private sector was composed
 of placements in UVA (both fixed-term and with early prepayment options). The balance of early prepayment UVA deposits
 at the end of February reached $4,600 million, while placements in traditional UVA totaled $55,400 million.

  The BCRA Board of Directors ordered new reductions in the lower limit of the LELIQ interest rate during February. It carried
 this out on three occasions, for a total of 10 basis points, bringing it to 40% in nominal annual terms. The interest rates paid
 by time deposits in pesos decreased in lesser magnitude. For example, the TM20 –interest rate for fixed-term time deposits
 of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days of maturity– of private banks ended February at 32.6%, 1.4 basis points below
 its level at the end of January.

  Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and without seasonality, registered an expansion of 1.8%
 monthly in February. In year-over-year terms, the increase in financing in local currency stood at 21.2%. The monthly
 growth of loans in pesos was composed of credit card financing, and to a lesser extent, by commercial lines.

  With the objective of continuing to improve access to credit conditions for SMEs, which finance themselves principally
 through commercial lines, a reduction from 40% to 35% nominal annual of the maximum rate was ordered starting February 17
 so that banks can deduct part of these loans from the Minimum Cash requirement.

  Active interest rates also decreased and, among them, those applied to lines most associated with commercial activity
 were those that showed the largest declines, driven by credit lines being granted to SMEs at lower interest rates. The discount
 rate for documents stood at 38.6%, declining on average 6 basis points compared to January. Meanwhile, the rate applied to
 documents on sole signature averaged 41.6% showing an average monthly decline of 8.9 basis points.

  For financing intended for consumption, effective as of March, it was ordered to drive a significant reduction in the financing
 rates of all credit cards, both banking and non-banking. Regarding the financing rate of banking credit cards, it was established
 that banks cannot charge more than 55% nominal annual interest. Regarding non-banking credit cards, it was established that
 the interest rates of credit cards cannot exceed 25% of the average personal credit rates of financial entities.

 The statistical closing of this report was on March 6, 2020.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.
# MONETARY REPORT | FEBRUARY 2020 | BCRA | 2. MONETARY AGGREGATES

**Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar**

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

## Chart 2.1
**Private M3 - Real Without Seasonality**
%, p.p. (monthly variation and contribution by component to growth)

In February, the average balance of private M3¹ increased 5.3% in nominal terms and 4.3% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality (see Chart 2.1). With less incidence of specific factors², the seasonally adjusted monthly growth of currency in the hands of the public was reduced to 3.8%, which implied a seasonally adjusted real growth of 1.2%, below that observed in December and January last.

In contrast, demand deposits in pesos of the private sector registered a seasonally adjusted average monthly increase of 9.6% in nominal terms and of 6.9% when adjusting for expected inflation³, variations above those observed in the two previous months. It is worth recalling that during the course of January, a gradual reduction in interest rates for operations in Common Investment Funds (CIF) repos at the BCRA was implemented, until the elimination of this type of operations as of February. This measure meant that the funds that were previously held in repos at the BCRA would go mainly to boost sight deposits and, in particular, those of larger size (see Chart 2.2).

## Chart 2.2
**Demand Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
(thousands of millions of $)

The average monthly balance of time deposits in pesos of the private sector increased 7.3% in nominal terms and 4.7% in real terms. As of this month, the option to save through time deposits in UVA precancelables from 30 days onwards was implemented. This type of deposit pays a minimum interest rate of 1% + UVA and in case of precancellation accrues interest equivalent to 70% of the monetary policy rate. 24% of the average monthly increase in time deposits in pesos of the private sector consisted of placements in UVA (both fixed-term and precancelable). The balance of precancelable UVA deposits at the end of February reached $4,600 million, while traditional UVA placements totaled $55,400 million. Thus, at the end of February, the sum of these two variants of time placements represented 4% of time deposits in pesos of the private sector.

---

¹ Private M3 includes currency in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.

² During the course of January, some measures took effect that favored income to sectors that typically make more intensive use of currency. See Monthly Monetary Report of January 2020.

³ Variations in real terms of the month under analysis are calculated taking into account the median of inflation expectations according to the Market Expectations Survey.

---

## Chart 2.3
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
(thousands of millions of $)

## Chart 2.4
**Fixed-Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector**
(p.p.)
-10 0
 dec-18 feb-19 apr-19 jun-19 aug-19 oct-19 dec-19 feb-20 nov-19 dec-19 jan-20 feb-20
 Source: BCRA

On the other hand, private sector dollar deposits decreased, although at a lower rate than in January. They ended the month under analysis at US$18,600 million, 0.8% below the level presented at the end of the previous month.

3. Loans to the Private Sector

Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and without seasonality, registered a monthly expansion of 1.8% in February. In year-on-year terms, the increase in local currency financing stood at 21.2%. The monthly growth of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the evolution of credit card financing, and to a lesser extent, by commercial lines (see Chart 3.1).

 Chart 3.1 Among loans more associated with consumption,

 Loans in Pesos to Private Sector - Without Seasonality credit card financing registered a monthly expansion of 2.9%, a rate slightly
 % (contribution by credit line to monthly growth) below that of January. This line continued
 5 to present the highest year-on-year expansion
 4 rate (51.7% nominal). Although in real terms
 3 it remains in negative territory (-1.4%), the
 2 dynamics of recent months caused the pace
 1 of contraction to become increasingly smaller.
 0 This behavior was in line with the evolution
 -1 of various consumption and household income
 Personal Advances Credit Card Real Guarantee Other Loans indicators (see Chart 3.2). This dynamics was
 -2
 -3 also influenced by the expansion of items and
 feb-18 may-18 aug-18 nov-18 feb-19 may-19 aug-19 nov-19 feb-20 validity periods of the Ahora12 program, a regulatory
 Source: BCRA change that will be in effect until March of this
 year⁵. An additional factor that will give impetus to Chart 3.2
 credit card financing is the setting of a maximum var. % y-o-y Credit Card Loans and Activity and Income Indicators at constant prices
 rate that will be in effect from March 1st. The 30 rate will be 55%, equivalent to a CFT of 91% 20 (41 p.p. less than the CFT in effect in February)⁶. 10 For their part, personal loans presented their 0 second consecutive monthly nominal expansion -10 without seasonality. However, given the continuous EMAE - Commerce -20 Credit Card Loans at constant prices (s.e.) contractions observed in previous months, the Real Salary (RIPTE) balance of this line is 3.9% below the same -30 CAME - Total period of the previous year. -40
 aug-09 feb-11 aug-12 feb-14 aug-15 feb-17 aug-18 feb-20

 Source: Own elaboration based on INDEC, CAME and Ministry of Treasury data

Considering the data in seasonally adjusted terms, the evolution of different lines more associated with commercial activity showed growth of 1.4% of their average balance in nominal terms. Specifically, in February credits granted in the form of documents increased 2.8% compared to the previous month. This behavior was partially offset by a nominal contraction of 2.0% in advances.

 Chart 3.3 Chart 3.4
 Amounts Granted for Single-Signature and Discounted Documents Interest Rate of Discounted Documents in Pesos
 Millions of $ by Banks Group A TNA in % weighted average rate by amount
 6,000 Loans at rate above limit to other companies 60 Publication Com. A 6858 Publication Com. A 6901
 Loans at rate within limit to other companies (minimum cash) rate reduction to 35%
 Loans at rate above limit to SMEs
 5,000 Loans at rate between 35 and 40% to SMEs (within limit) 55
 Loans at rate <= 35% to SMEs Publication Com. A 6901
 Publication Com. A 6858 rate reduction to 35%
 4,000 (minimum cash) 50

 3,000 45

 2,000 40 SMEs
# Other legal entities
 1,000 35 Total Discounted Documents
 Natural Persons

 0 30

With the objective of continuing to improve access to credit conditions for SMEs, which are financed mainly through commercial lines, as of February 17 a reduction from 40% to 35% nominal annual rate of the maximum rate required for banks to be able to deduct part of these loans from the Minimum Cash requirement was implemented7. Prior to the reduction of this threshold, practically one third of placements were made at a rate between 35% and 40%. Following the announcement of the measure, banks with participation in this segment adjusted their interest rates to levels that did not exceed 35% (see Graph 3.3). Thus, the average interest rate at which SMEs were financed continued to be significantly below that of the rest of companies (see Graph 3.4).

For the moment, the improvements in access conditions to financing were translated mainly into a substitution of lines for others with lower rates. This behavior was probably linked to the evolution of industrial activity which, depending on the measure analyzed, failed to increase (see Graph 3.5).

As industrial production growth is recomposed, driven by consumption stimulus provisions, it is expected that the demand for financing by companies will increase to increment their working capital or to carry out investments.

Regarding lines with real guarantee, secured loans presented a monthly decline of 1.4% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 18 consecutive months of contraction and an annual decline of 18.1%. Meanwhile, mortgage financing grew in nominal terms and without seasonality 0.4% in the month, which implies a nominal annual growth of 1.2%.

In short, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, total loans in pesos to the private sector presented a contraction of 0.7% in the month, accumulating in the last 12 months a real decline8 of 21.2% (see Graph 3.6).

On the other hand, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. Its monthly fall was 3.1% (US$310 million), accumulating a contraction of 39.4% compared to last July (last maximum of the series). This decline in dollar loans responded almost entirely to what happened with those granted through single signature documents.

8 Figures in real terms for the month under analysis are calculated considering inflation expectations from the BCRA Market Expectations Survey.

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 5

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities
In February, the growth of deposits in pesos again exceeded that of loans and broad liquidity in local currency increased by the equivalent of 1.8 percentage points of deposits, averaging 64.1%. Changes in its composition were also registered as a consequence of various factors. On one hand, following the conclusion of the bimonthly period for integrating minimum cash in December and January, the current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA returned to the level of previous months (since within that scheme entities had opted for greater integration in December and lesser in January). In turn, following the implementation of the new LELIQ auction scheme during the second half of January, with adjudications twice per week and with longer-term securities, the composition of the BCRA's remunerated liabilities shifted again in favor of LELIQs to the detriment of reverse repos (see Chart 4.1).

It is worth mentioning that as of March, the minimum cash changes enacted during the month of February will come into effect. First, deductions of up to 35% of financing in pesos for the "AHORA 12" program will be allowed with a maximum of 4% of the items included. Second, deductions for financing to SMEs with a rate lower than 35% nominal annual will be expanded to entities not belonging to group "A". Finally, for the period February 2020 to January 2021, a minimum cash reduction of 0.8% of the contractual balance of UVA financings contemplated in Resolution 1/19 of the Ministry of Territorial Development and Habitat is incorporated.

For the fifth consecutive month, banking liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash and current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA) experienced an increase, in this case composed fundamentally by current accounts at the BCRA. In this manner, liquidity in dollars averaged 63.5% of deposits in February (see Chart 4.2).

---

**Footnotes:**

9 Broad liquidity includes cash in banks, current accounts at the BCRA, LELIQ holdings, net repos with the BCRA, NOCOMs and holdings of 2020 Bond (accepted to integrate reserve requirements).

10 Communications "A" 6884, "A" 6907 and "A" 6910.

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 65. Interest Rates
## 5. Interest Rates

In February, the BCRA Board of Directors proceeded with new reductions in the lower limit of the LELIQ interest rate. This month it did so on three occasions, for a total of 10 p.p., bringing it down to 40% in annual nominal terms (see Graph 5.1). With the objective of extending the terms of remunerated liabilities, in the first week of February it auctioned securities for 21 and 28 days, while in the remaining weeks of the month it auctioned 28-day securities exclusively.

Graph 5.1

TNA; % Passive rates and monetary policy rates. The passive interest rates on deposits of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) decreased to a lesser extent. For example, the TM20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, 30 to 35 days term – of private banks ended February at 34.4%, 2.6 p.p. below its level at the end of January. In turn, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days was placed at the end of the month at 31.1%, a level 3.2 p.p. lower than that recorded at the end of January.

On the other hand, the interest rate on traditional UVA placements continued to decline and averaged 1.7% during the last 5 business days of February (see Graph 5.2). In turn, most of the UVA prepayable placements were agreed upon at the minimum rate, 1%.

Active interest rates also decreased and, among them, those applied to the lines most associated with commercial activity were those that showed the largest declines, driven by credit lines at lower rates that are being granted to SMEs. The discount rate on documents was placed at 38.6%, declining on average 6 p.p. compared to January. Meanwhile, the rate applied to documents on sole signature averaged 41.6% showing an average monthly decline of 8.9 p.p. In turn, the rate on total advances averaged 53.4% showing a decline of 6.3 p.p. on average monthly. For its part, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 64%, showing a decline of 5.1 p.p. (See Graph 5.3).

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

At the close of February, the balance of international reserves was placed at US$44,791 million, which implied a decrease of US$126 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). Throughout the month, the BCRA was a net seller of foreign currency, in a period in which some local governments had to access the foreign exchange market to face debt payments.

Graph 6.1 and Graph 6.2 are shown with their respective data and axes.

During the month the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased approximately 3%, concluding February at 62.21. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, partially accompanied said increase to end the month at a value of 118.5, remaining above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Graph 6.2).
# Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 87. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average
Main monetary variables and financial system
feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 feb-19 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary Base 1,860,024 1,692,948 1,734,073 1,343,229 9.9% 38.5%
Monetary Circulation 1,141,869 1,136,813 1,062,927 805,740 0.4% 41.7%
Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 1,009,743 1,002,332 930,399 698,066 0.7% 44.6%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 132,125 134,480 132,528 107,674 -1.8% 22.7%
Cancelatory Checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
Current account at the BCRA 718,156 556,135 671,146 537,490 29.1% 33.6%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities 20,051 482,227 432,590 3,172 -95.8% 532.1%
Assets 0000

Stock of LELIQs (at nominal value) 1,404,754 993,128 738,850 893,070 41.4% 57.3%

BCRA International Reserves 44,731 45,196 44,353 66,984 -1.0% -33.2%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 3,707,192 3,501,514 3,218,787 2,756,450 5.9% 34.5%
Deposits of the private sector 3,038,718 2,841,875 2,632,572 2,075,191 6.9% 46.4%
Current account (2) 697,930 685,300 670,098 384,618 1.8% 81.5%
Savings account 805,829 724,114 653,645 502,070 11.3% 60.5%
Fixed term non-adjustable by CER / UVA 1,400,872 1,323,429 1,208,000 1,111,531 5.9% 26.0%
Fixed term adjustable by CER / UVA 51,351 30,216 21,399 16,625 69.9% 208.9%
Other deposits (3) 82,736 78,816 79,430 60,348 5.0% 37.1%

Deposits of the public sector 668,474 659,639 586,215 681,259 1.3% -1.9%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 21,150 21,592 20,776 33,046 -2.0% -36.0%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 1,904,816 1,890,993 1,871,184 1,542,745 0.7% 23.5%

Loans to the private sector 1,838,387 1,826,601 1,810,722 1,516,718 0.6% 21.2%
Advances 219,132 220,594 224,721 144,985 -0.7% 51.1%
Documents 289,789 291,322 292,480 227,660 -0.5% 27.3%
Mortgages 213,966 214,592 214,818 211,494 -0.3% 1.2%
Pledged loans 75,614 77,257 79,083 92,335 -2.1% -18.1%
Personal loans 403,964 401,075 401,986 420,338 0.7% -3.9%
Credit cards 564,491 552,724 533,273 372,001 2.1% 51.7%
Others 71,430 69,038 64,362 47,905 3.5% 49.1%

Loans to the public sector 66,429 64,392 60,462 26,027 3.2% 155.2%

Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 9,858 10,161 10,767 15,788 -3.0% -37.6%

Total monetary aggregates (1)
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 1,928,131 1,937,287 1,817,701 1,291,310 -0.5% 49.3%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 2,803,289 2,728,113 2,512,099 1,829,655 2.8% 53.2%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 4,716,935 4,503,847 4,149,186 3,454,516 4.7% 36.5%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 6,016,522 5,801,292 5,395,425 4,723,770 3.7% 27.4%

Private monetary aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 1,707,673 1,687,633 1,600,497 1,082,684 1.2% 57.7%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 2,513,502 2,411,747 2,254,142 1,584,753 4.2% 58.6%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancelatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 4,048,461 3,844,208 3,562,970 2,773,257 5.3% 46.0%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancelatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 5,192,893 4,988,665 4,664,724 3,912,668 4.1% 32.7%

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 9 Average variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020 Last 12 months
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
# MONETARY BASE

Monetary base 167,076 9.9% 290,353 18.5% 125,951 7.3% 516,795 38.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -8,924 -0.5% 150,277 9.6% 61,684 3.6% -202,679 -15.1%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -58 0.0% -34,069 -2.2% -9,423 -0.5% -84,165 -6.3%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 52,379 3.1% 391,046 24.9% 175,928 10.1% 606,624 45.2%
Other public sector operations 245 0.0% -16,174 -1.0% 19,859 1.1% -31,581 -2.4%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) 124,266 7.3% -198,611 -12.7% -120,111 -6.9% 215,415 16.0%
Others -833 0.0% -2,116 -0.1% -1,986 -0.1% 13,181 1.0%

International Reserves of the BCRA -465 -1.0% 1,243 2.9% 378 0.9% -22,253 -33.2%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -145 -0.3% 2,518 5.8% 1,035 2.3% -3,389 -5.1%
Payment to international organizations -422 -0.9% -679 -1.6% -472 -1.1% 13,428 20.0%
Other public sector operations 440 1.0% -1,032 -2.4% 184 0.4% -26,764 -40.0%
Minimum cash 845 1.9% 2,478 5.7% 1,856 4.2% -4,124 -6.2%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1,183 -2.6% -2,042 -4.7% -2,224 -5.0% -1,404 -2.1%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being carried out.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Reporting System.

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

| | feb-20 | ene-20 | dic-19 |
|---|---|---|---|
| Bimonthly Integration Dec-Jan | | | |

**National Currency** % of total deposits in pesos
| Requirement | 28.2 | 27.4 | |
| Integration in current accounts | 19.1 | 17.9 | |
| Leliq Integration | 26.5 | 19.1 | |
| BOTE Integration | 3.3 | 3.8 | |
| Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % | | | |
| used for the requirement calculation (1) | | | |
| Up to 29 days | 72.3 | 72.3 | 72.3 |
| 30 to 59 days | 19.0 | 19.0 | 19.0 |
| 60 to 89 days | 5.3 | 5.3 | 5.3 |
| 90 to 179 days | 2.8 | 2.8 | 2.8 |
| More than 180 days | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 |

**Foreign Currency** % of total deposits in foreign currency
| Requirement | 24.0 | 24.0 | 24.0 |
| Integration (includes default in resource application) | 48.4 | 43.6 | 40.4 |
| Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits % | | | |
| used for the requirement calculation (1) | | | |
| Up to 29 days | 60.7 | 60.7 | 60.7 |
| 30 to 59 days | 19.3 | 19.3 | 19.3 |
| 60 to 89 days | 8.8 | 8.8 | 8.8 |
| 90 to 179 days | 8.8 | 8.8 | 8.8 |
| 180 to 365 days | 2.4 | 2.4 | 2.4 |
| More than 365 days | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |

(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
* The data are provisional.
** The data corresponding to the December-January bimonthly period are estimated for requirement and residual maturity.
Source: BCRA

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 10 Rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates

| | feb-20 | ene-20 | dic-19 | feb-19 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** | | | | |
| Rate | 34.79 | 39.48 | 50.09 | 45.74 |
| Amount operated | 9,496 | 8,349 | 7,385 | 8,946 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | | |
| In pesos | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 32.25 | 35.29 | 40.89 | 37.43 |
| 60 days or more | 32.81 | 36.12 | 41.26 | 38.84 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 32.39 | 35.35 | 41.10 | 38.06 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 33.52 | 36.48 | 41.75 | 37.91 |
| In dollars | | | | |
| 30-44 days | 1.19 | 1.35 | 1.56 | 1.38 |
| 60 days or more | 1.65 | 1.87 | 2.34 | 1.96 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.32 | 1.50 | 1.89 | 1.63 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 1.20 | 1.27 | 1.42 | 1.31 |

## Active Interest Rates

| | feb-20 | ene-20 | dic-19 | feb-19 |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repurchase agreements in pesos** | | | | |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 35.21 | 35.33 | 41.10 | 38.25 |
| Amount operated (total maturities) | 41,987 | 29,656 | 18,780 | 2,429 |
Capital Markets feb-20 jan-20 dec-19 feb-19

MERVAL
Index 39.096 41.294 37.141 36.599
Amount operated (millions of pesos) 904 904 885 798

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 59.5 64.7 70.2 87.7
BONAR 24 (US$) 44.0 49.9 52.1 96.7
DISCOUNT ($) 65.0 64.3 52.0 88.2

Country Risk (basis points)
BONAR 24 spread vs. US Treasury Bond 7.613 6.334 7.017 774
EMBI+ Argentina 2.012 1.928 2.073 680
EMBI+ Latin America 420 416 431 527

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 12 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with 30 to 35 days maturity.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

SDR: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash Reserve.

FCI: Mutual Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

y.o.y.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

CPI: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.

M2: Means of payment, comprises currency held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

GDP: Gross Domestic Product.

bp: Basis Points.

pp: Percentage Points.

SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

IRR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with 30 to 35 days maturity.

AER: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.

FV: Face Value.

---

Monetary Report | February 2020 | BCRA | 13
