January 2020 Monthly Monetary Report
January 2020

## 1. Summary

In January, measures continued to be implemented that increased the income of sectors that typically make more intensive use of cash in circulation, such as retirees and recipients of social benefits. Thus, cash in circulation in the public's hands registered an average monthly increase of 5.1% in nominal and seasonally adjusted terms.

The BCRA Board of Directors ordered a gradual reduction of the interest rate on Mutual Fund (FCI) Fund Transfer operations at this institution during the course of January and the elimination of this type of operation as of February. In January, this measure resulted in a gradual transfer of funds from the BCRA to deposits in financial institutions, mainly sight deposits. Thus, the seasonally adjusted nominal growth of sight deposits in pesos from the private sector amounted to 8.2% and was made up mainly by deposits of $20 million or more.

A portion of the FCI transfers also fueled the growth of term deposits in pesos, along with deposits from families and companies. During the month, the average monthly balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector rose 10.1% in nominal terms. The segment of placements adjustable by Acquisition Value Units (UVAs) grew at a much higher rate, but from a reduced level and explained 7% of the monthly increase.

As of February, a new savings instrument is available: fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVAs with early cancellation option starting from 30 days. This type of deposit offers a minimum interest rate of 1% nominal annual + UVA. If the depositor decides to cancel early, they will receive a return similar to the traditional fixed-term deposit rate, defined as 70% of the monetary policy rate.

In January, the average monthly balance of loans in pesos to the private sector registered a seasonally adjusted nominal increase of 0.9%, made up by the lines most associated with commercial activity and financing through credit cards.

To encourage financing to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with more favorable interest rates, on January 9th the implementation of a new deduction on the Minimum Cash requirement in pesos was ordered, associated with loans that financial institutions grant to this type of companies with rates not exceeding 40% nominal annual. Following the announcement of the measure, an increase in the participation of the promoted segment began to be observed in the amounts operated in financing through document discounting. From then on, the average interest rate at which smaller companies were financed fell more rapidly than that of other companies. A similar pattern began to be observed in loans granted through single-signature documents starting from the last days of the month.

With the objective of gradually increasing the maturity of its liabilities, as of January the BCRA began to auction LELIQs of longer duration. In the third week of the month it auctioned 7 and 14-day LELIQs and the last week awarded 14 and 21-day LELIQs. The annual nominal rate (TNA) of the 7-day LELIQ had ended 2019 at 55% and during the course of January decreases in the minimum level for LELIQ rates were ordered for a total of 5 p.p. The two LELIQs placed in the last week of January were awarded at the current minimum level, with annual nominal rates of 50%. As of the third week of January, the reduction of the 1-day passive transfer rate of financial institutions was also ordered, which came to be defined as half of the monetary policy rate.
In line with the behavior of LELIQ rates, passive interest rates showed a decline throughout January. For example, the BADLAR of private banks ended the month at 34%, 5.4 p.p. below its level at the end of 2019. Among active rates, those charged by financing lines more associated with commercial loans followed a similar trend. The document discount rate averaged 44.9% in January, declining 7 p.p. compared to December.

The statistical closing of this report was February 6, 2020.
All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates

In January, the seasonally adjusted average monthly balance of private M31 increased 4.4% in real terms2. Among its components, currency in circulation grew for the second consecutive month both in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality (5.1%), as well as in real terms (see Graph 2.1). It should be recalled that during the course of this month some measures took effect that favored the income of sectors that typically make more intensive use of currency. In particular, the payment of the second installment of an extraordinary subsidy3 to retirees and pensioners with minimum benefits was made effective and, furthermore, ANSES decided that the installments of loans it granted to both retirees and beneficiaries of the Universal Child Allowance would not be deducted in the first quarter of this year.

Graph 2.2 Graph 2.3

Another measure with an impact on monetary aggregates was the gradual reduction of the interest rate on Investment Fund (FCI) repo operations at the BCRA starting January 104. The interest rate on FCI repo operations fell from 33.7% on January 9 to 5% between January 27 and the last day of the month. As of February, this type of operation ceased to have effect. The FCI affected by this measure had their portfolio distributed between repos at the BCRA and deposits in commercial banks, at term or else remunerated sight placements. Thus, at the same time as the fall in the interest rates of FCI repos, there was a transfer of funds from the BCRA towards deposits in financial entities.

1 Private M3 includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
2 Variations in real terms are calculated considering the inflation expectations from the BCRA Market Expectations Survey.
3 This subsidy was implemented through Decree 73/2019. For retirees and pensioners the subsidy is $10,000 pesos, of which $5,000 were collected on December 27 last and the rest was received in January.
4 Communication "A" 6861.

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 2 Most of the released funds were directed towards remunerated sight placements (see Graphs 2.2). At the aggregate level, this transfer of funds resulted in growth of sight deposits in pesos from the private sector above what is typical for this part of the year (see Graph 2.3). Thus, the average balance of sight placements in pesos from the private sector increased 6.5% in nominal terms compared to December and 8.2% when seasonally adjusting the series. The monthly increase in this type of placement was composed almost entirely by deposits of more than $20 million; a segment that concentrates FCI operations.
A smaller proportion of FCI repos nurtured the growth of time deposits in pesos, together with placements to families and businesses. In the month, the monthly average balance of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector rose 10.1% in nominal terms (see Chart 2.4). The segment of placements adjustable by Acquisition Value Units (UVAs) grew at a much higher rate, but from a reduced level and explained 7% of the monthly increase. At the end of January, fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVAs represented 2.7% of the fixed-term placements in pesos of the private sector.

Starting in February, a new savings instrument is available: fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVAs with early redemption option from 30 days onward. This type of deposit offers a minimum interest rate of 1% nominal annual + UVA. If the depositor decided to early redeem, they would receive a return similar to the traditional fixed-term deposit rate, defined as 70% of the monetary policy rate⁵.

On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment, the balance of private sector deposits reversed part of the increase that had been recorded in the last month of 2019. At the end of January, the balance of these placements stood at US$18,700 million, 3.7% below what was observed at the end of last year (see Chart 2.5).

⁵ See Communication "A" 6871 and Communication "A" 6889. The early redemption rate is published in "Main variables" on the website http://www.bcra.gob.ar/

## Loans to the Private Sector

In January, loans in pesos to the private sector moderated their growth rate, registering a monthly average increase of 0.9%, considering nominal values and without seasonality. The year-on-year increase in financing in local currency stood at 19.9% and persists at levels below those of inflation. The monthly growth of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the evolution of commercial lines and financing through credit cards (see Chart 3.1).

Regarding the evolution of the different lines more associated with commercial activity, the deseasonal-ized average balance of financings granted in the form of documents increased 0.6% in January compared to the previous month, while the nominal balance adjusted for seasonality of advances recorded a monthly growth of 2%.

To encourage financing to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) with more favorable interest rates, on January 9th the implementation of a new deduction on the requirement for Minimum Cash in pesos was established, associated with loans that financial entities grant to this type of companies with interest rates not exceeding 40% nominal annual⁶. Following the announcement of the measure, a change began to be observed in the composition of the amounts of credit granted through document discounting, with the participation of those allocated to SMEs growing in the segment of rates covered by the new reserve requirement deduction (see Chart 3.2). Thus, the average rate at which SMEs were financed fell more rapidly than that of the rest of the companies (see Chart 3.3). A similar pattern also began to be observed in the line of loans granted through sole signature documents from the last days of the month.

⁶ Communication "A" 6858.

With regard to lines with real guarantee, pledged loans showed a monthly decline of 1.8% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 17 consecutive months of contraction and a year-on-year decline of 17%. Meanwhile, mortgage financing fell in nominal terms and without seasonality 1.5% in the month, which implies a year-on-year nominal growth of 1.7%.
For its part, among loans most associated with consumption, credit card financing registered a monthly expansion of 3.9%. It continued to be the financing line with the highest year-over-year expansion rate, registering an increase close to 51% in nominal terms. For its part, personal loans continued to decline. In January they fell 0.1% compared to December (-4.1% y.o.y.), in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 6 consecutive months of contractions.

In short, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, total loans in pesos to the private sector showed a contraction of 2.6% in the month, accumulating over the last 12 months a real decline of 23.7% (see Chart 3.4).

Loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decrease. The average monthly decline was 5.8% (US$620 million), accumulating a contraction of 37.5% compared to last July (the last peak in the series). This contraction in dollar loans was almost entirely due to what happened with those granted through unsecured documents.

4. Liquidity of financial institutions

In the peso segment, the increase in peso deposits far exceeded the growth of loans, so bank liquidity increased again (see Chart 4.1). Broad liquidity in local currency increased by the equivalent of 3.5 p.p. of deposits, up to averaging 62.3%. There was also a change in the composition of peso liquidity, with a decline in current accounts of financial institutions at the BCRA in favor of remunerated assets. It should be recalled that December 2019 and January of the year under analysis formed a joint period for the integration of the Minimum Cash regime in pesos. Because financial institutions ended December with a partial surplus in the integration of reserve requirements, in January they were able to offset it with lower current account balances at the BCRA (see Chart 4.2).

Bank liquidity in foreign currency (sum of cash and current accounts of financial institutions at the BCRA) experienced a new increase in a context of decline in loans in this currency. Thus, liquidity in dollars averaged 61.6% of deposits (see Chart 4.3).

5. Interest rates

With the objective of gradually increasing the term of its liabilities, starting in January the BCRA began to auction LELIQs of longer duration. After continuing with daily auctions of 7-day bills during the first half of the month, the second half began conducting auctions twice a week: in the third week of the month it auctioned 7 and 14-day LELIQs and in the last week it awarded 14 and 21-day LELIQs. The nominal annual rate (TNA) of the 7-day LELIQ ended 2019 at 55%. During the course of January, reductions in the minimum level for LELIQ rates were made for a total of 5 p.p. The two LELIQs –of 14 and 21 days– placed in the last week of January were awarded at the current minimum level, with nominal annual rates of 50%. Starting from the third week of January, the reduction of the 1-day passive repo rate for financial institutions was also established, which came to be defined as half of the monetary policy rate.
# Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 6

**Graph 5.1** Passive rates showed a decline throughout January, in line with the behavior of LELIQ rates. For example, the BADLAR – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks ended January at 34%, 5.4 p.p. below its level at the end of 2019 (see Graph 5.1). On this occasion, the TM 20 – interest rate for fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, with 30 to 35 days maturity – of private banks declined 6.5 p.p.

In the segment of interest rates paid for fixed-term deposits adjustable by UVA, the corresponding rate for 90-day placements averaged 2.6%, declining 1.5 p.p. with respect to December.

Active interest rates also decreased and, among them, those applied to the lines most associated with commercial activity showed the largest declines. The discount rate for documents was positioned at 44.9%, declining on average 7 p.p. with respect to December. Meanwhile, the rate applied to documents on sole signature averaged 50.5%, showing an average monthly decline of 6.5 p.p. As mentioned, within these lines, a faster decline began to be observed for financing granted to SMEs, encouraged by the regulatory changes implemented in the month (see section Loans to the Private Sector).

On the other hand, the interest rate for personal loans averaged 69%, showing a monthly decline of 2.5 p.p.

The interest rates for mortgage credits adjustable by UVA averaged 7.1% and showed a decline of 0.4 p.p. in average monthly terms.

---

# Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 7

## 6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

At the end of January, the balance of international reserves stood at US$44,917 million, which implied an increase of US$136 million with respect to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). The BCRA maintained its position as a net buyer of foreign currency and in January added US$783 million through this channel. By means of these operations, the greater part of the outflow of international reserves associated with the net debt payments of the National Government was compensated.

**Graph 6.1** **Graph 6.2**

During the month, the nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate remained practically unchanged, standing at 60.33 at the end of January. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, showed a slight decline, ending the month at 117.7, although it remained above the values it registered between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Graph 6.2).

---

# Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 8

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

---

# Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 9

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 10

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 11

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 12

## 8. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current accounts at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

DEG: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash Reserve.

FCI: Common Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

i.a.: year-on-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.

IPC: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.

M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sectors.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sectors.

M3*: Broad two-currency aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sectors.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product.

P.B.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.

UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | January 2020 | BCRA | 13
