# Monetary Report
Monthly
April 2020 Monetary Report Monthly
 April 2020

## 1. Summary

  In April, the broad private aggregate M3, which includes means of payment and time deposits, in seasonally
 adjusted terms reached the highest monthly variation since the end of convertibility, both in
 nominal and real terms. Within Private M3, means of payment drove its
 increase, standing out especially in April the sight deposits. When observing the daily evolution since
 March 19, it is seen that the strong average increase in April largely comes from the statistical
 carry-over from March, since growth occurred fundamentally just after the beginning of the period of preventive and mandatory social isolation. 50% of the increase in means of payment was observed in the last week
 of March.

  The behavior of monetary aggregates was influenced by the measures that the National Government has been adopting
 in the face of the health emergency. Among them, the collection of the
 extraordinary subsidy to beneficiaries of social allocations and retirees and the Emergency Family Income was made effective.
 These payments implied cash withdrawals from banking entities, which added to the high
 demand for transactional money for precautionary reasons, led to the cash in circulation growing 8.5% in real terms and without seasonality, and sight deposits registering an average monthly increase of 15.5%.

  After showing a downward trend since the beginning of quarantine on March 20 and until April 13 - when banks
 returned to serving the public through a shift system - private sector time deposits in pesos began to grow, while
 immobilized balances began to fall. Thus, time placements reversed almost entirely the decline observed previously
 to the reopening of banks. In any case, the average monthly balance registered a nominal decline of 3.3%.
 For their part, precancelable UVA deposits accelerated significantly their expansion rate, ending April with a balance of $18,000 million, practically double that observed
 mid-month.

  The BCRA board decided to increase, as of April 24, the rate at which it remunerated one-day passive repos
 by 3.8 p.p. to 15.2% n.a. Additionally, it set a minimum interest rate - equivalent to 70% of the
 monetary policy rate - for time deposits of natural persons of up to $1 million effective as of April 20. Furthermore, on the last day of the month it provided that as of May the minimum interest rate
 will cover deposits of natural persons of up to $4 million.

  Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and without seasonality, registered an
 expansion of 6.9% monthly in April (3.7% in real terms), driven by
 commercial financing. These growth rates are around the highs reached since 2002. With regard to
 loans granted to MSMEs and health service providers at a maximum interest rate of 24% n.a., accumulated
 disbursements as of the close of April amount to $140,600 million. Approximately
 half of this amount was allocated to financing working capital (excluding
 payment of salaries).

 The statistical closing of this report was on May 6, 2020.
 All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 12. Monetary Aggregates
In April, the broad private monetary aggregate M3¹, registered average monthly growth rates that were historical maximums, both in nominal and real terms (see Chart 2.1)². Its seasonally adjusted growth rate showed an average monthly increase of 10.9% in nominal terms and 7.8% in real terms. Within private M3, the means of payment drove its increase, standing out especially in April the demand deposits. Private M2³ grew 17.8% nominally (14.3% real) considering the seasonally adjusted series. When observing the daily evolution since March 19, it is seen that the strong average increase in April comes, in large part, from the statistical carryover from March, since growth occurred fundamentally right after the beginning of the period of preventive and mandatory social isolation. Around 50% of the increase in means of payment during the quarantine period was observed in the last week of March (see Chart 2.2).

The behavior of monetary aggregates was influenced by the measures being adopted by the National Government in response to the health emergency to sustain the incomes of the most vulnerable sectors of the population, which were affected by the "preventive and mandatory social isolation". Among those measures, the collection of extraordinary subsidies to beneficiaries of social allocations and retirees⁴ and the Emergency Family Income (IFE)⁵ was made effective. These payments involved cash withdrawals from banking entities, which added to the high demand for transactional money for precautionary reasons, led to currency in circulation growing 11.9% in nominal and seasonally adjusted terms (8.5% in real terms). For its part, demand deposits from the private sector, without seasonality, registered a nominal increase of 19.1% and 15.5% adjusted for expected inflation. This responds to various factors such as, for example, that the aforementioned transfers were made in the respective savings accounts before the funds were withdrawn, there is a preference by individuals for assets with greater liquidity, and during the first two weeks of the month the banks were closed to the general public and people who usually arranged time deposits in person were unable to do so.

Chart 2.1 Chart 2.2

March 19=1 Daily Evolution of Private M2 and Its Components
Monthly Variation of Private M3 - Without Seasonality (figures expressed in billions of pesos)
% (average monthly balances)
12 1.35

10 10.9 1.30
 Nominal
8 Real 7.8
 1.25
6

4 1.20

2 1.15

0 1.10 Private M2
 Demand Deposits
-2 1.05 Currency in circulation

-4 1.00

-6
 Jan-03 Dec-04 Nov-06 Oct-08 Sep-10 Aug-12 Jul-14 Jun-16 May-18 Apr-20 Source: BCRA

Source: BCRA

¹ Includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
² All real variables were deflated by the REM inflation expectations for April.
³ Includes currency in circulation and demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
⁴ Decree 309/2020
⁵ Intended for unemployed persons, informal workers, self-employed workers in the lowest categories and domestic workers (Decree 310/2020).
# Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 2

For its part, private sector time deposits in pesos showed an average monthly decrease of 3.3% nominal, equivalent to 6.2% real. These placements showed a downward trend from the start of quarantine on March 20 and until April 13, when banks resumed serving the public through a scheduled appointment system. From then on, time placements began to grow, accumulating from April 14 until the end of the month an increase of 8.5% ($118,500 million). In this way, they almost entirely reversed the decline observed prior to the reopening of banks. In the same period, as operations resumed in bank branches, and those who usually operate in person were able to renew their deposits, immobilized balances⁶ began to fall, explaining part of the recomposition of time placements (see Chart 2.3).

The dynamism of time deposits in the second part of the month was verified both in placements of $1 million and more as well as those of less than $1 million, a segment that enjoys a minimum interest rate from April 20 onwards (see Interest Rates Section). Within deposits in UVA (traditional and early-repayable), which represent 5% of private sector time deposits in pesos, early-repayable ones accelerated noticeably their expansion rate, ending April with a balance of $18,000 million, practically double that observed in mid-month, while traditional UVA deposits registered a decline in the last days of the month (see Chart 2.4).

**Chart 2.3 Chart 2.4**

Private sector time deposits in pesos
Daily balance thousands of
thousands of millions $
millions $
1,600 Time deposits 400
1,550 Immobilized balances (right axis) 350

1,500 300
1,450 250

1,400 200

1,350 150
1,300 100

1,250 50

1,200 0
01-jan 23-jan 14-feb 07-mar 29-mar 20-apr
Source: BCRA

# Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 3

The Monetary Base completed an average monthly increase of 11.7%, although the variation from end of April compared to end of March showed a contraction of 18.5%. Its daily dynamics reflected, on **Chart 2.5**
one hand, the atypical behavior of monetary **Monetary Base Repurchase agreement
circulation, especially due to the aforementioned **thousands of operations do not count
growth of currency in circulation held by the **millions $ within the LELIQ
public. 2,600 Daily Balance holdings limit 17-Apr

On the other hand, it was influenced by ques- 2,400 Monthly average 20-Mar
tions of an operational nature in the granting of 2,200
loans and of a regulatory order associated with 2,000
the limit on LELIQ holdings and, consequently, 1,800
repurchase agreements with the BCRA in effect 1,600
since March 20, which led to an increase in 1,400
balances in current accounts of entities at the 1,200
BCRA during the first half of the month. Sub- 1,000
sequently - effective from April 17 - it was 1-dec-19 31-dec-19 30-jan-20 29-feb-20 30-mar-20 29-apr-20
arranged that repurchase agreement operations Source: BCRA
would not count within the mentioned limit⁷ (see section Liquidity of financial entities). This allowed financial entities to allocate their excess liquidity to repurchase agreements with the BCRA, which resulted in a decline in bank reserves. Thus, a sharp contraction of the Monetary Base occurred, ending April below the average balance of March (see Chart 2.5).

Finally, in the foreign currency segment, the balance of private sector deposits ended April at US$17,700 million, decreasing 2.1% compared to the close of March.

## 3. Loans to the Private Sector

---

⁶ Cash deposits whose holders had not made the withdrawal of funds when their maturity occurred or when the corresponding account was closed.
Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and without seasonality, registered an expansion of 6.9% monthly in April, which is equivalent to a real expansion of 3.7%. These growth rates are around the maximum levels reached since 2002 (see Graph 3.1). In year-on-year terms, the increase in local currency financing was 34.3%. The monthly growth of loans in pesos is explained mainly by the evolution of commercial financing (see Graph 3.2).

 Graph 3.1 Graph 3.2

 monthly var. % s.e. Loans to the Private Sector in PesosPesos Loans to the Private Sec. - Without Seasonality
 8 % (contribution by credit line to monthly growth)
 8
 6 7

 4 6 Personal Documents
 5 Card Advances
 2 Real Guarantee Other loans
 4
 0 3

 -2 2

 -4 1
 Nominal
 Real 0
 -6 -1

 -8 -2
 Apr-02 Apr-04 Apr-06 Apr-08 Apr-10 Apr-12 Apr-14 Apr-16 Apr-18 Apr-20Apr-18 Jul-18 Oct-18 Jan-19 Apr-19 Jul-19 Oct-19 Jan-20 Apr-20
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

7 Communication "A" 6979.

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 4

The greater demand for commercial credit was linked to the financing needs of companies to be able to meet payroll payments and maintain working capital, in a context in which a large number of sectors were unable to conduct their commercial activity due to "mandatory preventive social isolation."

In effect, the commercial lines registered a Graph 3.3
expansion of 20.5% monthly without seasonality, Thousands of Principal Commercial Lines in Pesos to the Private Sector. Thousands of
 millions of $ millions of $
explaining practically the entirety of the monthly Advances 120
 310 Documents at single signature
growth of loans. Thus these lines accumulated 290 Discounted documents (right axis) 100
a growth of 85% in the last twelve months. Within 270 80
this type of financing, the behavior was not ho-
 250 60
mogeneous, with advances and documents at single
 230 40
signature being the principal vehicles through
 210 20
which credit was channeled. Immediately after
 190
the beginning of quarantine, advances were the 170 0
most dynamic line, due, in part, to the fact that 29-Feb 07-Mar 14-Mar 21-Mar 28-Mar 04-Apr 11-Apr 18-Apr 25-Apr
 Source: BCRA
this line has pre-approved amounts and its utilization is practically automatic. As the days went by, and with more intensity once banks resumed public service, documents at single signature showed increasing dynamism (see Graph 3.3). It should be noted that, given that these lines have a longer term than advances (they have an average life close to one year), they would seem to be better suited to the current situation of companies.

 Graph 3.4 Among the measures adopted by the BCRA to favor credit to SMEs, the reduction in reserve require-
 Financing for SMEs and Health Services ments for those financial entities that grant loans
 amounts disbursed - SEFyC accumulated between 20-Mar and 30-Apr with a maximum interest rate of 24% n.a. to SMEs (whose purpose is at least 50% destined to finance working
 Other working 71.0 capital) or to health service providers (for the purchase of supplies and/or equipment) stands out.
 capital
 This line accumulates disbursements of $140,600
Payroll payment 42.4 million at rates below 24%. Of these, only $5,400 million corresponded to health service pro-
Deferred check 18.7 viders. The remainder, which corresponds to financing for SMEs, was distributed as follows: 52%
coverage
 to working capital (excluding payroll), 31% to payroll payment and the remaining 17% to other purposes (see Graph 3.4).
Other* 3.1
 Thousands of millions of $

 0 20 40 60 80
*To SMEs not included in lines with at least 50% working capital.
Source: BCRA
Regarding loans more associated with consumption, personal loans recorded a monthly decline of 0.9% s.e., after three consecutive months of increases. Meanwhile, credit card financing, adjusted for seasonality, showed a growth of 51.5% monthly, which was lower than that of the three Figure 3.5
previous months (see Figure 3.5). The moderation % Credit Cards in Pesos Without Seasonality
(variation of average monthly balance) %
in credit card growth occurred in a context in 10 100
 Monthly Var.
which household income was affected by the 8 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 80
quarantine. In this framework, the BCRA took a 6 60
series of measures aimed at alleviating the finan- 4 40
cial burden for families. In a first instance, all 2 20
credit card maturity dates that occurred in the 0 0
first 12 days of the month were postponed to April -2 -20
13th8. Subsequently, given the extension of the -4 -40
quarantine, it was established that all unpaid -6 -60
maturity dates that operate between April 13th Apr-17 Oct-17 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20
 Source: BCRA
and 30th must be refinanced for a minimum period of one year with 3 months of grace in 9 equal and consecutive monthly installments, while a maximum interest rate of 43% n.a. was set.9 In parallel, from this month the extension of the "Now 12" program is in effect, which incorporated new items, such as medical equipment produced by national SMEs.10

Additionally, within the framework of the Emergency Assistance Program for Work and Production, the launch of "Zero Interest Rate Credit" was announced for a maximum amount of $150,000 for mono-taxpayers and self-employed workers11. Financial entities will grant financing in pesos to eligible customers who request it. These will be credited to the applicant's credit card – issued by the financial entity – in three equal and consecutive installments. The credits will have a grace period of 6 months and repayment will be made, at minimum, in 12 fixed installments without interest. Likewise, these financing arrangements may be deducted from the minimum cash requirement, for an amount equivalent to 60% of the sum of said credits.12

Regarding lines with real collateral, auto loans presented a monthly decline of 2.2% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 20 consecutive months without positive variations and a year-over-year decline of 18.5%. It should be noted that this behavior is linked to a sharp contraction in vehicle registrations. According to ACARA, in April only 4,385 vehicles were registered, 75% less than in March. Meanwhile, mortgage financing continued to record limited variations, decreasing 0.4% in the month, which implies null year-over-year growth in nominal terms.

8For the rest of the financing from financial entities, it was established that the unpaid balance of those that operate between April 1st and June 30th must be incorporated at the end of the credit's life, considering the accrual of the compensatory interest rate Communication "A" 6949.
9 Communication "A" 6964.
10 Resolution 104/2020 of the Secretariat of Domestic Commerce of the Ministry of Productive Development.
11 Decree No. 332/2020.
12 Communication "A" 6993.

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly decline was 5.7% (US$530 million), accumulating a contraction of 45.8% compared to last July (last maximum of the series). This contraction in dollar loans was due almost entirely to what happened with those granted through documents on sole signature.

4. Liquidity of Financial Entities
During the month of April, broad banking liquidity in local currency (which includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ, the eligible bond to integrate reserve requirements and NOCOM) registered a decline of 0.9 p.p. of deposits, averaging 63.7% (see Graph 4.1). However, the largest movements occurred due to changes in composition within broad liquidity.

These changes are explained based on the policies adopted by the BCRA within the framework of the health emergency. The LELIQ that exceed reserve requirement obligations were reduced by 9.3 p.p. of deposits, reflecting the unwinding of LELIQ positions ordered in March to release funds that could be allocated to financing some of the sectors most affected by the coronavirus pandemic. This decline was partially offset by an increase of 7.8 p.p. in net repos with the BCRA, being the instrument chosen by banks to place their short-term liquidity surpluses, following the adjustment of the maximum LELIQ limit computation, which, as of April 17, excludes passive repo operations with the BCRA13. For its part, cash in banks registered an elevated level because financial entities accumulated cash prudentially to meet the demand for transactional money in the context of isolation, rising from 3.7 p.p. of deposits in March to 4.4 p.p. in April. Balances in current account represented 19.4% of deposits, compared to 18.9% in March.

13 Communication "A" 6979

Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 7

On the other hand, in the foreign currency segment, banking liquidity14 again registered an increase in absolute terms and in relation to deposits, explained fundamentally by cash in banks. In this way, liquidity in dollars averaged 67.7% of deposits (see Graph 4.2).

## 5. Interest Rates

In the month under analysis, the BCRA board decided to raise, as of April 24, the rate at which it remunifies 1-day passive repos by 3.8 p.p. to 15.2% n.a.

The interest rates paid for time deposits reflected the liquidity conditions of the market showing a marked decline in April, although the trajectory was not homogeneous throughout the month. In the wholesale segment, more pronounced declines were observed in the first weeks of the month and from April 24 onwards reflected the increase in the passive repos rate. The TM20 – the interest rate for
20
fixed-term deposits of $20 million or more, of
 10
30 to 35 days term – from private banks was 0
positioned at 17.7% at the end of April, 9.3 p.p. Apr-19 Jun-19 Aug-19 Oct-19 Dec-19 Feb-20 Apr-20
 Source BCRA
 below the value as of the end of March. For its part, the
 Graph 5.2 BADLAR of private banks – interest rate
 TNA; % Active Interest Rates
 100 Discounted Documents for fixed-term deposits of $1 million and more, of
 Personal Loans
 90 Documents at Sole Signature 30 to 35 days term – ended the month at 18.4%,
 Total Advances
 80 accumulating a decline of 9.1 p.p. compared to March 31.

 70 Regarding the interest rates paid

 60 on placements to retail savers,

 50 effective from April 20, the BCRA set

 40 a minimum interest rate – equivalent to 70%

 30 of the monetary policy rate – for deposits

 20 at term of natural persons of up to $1
 Apr-19 Jun-19 Aug-19 Oct-19 Dec-19 Feb-20 Apr-20
 Source BCRA

14 Includes current accounts at the BCRA and cash in banks.

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 8million15. It should be noted that as of May the minimum interest rate will cover deposits
of up to $4 million16. In particular, the interest rate paid on fixed-term deposits of
up to $100 thousand and up to 35 days, accumulated a decline of 8 p.p. in the first 19 days of the month, then rose 7 p.p. Thus, it ended April at 26.3%, only 1 p.p. less compared to the end of March
(see Graph 5.1).

On average, active interest rates showed significant declines in April, associated with the
new loan lines at 24%. Thus, among the interest rates applied to commercial loans, the one
corresponding to document discounting averaged 30%, 6.4 p.p. below that of March, while the rate applied to documents at sole signature averaged 27.8%, registering
a decline of 12.2 p.p. compared to the previous month and reflecting, with greater force
than in the rest of the commercial lines, the impact of loans granted to MSMEs at maximum rates of 24%. For its part, the rate of total advances averaged 39.4% in April, noting a
decline of 8.3 p.p. monthly. Finally, the interest rate charged for personal loans averaged 53%, showing a decline of 6.7 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

6. International Reserves and Foreign Exchange Market

At the close of April, the balance of international reserves stood at US$43,568 million, which implied
an increase of US$7 million compared to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). During the month, the BCRA
was a net seller of foreign currency by US$547 million, compensated by an increase in the minimum cash balances in foreign currency of financial entities at the Central Bank. The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 3.7% during the month, concluding April at 66.84. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, remained stable at a value of 112.7 between the end of March and April, considering that the nominal depreciation of the peso was in line with that
of its main trading partners. In this way, it remained above the values it recorded between mid-2016 and early 2018 (see Graph 6.2).

 Graph 6.1 Graph 6.2

 thousands of 17-Dec-15=100 Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
 millions of u$s International Reserves daily data17 0

90 16 0

80 15 0

70 14 0

60 13 0

 12 0
50 11 0 112.7

40 10 0

30 90

20 80 Average
 70 Jun-16 / Mar-18:
10 89.8
 60
 0 Aug-07 Dec-08 Apr-10 Aug-11 Dec-12 Apr-14 Aug-15 Dec-16 Apr-18 Aug-19
 Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09 Jan-11 Jan-13 Jan-15 Jan-17 Jan-19 Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

15 Communication "A" 6980.
16 Communication "A" 7000.

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.
Monthly averages Percentage variations average
 Main monetary variables and financial system
 Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Apr-19 Monthly Last 12 months

 Monetary Base 2,168,039 1,941,048 1,860,024 1,324,824 11.7% 63.6%
 Monetary Circulation 1,330,994 1,179,646 1,141,869 816,912 12.8% 62.9%
 Bills and Coins in the hands of the public 1,139,168 1,032,147 1,009,740 706,389 10.4% 61.3%
 Bills and Coins in financial entities 191,825 147,498 132,129 110,523 30.1% 73.6%
 Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
 Current account in the BCRA 837,046 761,402 718,156 507,912 9.9% 64.8%

 Stock of BCRA Repos
 Liabilities 359,478 17,612 20,051 1,199 1941.1% 29882.6%
 Assets 0000

 Stock of LELIQ (in nominal value) 1,229,920 1,503,406 1,404,754 1,008,404 -18.2% 22.0%

 International Reserves of the BCRA 43,735 44,263 44,731 72,679 -1.2% -39.8%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in pesos (1) 4,273,247 3,935,070 3,707,135 2,736,154 8.6% 56.2%
 Deposits of the private sector 3,558,600 3,239,009 3,038,897 2,158,683 9.9% 64.9%
 Current account (2) 892,338 764,461 698,046 410,980 16.7% 117.1%
 Savings account 1,054,178 867,789 806,031 519,938 21.5% 102.8%
 Fixed term not adjustable by CER / UVA 1,402,958 1,453,249 1,401,006 1,133,083 -3.5% 23.8%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER / UVA 56,808 57,053 51,335 30,529 -0.4% 86.1%
 Other deposits (3) 152,317 96,457 82,478 64,153 57.9% 137.4%

 Deposits of the public sector 714,647 696,061 668,239 577,472 2.7% 23.8%

 Deposits of the private and public sector in dollars (1) 20,513 20,724 21,150 34,756 -1.0% -41.0%

 Loans to the private and public sector in pesos (1) 2,077,492 1,961,274 1,905,531 1,528,190 5.9% 35.9%

 Loans to the private sector 2,020,012 1,897,426 1,839,003 1,504,487 6.5% 34.3%
 Advances 305,438 244,020 219,035 141,081 25.2% 116.5%
 Documents 352,365 308,925 289,837 228,540 14.1% 54.2%
 Mortgages 212,930 213,198 213,952 212,130 -0.1% 0.4%
 Pledges 73,076 74,808 75,669 89,653 -2.3% -18.5%
 Personal 405,312 408,200 403,916 423,503 -0.7% -4.3%
 Credit cards 561,999 566,901 565,286 364,687 -0.9% 54.1%
 Others 108,893 81,375 71,307 44,894 33.8% 142.6%

 Loans to the public sector 57,480 63,848 66,529 23,702 -10.0% 142.5%

 Loans to the private and public sector in dollars (1) 8,835 9,363 9,853 15,877 -5.6% -44.4%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 2,279,882 2,030,881 1,927,947 1,295,730 12.3% 76.0%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 3,393,605 2,968,620 2,803,283 1,873,389 14.3% 81.1%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in 57.2%
 pesos) 5,412,416 4,967,218 4,716,875 3,442,544 9.0%
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 6,761,912 6,280,074 6,016,489 4,943,104 7.7% 36.8%

 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in
 pesos) 2,031,506 1,796,608 1,707,786 1,117,369 13.1% 81.8%
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 3,085,685 2,664,398 2,513,817 1,637,307 15.8% 88.5%
 M3 (Bills and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits
 in pesos) 4,697,768 4,271,157 4,048,637 2,865,072 10.0% 64.0%
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 5,887,158 5,428,044 5,193,096 4,158,976 8.5% 41.6%

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 10 Average Variations
 Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary Base 226.992 11,7% 475.091 28,1% 433.966 25,0% 843.216 63,6%
Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others 4.798 0,2% 1.709 0,1% 72.317 4,2% -195.092 -14,7%
Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury 0 0,0% -58 0,0% -9.423 -0,5% -84.165 -6,4%
Temporary Advances and Profit Transfer 259.604 13,4% 474.991 28,1% 598.539 34,5% 1.029.236 77,7%
Other public sector operations -17.803 -0,9% -45.733 -2,7% -26.119 -1,5% -73.243 -5,5%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) -14.450 -0,7% 47.453 2,8% -198.171 -11,4% 152.343 11,5%
Others -5.157 -0,3% -3.271 -0,2% -3.178 -0,2% 14.137 1,1%

International Reserves of the BCRA -528 -1,2% -1.461 -3,2% -618 -1,4% -28.944 -39,8%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 75 0,2% 24 0,1% 1.205 2,7% -3.301 -4,5%
 Payment to international organizations -195 -0,4% -871 -1,9% -921 -2,1% 5.518 7,6%
 Other public sector operations 156 0,4% 890 2,0% 634 1,4% -22.394 -30,8%
 Minimum cash -26 -0,1% 905 2,0% 1.916 4,3% -5.406 -7,4%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -539 -1,2% -2.410 -5,3% -3.451 -7,8% -3.362 -4,6%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the corresponding main variable for the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 27,6 28,4 28,2
 Integration in current accounts 19,4 18,9 19,1
 LELIQ Integration 19,1 26,9 26,5
 BOTE Integration 3,3 3,5 3,3
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 71,9 71,9 72,4
 30 to 59 days 20,0 20,0 20,0
 60 to 89 days 4,7 4,7 4,3
 90 to 179 days 2,6 2,6 2,7
 More than 180 days 0,7 0,7 0,5

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24,0 24,0 24,0
 Integration (includes application failure of funds) 50,0 49,8 48,4
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 59,2 59,2 57,0
 30 to 59 days 20,9 20,9 21,8
 60 to 89 days 8,3 8,3 8,9
 90 to 179 days 8,8 8,8 9,3
 180 to 365 days 2,7 2,7 2,7
 More than 365 days 0,2 0,2 0,3
(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
* The data are provisional.
Source: BCRA

 Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 11 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 8,03 30,14 34,81 50,09 65,64
 Amount traded 6.914 9.399 9.590 7.385 9.666

Fixed Term
 In pesos
 30-44 days 21,35 28,21 32,25 40,89 46,21
 60 days or more 21,95 29,32 32,83 41,26 46,26
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 18,93 28,71 33,05 41,82 51,21
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 19,03 29,88 34,28 42,70 51,55
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20,31 28,29 32,36 41,10 48,30
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 20,84 29,49 33,52 41,75 48,50

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0,80 0,82 1,19 1,56 1,26
 60 days or more 1,01 1,08 1,65 2,34 1,79
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0,89 0,99 1,35 1,89 1,33
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 1,15 1,26 1,23 1,42 1,44

 Active Interest Rates Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 17,52 31,37 35,21 41,10 49,31
 Amount traded (total terms) 44.371 43.069 41.987 18.780 3.282
# Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)

Current account advances 38.68 47.48 53.12 66.45 69.16
Documents at sole signature 27.83 40.01 41.60 56.99 60.38
Mortgages 28.93 30.59 38.34 47.51 43.81
Pledges 23.54 23.88 24.12 30.54 22.97
Personal loans 53.03 59.70 63.99 71.63 63.22
Credit cards 47.96 59.70 73.45 81.77 64.97

Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 21.64 38.66 43.05 58.80 68.80

International Interest Rates Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

LIBOR
1 month 0.68 0.91 1.64 1.75 2.48
6 months 1.07 0.95 1.69 1.90 2.63

US Treasury Bond
2 years 0.22 0.48 1.35 1.61 2.35
10 years 0.65 0.90 1.53 1.85 2.53

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.80 1.75 1.75 2.50

SELIC (at 1 year) 3.75 4.07 4.28 4.68 6.50

(1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly informative requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily informative requirement SISCEN 18.

Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 12. Interest rates in percentage nominal annual and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Reference Interest Rates Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

BCRA repurchase agreement rates
Liabilities 1 day 12.35 15.29 22.72 53.70 59.66

Repurchase agreement rates between third parties REPO round
1 day 8.15 29.53 36.04 39.91 63.08

Amount traded in repurchase agreements between third parties REPO round (daily average) 8,322 21,787 18,445 3,792 22,109

LELIQ rate 38.00 38.63 45.44 61.37 68.46

Foreign Exchange Market Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

Spot Dollar
Wholesale 65.76 63.12 61.35 59.87 43.26
Retail 65.45 62.75 61.13 60.53 43.34

Future Dollar
NDF 1 month 68.88 65.96 63.91 64.26 44.83
ROFEX 1 month 68.34 65.86 63.61 63.75 47.12
Amount traded (total terms, millions of pesos) 28,941 23,666 22,362 15,870 51,095

Real (Pesos per Real) 12.32 13.04 14.13 14.57 11.12

Euro (Pesos per Euro) 71.43 69.99 66.93 66.51 48.63

Capital Market Apr-20 Mar-20 Feb-20 Dec-19 Apr-19

MERVAL
Index 29,555 29,123 39,096 37,141 31,311

Government Bonds (at par)
DISCOUNT (US$ - NY Law) 39.8 43.7 59.5 70.2 79.7
BONAR 24 (US$) 27.6 35.7 44.0 52.1 88.0
DISCOUNT ($) 54.8 58.9 65.0 52.0 72.6

Country Risk (basis points)
EMBI+ Argentina 3,803 3,254 2,012 2,073 842
EMBI+ Latin America 711 606 420 431 550

(1) They correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 13. Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.

BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

CNV: National Securities Commission.

DEG: Special Drawing Rights.

EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.

EM: Minimum Cash.

FCI: Common Investment Fund.

FF: Financial Trust.

GBA: Greater Buenos Aires.

i.a.: year-over-year.

IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.

IPC: Consumer Price Index.

LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.

LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.

M2: Means of payment, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.

M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises circulating currency in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and in foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.

MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.

NDF: Non-deliverable forward.

NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.

ON: Negotiable Obligation.

PIB: Gross Domestic Product.

P.B.: Basis Points.

p.p.: Percentage Points.

PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.

SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

TIR: Internal Rate of Return.

TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.

UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.

VN: Nominal Value.

Monetary Report | April 2020 | BCRA | 14
