Monthly Monetary Report
December 2020 Contents

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 7 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 8 | 5. Interest rates

Page 9 | 6. International reserves

Page 10 | 7. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 14 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was on January 8, 2021. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and valuation schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 1

1. Summary

In December, the broad private monetary aggregate M3, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a monthly decline of 2.7%, which was explained by the behavior of the means of payment (private M2). Although an increase in the demand for transactional money was observed, it was linked to seasonal factors, such as the payment of the semi-annual complementary salary (SAC), greater household spending on the occasion of the holidays and the start of the summer recess. Thus, adjusted for seasonality and deflated by expected inflation for December, private M2 would have registered a decline of 4.5%.

For its part, time deposit placements contributed positively to the variation of private M3, presenting a growing trend throughout the month, driven by deposits of more than $20 million. In this way, the accumulated growth of time deposit placements during the year would be 29.2% in real terms.

In any case, monetary aggregates in terms of GDP continued with the moderation process initiated in the second half of the year. In particular, considering variables without seasonality, private M2 as a percentage of Product ended 2020 at 12.7%, 3.2 percentage points below the maximum reached in June, and private M3 accumulated a decline of 4.1 percentage points, with a ratio to GDP of 20%.

Passive interest rates remained without significant changes, around the guaranteed minimum rates. These interest rates have been situated, since mid-November, at 37% (44% annualized) for fixed-term placements for individuals of up to $1 million and at 34.2% (40% annualized) for the rest of the deposits. In accordance with the objectives and plans for the year 2021, the BCRA will seek to promote savings and investment instruments that allow obtaining returns in accordance with inflation levels and the evolution of the exchange rate.

In that direction, and in accordance with the Ministry of Productive Development, a new investment instrument was developed intended for mining companies that allows obtaining positive returns with respect to the evolution of the exchange rate. These companies will be able to subscribe to Internal Letters of the Central Bank for Mining (LEMIN) denominated in pesos and settleable by the reference exchange rate Communication "A" 3500 for a term of 180 days at zero rate.

In real terms and without seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector would have registered a decline of 1.7% in December. Thus, financing in pesos accumulated in 2020 a desasonalized nominal growth of 49% (7.4% real).
The Central Bank was a net buyer of foreign currency in December, after progressively reducing its selling position starting in September. This allowed the balance of International Reserves to accumulate an increase of US$758 million compared to the close of the previous month, ending the year at US$39,410 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 2. Monetary Aggregates

The broad monetary aggregate M3 private¹, in real terms² and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a decrease of 2.7%, which was explained by the behavior of means of payment. Although an increase in the demand for transactional money was observed, it was linked to seasonal factors, such as the payment of the half-year complementary salary (SAC), greater family spending on the occasion of holidays and the beginning of the summer recess. The increase observed both in sight deposits and in currency in circulation was smaller than in previous years (see Charts 2.1 and 2.2). Thus, adjusted for seasonality and deflated by the inflation expected for December, sight deposits and currency in circulation would have presented a decrease of 4.8% and 4.0% respectively. Consequently, private M2 would have registered a decline of 4.5%, marking the largest decrease since September 2018.

Chart 2.1 | Sight Deposits          Chart 2.2 | Currency in Circulation
(base index average balance 7 days as of 30-Jun)    (base index average balance 7 days as of 30-Jun)

[Charts showing comparison data for years 2017-2020 with values in thousands of millions of pesos, spanning from June 30 to December 31]
Source: BCRA                Source: BCRA

For its part, time deposits from the private sector presented an increasing trend throughout the month, driven by deposits of more than $20 million, while the strata of smaller amounts remained relatively stable (see Chart 2.3). On average and in nominal terms, time deposits grew 4.6%, which would be equivalent to a variation of 0.3% at constant prices. In this way, accumulated growth during the year would be 29.2% in real terms.

Regarding UVA deposits, an increase of $8,200 million was verified between the close of November and December, which was composed of both traditional placements and those with early cancellation options. For its part, the balance of deposits at variable interest rates according to the dollar quotation (DIVA) remained around $10,000 million (see Chart 2.4).

In the same direction, and in accordance with the Ministry of Productive Development, a new investment instrument was developed intended for mining companies that allows obtaining returns in line with the evolution of the exchange rate. These companies will be able to subscribe to Internal Letters of the Central Bank for Mining (LEMIN) denominated in pesos and payable by the reference exchange rate Communication "A" 3500 at a term of 180 days at zero rate³.

Chart 2.3 | Time Deposits from the Private Sector    Chart 2.4 | UVA and DIVA Dollar Time Deposits
(daily balance by amount stratum)        (daily balance)

[Charts showing breakdown by deposit sizes and UVA/DIVA investment options with values in thousands of millions of pesos]

---

¹ Includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
² INDEC will release the December inflation figure on January 14.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 3
450 35 5

 350 30 0
 01-Jan 31-Jan 01-Mar 31-Mar 30-Apr 30-May 29-Jun 29-Jul 28-Aug 27-Sep 27-Oct 26-Nov 26-Dec 29-Feb 31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun 31-Jul 31-Aug 30-Sep 31-Oct 30-Nov
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Thus, monetary aggregates in terms of GDP continued with the moderation process initiated in the second half of the year. In this way, considering variables without seasonality, private M2 as a percentage of Product ended 2020 at 12.7%, 3.2 p.p. below the maximum reached in June. In the same period, seasonally adjusted private M3 accumulated a decline of 4.1 p.p., with a ratio to GDP of 20% (see Graph 2.5).

For its part, the Monetary Base registered, on average, an increase of $87,299 million in December. From the demand side, the impulse came fundamentally from the greater demand for currency in the hands of the public which, as mentioned before, has positive seasonality in December. From the supply side, the main expansion factor was the transfers of profits to the National Treasury. It should be noted that, considering variables adjusted for seasonality, the Monetary Base in terms of GDP was positioned at the close of 2020 at 7.4%, 1 p.p. below the average ratio observed in the 2010-2019 period (see Graph 2.6).

Graph 2.5 | Monetary Aggregates as a Percentage of GDP | Graph 2.6 | Monetary Base as a Percentage of GDP

 % GDP* monthly % var. | % of GDP
 26.0
 Private M3 | 15 | 12
 24.0 | Average ratio
 Private M2 | 2010-2019
 22.0 | 10 | 8
 7.4
 20.0
 5 | 4
 18.0

 16.0 | 0 | 0

 14.0 | Monetary Base (s.e.)
 | -5 | -4
 12.0 | GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
 Ratio (right axis)
 10.0 | -10 | -8

 8.0
 Jan-10 Jan-12 Jan-14 Jan-16 Jan-18 Jan-20
 * GDP 3-month moving average
 Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA.

3 Communication "A" 7191.

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 4 Finally, foreign currency deposits from the private sector grew throughout the month, as is customary in December since these placements are exempt from the personal property tax. In this way, their balance was positioned at the end of December at USD 15,956 million, reflecting an increase of USD 1,279 million compared to the close of November.

3. Loans to the Private Sector

In nominal terms and without seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector registered in December a monthly growth of 2.6% (see Graph 3.1). Lines intended for consumption continued to be the main driver of loan growth, as occurred in October and November (see Graph 3.2). Thus, peso financing accumulated in 2020 a seasonally adjusted nominal growth of 49.4% (7.7% real). The majority of the increase was concentrated between March and August, representing the period of greatest economic impact from the pandemic, which justified greater stimulus to the credit supply.

According to the objectives and plans for 2021 4 recently disseminated by the BCRA, the credit channel will be deepened, to continue meeting the financing needs of the private sector. Particularly, it will seek to promote productive and technological development, and increase the participation in credit of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), whether for working capital or for investment.

Graph 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector | Graph 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(without seasonality; variation of average monthly balance) | (without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

 % | % | 8%

 8 | 80 | 7
 7 | 70 | Personal Documents
 6 | 60 | Advances | Credit Cards
 6 | Real Guarantee | Other loans
 5 | 50 | 5

 4 | 40 | 4

 3 | 30 | 3

 2 | 20 | 2

 1 | 10 | 1

 0 | 0 | Monthly Var. | 0
 -1 | -10 | -1
 -2 | Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) | -20 | -2

 -3 | -30
 Dec-17 Jun-18 Dec-18 Jun-19 Dec-19 Jun-20 Dec-20 | Dec-18 Mar-19 Jun-19 Sep-19 Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20
 Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA
Lines with essentially commercial destination showed, together, an increase of 0.8% monthly in nominal terms and without seasonality, moderating their expansion rate. However, they accumulated in the year a growth close to 90% (36.1% at constant prices). Contemplating the daily evolution of the balance of this type of financing, an increase can be verified throughout the month of both discounted documents and documents at signature only (see Graph 3.3). Said growth responds to seasonal factors, due to the greater liquidity needs of companies to face the payment of SAC and other bonuses. Thus, adjusted for seasonality, the documents remained stable.

Within the framework of the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) for MSMEs, as of December, loans granted amount to approximately a total of $167,000 million, 90% more compared to the end of November. Regarding the destination of these funds, approximately 85% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects (see Graph 3.4). Finally, it is worth noting that the number of companies that accessed these lines rose to around 53,700, more than doubling compared to the previous month.

Graph 3.3 | Commercial loans in pesos to private sector Graph 3.4 | Productive Investment Line Financing
(daily balance by credit line) (disbursed amounts; accumulated to Dec-20)

Thousands of Thousands of Thousands of
millions of $ millions of $ millions of $
520 300 180
Advances 166.9
Documents at signature only 467.5 160
Discounted documents (right axis) 140

420
200 120

370 100
150
320 143.80

100 60
270
206.0 40
220 50
20

170 0 0
01-Mar 01-Apr 01-May 01-Jun 01-Jul 01-Aug 01-Sep 01-Oct 01-Nov 01-Dec 9/11/20 19/11/20 29/11/20 9/12/20 19/12/20 29/12/20
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

In parallel, the financing lines at subsidized rates included within the "Emergency Assistance Program for Work and Production" (ATP) continued to be granted, which have accumulated, at the end of December, disbursements for a total of $11,087 million, reaching more than 480,000 workers. These lines are aimed at the payment of salaries for companies of up to 800 employees, whose billing has presented year-on-year growth of between 0% and 35% and also for those companies that provide non-critical activities, whose nominal year-on-year billing has been negative, regardless of the number of employees⁵. By virtue of the notable improvement evidenced in recent weeks in the main critical branches, the process of gradual transition will continue towards a scheme without state aid⁶.

As for consumer loans, financing with credit cards registered a nominal increase in the month (see Graph 3.5). A factor that contributed to the dynamism of credit card financing during the third quarter of the year was the incorporation in the "Now 12" program of 3 months of grace for plans of 12 and 18 installments starting in October. In any case, it is worth noting that at constant prices they would have registered a decline of 0.9%, after two months of positive variations. For its part, personal loans increased in nominal terms, although in real terms it would imply a fall close to 2% (see Graph 3.6).

⁵ The interest rate for non-critical sectors with contraction of nominal billing is 27% n.a., while for the rest it is 33% n.a.
⁶ Administrative Decision 2181/2020. https://www.boletinoficial.gob.ar/detalleAviso/primera/238366/20201214.

Graph 3.5 | Credit cards in pesos without seasonality Graph 3.6 | Personal loans in pesos without seasonality
% % % %
 10 100 7 70
 Monthly Var. Monthly Var.
 8 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 80 6 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 60

 6 60 5 50

 4 40 4 40

 3 30
 2 20
 2 20
 0 0
 1 10
 -2 -20 0 0

 -4 -40 -1 -10

 -6 -60 -2 -20
 dec-17 jun-18 dec-18 jun-19 dec-19 jun-20 dec-20 dec-17 jun-18 dec-18 jun-19 dec-19 jun-20 dec-20
 Source: BCRA

With respect to lines with real guarantees, secured loans exhibited in December a monthly increase of 5% in nominal terms and without seasonality, accumulating 7 consecutive months of positive variation in both real and nominal terms (see Chart 3.7). Meanwhile, the balance of mortgage loans, in nominal terms, continues at the levels of late 2018.

 Chart 3.7 | Secured loans in pesos without seasonality

 % %
 8 80

 6 60

 4 40

 2 20

 0 0

 -2 Monthly Var. -20

 Year-over-year Var. (right axis)
 -4 -40

 -6 -60
 dec-17 jun-18 dec-18 jun-19 dec-19 jun-20 dec-20
 Source: BCRA

Finally, credit in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly decline was 4% (US$224 million), accumulating a contraction of 49.9% over the year.

4. Liquidity of financial entities

Broad banking liquidity in local currency⁷ ended the year at 62.1% of deposits, thus remaining at historically elevated levels (see chart 4.1). In particular, in December this ratio registered an increase (0.9 p.p.), after three months of presenting slight decreases.

⁷ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of reverse repurchase agreements with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ, eligible bonds to integrate reserve requirements and NOCOM (between October 2018 and April 2020).

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 7

Regarding the components of banking liquidity, an increase in passive reverse repurchase agreements with the Central Bank was verified, which in terms of deposits registered an increase of 2.4 p.p., more than offsetting the decline in the participation of LELIQ (1.2 p.p) and current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank (0.7 p.p). For its part, the ratio between cash in banks and deposits reached 4.1%, presenting an increase (0.2 p.p.), favored by the seasonal increase in cash towards the end of the year. Finally, as a consequence of the auction that took place at the end of November and which impacted fully in December, there was an increase in holdings of Treasury Bonds for integration of minimum cash requirement, which increased their participation by 0.1 p.p. of deposits.

For its part, banking liquidity in foreign currency registered a slight increase by averaging 78.2% of its deposits in December. In terms of the components, an increase in cash in banks was observed, to the detriment of current accounts at the BCRA (see chart 4.2).

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities  Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

 Net Reverse Repos Leliq - Rest Leliq - Reserve BOTES Encajes
 % of CC BCRA $ Requirements for Integration Cash in Banks $
 deposits NOCOM Liquidity
 70 64.8 65.1 64.9
 64.0 63.9 63.9 64.5 63.7 62.3
 62.2 3.7 3.8 3.6 61.2 62.1
 58.8 3.5 4.4 4.0 3.7 3.4 3.5
 60 3.8 3.5 3.7 3.4 3.6 3.6 4.0 3.8 3.8 4.1
 4.0 3.6 3.5 3.7 4.0
 3.9
 3.9 12.6 12.6 12.0 11.3
 50 18.9 16.2 10.7 11.0 10.3
 15.6 19.1 19.4
 40 20.5 8.0 8.6 9.1 9.7 10.2 9.7
 5.7 5.9 6.1 10.4
 5.6 5.5
 30
 6.2 17.1
 21.0 25.0 23.5 24.1 22.9 19.2 17.6
 21.9
 20 22.9
 16.4 31.8 32.2
 10 16.9
 11.6 13.1 11.6 13.0 12.1 12.5 14.9 14.4
 7.7 8.2
 0 0.5 0.4
 dec-19 jan-20 feb-20 mar-20 apr-20 may-20 jun-20 jul-20 aug-20 sep-20 oct-20 nov-20 dec-20
 Source: BCRA

5. Interest rates⁸
Passive interest rates remained without significant changes, around the guaranteed minimum rates. Said interest rates have been situated, since mid-November, at 37% (44% a.a.) for fixed-term placements of individuals up to $1 million and at 34.2% (40% a.a.) for the rest of deposits (see Graph 5.1).

Among active interest rates, those applied to financings instrumented through documents remained relatively stable, at values close to those stipulated within the framework of the LFIP. Thus, the interest rate corresponding to document discounting averaged 33.1%, while the interest rate for documents at sight on signature was located, on average, at 35.1% (see Graph 5.2). For its part, the interest rate for advances continued showing certain upward tendency and, in this way, averaged 38.5%, which implied an increase of 1.5 p.p. with respect to the previous month. Finally, the interest rate charged for personal loans registered an increase, on average, of 2.3 p.p. and closed the year at 55.2%.

8 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.1 | Interest rates of Policy instruments, Graph 5.2 | Active interest rates
passive and interbank

TNA; % LELIQ TNA; %
80 BCRA Passive Repos 1 day 80
BCRA Passive Repos 7 days Documents discounted
70 Fixed-term deposits of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) Personal
TM20 Private Banks 70
BADLAR Private Banks Documents at Sight on Signature
60 CALL at 1 day Total Advances
Repos between third parties 1 day 60
50

40 50

30 40

20
30
10

0 20
dec-19 feb-20 apr-20 jun-20 aug-20 oct-20 dec-20 dec-19 feb-20 apr-20 jun-20 aug-20 oct-20 dec-20
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

6. International Reserves

In December, the Central Bank was a net buyer of foreign currency, after progressively reducing its selling position from September onwards. This allowed the balance of International Reserves to accumulate an increase of US$ 758 million with respect to the closing of the previous month, ending the year at US$ 39,410 million (see Graph 6.1).

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 3.4% between the end of November and the end of December, concluding the year at 84.03. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, also registered a depreciation closing the month at a value of 124.8. In this way, the MRER continues to be located at a competitive level, with values similar to those at the beginning of the year (see Graph 6.2).

Graph 6.1 | International Reserves Graph 6.2 | Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
(daily data)

17-dec-15=100
thousands of 170
millions of u$s

90 160

80 150

70 140

60 130

50 120

40 110

30 100

20 90

10 80

0 70
jan-03 jan-05 jan-07 jan-09 jan-11 jan-13 jan-15 jan-17 jan-19 aug-07 dec-08 apr-10 aug-11 dec-12 apr-14 aug-15 dec-16 apr-18 aug-19 dec-20

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

F

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 9

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average
Principal monetary and financial variables Last 12
dec-20 nov-20 oct-20 dec-19 Monthly months

Monetary base 2,425,025 2,337,726 2,318,890 1,734,073 3.7% 39.8%
Monetary circulation 1,792,980 1,693,174 1,691,993 1,062,927 5.9% 68.7%
Banknotes and coins in the hands of the public 1,542,720 1,468,168 1,487,115 930,423 5.1% 65.8%
Banknotes and coins in financial entities 250,259 225,005 204,877 132,504 11.2% 88.9%
Cancellation checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
Current account at the BCRA 632,045 644,553 626,898 671,146 -1.9% -5.8%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Passive 1,040,553 846,954 871,990 432,590 22.9% 140.5%
Active 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0%
Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,653,328 1,644,410 1,719,976 738,850 0.5% 123.8%

International Reserves of the BCRA 38,900 39,164 40,739 44,353 -0.7% -12.3%

Deposits of the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 6,065,651 5,782,337 5,712,194 3,219,017 4.9% 88.4%
Private sector deposits 4,875,256 4,624,487 4,578,157 2,632,617 5.4% 85.2%
(2) 1,223,800 1,194,343 1,129,874 670,090 2.5% 82.6%
Current account
Savings account 1,341,902 1,224,410 1,185,395 653,658 9.6% 105.3%
Fixed-term deposits not adjustable by CER / UVA 2,162,249 2,068,741 2,125,528 1,208,020 4.5% 79.0%
Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 41,598 37,200 37,548 21,388 11.8% 94.5%
(3) 105,707 99,792 99,812 79,462 5.9% 33.0%
Other deposits

Public sector deposits 1,190,395 1,157,850 1,134,037 586,400 2.8% 103.0%
Deposits of the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 17,778 16,987 17,631 20,776 4.7% -14.4%

(1) 2,751,489 2,661,498 2,568,158 1,871,451 3.4% 47.0%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos
Loans to the private sector 2,704,465 2,616,907 2,526,385 1,810,976 3.3% 49.3%
Advances 279,423 275,821 276,783 224,496 1.3% 24.5%
Documents 644,467 634,164 618,900 292,434 1.6% 120.4%
Mortgage loans 214,683 212,852 212,106 214,825 0.9% -0.1%
Pawn loans 102,519 98,350 92,623 79,155 4.2% 29.5%
Personal loans 443,186 433,060 421,612 401,920 2.3% 10.3%
Credit cards 846,121 796,861 743,478 533,758 6.2% 58.5%
Others 174,066 165,799 160,882 64,387 5.0% 170.3%

Loans to the public sector 47,024 44,591 41,773 60,475 5.5% -22.2%
Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,464 5,690 5,910 10,767 -4.0% -49.3%

(1)
Total monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 3,237,639 3,061,767 2,998,342 1,817,898 5.7% 78.1%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 4,627,649 4,331,971 4,234,389 2,512,309 6.8% 84.2%

M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 7,608,371 7,250,506 7,199,310 4,149,440 4.9% 83.4%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 9,080,653 8,610,413 8,568,907 5,395,689 5.5% 68.3%
Private monetary aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 2,766,521 2,662,512 2,616,990 1,600,512 3.9% 72.9%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 4,108,422 3,886,922 3,802,385 2,254,170 5.7% 82.3%
M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in 6,417,976 6,092,656 6,065,272 3,563,040 5.3% 80.1%
pesos)
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 7,670,061 7,266,806 7,255,722 4,664,803 5.5% 64.4%

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 10 Average Variations
Variation Factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020
Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary Base 87,299 3.7% 111,847 4.8% 690,952 39.8%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -2,319 -0.1% -142,939 -6.2% -317,573 -18.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -23,907 -1.0% -92,507 -4.0% -160,497 -9.3%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 291,895 12.5% 354,932 15.3% 2,066,163 119.2%
Other public sector operations -32,077 -1.4% -44,919 -1.9% -65,507 -3.8%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) -125,047 -5.3% 87,821 3.8% -779,029 -44.9%
Others -21,246 -0.9% -50,541 -2.2% -52,606 -3.0%

International Reserves of the BCRA -264 -0.7% -3,451 -8.1% -5,453 -12.3%
Intervention in the foreign exchange market -35 -0.1% -1,860 -4.4% -4,086 -9.2%
Payment to international organizations -142 -0.4% -885 -2.1% -2,574 -5.8%
Other public sector operations -51 -0.1% -181 -0.4% 402 0.9%
Minimum cash -158 -0.4% -1,043 -2.5% 2,510 5.7%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 122 0.3% 518 1.2% -1,705 -3.8%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being calculated.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 23.4 25.0 24.4
 Integration in current accounts 10.3 11.0 10.7
 Leliq integration 23.1 23.2 22.7
 BOTE integration 4.0 3.9 3.7
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 76.6 76.6 76.6
 30 to 59 days 17.0 17.0 17.0
 60 to 89 days 3.8 3.8 3.8
 90 to 179 days 2.3 2.3 2.3
 more than 180 days 0.3 0.3 0.3

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes resource application default) 61.0 64.6 65.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 60.0 60.0 60.0
 30 to 59 days 21.2 21.2 21.2
 60 to 89 days 8.6 8.6 8.6
 90 to 179 days 7.9 7.9 7.9
 180 to 365 days 2.3 2.3 2.3
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
 (1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
 * The data are provisional.
 Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 11 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19

 BCRA repurchase rates
 Liabilities 1 day 32.00 31.58 27.57 53.70

 Repurchase rates among third parties REPO round
 1 day 33.19 32.37 27.80 42.02

 Amount operated in repurchase rates among third parties REPO round (daily average) 5.717 9.021 7.297 3.792

 LELIQ rate 38.00 36.95 36.90 61.37

 Foreign Exchange Market Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 82.64 79.94 77.58 59.87
 Retail 85.07 82.36 79.95 60.53

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 86.95 85.13 84.67 64.26
 ROFEX 1 month 86.12 83.51 80.90 63.75
 Amount operated (total maturities, millions of pesos) 55.501 42.317 59.146 15.870
 Real (Pesos x Real) 16.05 14.71 13.80 14.57

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 100.57 94.58 91.29 66.51

 Capital Markets Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19

 MERVAL
 Index 52.763 51.200 46.908 37.141

 Government Bonds (in parity)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 36.0 36.6 37.6 -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 37.0 37.8 38.7 -
 BONCER 2026 76.3 76.0 74.5 -
 Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1.388 1.376 1.409 2.073
 EMBI+ Latin America 435 447 481 431

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 12 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19

 Call in pesos (at 15 days)
 Rate 29.59 27.45 23.60 50.09
 Amount operated 12.902 13.148 13.429 7.385

 Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 33.41 32.18 30.09 40.89
 60 days or more 33.76 33.19 30.36 41.26
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 33.36 31.71 29.25 41.82
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 34.20 32.70 30.28 42.70
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 33.30 31.95 29.53 41.10
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 34.21 33.02 30.68 41.75

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.42 0.46 0.45 1.56
 60 days or more 0.60 0.68 0.62 2.34
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.50 0.50 0.54 1.89
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.39 0.55 0.51 1.42

 Active Interest Rates Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19
## Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 33.78 32.38 31.16 41.10
 Amount traded (total terms) 66,396 57,313 52,595 18,780

## Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (1)
 Current Account Advances 39.73 37.88 33.41 66.44
 Single Signature Documents 35.13 36.43 32.16 56.99
 Mortgage Loans 32.29 32.79 31.63 47.51
 Pledge Loans 28.65 26.52 26.85 30.54
 Personal Loans 55.22 52.85 50.64 71.63
 Credit Cards 41.87 42.17 41.90 81.77

 Current Account Advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 33.21 32.25 27.34 58.79

## International Interest Rates Dec-20 Nov-20 Oct-20 Dec-19

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.14 0.15 1.75
 6 months 0.26 0.25 0.25 1.90

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.13 0.17 0.15 1.61
 10 years 0.93 0.87 0.78 1.85
 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.75

 SELIC (at 1 year) 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.68

 (1) Data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 13 Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and the total of deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.s.: seasonally adjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Unit of Acquisition Value.

 Monthly Monetary Report | December 2020 | BCRA | 14
