# Contents

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 7 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 8 | 5. Interest rates

Page 9 | 6. International reserves

Page 11 | 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was on November 9, 2020. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and systems of valuation.

This document has sought to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 1 Summary

In November, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a decline of 2.4%¹, slightly higher than that observed in October. While time deposits and currency in circulation in the hands of the public continued to make a negative contribution to its growth, sight deposits contributed positively, unlike what occurred in previous months.

The decline observed on average in time deposits in pesos from the private sector in real terms was due to the negative "statistical carryover" left by October, since the balance of these placements registered between October 31 and November 30 an increase of 0.7% ($ 13,800 million), with a recomposition of the balance of deposits of more than $20 million being observed.

In the framework of the process of progressive harmonization of interest rates for monetary policy instruments that the BCRA is carrying out, the monetary authority decided to raise, effective as of November 13, the interest rate with which it remunera tes 7-day reverse repos by 2 p.p., bringing it to 36.5% (43.87% a.a.). In turn, it increased that of 1-day reverse repos by 1 p.p. to 32% (37.69% a.a.). Additionally, it raised the interest rate on LELIQs by 2 p.p., which again stood at 38% (45.44% a.a.), thus reversing the decreases from October.

At the same time, seeking to sustain positive returns in real terms, the BCRA raised the guaranteed minimum interest rate on fixed-term deposits in pesos. Thus, the rate corresponding to deposits from individuals for an amount of up to $1 million was increased to 37% (43.98% a.a.), while that for the rest of the private sector deposits was raised to 34% (39.84% a.a.). The coefficient that determines the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with the early cancellation option in UVA was also increased, bringing it to 30.50%.

In nominal terms and without seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly expansion of 2.9%. As in the previous month, credit cards and financing instruments made through documents explained most of the increase. In real terms, loans to the private sector would have remained relatively stable with respect to October.
It should be noted that in November the new financing scheme for productive investment (LFIP) of SMEs entered into force, which includes a line aimed at financing capital investment, with a maximum interest rate of 30% per annum, as well as a line for working capital at a maximum rate of 35% per annum. In turn, it includes a credit line for non-SME clients that will reach Health Service Providers that provide hospitalization services within the framework of the COVID-19 emergency and other companies for the acquisition of machinery and equipment produced by SMEs at a maximum rate of 35% per annum.

1 Indec will publish the inflation data for November on December 15.

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 22. Monetary Aggregates

In November, the broad monetary aggregate private M3 2, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a decline of 2.4% 3, slightly higher than that observed in October. While term deposits and cash in circulation continued to make a negative contribution to its growth, sight deposits contributed positively, unlike what occurred in previous months (see Chart 2.1).

The balance of term deposits in pesos from the private sector presented, on average and in nominal terms, a decline of 2.6%, equivalent to a fall of around 5.7% in real terms. This was explained by the negative "statistical carryover" left by October. In effect, between October 31 and November 30, they registered an increase of 0.7% ($13,800 million). Within these placements, deposits of more than $20 million resumed growing from the second half of the month, reversing part of the decline recorded throughout October (see Chart 2.2). It should be recalled that in that month, a decline had been observed in term placements of the wholesale segment, particularly in investments with early redemption options, due to the behavior of Money Market Common Investment Funds (FCI MM) which, on the one hand, suffered redemptions due to dollar-linked placements by the National Government and, on the other hand, carried out a restructuring of their portfolio by shifting funds to remunerated sight deposits. In November, the FCI MM increased their equity, which resulted in a recomposition of investments with early redemption options.

Chart 2.1 | Private M3. Real without seasonality
(monthly variation and contribution by component to growth)
%, p.p.

- Term Deposits and Others (p.p.)
- Sight Deposits (p.p.)
- Cash in circulation (p.p.)
- Private M3 (monthly variation)

[Time period from nov-18 to nov-20]

Chart 2.2 | Term deposits from the private sector
(daily balance by amount stratum)

thousands of millions $

- Less than $1 million
- From $1 million to $20 million
- More than $20 million

[Time period from 01-Jan to 26-Nov]

Source: BCRA                                                    Source: BCRA

Considering values adjusted for seasonality and in real terms, the total of sight deposits registered an increase of 1.6%, which was explained, fundamentally, by the positive "statistical carryover" left by October and turned out to be the highest since June. The behavior of the FCI MM, as mentioned, also affected the evolution of sight deposits since, in October, they had shown a preference for remunerated sight placements over fixed-term deposits. In this sense, following the strong increase observed last month, remunerated sight deposits remained relatively

2 Includes cash in circulation and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
3 Indec will publish the inflation data for November on December 15.
# Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 3

...ently stable in November (see Chart 2.3). Meanwhile, currency in circulation held by the public registered a decline for the second consecutive month (-3.5%), showing a sustained downward trend. Consequently, private M2 reduced its rate of decline by registering a decrease of 0.4% (see Chart 2.4).

Chart 2.3 | Sight deposits of the private sector Chart 2.4 | Private M2 and its components. Real
(daily balance) (var. of monthly average balance seasonally adjusted)

31-Jul-1
var. % real s.e.
1.40 Remunerated sight deposits 20

Remaining private M2
1.30 16 Currency in circulation

Sight deposits private sector
1.20 12

8
1.10

4
1.00

0
0.90
-4

0.80
31-Jul-20 31-Aug-20 30-Sep-20 31-Oct-20 30-Nov-20 -8
Source: BCRA Nov-17 May-18 Nov-18 May-19 Nov-19 May-20 Nov-20
Source: BCRA

For its part, deposits in foreign currency of the private sector stopped falling and remained relatively stable throughout the month around USD 14,660 million.

Finally, the Monetary Base continued presenting limited variations (see Chart 2.5). In November, it registered an increase of 0.8% ($18,836 million) on average and at current prices. As announced by the Ministry of Economy, in November no new assistance was requested from the Central Bank through Temporary Advances⁴. This, added to the early repayment of part of the debt contracted with the BCRA in October, led to monetary financing to the National Treasury having a contractionary character, as did net foreign currency sales to the external sector. This effect was offset by the expansion associated, fundamentally, with the fall in the monthly average balance of reverse repos and LELIQ.

Chart 2.5 | Monetary Base and variation factors
(var. of monthly average balance)

thousands of
millions of $ Remaining
External Sector

500 Repos and Leliq

400 Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits
300 Monetary Base

200

100

0

-100

-200

-300

-400
Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20 Jun-20 Jul-20 Aug-20 Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov-20

Source: BCRA

⁴ https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/gestion-de-la-politica-fiscal-en-el-ultimo-bimestre-de-2020.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 4

3. Loans to the Private Sector

In November, loans in pesos to the private sector registered a monthly expansion of 2.9% in nominal terms and without seasonality (see Chart 3.1). As in the previous month, credit cards and financing implemented through documents explained most of the increase (see Chart 3.2). In real terms, loans to the private sector would have remained stable compared to October (-0.4% real). Thus, credit in pesos accumulated since March a seasonally adjusted nominal growth of 34.9% (11.3% real) and of 48.9% (8.7% real) compared to the same period of the previous year.

Chart 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Chart 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(without seasonality; variation of monthly average balance) (without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

% % 8%

8 80 7
7 70 Personal Documents
6 60 Advances Credit Cards Real Guarantee Other loans
6 5 50 5

4 40
3 30 4

2 20 3

1 10 2

0 0 1

-1 Monthly Var. -10 0
-2 Year-on-year Var. (right axis) -20 -1

-3 -30 -2
Nov-17 May-18 Nov-18 May-19 Nov-19 May-20 Nov-20 Nov-18 May-19 Nov-19 May-20 Nov-20
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
Lines with predominantly commercial purposes registered an expansion of 2.1% monthly in nominal terms and without seasonality, standing 96.8% above the value recorded in the same month of the previous year (43.8% at constant prices). Within these financings, the impulse continued to come, fundamentally, from discounted documents, which exhibited an average monthly increase of 11.6% s.e. Meanwhile, documents on sole signature and current account advances remained stable in the month (see Chart 3.3).

It should be noted that in November the new financing line scheme for productive investment of SMEs entered into force. At the end of the month, loans totaling $88,315 million have been granted, of which approximately $8,000 million correspond to the financing of investment projects with a maximum interest rate of 30% n.a. (see Chart 3.4). The number of companies that have accessed these lines amounted to 26,100.

On the other hand, subsidized rate loans granted under the Emergency Assistance Program for Work and Production (ATP) accumulated, at the end of November, disbursements of $6,071 million, reaching a total of 303,337 workers. These lines are intended for the payment of salaries for companies with up to 800 employees, whose invoicing has shown year-on-year growth of between 0% and 35%, and also for those companies that provide non-critical activities, whose year-on-year nominal invoicing has been negative, regardless of the number of employees. It should be noted that the validity of the ATP established by Decree No. 332/20 and its amendments was extended until December 31, 2020.

5 See Monthly Monetary Report October 2020. Communication "A" 7140.
6 The interest rate for non-critical sectors with nominal contraction of invoicing is 27% n.a., while for the rest it is 33% n.a.
7 Decree 823/2020

For its part, the BCRA eliminated the obligation to grant loans for salary coverage of up to 120% of the Vital and Mobile Minimum Wage.

**Chart 3.3 | Commercial loans in pesos** | **Chart 3.4 | Productive Investment Line Financings**
**(daily balance by credit line)** | **(amounts disbursed; accumulated to Nov-20)**

Thousands of millions of $ | Thousands of millions of $
520 | 300
470 Advances | 100
Sole Signature Documents | 452.2 | 88.3
Discounted Documents (right axis) | 250 | 90
420 | 80
70
200 | 370
60
150 | 320
50
134.8 | 40
100 | 30
270 | 20
220 | 50
10
219.5 | 170
0 | 0
01-Mar 01-Apr 01-May 01-Jun 01-Jul 01-Aug 01-Sep 01-Oct 01-Nov 01-Dec | 9/11/20 12/11/20 15/11/20 18/11/20 21/11/20 24/11/20 27/11/20 30/11/20
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

Loans intended for consumption continued growing, in line with the general recovery in family consumption. Financings instrumented with credit cards exhibited a nominal increase of 4.1% s.e. in the month, explained partially by the reopening of commerce as sanitary restrictions are flexibilizing in various points of the country (see Chart 3.5). The dynamism presented by "Ahora 12" financings also had a positive impact on credit card performance, in particular the first days of November showed an increase in consumption associated with the "Cyber Monday" event. On the other hand, personal loans grew, in nominal terms, 1.9% s.e. in the month. However, in real terms the monthly variation would still be in negative territory (see chart 3.6).

**Chart 3.5 | Credit cards in pesos without seasonality** | **Chart 3.6 | Personal loans in pesos without seasonality**

% | %
10 | 100 | 7 | 70
Monthly Var. | Monthly Var.
8 | Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) | 80 | 6 | Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) | 60
5 | 50
6 | 60
4 | 40
4 | 40
3 | 30
2 | 20
2 | 20
0 | 0
1 | 10
-2 | -20 | 0 | 0
-4 | -40 | -1 | -10
-6 -60 -2 -20
 nov-17 may-18 nov-18 may-19 nov-19 may-20 nov-20 nov-17 may-18 nov-18 may-19 nov-19 may-20 nov-20
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Regarding lines with real guarantees, pawn loans presented in November a monthly increase of 6.4% in nominal terms and without seasonality, completing 6 consecutive months of positive variation in both real and nominal terms (see chart 3.7). The great dynamism that pawn credits continue to present is linked to the recovery of sales in the automotive market,

8 Communication "A" 7157.

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 6 which was reflected in the vehicle registration levels of November (33.9% y.o.y.)9. On the other hand, mortgage loans maintained almost null growth, both in nominal and year-over-year terms.

Regarding mortgage and pawn loans in UVA, and in order to alleviate the financial burden on families, the National Government ordered the freezing of the monthly value of installments in pesos until January 31, 2021 with respect to that in effect in March of the current year10. Thus, both the debts resulting from the differentials between the contractual installments and the frozen installments as well as debts due to non-payment or late payments that could be generated until January 31, 2021, must be refinanced for payment at the end of the credit's life (in the latter case, compensatory interest may be applied, which may not exceed the interest rate of the original loan).

Chart 3.7 | Pawn loans in pesos without seasonality

 % %
 8 80

 6 60

 4 40

 2 20

 0 0

 -2 -20
 Monthly Var.
 -4 Var. y.o.y. (right axis) -40

 -6 -60
 nov-17 may-18 nov-18 may-19 nov-19 may-20 nov-20
 Source: BCRA

Finally, credit in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly fall was 3.7% (US$ 216 million), accumulating a contraction of 51.3% compared to last November.

4. Liquidity of financial entities

During the month of November, broad banking liquidity in local currency11 registered a slight decline and was located, on average, at 61.2% of deposits, remaining at historically elevated levels (see chart 4.1).

The decline was mainly explained by a decrease in the remunerated liability balances of the Central Bank (reverse repos and LELIQ not associated with minimum cash integration, which recorded declines of 0.5 p.p. and 1.6 p.p. respectively). In contrast, there was an increase in items linked to the minimum cash of financial entities (0.3 p.p. in current accounts at the BCRA and 0.2 p.p. in LELIQ used for that purpose). For its part, cash in banks registered an increase of 0.3 p.p., with a participation similar to

9 https://siomaa.com:8082/Documents/Reports/718516e7-5920-48a7-81e2-1074c071267b.pdf?name=Informe%20patentamientos%20autos&date=30-11-2020.
10 Decree 767/2020.
11 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ, bonds eligible for reserve integration and NOCOM (between October 2018 and April 2020).

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 7 that of July. Finally, it is worth noting that towards the end of November there was the maturity of BOTE 2020 for integration (TN20) and a new auction of BOTE 2022 (TY22) was held, which resulted in an increase in holdings of 0.2 p.p. of deposits.
Regarding regulatory changes with an impact on banking liquidity, the percentages of financing admitted as deductions from minimum cash were established within the framework of the "Subsidized Rate Credit Program for Companies" based on the interest rate of said financing. In turn, the possibility of attributing as a deduction the financing to SMEs for the payment of salaries of up to 120% of the Minimum Vital and Mobile Salary included in the ATP Program 12 was eliminated.

Additionally, effective from the beginning of the month, the minimum cash requirement was reduced by an amount equivalent to 14% of capital investment financing agreed within the framework of the LFIP at an interest rate of up to 30% p.a.13.

For its part, banking liquidity in foreign currency remained stable, averaging 77.9% of its deposits in November. The increase in cash in banks in terms of deposits compensated for the lower participation of current accounts at the BCRA (see chart 4.2).

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities | Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

[Net Repos Leliq - Other Leliq - Requirement Encajes % of | Cash in Banks USD CC BCRA USD Liquidity USD
% of deposits NOCOM Liquidity | % of deposits
(Data table with monthly values from November 2019 to November 2020)]

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

## 5. Interest Rates 14

Within the framework of the process of progressive harmonization of interest rates of monetary policy instruments being carried out by the BCRA, the monetary authority decided to raise, effective from November 13, the interest rate at which it remunerate passive repos at 7 days by 2 p.p., bringing it to 36.5% (43.87% e.a.). In turn, it increased the rate for 1-day passive repos by 1 p.p. to 32% (37.69% e.a.). Additionally, it raised the interest rate on LELIQs by 2 p.p., bringing it to 38% (45.44% e.a.) and thereby reversing the decreases from October.

12 Communication "A" 7157
13 Communication "A" 7161
14 All interest rates are expressed in nominal annual terms, unless otherwise indicated.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 8

Parallel to this, seeking to sustain positive returns in real terms, the BCRA raised the guaranteed minimum interest rate on fixed-term deposits in pesos15. Thus, the rate corresponding to deposits of individuals for an amount of up to $1 million was increased to 37% (43.98% e.a.), while that for the rest of the private sector deposits was raised to 34% (39.84% e.a.). The coefficient that determines the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with the option of early cancellation in UVA was also increased, bringing it to 30.50%. Interbank interest rates reflected the increase in money market rates. Thus, the 1-day Call rate averaged 27.5% and the repo rate between third parties 32.5%, registering an increase of 3.8 p.p. and 4.7 p.p., respectively. (see Chart 5.1)

Chart 5.1 | Interest rates of Monetary Policy, passive and interbank instruments | Chart 5.2 | Active interest rates
TNA; % LELIQ TNA; % 80
 80 Passive Repos BCRA 1 day
 Passive Repos BCRA 7 days Discounted Documents
 70 Fixed-term deposits of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) 70 Personal Loans
 TM20 Private Banks Documents on Sole Signature
 BADLAR Private Banks Total Advances
 60 CALL at 1 day 60
 Repos between third parties 1 day
 50

 40 50

 30 40

 20
 30
 10

 0 20
 nov-19 jan-20 mar-20 may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20 nov-19 jan-20 mar-20 may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20

 Source BCRA Source BCRA

Regarding active interest rates, those applied to commercial credits showed heterogeneous behavior. On the one hand, the interest rate on advances continued, until mid-month, with the upward trend initiated in October, remaining relatively stable in the second part of the month. Thus, at the close of November, it stood at 36.9%. On the other hand, the interest rate applied to the discount of documents remained stable throughout the month, as did that corresponding to documents on sole signature. The first ended the month at 32.5% and the second, which presents high volatility, stood at an average of 36.3%. It is worth noting that these financings, implemented through documents, capture the impact of new loans granted under the LFIP, with interest rates of up to 35%. Finally, the interest rate on personal loans rose 2.2 p.p. on average, reaching 52.8% (see Chart 5.2).

6. International Reserves

The balance of international reserves of the Central Bank stood at US$38,652 million at the end of November
(see Chart 6.1). This implied a decline of US$1,204 million compared to the close of the previous month, which was explained by net payments to International Organizations (US$480 million), the decrease in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA (US$323 million) and by net sales of foreign currency to the private sector (US$327 million).

15 Communication "A" 71 60

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 9 The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 3.8% between the end of October and the end of November, closing the month at 81.3. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, also registered a depreciation closing the month at a value of 121.5. Thus, the MREC continues to be positioned at a competitive level, with values similar to those at the beginning of the year (see Chart 6.2).

Chart 6.1 | International Reserves Chart 6.2 | Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
(daily data)

 billions of dec-15=100
 u$s 17

 90 170

 80 160

 150
 70
 140
 60 130

 50 120 121.5

 40 110

 100
 30
 90
 20 80

 10 70

 0 60
 jan-03 jan-05 jan-07 jan-09 jan-11 jan-13 jan-15 jan-17 jan-19 aug-07 dec-08 apr-10 aug-11 dec-12 apr-14 aug-15 dec-16 apr-18 aug-19
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

 F

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 10

7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main Monetary and Financial System Variables average
 nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 nov-19 Monthly Last 12
 months

 Monetary Base 2,337,726 2,318,890 2,313,178 1,569,671 0.8% 48.9%
 Money in Circulation 1,693,174 1,691,993 1,673,118 937,688 0.1% 80.6%
 Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public 1,468,168 1,487,065 1,481,074 826,164 -1.3% 77.7%
 Banknotes and Coins in financial entities 225,005 204,928 192,044 111,524 9.8% 101.8%
 Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
 Current account at the BCRA 644,553 626,898 640,059 631,983 2.8% 2.0%

 Stock of BCRA Repos
 Passive 846,954 871,990 710,509 232,982 -2.9% 263.5%
 Active 0 0 3 0 0.0% 0.0%

 Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,644,410 1,719,976 1,855,325 807,638 -4.4% 103.6%

 BCRA International Reserves 39,164 40,739 42,350 43,488 -3.9% -9.9%
Deposits from the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 5,781,902 5,711,736 5,582,952 3,013,303 1.2% 91.9%
 Private sector deposits 4,623,830 4,577,511 4,520,115 2,419,119 1.0% 91.1%
 Current account (2) 1,193,940 1,129,897 1,082,562 606,121 5.7% 97.0%
 Savings account 1,224,231 1,185,362 1,168,111 550,510 3.3% 122.4%
 Fixed-term deposits non-adjustable by CER / UVA 2,068,460 2,125,317 2,139,996 1,171,009 -2.7% 76.6%
 Fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER / UVA 37,200 37,548 34,603 16,785 -0.9% 121.6%
 Other deposits (3) 99,999 99,388 94,842 74,695 0.6% 33.9%

 Public sector deposits 1,158,073 1,134,225 1,062,837 594,185 2.1% 94.9%
 Deposits from the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 16,988 17,631 19,412 20,935 -3.6% -18.9%

 Loans to the private sector and public sector in pesos (1) 2,661,014 2,567,883 2,468,968 1,814,166 3.6% 46.7%

 Loans to the private sector 2,616,446 2,526,181 2,433,926 1,757,455 3.6% 48.9%
 Advances 275,833 276,808 272,503 218,049 -0.4% 26.5%
 Documents 634,135 618,803 590,210 272,824 2.5% 132.4%
 Mortgage loans 212,849 212,099 212,016 213,943 0.4% -0.5%
 Secured loans 98,374 92,651 87,119 81,577 6.2% 20.6%
 Personal loans 433,079 421,641 411,127 404,571 2.7% 7.0%
 Credit cards 796,376 743,287 699,823 509,270 7.1% 56.4%
 Other 165,799 160,892 161,126 57,221 3.0% 189.8%

 Loans to the public sector 44,568 41,702 35,043 56,710 6.9% -21.4%
 Loans to the private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,694 5,913 6,234 11,538 -3.7% -50.6%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 3,061,608 2,998,317 2,924,201 1,613,618 2.1% 89.7%

 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 4,331,631 4,234,331 4,130,132 2,198,823 2.3% 97.0%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in 7,250,071 7,198,800 7,064,026 3,839,467 0.7% 88.8%
 pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 8,610,109 8,568,355 8,525,868 5,092,344 0.5% 69.1%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 2,662,108 2,616,962 2,563,637 1,432,284 1.7% 85.9%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 3,886,339 3,802,324 3,731,748 1,982,794 2.2% 96.0%
 M3 (Bills and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 6,091,998 6,064,576 6,001,189 3,245,283 0.5% 87.7%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 7,266,176 7,254,982 7,289,945 4,362,336 0.2% 66.6%

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 11 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2020 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base 18,836 0.8% 8,498 0.4% 603,653 34.8% 768,055 48.9%
Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector and others -46,850 -2.0% -258,824 -11.1% -315,254 -18.2% -226,661 -14.4%
Purchase of foreign exchange from the National Treasury -41,760 -1.8% -86,551 -3.7% -136,590 -7.9% -161,236 -10.3%
Temporary advances and Transfer of profits -67,815 -2.9% 146,462 6.3% 1,774,268 102.3% 1,989,387 126.7%
Other public sector operations 30,378 1.3% 29,466 1.3% -33,430 -1.9% -69,463 -4.4%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) 171,945 7.4% 209,450 9.0% -653,982 -37.7% -732,483 -46.7%
Other -27,061 -1.2% -31,506 -1.4% -31,360 -1.8% -31,490 -2.0%

BCRA International Reserves -1,575 -3.9% -3,988 -9.2% -5,189 -11.7% -4,324 -9.9%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -596 -1.5% -3,416 -7.9% -4,051 -9.1% -2,568 -5.9%
 Payment to international organizations -436 -1.1% -912 -2.1% -2,432 -5.5% -2,639 -6.1%
 Other public sector operations -80 -0.2% -223 -0.5% 453 1.0% -763 -1.8%
 Minimum cash -655 -1.6% -95 -0.2% 2,668 6.0% 3,290 7.6%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 192 0.5% 657 1.5% -1,827 -4.1% -1,645 -3.8%
1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 nov-20 oct-20 sep-20

National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 24.9 24.1 24.4
 Integration in current accounts 11.0 10.7 11.3
 Leliq integration 23.3 22.7 23.1
 BOTE integration 3.9 3.7 3.8
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 76.1 76.1 76.1
 30 to 59 days 17.3 17.3 17.3
 60 to 89 days 3.8 3.8 3.8
 90 to 179 days 2.4 2.4 2.4
 more than 180 days 0.4 0.4 0.4

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 13.3 11.9 15.2
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for requirement calculation (1)
 Up to 29 days 61.3 61.3 61.3
 30 to 59 days 19.9 19.9 19.9
 60 to 89 days 8.4 8.4 8.4
 90 to 179 days 8.0 8.0 8.0
 180 to 365 days 2.3 2.3 2.3
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
* Data are provisional.
Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 12 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19

 BCRA repo rates
 Liabilities 1 day 31.58 27.57 19.00 53.70 55.60

 Repo rates among third parties REPO session
 1 day 32.46 27.80 18.70 42.02 54.26

 Amount traded in repos among third parties REPO session (daily average) 8,715 7,297 7,689 3,792 20,786

 LELIQ rate 36.95 36.90 38.00 61.37 63.54

 Exchange Market nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 79.94 77.58 75.20 59.87 59.73
 Retail 82.36 79.95 76.94 60.53 60.51

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 85.13 84.67 80.43 64.26 64.17
 ROFEX 1 month 83.51 80.90 77.53 63.75 63.87
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 42,317 59,146 54,208 15,870 19,807

 Real (Pesos x Real) 14.71 13.80 13.94 14.57 14.36

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 94.58 91.29 88.65 66.51 65.98

 Capital Market nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19

 MERVAL
 Index 51,200 46,908 43,478 37,141 33,840

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 36.6 37.6 42.9 - -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 37.8 38.7 43.0 - -
 BONCER 2026 76.0 74.5 83.2 - -

 Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1,376 1,409 1,533 2,073 2,330
 EMBI+ Latin America 447 481 473 431 508

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 13 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19

Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 27.45 23.60 15.36 50.09 54.64
 Amount traded 13,148 13,429 10,258 7,385 7,670

Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 32.18 30.09 29.30 40.89 45.33
 60 days or more 33.19 30.36 29.88 41.26 45.15
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 31.31 29.25 28.24 41.82 46.27
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 32.81 30.28 29.29 42.70 47.37
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 31.91 29.53 28.53 41.10 45.61
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 32.87 30.68 29.73 41.75 46.19

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.46 0.45 0.52 1.56 1.79
 60 days or more 0.68 0.62 0.75 2.34 2.53
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.54 0.61 1.89 2.04
 BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.55 0.51 0.68 1.42 1.80

 Active Interest Rates nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19
## Repurchase Agreements in Pesos
 Gross Interest Rate at 30 days 32.38 31.16 25.99 41.10 44.36
 Amount Operated (total terms) 57,313 52,595 50,130 18,780 16,787

## Loans to the Private Sector in Pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in Current Account 37.88 33.41 30.44 66.44 72.02
 Single Signature Documents 36.33 32.16 29.14 56.99 62.30
 Mortgage Loans 32.79 31.63 27.96 47.51 44.83
 Pledge Loans 26.58 26.85 25.78 30.54 33.24
 Personal Loans 52.83 50.61 51.59 71.63 74.24
 Credit Cards 42.10 41.91 41.31 81.77 81.73

 Overdrafts in Current Account -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 32.25 27.34 20.69 58.79 64.00

 International Interest Rates nov-20 oct-20 sep-20 dec-19 nov-19

LIBOR
 1 month 0.14 0.15 0.15 1.75 1.73
 6 months 0.25 0.25 0.28 1.90 1.91

US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.17 0.15 0.14 1.61 1.62
 10 years 0.87 0.78 0.68 1.85 1.82

FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.75 1.75

SELIC (at 1 year) 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.68 5.00

(1) The data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to
the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 14 Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises currency in circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bi-monetary aggregate, comprises currency in the hands of the public, clearing checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2020 | BCRA | 15
