# Contents

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 8 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 9 | 5. Interest rates

Page 11 | 6. International reserves

Page 12 | 7. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 16 | Glossary of abbreviations and acronyms

The statistical closing of this report was November 9, 2020. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. At the same time, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and systems of values.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 1. Summary

In October, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a decrease of 1.6%, with declines in all of its components.

From the first week of the month, fixed-term deposits showed a decline that was verified in the segment of deposits exceeding $20 million, and was associated, on one hand, with the fact that part of those funds would have been channeled into auctions of Treasury Bonds linked to the dollar value and, on the other hand, with a restructuring of the portfolios of Money Market Mutual Funds (FCI), observing a transfer of funds from investments with early cancellation options to remunerated sight deposits.

Within the framework of the process of harmonizing interest rates of monetary policy instruments, the BCRA raised on several occasions the interest rate on one-day reverse repos, bringing it at the end of October to 31% n.a. (36.32% e.a.), while it reduced the LELIQ rate to 36% n.a. (42.64% e.a.). At the same time, effective October 16, it raised the minimum guaranteed interest rate for fixed-term deposits in pesos, which was set at 34% n.a. (39.84% e.a.) for deposits of individuals up to $1 million and at 32% n.a. (37.14% e.a.) for the rest of the private sector deposits.

In real terms and without seasonality, peso loans to the private sector would have remained at a similar level to that of September. With regard to commercial financing, the line for working capital to SMEs and Health Service Providers accumulated by the end of October disbursements totaling $537.559 million, more than doubling what was initially foreseen.

Likewise, the BCRA approved a new productive financing scheme, which will allow reducing and focusing credit assistance at negative real interest rates, in a context of gradual recovery of economic activity. The new financing lines for productive investment by SMEs are aimed at financing capital investment, with a maximum interest rate of 30% n.a. Working capital will also be financed at a maximum rate of 35% n.a. and, finally, there will be a credit line for non-SME clients that will reach Health Service Providers that provide hospitalization services within the framework of the COVID-19 emergency and other companies for the acquisition of machinery and equipment produced by SMEs. This line will also have a maximum rate of 35% n.a.

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 2. Monetary aggregates
In October, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private 1, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a decline of 1.6% 2, with falls in all its components. In this sense, the means of payment (M2 private) continued to make a negative contribution to the month's growth. For its part, time deposits also contributed to said decline, after several months of explaining almost entirely the expansion of M3 private (see Chart 2.1). Its average monthly balance, at current prices, remained at a level similar to that of September (-0.5%). This would imply a decline of 3.4% in real terms. Nevertheless, the year-on-year rate of change at constant prices stood at 35.6% in October, a historically high value (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | M3 Private. Real without seasonality (monthly variation and contribution by component to growth) | Chart 2.2 | Private sector time deposits. Real (average monthly balance)

[Graphic showing % variations with components: Fixed Term and Others (p.p.), Demand Deposits (p.p.), Currency in circulation (p.p.), M3 private (monthly variation)] | [Graphic showing % with Monthly variation and Year-on-year variation (right axis)]

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

After the first week of October, fixed-term placements showed a change in behavior, which was motivated by deposits of more than $20 million, a segment in which companies and Financial Services Providers operate, among which Money Market Funds (FCI) stand out (see Chart 2.3). This behavior was associated, on one hand, with Treasury Bond auctions linked to the dollar value 3 towards which part of these funds would have been channeled and, on the other hand, with a change in the portfolio composition of Money Market FCI that increased their remunerated demand deposits by unwinding their position in investments with early redemption option (see Chart 2.4), both instruments with similar returns (see Section "Interest Rates").

1 Includes currency in circulation and peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
2 Indec will publish October inflation data on November 12.
3 The National Treasury conducted two auctions in October of Treasury Bonds (BOTEs) linked to the dollar price (Com. "A"3500). Between both auctions it managed to place $266,000 million (US$3,406 million).
https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/resultados-de-la-licitacion-del-bono-del-tesoro-nacional-vinculado-al-dolar.

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 3

Chart 2.3 | Private sector time deposits (daily balance by amount stratum) | Chart 2.4 | Private sector time deposits. Real (variation of average monthly balance)

[Graphic showing thousands of millions $ with categories: Up to $20 million and More than $20 million, Total] | [Graphic showing thousands of millions $ with: Remunerated demand deposits Financial Services Providers, Remunerated demand deposits Companies, Investments with early redemption option, Traditional fixed term (right axis)]

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA
For its part, increases were observed in instruments that, together with deposits with guaranteed minimum rates, make it possible to obtain positive returns in relation to the evolution of inflation or the exchange rate, such as fixed-term deposits denominated in UVA and deposits at variable rates linked to the dollar quotation (DIVA). The former continued with the upward trend observed since mid-September, accumulating between September 30 and October 31, an increase of $2,880 million. This was explained by traditional placements, while deposits with early prepayment options remained relatively stable. For its part, DIVAs tied to the dollar registered significant growth starting in mid-October, reversing the downward trend observed since late August. Thus, the balance reached a maximum value of more than $8,000 million (see Chart 2.5).

Regarding means of payment, currency in circulation held by the public showed the first monthly decline without seasonality and in real terms of the last 12 months (-1.5%). Meanwhile, sight deposits registered a decline in real terms of 0.2%, lower than that observed in the last 2 months, due to the aforementioned behavior fundamentally of institutional investors. Consequently, private M2 in real terms and without seasonality, remained in negative territory (-0.6%; see Chart 2.6).

In the dollar segment, the balance of deposits from the private sector continued with the downward trend initiated in mid-September. Thus, they ended the month at US$14,661 million, decreasing US$1,488 million compared to the end of last month.

Finally, the Monetary Base, on average and at current prices, remained practically at the level of the previous month, registering a slight increase of 0.2% ($5,712 million). It should be noted that financing to the National Treasury was substantially reduced in October. In fact, Temporary Advances were prepaid for a total amount of $125,780 million and it was announced that, for the remainder of the year, no assistance from the Central Bank to the Treasury will be requested in the form of Temporary Advances.⁴

⁴ https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/gestion-de-la-politica-fiscal-en-el-ultimo-bimestre-de-2020

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 4

Chart 2.5 | Deposits at variable rate linked to the dollar | Chart 2.6 | Private M2 and its components - Real
(daily balance) | (variation of seasonally adjusted average monthly balance)

millions of $ | %
9,000 | 20
8,000 | M2 private
7,000 | 16 | Currency
Deposits from private sector sight
6,000 | 12
5,000 | 8
4,000 | 4
3,000 |
2,000 | 0
1,000 | -4
0 | -8
jun-20 jul-20 jul-20 jul-20 ago-20 ago-20 sep-20 sep-20 oct-20 oct-20 oct-18 ene-19 abr-19 jul-19 oct-19 ene-20 abr-20 jul-20 oct-20

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

## 3. Loans to the Private Sector

In nominal terms and without seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector registered in October a monthly increase of 3% (see Chart 3.1). Although all lines contributed positively to the month's expansion, credit cards and financings implemented through documents explained most of the increase (see Chart 3.2). In real terms, the balance of loans to the private sector would have remained at a similar level to September. In this way, credit in pesos accumulated since March a seasonally adjusted nominal growth of 31.9% (12.1% real) and 50.4% (9.6% real) compared to the same period of the previous year.

Chart 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector | Chart 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(without seasonality; variation of average monthly balance) | (without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

% | %
8 | 80 | 8%
7 | 70 | 7
6 | 60 | Documents | Personal | 6
5 | 50 | Advances | Credit Cards | 5
4 | 40 | Real Guarantee | Other Loans | 4
3 | 30 | 3
2 | 20 | 2
1 | 10 | 1
0 | 0 | 0
-1 | Monthly Var. | -10 | -1
-2 | Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) | -20 |
Commercial lines grew in the month 3.4% nominal without seasonality and with respect to the same month of the previous year they present a nominal growth of 10.2% (47.3% at constant prices). Within this type of financing, discounted documents remained as the line with the highest growth, exhibiting an average monthly increase of 1.8% s.a., followed by current account advances (1.3% s.a.). Meanwhile, single-signature documents continued moderating their growth rate, registering an increase of 0.6% s.a. in the month (see Chart 3.3).

With respect to commercial financing, the line for working capital for SMEs and Health Service Providers, as of the end of October, has granted loans for a total of $537,559 million, more than doubling what was initially planned. The destinations that continue showing greater dynamism are working capital (excluding salaries and bad check coverage) and deferred payment check coverage (see Chart 3.4). For its part, the MiPyME Plus line, aimed at companies without access to bank financing, accumulated, at the close of October, disbursements of $2,683 million, which reached 5,927 companies (more than 80% received FOGAR guarantees).

Chart 3.3 | Commercial loans in pesos to the private sector (daily balance by credit line)

Chart 3.4 | Financing for SMEs and health services at rates lower than 24% (amounts disbursed; accumulated to Oct-20)

Thousands of millions of $ | Thousands of millions of $

520 | Current account advances | 300 | Other working capital: 253.3
470 | Single-signature documents: 458.2
    | Discounted documents (right axis) | 250 | Deferred checks coverage: 182.7
420 | | 200 |
    | | | Salary payment: 69.3
370 | | 150 | 128.6
320 | | 100 | Other*: 23.1
270 | | | Health Service: 9.2
220 | | 50 |
    | | |
170 | 0 | 0 50 100 150 200 250 300
    | 01-mar 01-abr 01-may 01-jun 01-jul 01-ago 01-sep 01-oct | *To SMEs not included in lines with at least 50% working capital.

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

Additionally, the subsidized rate financing line included in the sixth tranche of the "Emergency Assistance Program for Labor and Production" (ATP) accumulated, at the end of October, disbursements of $4,238 million, reaching a total of 208,302 workers. The line was intended for the payment of salaries for companies with up to 800 employees, whose billing would have had a year-on-year increase of between 0 and 40% in August (at a single interest rate of 15% n.a.). Recently, the seventh round of the ATP was formalized, although with some changes that will allow concentrating efforts on the sectors that have been going through a critical situation due to the pandemic. Thus, it was determined that the credit will continue to be available for companies with fewer than 800 employees whose billing has shown year-on-year growth of between 0% and 35% in September and will be added to this benefit companies that provide non-critical activities whose year-on-year nominal billing has been negative, regardless of the number of employees. The interest rate for non-critical sectors with nominal contraction of billing will be 27% n.a., while for the rest it will be 33% n.a. The credit will continue to be convertible into a subsidy for those companies that maintained or increased the number of workers compared to the levels prior to the pandemic.
On the other hand, in a context of gradual recovery of economic activity, the BCRA approved a new productive financing scheme, which will allow reducing and targeting credit assistance at negative real interest rates. The new financing lines scheme for productive investment of SMEs contemplates a line intended for capital investment financing, which will be available for companies that acquire capital goods or for the construction of the necessary installations for production, with a maximum interest rate of 30% p.a. Similarly, a line was established intended for working capital financing that includes the discounting of post-dated checks and other business documents, whose maximum rate will be 35% p.a. Finally, a credit line was established for non-SME clients that reaches Health Service Providers that provide hospitalization services within the framework of the COVID-19 emergency and other companies for the acquisition of machinery and equipment produced by SMEs. This line will have a maximum interest rate of 35% p.a. The new financing scheme is directed at financial entities that belong to Group "A" and those that are financial agents of provincial governments. The former must reach a quota by March 2021 of 7.5% of deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos, while for those entities covered but that do not belong to Group A, the requirement is reduced to 25% of what is provided for that Group⁶.

Furthermore, the credit line included in the ATP was kept in effect for wage coverage of up to 120% of the Vital and Mobile Minimum Wage for each of the workers that make up the company's workforce. This line is only available for SMEs included in the list provided by AFIP and reaches exclusively the same entities included in the previously mentioned line.

For its part, consumer credit showed a recovery in recent months, in line with the recomposition of consumption. Financings arranged with credit cards showed a nominal expansion of 5.3% s.a. in the month (equivalent to a real increase of 2.3%), explained in part by the reopenings of commerce as sanitary restrictions are being flexibilized in various parts of the country (see Graph 3.5). For its part, personal loans grew, in nominal terms, 2.3% s.a. in the month, registering the largest increase in the last 2 years. Nevertheless, in real terms the monthly variation would still be in negative territory (-0.7% s.a.; see graph 3.6).

Graph 3.5 | Credit cards in pesos without seasonality | Graph 3.6 | Personal loans in pesos without seasonality

[Charts showing monthly variation and year-over-year variation from October 2017 to October 2020]

Source: BCRA

Regarding lines with real guarantees, pawn loans exhibited in October a monthly increase of 6.3% in nominal terms and without seasonality, completing 5 consecutive months of positive variation (see graph 3.7). In real terms, the expansion would have been 3.2%, moderating its year-over-year decline to 18.9%. The great dynamism that pawn loans continue to show is associated with the recovery of sales in the automotive market, which was reflected in registration levels (+6.1% in October). On the other hand, mortgage financings maintained zero growth, both in monthly and year-over-year terms.

⁶ Communication "A" 7140.

Graph 3.7 | Pawn loans in pesos without seasonality

[Chart showing variation from October 2017 to October 2020]
-2 Monthly Var. -20
 Year-on-year Var. (right axis)
 -4 -40

 -6 -60
 Oct-17 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20 Oct-20
 Source: BCRA

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector continued to decline. The monthly fall was 5.2% (US$319 million), accumulating a contraction of 54.1% compared to the same month of the previous year.

4. Liquidity of financial entities

In October, broad banking liquidity in local currency 7 registered a slight decline, standing at an average of 62.3% of deposits. In this way, it continues at historically elevated levels (see chart 4.1).
This month a series of measures began to take effect that impacted the composition of liquidity, with an increase in the stock of reverse repurchase agreements and a decrease in LELIQ. On one hand, the progressive increase in interest rates for one-day reverse repurchase agreements and the possibility of conducting reverse repurchase agreements for a 7-day term had an impact, while the interest rate on LELIQ was reduced (see "Interest rates" section). On the other hand, the BCRA continued to manage the stock of LELIQ in order to reduce sterilization costs. Thus, it arranged, from early October, a reduction of 20 p.p. in the net surplus position in LELIQ of financial entities with respect to that recorded in September 8. In this way, liquidity was directed toward reverse repurchase agreements for the BCRA, whose participation in terms of deposits rose to 14.9%, increasing around 2.4 p.p. compared to September. LELIQ used for minimum cash integration also gained participation (0.6 p.p.). This occurred to the detriment of excess LELIQ and current accounts at the BCRA, which reduced their participation by 3.8 p.p. and 0.6 p.p, respectively. Finally, cash in banks remained around the level of recent months.

There were also some modifications to the minimum cash regime, linked mostly to allowed deductions. First, there was an increase from 35% to 50% in the deduction on the minimum cash requirement for new financing corresponding to the "Ahora 12" Program 9. Second, it was established that financing disbursed as of October 9 may not be computed as a minimum cash waiver in case they have been granted to sectors of economic activity that would not have been considered eligible for any of the ATP benefits and/or, after March 19, have imported final consumer goods, except in the case of medical products and/or supplies 10. In turn, financial entities belonging to Group "A" or those that are financial agents of provincial governments will be able to deduct, as of November, financing granted for salary payments under the ATP framework 11. Meanwhile, financing to SMEs at the maximum rate of 24% granted as of October 16 may not be charged as deductions.

Finally, it is worth noting that when establishing the calculation of the net surplus position in LELIQ, financing granted within the framework of the "Financing Line for productive investment of SMEs" 12 will be considered.

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities
Net Repos Leliq - Remaining Leliq - Reserve Cash in Banks % of CC BCRA $ Requirement Deposits Effective Cash in Banks USD CC BCRA USD Liquidity USD
 % of Deposits NOCOM Liquidity 80 76.4 77.8
 71.6 74.3
 70 64.8 64.5 65.1 64.9 70.0 69.9
 62.2 64.0 63.9 63.9 63.6 62.3 70 67.7
 3.7 3.7 3.8 3.6 63.4 65.2
 59.3 57.2 58.8 3.8 3.5 4.4 4.0 3.4 3.5 61.5
 60 3.5 3.7 3.5 3.4 3.6 3.6 4.0 3.8 57.9
 3.7 3.6 4.0 3.6 3.7 60 56.2
 4.2 3.9 54.0
 50 4.3 12.6 12.6 12.0 11.3 10.7
 15.6 19.1 18.9 19.4 16.2 50
 14.7 56.9 61.2
 40 20.5 8.0 8.6 9.1 9.7 50.2 55.0 53.9 65.9
 20.6 10.3 40 43.6 49.8 56.3
 5.7 5.6 5.9 6.1 37.2 40.4 48.4
 5.5 38.3
 30 11.3 30
 6.4 6.2
 21.0 25.0 23.5 24.1 22.9 19.1
 21.9
 20 22.9 20
 16.4 31.8 32.2
 22.3 20.0
 10 10 15.7 19.0 17.5 17.9 15.4 17.4 17.6 17.5
 11.6 13.1 11.7 13.0 12.1 12.5 14.9 14.9 13.6 14.9 15.2 11.9
 7.7 8.2
 0 3.1 2.4 0
 Oct-19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Jan-20 Feb-20 Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20 Jun-20 Jul-20 Aug-20 Sep-20 Oct-20 Oct-19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Jan-20 Feb-20 Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20 Jun-20 Jul-20 Aug-20 Sep-20 Oct-20
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

For its part, bank liquidity in foreign currency continued to increase and in October averaged 77.8% of deposits, 1.4 percentage points more than in September. The increase in liquidity was concentrated in current accounts at the BCRA, while cash in banks, in terms of deposits, once again registered a decline (see chart 4.2).

5. Interest Rates 13

The BCRA is carrying out a process of progressive harmonization of interest rates on monetary policy instruments, which seeks, on the one hand, to increase the attractiveness of short-term financial instruments in local currency, and on the other hand, to gradually align the interest rates of instruments issued by the Treasury with the rates of sterilization instruments of the BCRA 14.

In this context, the BCRA decided to raise the interest rate on which it remunerated 1-day reverse repos on four occasions throughout October, accumulating an increase of 12 percentage points during the month. The first increase took place at the beginning of the month and was 5 percentage points, bringing the rate to 24% (27.1% annualized). Subsequently, on October 8th and 16th, increases of 3 percentage points were made on each occasion, and on October 29th another increase of 1 percentage point was made, with which the 1-day reverse repo rate stood at the close of October at 31% nominal annual (36.3% annualized). In turn, from mid-month the BCRA began to offer 7-day reverse repos at an interest rate of 33.0% nominal annual (39.0% annualized), raising it 1.5 percentage points towards the end of the month to 34.5% nominal annual (41% annualized). Complementarily, on October 8th and 16th, the BCRA decided to reduce the LELIQ rate, which had remained unchanged since early March, by 1 percentage point each time. Thus this interest rate went from 38% nominal annual (45.44% annualized) to 36% nominal annual (42.63% annualized) in mid-October.
In line with the increase in the passive repo rate, the BCRA raised, as of October 16, the minimum guaranteed interest rate on fixed-term deposits in pesos15. Thus, the rate corresponding to deposits from individuals for an amount of up to $1 million was increased to 34% (39.84% e.a.), while that for the rest of private sector deposits was raised to 32% (37.14% e.a.). Interest rates in the interbank market accompanied the increase in the passive repo rate (the 1-day Call rate averaged 23.5% and the repo rate between third parties 27.8%, registering increases of 8.2 p.p. and 9.1 p.p., respectively), as did the rate corresponding to remunerated sight deposits. In particular, the interest rate paid to Financial Services Providers for their sight deposits ended the month at 25.6%, slightly below the return obtained from investments with early termination option (see Graph 5.1)

Graph 5.1 | Interest rates of Monetary Policy instruments, passive and interbank rates | Graph 5.2 | Active interest rates

TNA; % LELIQ TNA; %
80 BCRA Passive Repos 1 day 90 Discounted Documents
PF of Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) Personal Loans
70 Remunerated Sight Deposits 80 Documents at Sole Signature
Investment with early termination option - 5d moving average Total Advances
TM20 Private Banks
60 CALL 1 day 70
Repos between third parties 1 day
50
60
40
50
30

20 40

10 30

0 20
Oct-19 Dec-19 Feb-20 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20 Oct-19 Dec-19 Feb-20 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20
Source BCRA Source: BCRA

Active interest rates applied to commercial credits increased throughout the month (see Graph 5.2). The rate corresponding to document discounting reversed the downward trend that had been observed since August and ended the month at 32%, with an increase of 10 p.p. in relation to the end of September. For its part, the interest rate charged for documents at sole signature stood, on average, at 32.2%, increasing 3 p.p. with respect to the previous month. Finally, the rate applied to advances, which had been showing a downward trend since May, ended the month at 35.5%, registering an increase of 5 p.p. with respect to the end of September. In contrast, the interest rate on personal loans averaged 50.5%, 1.1 p.p. less than the previous month.

15 Communication "A" 7139.

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 10

## 6. International Reserves

The balance of international reserves of the Central Bank stood at US$39,856 million at the end of October, which implied a decline of US$1,522 million with respect to the close of the previous month (see Graph 6.1). This decrease was explained, fundamentally, by net sales of foreign currency to the private sector (US$1,090 million) and by the decrease in foreign currency current accounts of financial entities at the BCRA that banks used in part to return deposits (US$491 million).

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.8% between the end of September and the end of October, closing the month at 78.3. The multilateral real exchange rate, for its part, experienced a slight appreciation to close the month at a value of 118, partially reversing the increase observed since mid-May. In this way, the MRERT continues to be positioned at a competitive level, with values similar to those at the beginning of the year (see Graph 6.2).

Graph 6.1 | International Reserves (daily data) | Graph 6.2 | Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index

17-Dec-15=100
thousands of 170
millions of US$ 
90 160

80 150

140
70
130
60 120
118.0
50 110

40 100

30 90

20 80

10 70

0 60
Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09 Jan-11 Jan-13 Jan-15 Jan-17 Jan-19 Aug-07 Dec-08 Apr-10 Aug-11 Dec-12 Apr-14 Aug-15 Dec-16 Apr-18 Aug-19

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA based on data from INDEC, DPECSL, DEGCBA and Datastream

F
# Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 117. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations
Main monetary variables and financial system | average
oct-20 | sep-20 | aug-20 | oct-19 | Monthly | Last 12 months
Monetary base | 2,318,890 | 2,313,178 | 2,329,228 | 1,386,354 | 0.2% | 67.3%
Monetary circulation | 1,691,993 | 1,673,118 | 1,667,700 | 935,161 | 1.1% | 80.9%
Banknotes and Coins in public hands | 1,487,121 | 1,481,061 | 1,467,039 | 821,233 | 0.4% | 81.1%
Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 204,872 | 192,057 | 200,661 | 113,928 | 6.7% | 79.8%
Cancellatory Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.3 | 0.0% | 0.0%
Current account at the BCRA | 626,898 | 640,059 | 661,528 | 451,193 | -2.1% | 38.9%

Stock of BCRA Repos
Liabilities | 871,990 | 710,509 | 664,164 | 185,696 | 22.7% | 369.6%
Assets | 0 | 3 | 0 | 0 | -99.7% | 0.0%

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) | 1,719,976 | 1,855,325 | 1,829,682 | 1,031,696 | -7.3% | 66.7%

BCRA International Reserves | 40,739 | 42,350 | 43,152 | 46,674 | -3.8% | -12.7%

Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) | 5,714,280 | 5,588,237 | 5,436,965 | 3,006,231 | 2.3% | 90.1%
Deposits of private sector | 4,580,130 | 4,524,641 | 4,434,213 | 2,395,716 | 1.2% | 91.2%
Current account (2) | 1,129,664 | 1,082,909 | 1,062,144 | 580,219 | 4.3% | 94.7%
Savings account | 1,188,183 | 1,172,434 | 1,223,861 | 579,784 | 1.3% | 104.9%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER / UVA | 2,125,211 | 2,139,970 | 2,015,991 | 1,147,687 | -0.7% | 85.2%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER / UVA | 37,547 | 34,599 | 35,273 | 14,341 | 8.5% | 161.8%
Other deposits (3) | 99,525 | 94,730 | 96,943 | 73,685 | 5.1% | 35.1%

Deposits of public sector | 1,134,150 | 1,063,596 | 1,002,753 | 610,515 | 6.6% | 85.8%
Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) | 17,631 | 19,411 | 19,504 | 23,033 | -9.2% | -23.5%

Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) | 2,568,080 | 2,469,048 | 2,404,269 | 1,709,879 | 4.0% | 50.2%

Loans to private sector | 2,526,346 | 2,434,024 | 2,367,277 | 1,678,898 | 3.8% | 50.5%
Advances | 277,579 | 272,500 | 267,301 | 215,256 | 1.9% | 29.0%
Documents | 618,641 | 590,182 | 567,059 | 259,185 | 4.8% | 138.7%
Mortgage loans | 212,095 | 212,019 | 211,647 | 213,591 | 0.0% | -0.7%
Pledge loans | 92,683 | 87,140 | 82,023 | 83,190 | 6.4% | 11.4%
Personal loans | 421,686 | 411,146 | 403,726 | 405,856 | 2.6% | 3.9%
Credit cards | 742,770 | 699,915 | 680,365 | 450,834 | 6.1% | 64.8%
Others | 160,891 | 161,124 | 155,157 | 50,985 | -0.1% | 215.6%

Loans to public sector | 41,734 | 35,024 | 36,991 | 30,982 | 19.2% | 34.7%
Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) | 5,913 | 6,234 | 6,568 | 12,712 | -5.2% | -53.5%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 2,998,213 | 2,925,360 | 2,884,562 | 1,615,154 | 2.5% | 85.6%
M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 4,237,048 | 4,135,614 | 4,151,216 | 2,238,035 | 2.5% | 89.3%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 7,201,401 | 7,069,298 | 6,904,005 | 3,827,465 | 1.9% | 88.2%
M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 8,570,971 | 8,531,130 | 8,335,144 | 5,177,527 | 0.5% | 65.5%

Private monetary aggregates
M1 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) | 2,616,785 | 2,563,970 | 2,529,184 | 1,401,452 | 2.1% | 86.7%
M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 3,804,968 | 3,736,403 | 3,753,046 | 1,981,236 | 1.8% | 92.1%
M3 (Banknotes and Coins in public hands + cancellatory checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 6,067,251 | 6,005,702 | 5,901,252 | 3,216,949 | 1.0% | 88.6%
M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellatory checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 7,257,675 | 7,294,478 | 7,164,710 | 4,425,664 | -0.5% | 64.0%

Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 12 Average Variations
Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2020 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)
Monetary base 5.712 0.2% 15.331 0.7% 584.817 33.7% 932.536 67.3%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -93.770 -4.1% -280.564 -12.2% -268.404 -15.5% -241.848 -17.4%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -26.840 -1.2% -73.306 -3.2% -94.829 -5.5% -119.475 -8.6%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 130.851 5.7% 357.018 15.5% 1.842.083 106.2% 2.068.535 149.2%
Other public sector operations -43.216 -1.9% 5.273 0.2% -63.804 -3.7% -97.105 -7.0%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) 40.923 1.8% 12.963 0.6% -825.926 -47.6% -671.276 -48.4%
Others -2.236 -0.1% -6.053 -0.3% -4.302 -0.2% -6.295 -0.5%

BCRA International Reserves -1.611 -3.8% -2.573 -5.9% -3.613 -8.1% -5.935 -12.7%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market -1.228 -2.9% -3.764 -8.7% -3.454 -7.8% -3.032 -6.5%
 Payment to international organizations -306 -0.7% -824 -1.9% -1.996 -4.5% -2.721 -5.8%
 Other public sector operations -50 -0.1% -310 -0.7% 533 1.2% -2.286 -4.9%
 Minimum cash -230 -0.5% 1.291 3.0% 3.324 7.5% 2.890 6.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 204 0.5% 1.033 2.4% -2.020 -4.6% -786 -1.7%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

 Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 oct-20 sep-20 aug-20

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 24.7 24.5 24.7
 Integration in current accounts 10.7 11.3 12.0
 LELIQ integration 14.3 14.6 14.6
 BOTE integration 3.7 3.8 4.0
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 75.6 75.6 75.6
 30 to 59 days 17.6 17.6 17.6
 60 to 89 days 3.8 3.8 3.8
 90 to 179 days 2.6 2.6 2.6
 more than 180 days 0.5 0.5 0.5

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in resource application) 11.8 15.2 17.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 62.5 62.5 62.5
 30 to 59 days 18.6 18.6 18.6
 60 to 89 days 8.3 8.3 8.3
 90 to 179 days 8.2 8.2 8.2
 180 to 365 days 2.4 2.4 2.4
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

 (1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
 * The data are provisional.
 Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 13 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19

 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 27.57 19.00 19.00 53.70 61.37

 Repo rates among third parties REPO round
 1 day 27.80 18.70 17.61 42.02 60.40

 Amount traded in repos among third parties REPO round (daily average) 7.297 7.689 6.602 3.792 8.111

 LELIQ Rate 36.90 38.00 38.00 61.37 70.14

 Foreign Exchange Market oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 77.58 75.20 73.29 59.87 58.54
 Retail 79.95 76.94 75.01 60.53 59.24

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 84.67 80.43 77.22 64.26 64.42
 ROFEX 1 month 80.90 77.53 75.48 63.75 63.23
 Amount traded (all terms, millions of pesos) 59.146 54.208 47.327 15.870 21.070

 Real (Pesos x Real) 13.80 13.94 13.42 14.57 14.34
 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 91.29 88.65 86.70 66.51 64.74

 Capital Market oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19

 MERVAL
 Index 46.908 43.478 48.758 37.141 32.062

 Government Bonds (at par)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 37.6 42.9 - - -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 38.7 43.0 - - -
 BONCER 2026 74.5 83.2 - - -
 Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1.409 1.533 2.119 2.073 2.108
 EMBI+ Latin America 481 473 479 431 556

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions for each month.

 Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 14 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19
Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 23.60 15.36 15.80 50.09 60.94
 Amount operated 13,429 10,258 7,843 7,385 9,243
 Fixed-Term Deposits
 In pesos
 30-44 days 30.09 29.30 29.25 40.89 54.09
 60 days or more 30.36 29.88 29.54 41.26 53.87
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 29.25 28.24 28.13 41.82 55.01
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 30.28 29.29 29.12 42.70 56.05
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 29.53 28.53 28.48 41.10 54.35
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 30.68 29.73 29.68 41.75 54.88

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.45 0.52 0.60 1.56 1.88
 60 days or more 0.62 0.75 0.85 2.34 2.45
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.54 0.61 0.70 1.89 2.14
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.51 0.68 0.63 1.42 2.18

 Active Interest Rates oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 31.16 25.99 24.47 41.10 57.79
 Amount operated (total terms) 112,449 50,130 46,615 18,780 12,761
 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Overdrafts in current account 33.41 30.46 32.01 66.44 77.64
 Single-signature documents 32.16 29.06 29.59 56.99 67.70
 Mortgage loans 31.65 27.96 30.03 47.51 53.16
 Secured loans 26.46 25.78 24.85 30.54 30.67
 Personal loans 50.54 51.59 51.11 71.63 75.61
 Credit card rates 41.72 41.31 42.20 81.77 78.03

 Overdrafts in current account -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million 27.34 20.69 21.22 58.79 71.01

 International Interest Rates oct-20 sep-20 aug-20 dec-19 oct-19

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.15 0.15 0.16 1.75 1.88
 6 months 0.25 0.28 0.31 1.90 1.96

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.15 0.14 0.14 1.61 1.55
 10 years 0.78 0.68 0.64 1.85 1.70

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.75 1.98
 SELIC (at 1 year) 2.00 2.00 2.03 4.68 5.45

 (1) The data through June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the
 daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 15 Glossary of abbreviations and acronyms

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Investment Fund (Mutual Fund).
y.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, check cancellations in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, check cancellations in pesos and all deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation, check cancellations and all deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.a.: seasonally adjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and terms of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.
# Monthly Monetary Report | October 2020 | BCRA | 16

---

**Note:** This appears to be a header or page indicator from a Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) Monthly Monetary Report from October 2020, page 16. If you have the full text content you'd like me to translate, please provide it and I will translate it completely while maintaining fidelity to the original Spanish.
