# CONTENTS

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 7 | 4. Interest rates

Page 8 | 5. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 9 | 6. International reserves

Page 10 | 7. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 14 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was on June 7, 2021. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of a language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have produced this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 1

## 1. Summary

The broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) at constant prices continued to decrease. In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), it would have registered a decline of 0.6% in May. Within it, the fall was explained by the behavior of time deposits which, for the first time in the year, contributed negatively to the variation of M3 private.

The behavior of means of payment was influenced by the extraordinary subsidy granted by the National Government of $15,000 per family to the most vulnerable social sectors of the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (AMBA). On one hand, it led to sight deposits reducing the rate of decline at constant prices in the month and, on the other hand, the more intensive use of cash by these agents explained the growth in demand for currency in circulation.

Time deposits in pesos from the private sector moderated their growth throughout the month. In real terms, they presented a slight monthly decline (0.9%), although they register an annual expansion of 19%. The lower dynamism shown by these placements was explained by the behavior of the wholesale segment (more than $20 million).

Within time deposits, those arranged in UVA continued growing at elevated rates and reached an average monthly balance of $141,200 million. In this way, by May the balance of these instruments more than doubled the December record and meant 20.6% more than in April (16.3% real).

The BCRA kept the minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits and those of monetary policy unchanged, in line with the importance of accompanying the normalization process of economic activity. It is worth noting the existence of savings alternatives with inflation coverage such as UVA deposits, which, as mentioned, have been showing significant growth.

Loans in pesos to the private sector would have registered a contraction of 2.6% at constant prices and without seasonality. The slowdown in credit observed during recent months is due, almost entirely, to the evolution of commercial lines and was concentrated in the large business segment.

The Productive Investment Financing Line continued to be the main vehicle used to channel commercial credit to MSMEs. At the end of May, loans granted under the LFIP totaled approximately $587,000 million. As for the destinations of these funds, approximately 83% of the total disbursed corresponds to the financing of working capital and the rest to the line that finances investment projects.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Monetary Aggregates
# Translation to English

The broad monetary aggregate (M3 private)¹ at constant prices continued to decline. In real terms² and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), it would have registered a decrease of 0.6% in May. Within the same, the fall was explained by the behavior of fixed-term deposits which, for the first time in the year, had a negative contribution. The contribution of sight deposits and cash in the hands of the public was practically null, after recording negative contributions since mid-last year (see Graph 2.1).

When analyzing the daily evolution of means of payment, it can be verified that they presented somewhat atypical behavior, influenced by the extraordinary subsidy granted by the National Government. This transfer of funds was for an amount of $15,000 per family and reached almost 1 million households in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (AMBA) that saw their circulation restricted within the framework of health care measures adopted by the National Government due to the increase in daily COVID contagion (see Graph 2.2).

Graph 2.1 | M3 Private. Real without seasonality | Graph 2.2 | M2 Private
(monthly variation and contribution by component to growth) | (index at constant prices)

%, p.p. billions of $ as of May 31, 2021
Fixed-term deposits and others (p.p.) | thousands of millions
Sight deposits (p.p.) | 4,800
Cash in the hands of the public (p.p.) |
M3 private (monthly variation) | 4,600

4,400

4,200

4,000

3,800
May-19 Sep-19 Jan-20 May-20 Sep-20 Jan-21 May-21 | Apr-30 May-6 May-12 May-18 May-24 May-30

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

Specifically, sight deposits reflected the impulse from public sector transfers to savings account deposits of lower amount strata of natural persons (see Graph 2.3). This effect was strengthened by the growth of remunerated sight deposits, which was linked to a change in portfolio composition of Investment Common Funds (FCI) of Money Market (FCI MM) in favor of more liquid assets. In any case, the total of sight deposits slowed its rate of decline and registered a decrease of 0.2% s.e. in real terms (compared to an average monthly variation rate of -1.5% in the first four months of the year).

The transfer of resources to the most vulnerable sectors led to greater demand for cash in the hands of the public, given that this group of agents are intensive cash demanders. According to data from the latest National Household Spending Survey (ENGHo 2018), the first income decile carries out practically 90% of its spending with cash payment (see Graph 2.4). In any case, cash in the hands of the public at constant prices remained stable (+0.2% s.e. at constant prices), interrupting the downward trend observed since mid-last year and demonstrating dynamics different from the usual intra-monthly seasonality.

¹ Includes cash in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
² INDEC will release the May inflation data on June 16.

Graph 2.3 | Savings Account Deposits of Natural Persons | Graph 2.4 | Use of Means of Payment by Income Decile
(daily balance at constant prices by amount strata) |

billions of | Up to $50 thousand | Between $50 and $100 thousand | % Cash, Effective | Debit card | Credit card | Other
thousands | Between $100 and $250 thousand | Between $250 and $500 thousand |
300 | Between $500 and $750 thousand | Between $750 thousand and 1 million | 100
 | | | 90
250 | | | 80
 | | | 70
200 | | | 60
 | | | 50
150 | | | 40
 | | | 30
100 | | | 20
 | | | 10
50 | | |

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 3
# 3. Loans to the private sector

Time-fixed deposits in pesos from the private sector moderated their growth throughout the month. In real terms they presented a slight monthly decline (0.9%), although in the year-on-year comparison they registered a growth rate of 19%. The lower dynamism shown by these placements was explained by the behavior of the wholesale segment (more than $20 million). The portfolio shift from Money Market Funds (FCI MM) in favor of remunerated sight deposits, in a context of relative stability of their assets, implied a decrease in holdings of time instruments (see Chart 2.5). Deposits of between $1 and $20 million maintained the growing trend at constant prices throughout the month, while placements of up to $1 million remained relatively stable.

Within time placements, the segment adjustable by CER continued to stand out. In May, deposits in UVA continued growing at a good pace, reaching an average monthly balance of $141,200 million, with monthly growth of 20.6% (16.3% real) and more than doubling the December record. Despite the marked dynamism they presented in recent months, their relative participation in the total continues to be relatively limited. In fact, at the end of May they only represented slightly more than 5% of time deposits from the private sector in pesos (see Chart 2.6).

Chart 2.3 | Time deposits of the private sector | Chart 2.4 | Participation of UVA in total fixed-term
(daily balance at constant prices by amount stratum)

Billions of $ as of 31-May | Less than $1 million | %
1,350 | From $1 million to $20 million | 6
1,250 | More than $20 million | 5.23
1,150 | | 5
1,050 | | 4
950 | | 3
850 | | 2
750 | | 1
650 | | 0
01-Jul | 01-Oct | 01-Jan | 01-Apr | Jan-20 | May-20 | Sep-20 | Jan-21 | May-21
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of private sector deposits was placed, on average, at US$16,084 million, a figure practically identical to that of April.

Finally, in May the Monetary Base was placed at $2,527 billion, remaining at a level similar to the previous month (+$11.4 billion with respect to April). The monetary expansion was linked mainly to net purchases of foreign currency by the BCRA from the private sector and, to a lesser extent, to transfers of profits to the National Treasury (see Chart 2.5). Said liquidity expansion was sterilized mainly through monetary regulation instruments (Reverse Repurchase Agreements and LELIQ). In this way, in year-on-year terms and at constant prices the Monetary Base continued to contract, registering a decrease that would reach 24.4% (see Chart 2.6).

Chart 2.5 | Monetary Base and Variation Factors | Chart 2.6 | Year-on-year Variation of the Monetary Base
(variation of monthly averages) | at constant prices)

Billion $ thousands | %
500 | External Sector | 30
400 | Reverse Repos and LELIQ | 25
| Temporary Advances and Profit Transfers | 20
300 | Rest | 15
| Monetary Base | 10
200 | | 5
100 | | 0
0 | | -5
-100 | | -10
-200 | | -15
-300 | | -20
-400 | | -25
Jan-21 | Feb-21 | Mar-21 | Apr-21 | May-21 | Dec-19 | Feb-20 | Apr-20 | Jun-20 | Aug-20 | Oct-20 | Dec-20 | Feb-21 | Apr-21
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA
# In May, loans in pesos to the private sector would have registered a contraction of 2.6%, considering values in real terms and without seasonality. In this way, in year-over-year terms they registered a contraction of 9.7% at constant prices, which was influenced by both the decline in the month, as well as the high comparison base from the previous May (see Chart 3.1). The slowdown in credit observed during recent months is due, almost entirely, to the evolution of commercial lines and, in particular, those destined for large companies. It should be noted that this dynamics of loans occurred in a context of economic activity recovery (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Chart 3.2 | Commercial in Pesos to the Private Sector and EMAE
(real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

%; p.p. var. % y-o-y var. % y-o-y
8 50 75

6 40 60

4 30 45

2 20 30
11.4
10 15
0
0 0
-2
-10 -15
-4 -15.9
Personal Documents -20 -30
-6 Credit Card Advances
Other Pledged Assets -30 Economic Activity (EMAE) -45
-8 Total (monthly var.) -40 Commercial loans in pesos at constant prices (right axis) -60

May-19 Aug-19 Nov-19 Feb-20 May-20 Aug-20 Nov-20 Feb-21 May-21 Mar-09 Mar-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Mar-17 Mar-19 Mar-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 5

Commercial purpose lines registered, as a whole, a monthly contraction of 4.4% real without seasonality. Within these financings, overdrafts and single-signature documents registered declines at constant prices of 7.1% and 6.4% s.e., respectively. Meanwhile, discounted documents presented an average monthly increase at constant prices of 3.8% s.e., driven largely by the Line of Financing for Productive Investment (LFIP) to SMEs. When analyzing the composition of commercial credit by type of debtor, we observe that financing to SMEs maintained a positive year-over-year expansion rate in real terms during May, although with a moderation due primarily to the comparison base effect. This contrasts with the contraction in credit shown by large companies, which stands at around 34.5% y-o-y (see Chart 3.3).

At the end of May, loans granted within the framework of the LFIP totaled approximately $587,000 million. As for the destinations of these funds, approximately 83% of the total disbursed corresponds to the financing of working capital and the rest to the line that finances investment projects (see Chart 3.4). At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 131,300.

With the purpose of continuing to assist the sectors that have suffered a decline in their activities in the framework of the pandemic, at the end of May the deferral of unpaid installments was established for beneficiaries of the Productive Recovery Program II.3 Thus, financial entities must incorporate at the end of the credit's life the unpaid installments of credit assistance corresponding to terms that operate from May 17 (with the exception of credit card financings) granted to clients who are employers included in this program, considering only the accrual of compensatory interest at the rate provided for contractually.4

Chart 3.3 | Commercial Credit at constant prices Chart 3.4 | Financings Productive Investment Line
(30-day moving average) (accumulated disbursed amounts; month-end data)

thousands of
var. % y-o-y millions of $
100 700

80 600

SMEs Total
60 Other Legal Entities 500 Investment projects (30% n.a. rate)

40
400
20
8.1 300
0

-20 200

-34.5
-40 100

-60 0
01-Apr-18 01-Oct-18 01-Apr-19 01-Oct-19 01-Apr-20 01-Oct-20 01-Apr-21 30-Nov-20 31-Dec-20 31-Jan-21 28-Feb-21 31-Mar-21 30-Apr-21 31-May-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
Among loans associated with consumption, credit card financing would have registered a monthly decline of 0.9% s.e. in real terms, accumulating a growth of 12.5% over the last twelve months (see Chart 3.5). For its part, personal loans would have contracted 0.5% at constant prices in the month.

3 Resolution No. 938/2020 of the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security and its amendments and supplements – "REPRO II".
4 See Communication "A" 7285.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 6

With regard to lines with real guarantees, pledged loans would have presented a monthly increase of 2.6% in real terms and without seasonality, accumulating 11 consecutive months of positive variation. In year-over-year terms, the expansion rate would be placed at 22.3% at constant prices (see Chart 3.6). Meanwhile, the balance of mortgage loans registered a decline of 2.1% real without seasonality and was placed 28.7% below the record for the same month of the previous year.

Chart 3.5 | Credit Cards without Seasonality
(var. at constant prices)

%
8 80
6 Monthly Var. 60
4 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 40
2 20
0 0
-2 -20
-4 -40
-6 -60
-8 -80
-10 -100
may-18 nov-18 may-19 nov-19 may-20 nov-20 may-21

Source: BCRA

Chart 3.6 | Pledged without Seasonality and Vehicle Registrations
(var. at constant prices)

%
6 80
4 Monthly Var. 60
2 Year-over-year Var. (right axis) 40
0 20
-2 0
-4 -20
-6 -40
-8 -60
-10 -80
-100
may-18 nov-18 may-19 nov-19 may-20 nov-20 may-21

Source: BCRA

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector exhibited an average monthly expansion of 3.1% (US$ 168 million), which was due almost entirely to greater disbursements through documents on signature alone. Nevertheless, it accumulated a contraction of 31.3% compared to May of last year.

4. Interest Rates 5

The BCRA kept the minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits and monetary policy rates unchanged, in line with the importance of supporting the normalization process of economic activity (see Chart 4.1). This was made possible thanks to the existence of peso savings instruments with inflation and exchange rate coverage. Instruments adjustable by CER, as mentioned in the Monetary Aggregates Section, have been showing significant growth, given the positive differential between the return on a UVA deposit compared to one in pesos.

Active interest rates presented little significant variations in the month (see Chart 4.2). First, those corresponding to financing implemented through documents continued reflecting the impact of credits granted under the LFIP, which contemplates a maximum interest rate of 30% for capital investment financing and 35% for working capital. In this way, the interest rate on discounted documents stood, on average, at 31.7% and the one corresponding to documents on signature alone averaged 35.6%. Finally, the one on current account advances increased toward the end of the month, although on average it remained at 41.7%. Meanwhile, the interest rate charged for personal loans declined from mid-month onwards and stood, on average, at 54.6%, 0.8 p.p. below the April value.

5 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 7

Chart 4.1 | Interest Rates of Policy Instruments,
Passive and Interbank

TEA in % | PF Fixed Term Deposits for Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) | TNA; %
90 | 80
80 | 1-day Call
70 | 1-day Repurchase Agreements between Third Parties
   | BCRA 1-day Passive Repurchase Agreements
   | BCRA 7-day Passive Repurchase Agreements
70 | LELIQ
   | TM20 Private Banks
   | BADLAR Private Banks
60 | 60
50 | 50
40 | 40
30 | 30
20 | 20
10 | 10

Chart 4.2 | Interest Rates on Loans to the Private Sector

TNA; % | 80
Discounted Documents | 70
Personal Loans | 60
Documents on Signature Alone | 50
Total Current Account Advances | 40
               | 30
0 20
may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20 jan-21 mar-21 may-21 mar-20 may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20 jan-21 mar-21 may-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

## 5. Liquidity of Financial Entities

Broad banking liquidity in local currency 6 continued to be positioned at historically elevated levels. During May it experienced an increase of 0.8 p.p. when averaging 64.9% of deposits. In terms of its components, a decline was recorded in current accounts at the BCRA as a consequence of new deductions of minimum cash 7, having as a counterpart an increase in the balance of reverse repurchase agreements. For its part, it is worth mentioning that cash in banks continued its declining trend by representing on average 2.9% of deposits (see Graph 5.1).

It is worth noting that in order to generate mechanisms that promote the development of the capital market, as of June the BCRA will allow financial entities to integrate the percentage of reserve requirements that can be satisfied with LELIQ in national public securities in pesos (those linked to the dollar exchange rate are excluded) with a minimum duration of 180 days 8. In this way, and due to its voluntary nature, it will be up to the financial entities' portfolio decisions whether or not to make use of this option to diversify their asset portfolio. At the same time and in order to guarantee liquidity at all times, a specific mechanism was established by which banks, if required, will be able to sell to the BCRA the bonds they have purchased to satisfy reserve requirements 9.

Banking liquidity in foreign currency experienced a slight decline in May and averaged 74.6% of deposits, also remaining at historically elevated levels. This reduction in liquidity during the month of May is explained by the decline of 3.5 p.p. in current accounts at the BCRA, which represented 54% of deposits. This contraction was partially offset by an increase in cash in banks, whose contribution increased by 1.3 p.p. (see Graph 5.2).

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and bonds eligible to satisfy reserve requirements.
7 Communication "A" 7254
8 See Communication "A" 7290.
9 See Communication "A" 7291.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 8 Graph 5.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities Graph 5.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

## 6. International Reserves

In May, the BCRA's International Reserves registered an expansion of US$1,609 million with respect to the balance on April 30, ending the month with a balance of US$41,872 million (see Graph 6.1) and accumulated their sixth consecutive month with positive variation. With regard to composition, the net purchase of foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, changes in exchange rate valuation explained the month's expansion. These factors were partially offset by payments to international organizations and by a reduction in the minimum cash position in foreign currency of financial entities.

The bilateral nominal exchange rate with respect to the US dollar was positioned, at the monthly average, at $94.11/US$. In this way, the rate of nominal depreciation of the domestic currency in May was 1.5%, 0.3 p.p. below the April figure (see Graph 6.2). The moderation in the pace of depreciation of the domestic currency seeks to contribute to the disinflation process, in a context where the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate (MRER) is in line with its historical average and the external sector registers a surplus.

Graph 6.1 | Variation of International Reserves Graph 6.2 | Variation of Nominal Exchange Rate

Thousands of Purchase of foreign exchange var. %
millions of US$ International Organizations avg. monthly
3 Other operations of the Public Sector 4.5
Minimum Cash
Exchange Rate Valuation 4.0
2 Others
3.5
Variation of International Reserves
1 3.0

2.5
0
2.0

-1 1.5

1.0
-2
0.5
-3 0.0
 Jan-20 Mar-20 May-20 Jul-20 Sep-20 Nov-20 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21

 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2021 | BCRA | 9 7. Monetary and financial indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations
 Main monetary variables and financial system average
 May- 21 Apr- 21 Mar- 21 May- 20 Monthly Last 12
 months
 Monetary base 2,526,536 2,515,131 2,521,921 2,181,264 0.5% 15.8%
 Monetary circulation 1,831,076 1,804,298 1,814,533 1,430,270 1.5% 28.0%
 Banknotes and coins held by the public 1,617,389 1,569,100 1,578,690 1,245,302 3.1% 29.9%
 Banknotes and coins in financial entities 213,687 235,198 235,843 184,968 -9.1% 15.5%
 Cancellation checks 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0% 0.0%
 Current account at the BCRA 695,459 710,833 707,388 750,994 -2.2% -7.4%

 Stock of BCRA Repos
 Liabilities 1,560,222 1,379,466 1,177,580 609,530 13.1% 156.0%
 Assets 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0%

 Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 2,049,095 1,959,291 1,886,626 1,261,107 4.6% 62.5%

 BCRA international reserves 41,107 40,005 39,711 43,084 2.8% -4.6%

 Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1) 7,331,286 7,019,263 6,739,213 4,603,389 4.4% 59.3%
 Private sector deposits 5,750,078 5,555,564 5,401,011 3,812,522 3.5% 50.8%
 Current account (2) 1,371,652 1,339,228 1,280,140 986,848 2.4% 39.0%
 Savings account 1,389,662 1,308,603 1,350,061 1,129,842 6.2% 23.0%
 Fixed term non-adjustable by CER / UVA 2,778,001 2,713,994 2,590,642 1,526,902 2.4% 81.9%
 Fixed term adjustable by CER / UVA 96,978 83,528 72,310 52,967 16.1% 83.1%
 Other deposits (3) 113,786 110,212 107,857 115,963 3.2% -1.9%

 Public sector deposits 1,581,208 1,463,700 1,338,201 790,866 8.0% 99.9%
 Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1) 18,726 18,546 18,461 19,612 1.0% -4.5%

 Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1) 2,977,645 2,929,757 2,906,196 2,165,918 1.6% 37.5%

 Private sector loans 2,932,741 2,885,559 2,862,727 2,123,722 1.6% 38.1%
 Advances 261,157 261,960 281,701 309,375 -0.3% -15.6%
 Documents 656,413 651,789 655,147 451,760 0.7% 45.3%
 Mortgages 231,738 228,416 223,541 212,373 1.5% 9.1%
 Secured loans 133,909 126,401 119,416 71,672 5.9% 86.8%
 Personal loans 511,347 498,008 480,255 400,033 2.7% 27.8%
 Credit cards 945,337 935,668 923,407 550,231 1.0% 71.8%
 Others 192,841 183,317 179,259 128,278 5.2% 50.3%

 Public sector loans 44,904 44,199 43,469 42,195 1.6% 6.4%
 Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1) 5,675 5,506 5,245 8,189 3.1% -30.7%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 3,588,225 3,441,614 3,331,010 2,505,331 4.3% 43.2%
 M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 5,047,907 4,820,957 4,746,299 3,681,823 4.7% 37.1%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in 8,948,675 8,588,364 8,317,903 5,848,691 4.2% 53.0%
 pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 10,713,772 10,311,128 10,002,602 7,178,818 3.9% 49.2%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in 2,989,041 2,908,328 2,858,831 2,232,151 2.8% 33.9%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 4,378,703 4,216,931 4,208,892 3,361,992 3.8% 30.2%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins held by the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 7,367,468 7,124,664 6,979,702 5,057,824 3.4% 45.7%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 8,883,974 8,607,930 8,425,268 6,224,478 3.2% 42.7%

 Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2021 | BCRA | 10 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2021 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)
Monetary base 11.404 0.5% -50.054 -1.9% 101.511 4.2% 345.272 15.8%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 173.328 6.9% 403.780 15.7% 486.640 20.1% 155.631 7.1%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -49.612 -2.0% -94.845 -3.7% -135.492 -5.6% -286.565 -13.1%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 56.242 2.2% 207.742 8.1% 279.829 11.5% 1.375.482 63.1%
Other public sector operations 12.584 0.5% 20.165 0.8% 27.649 1.1% 56.993 2.6%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) -164.195 -6.5% -551.891 -21.4% -455.657 -18.8% -803.771 -36.8%
Others -16.942 -0.7% -35.004 -1.4% -101.459 -4.2% -152.498 -7.0%

International Reserves of the BCRA 1.101 2.8% 1.730 4.4% 2.209 5.7% -1.977 -4.6%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1.853 4.6% 4.381 11.1% 5.354 13.8% 942 2.2%
 Payment to international organizations -368 -0.9% -732 -1.9% -1.175 -3.0% -2.400 -5.6%
 Other public sector operations -123 -0.3% -280 -0.7% -372 -1.0% -1.028 -2.4%
 Minimum cash -564 -1.4% -1.323 -3.4% -762 -2.0% -908 -2.1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 303 0.8% -316 -0.8% -837 -2.2% 1.417 3.3%

1 Does not include the financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Net of BODEN accounted for.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month against which the variation is being made.

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 May - 21 Apr - 21 Mar - 21

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 23.2 23.7 23.8
 Integration in current accounts 9.4 10.1 10.4
 Leliq integration 23.5 23.2 23.5
 BOTE integration 3.9 3.6 3.7
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 75.9 75.9 77.4
 30 to 59 days 17.5 17.5 16.4
 60 to 89 days 3.2 3.2 3.0
 90 to 179 days 2.1 2.1 2.0
 More than 180 days 1.4 1.4 1.2

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes resource application default) 54.0 57.5 61.1
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 62.6 62.6 63.0
 30 to 59 days 19.3 19.3 20.3
 60 to 89 days 7.1 7.1 6.4
 90 to 179 days 7.7 7.7 7.1
 180 to 365 days 3.3 3.3 3.1
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

 (1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
 * The data are provisional.
 Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 11 Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates May - 21 Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Dec - 20 May - 20

 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 32.00 32.00 32.00 32.00 17.00
 Liabilities 7 days 36.50 36.50 36.50 36.50 n/a
 Repo rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 33.19 32.90 32.43 33.19 11.09

 Amount traded in repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) 4.060 5.724 3.400 5.717 4.343

 LELIQ Rate 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00

 Foreign Exchange Market May - 21 Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Dec - 20 May - 20

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 94.11 92.86 91.07 82.64 67.73
 Retail 96.47 95.39 93.54 85.07 67.62

 Forward Dollar
 NDF 1 month 96.48 95.35 93.60 86.95 71.72
 ROFEX 1 month 96.39 95.49 93.69 86.12 69.73
 Amount traded (total maturities, millions of pesos) 37.547 39.300 40.811 55.502 35.789
 Real (Pesos x Real) 17.80 16.73 16.15 16.05 12.00

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 114.25 111.31 108.39 100.57 73.85

 Capital Market May - 21 Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Dec - 20 May - 20

 MERVAL
 Index 53.837 48.423 48.139 52.763 38.234
 Government Bonds (at par)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 32.3 31.1 31.4 36.0 -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 33.2 32.1 32.1 37.0 -
 BONCER 2026 83.4 80.3 83.6 76.3 -
 Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1.548 1.584 1.568 1.388 2.976
 EMBI+ Latin America 462 472 480 435 624

 (1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2021 | BCRA | 12 

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates
May - 21 | Apr - 21 | Mar - 21 | Dec - 20 | May - 20

**Call in pesos (at 15 days)**
Rate | 32.29 | 31.35 | 30.55 | 29.59 | 14.14
Amount operated | 11,171 | 14,585 | 12,280 | 12,960 | 8,653

**Fixed Term Deposits**

**In pesos**
30-44 days | 33.43 | 33.48 | 33.49 | 33.41 | 23.46
60 days or more | 34.43 | 34.09 | 34.34 | 33.76 | 24.05
TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 33.17 | 33.06 | 33.18 | 33.36 | 21.85
TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 33.88 | 33.87 | 33.84 | 34.20 | 22.36
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 33.25 | 33.13 | 33.28 | 33.30 | 22.82
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 34.10 | 34.08 | 34.04 | 34.21 | 23.57

**In dollars**
30-44 days | 0.37 | 0.38 | 0.37 | 0.42 | 0.77
60 days or more | 0.58 | 0.58 | 0.54 | 0.60 | 0.91
BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.40 | 0.44 | 0.42 | 0.50 | 0.86
BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.84 | 0.31 | 0.31 | 0.39 | 1.11

## Active Interest Rates
May - 21 | Apr - 21 | Mar - 21 | Dec - 20 | May - 20

**Repurchase Agreements in pesos**
Gross interest rate at 30 days | 34.39 | 33.99 | 33.08 | 33.77 | 21.78
Amount operated (total terms) | 66,906 | 67,249 | 65,111 | 66,396 | 35,897

**Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)**
Current account advances | 41.69 | 41.73 | 41.32 | 39.66 | 35.10
Documents on signature alone | 35.56 | 36.67 | 34.77 | 35.13 | 28.69
Mortgage | 29.92 | 30.50 | 28.72 | 32.29 | 25.30
Pledge-backed | 28.60 | 29.04 | 28.16 | 32.29 | 22.92
Personal | 54.60 | 55.43 | 56.00 | 55.39 | 51.20
Credit cards | 42.44 | 42.53 | 42.25 | 41.98 | 42.13
Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement for companies - more than $10 million | 36.05 | 36.63 | 36.12 | 33.24 | 20.85

## International Interest Rates
May - 21 | Apr - 21 | Mar - 21 | Dec - 20 | May - 20

**LIBOR**
1 month | 0.10 | 0.11 | 0.11 | 0.15 | 0.19
6 months | 0.19 | 0.21 | 0.20 | 0.26 | 0.63

**US Treasury Bond**
2 years | 0.15 | 0.16 | 0.15 | 0.13 | 0.17
10 years | 1.62 | 1.61 | 1.61 | 0.93 | 0.67

FED Funds Rate | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25
SELIC (at 1 year) | 3.42 | 2.75 | 2.34 | 2.00 | 3.08

(1) The data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while as of July 2010 they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2021 | BCRA | 13 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancellation checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
PyMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Unit of Acquisition Value.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2021 | BCRA | 14
