# Monetary Report
Monthly
February 2021

## Contents

 Page 2 | 1. Summary

 Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

 Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

 Page 8 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

 Page 8 | 5. Interest rates

 Page 9 | 6. International reserves

 Page 10 | 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Page 14 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was March 5, 2021. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that makes it possible to make all gender identities visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and value systems.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

 Monetary Report Monthly | February 2021 | BCRA | 1

## 1. Summary

In February, the broad private monetary aggregate M3, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have remained at a similar level to that of the previous month. In terms of its composition, means of payment again made a negative contribution and, in this way, maintained the declining trend observed since the second semester of 2020. Meanwhile, time deposits continued to contribute positively to monthly variation.

In effect, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector exhibited, for the second consecutive month, a positive monthly rate of variation in real terms. February's growth was 2.2% and, in this way, accumulated an increase of 21.3% in the last twelve months. In terms of GDP, time deposits reached a ratio of 7.5% in February, which was 2 percentage points above the average observed in the 2010-2019 period.

Deposits denominated in UVA continued showing great dynamism, although their participation in the total is limited. The balance at the end of February reached $86,630 million, which implied an increase of 27.9% ($18,890 million) compared to the closing in January. Within these deposits, traditional placements represent approximately 75% of the total and the remainder corresponds to deposits with the option of early redemption. Although both segments showed an upward trend, this was more pronounced in the case of traditional placements, which reached a new maximum.

Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, exhibited a monthly growth of 2.6% in February, which would be equivalent to a contraction of 1% in real terms. The moderation in loan growth occurs in a context of gradual recovery of economic activity, which has led to lower demand for credit lines created during the health emergency, allowing the BCRA to focus credit assistance efforts on the most lagging sectors. This was reflected in the lower incidence that financings implemented through documents had in the growth of total peso financing from the second semester of 2020 onwards.

Since its implementation, the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) has been the vehicle used to channel commercial credit to MSMEs. At the end of February, loans have been granted for approximately a total of $311,393 million, 29% more compared to the end of January. As for the destination of these funds, approximately 84% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects.
Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 2 2. Monetary Aggregates

In February, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private1, in real terms2 and adjusted for seasonality, would have remained at a level similar to that of the previous month, registering a minimal monthly variation (see Chart 2.1). In terms of its composition, fixed-term deposits continued to contribute positively to the monthly variation, while cash in the hands of the public and sight deposits again made a negative contribution.

In this sense, the means of payment maintained, in the first months of the year, the declining trend observed since the second half of 2020. Specifically in February, cash in the hands of the public registered a decline of 2.3% adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, while sight deposits decreased 0.9% s.a. in real terms. Consequently, private M2 completed seven consecutive months of negative variations at constant prices (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Private M3. Real without seasonality Chart 2.2 | Means of Payment at Constant Prices
(monthly variation and contribution by component to growth) (monthly average balances s.a. at constant prices)

thousands of
%, p.p. millions of $
10 6,000
Fixed-term and Other (p.p.)
8 Sight Deposits (p.p.) 5,500
Cash in the hands of the public (p.p.)
Private M3 (monthly variation)
6 5,000

4 4,500

2 4,000

0 3,500

-2 3,000

-4 2,500

-6 2,000
Feb-19 Jun-19 Oct-19 Feb-20 Jun-20 Oct-20 Feb-21 Feb-05 Feb-07 Feb-09 Feb-11 Feb-13 Feb-15 Feb-17 Feb-19 Feb-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

For its part, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector exhibited, for the second consecutive month, a positive monthly rate of variation in real terms. In fact, February's growth was 2.2%, and in this way, they accumulated an increase of 21.3% in the last twelve months (see Chart 2.3). Looking at the evolution of the balance of fixed-term placements at constant prices, it is verified that it is at historically high levels. In terms of GDP, fixed-term deposits reached a ratio of 7.5% in February, which was placed 2 p.p. above the average observed in the 2010-2019 period (see Chart 2.4).

1 Includes cash in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
2 INDEC will release the inflation data for February on March 11.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 3 Chart 2.3 | Fixed-term deposits from the private sector Chart 2.4 | Fixed-term deposits from the private sector at Constant
(var. of monthly average balances at constant prices) Prices and in terms of GDP

% % thousands of
20 Monthly variation 40 % of GDP millions $
Year-on-year variation (right axis) 10 2,800
15 30 As % of GDP
2,600
9 Balance at prices of Feb-21 (right axis)
10 20 2,400

5 10 8 2,200
7.5
0 0 2,000
7
1,800
-5 -10
6 1,600
-10 -20
Average 2010-2019 1,400
-15 -30 5
5.5 1,200

-20 -40 4 1,000
Feb-17 Aug-17 Feb-18 Aug-18 Feb-19 Aug-19 Feb-20 Aug-20 Feb-21 Feb-05 Feb-07 Feb-09 Feb-11 Feb-13 Feb-15 Feb-17 Feb-19 Feb-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Fixed-term deposits denominated in UVA continued to show great dynamism, although their participation in the total is limited (they represent 3.4% of the total). The balance at the end of February reached $86,630 million, which implied an increase of 27.9% ($18,890 million) compared to the close of January. Within these deposits, traditional placements represent approximately 75% of the total and the remainder corresponds to deposits with the option of early cancellation. Although both segments showed an upward trend, this was more pronounced in the case of traditional placements, which reached a new maximum (see Chart 2.5).

Chart 2.5 | Fixed-term deposits denominated in UVA

thousands of Traditional Fixed-Term UVA thousands of
millions $ Investments with early cancellation option UVA (right axis) millions $
70 35

65 30
60 25

 55
 20
 50
 15
 45

 40 10

 35 5

 30 0
 29-feb 30-abr 30-jun 31-ago 31-oct 31-dic
 Source: BCRA

In the dollar segment, deposits from the private sector remained stable, ending the month with a balance of US$15,664 million.

Finally, the Monetary Base registered a decrease of 0.2% ($4,932 million), maintaining its average monthly balance practically at the same level as the previous month.

 Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 4 3. Loans to the Private Sector

 Loans in pesos to the private sector, in nominal terms and adjusted for seasonality, exhibited in February a monthly growth of 2.6%, which would be equivalent to a contraction of 1% in real terms. Thus, the year-on-year growth rate would have remained relatively stable, standing at 7.4% at constant prices (see Graph 3.1). The moderation in loan growth occurs in a context of gradual recovery of economic activity, which has led to lower demand for credit lines created during the health emergency, allowing the BCRA to focus credit assistance efforts on the most lagging sectors. This was reflected in the lower incidence that financings implemented through documents had on the total growth of peso financing from the second half of 2020 onwards (see Graph 3.2).

Graph 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Graph 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(real without seasonality; variation of monthly average balance) (real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

 %; p.p.
 6 % % 60 8

 5 50
 4 40 6

 3 30 4
 2 20
 1 10 2
 0 0
 -1 -10 0

 -2 -20
 -3 -30 -2

 -4 -40 -4
 -5 -50 Documents Personal
 -6 Monthly var. -60 Advances Credit Cards
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) -6 Other Pawn
 -7 -70 Total (monthly var.)
 -8 -80 -8
 feb-18 ago-18 feb-19 ago-19 feb-20 ago-20 feb-21feb-19 may-19 ago-19 nov-19 feb-20 may-20 ago-20 nov-20 feb-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

 The lines intended for commercial purposes registered a monthly expansion of 0.5% real without seasonality (4.1% at current prices) accumulating in the last twelve months an increase of 37.3% (see Graph 3.3). Within this type of financing, the total of documents exhibited an average monthly increase of 4.9% s.e., which would be equivalent to an expansion of 1.2% in real terms. For its part, advances on current account moderated its growth pace, registering an average monthly increase of 2.5% (-1% at constant prices).

 Since its implementation, the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) has been the vehicle used to channel commercial credit to SMEs. At the end of February, loans granted totaling approximately $311,393 million have been made, 29% more compared to the same period in January. Regarding the destinations of these funds, approximately 84% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects (see Graph 3.4). The number of companies that accessed these lines amounted to 84,390, representing 21% more compared to the previous month.

 Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 5 Graph 3.3 | Commercial Loans in Pesos Real Without Seasonality Graph 3.4 | Financings Productive Investment Line
 (disbursed amounts; accumulated to Feb-21)

 thousands of
 % % millions of $
 20 350
 90 311.4
 300 Total Investment Projects (rate 30% n.a.)
 15 Monthly Var.
 65
 Year-on-year var. (right axis) 250
 10
 40
 200
 5 15
 150

 0 -10
 100

 -5 -35 50.4
 50

 -10 -60 0
 feb-18 ago-18 feb-19 ago-19 feb-20 ago-20 feb-21nov-20 dic-20 ene-21 feb-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
In parallel, the financing lines at subsidized rates that had been included within the "Emergency Assistance Program for Work and Production" (ATP) continued to be granted. By the end of February, they accumulated disbursements totaling $14,235 million, reaching more than 600,000 workers. In the latest version of the line, it was established that these were intended for the payment of salaries for companies with up to 800 employees, whose billing had shown year-on-year growth of between 0% and 35% in nominal terms (that is, a contraction in real terms) and also for those companies that provided non-critical activities, whose year-on-year nominal billing had been negative, regardless of the number of employees³.

It should be noted that the BCRA, in coordination with other State agencies, put into operation the Open Circulation System (SCA) of the Electronic Credit Invoice (FCE), which will allow MSMEs to endorse, assign and discount this type of documents from a bank account⁴. The system will come into force starting April 1st and will have an operating structure similar to that of Electronic Check (ECHEQ). This will allow MSMEs that are suppliers to Large Companies to access a greater number of sources of advance financing as well as improve payment certainty, since the failure to pay at the maturity of invoices will be reflected in the Central Bank's Delinquent Debtors Registry.

Regarding loans linked to consumption, credit card financing remained stable compared to January. In real terms, they registered a contraction equivalent to 2.9% monthly, with growth of 10.3% compared to the same period of the previous year (see Chart 3.5). Meanwhile, personal loans showed a nominal increase of 2.3% s.e., although at constant prices it would entail a decline of 1.2%.

Among the lines with real guarantees, pledge loans continue to stand out as the most dynamic line. In this way, during February they registered a monthly expansion of 1.7% in real terms without seasonality, accumulating 8 consecutive months of positive variation. It should be noted that the year-on-year real increase returned to positive territory after more than 2 years of declines, showing an increase of 4.7% y.o.y. (see Chart 3.6). On the other hand, the balance of mortgage loans in nominal terms continued at values similar to those at the end of 2018.

Chart 3.5 | Credit Cards Real without Seasonality     Chart 3.6 | Pledges in Pesos Real without Seasonality

[% and % axis labels with monthly variation and y.o.y. variation data points from Feb-18 to Feb-21]

Source: BCRA                                          Source: BCRA

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered an average monthly decline of 1.8% (US$ 95 million), accumulating a contraction of 48.1% over the last twelve months. This contraction of dollar loans was almost entirely due to what occurred with those granted through single-signature documents.

4. Liquidity of financial entities

In February, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁵ averaged 61.7% of deposits, in line with the value of the previous months. In this way, it continues to be at historically elevated levels. (see chart 4.1).
Regarding the components of banking liquidity, within remunerated liabilities, liquidity shifted in favor of LELIQs to the detriment of reverse repurchase agreements, which experienced a decrease of 1.3 p.p. in terms of deposits. For its part, current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank regained participation (in this case by 0.2 p.p. of deposits), while cash in banks as a percentage of deposits remained at the same level as the previous month.

Banking liquidity in foreign currency continued its upward trend, averaging 80.4% of deposits in February. This month the increase was explained by current accounts at the Central Bank, while cash in banks recorded a slight decline (see chart 4.2).

5 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 7

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

Net Repurchase Agreements - Leliq - Remainder Leliq - Requirement Reserve Requirements % of deposits - Cash in Banks $ - Liquidity - Effective in Banks USD - CC BCRA USD - Liquidity USD

[Charts with data from February 2020 to February 2021 showing various liquidity metrics]

Source: BCRA
Source: BCRA

## 5. Interest Rates⁶

Money market interest rates remained relatively stable in February. Passive rates continued to be located around guaranteed minimum interest rates. Thus, for example, the TM20 of private banks averaged 34%, while the interest rate paid for deposits of individuals up to $100,000 was located, on average, at 36.6% (see Chart 5.1).

Interbank market interest rates presented limited variations and were located, on average, at levels slightly higher than those of January in the case of the 1-day call rate (which averaged 30.4%) and slightly lower for the repurchase agreement between third parties (which was located at 32.1% on average).

For its part, active interest rates remained without significant changes, although they had heterogeneous behavior. On one hand, the interest rate charged for advances recorded a slight increase, as did the one corresponding to documents with sole signature, being located, on average, at 39.9% and 35.1%, respectively. On the contrary, the interest rate applied to document discounts presented a slight downward trend throughout the month, averaging 31.5% a.n., which implied a decline of 1.5 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.2). Interest rates for financing implemented through documents continued to reflect the impact of credits granted under the LFIP framework, which contemplates a maximum interest rate of 30% for capital investment financing and 35% for working capital. Finally, the interest rate charged for personal loans recorded a slight decline toward the end of the month, standing on average at 55.9%.

6 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT | February 2021 | BCRA | 8

**Graph 5.1 | Interest rates of policy instruments, Graph 5.2 | Active interest rates
passive and interbank**

TNA; % LELIQ TNA; %
Reverse Repos BCRA 1 day 80
80 Reverse Repos BCRA 7 days Discounted Documents

PF of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) 70 Personal
70 TM20 Private Banks Documents on Sole Signature

BADLAR Private Banks Total Advances
60 CALL at 1 day
Repos between third parties 1 day 60

50

40 50

30 40

20
30
10

0 20
Feb-20 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20 Dec-20 Feb-21 Feb-20 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20 Dec-20 Feb-21

Source BCRA Source: BCRA

# 6. International Reserves

The balance of International Reserves ended the month at US$39,518 million, remaining practically
unchanged compared to the close of January (see Graph 6.1). Among the factors of expansion of Reserves, net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector (US$633 million) and the increase in the current account of financial entities at the BCRA ($400 million) stood out. This was counteracted, fundamentally, by the decrease associated with net payments to international organizations and the effect of exchange rate valuation.

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.9% between the end of January and end of February,
concluding the month at a value of 89.83. For its part, the multilateral real exchange rate (MRЕР) registered a
slight appreciation, closing the month at a value of 121.4. In this way, it continues at a competitive level, being
located around 5% above the historical average (see Graph 6.2).

**Graph 6.1 | International Reserves Graph 6.2 | Multilateral real exchange rate index**
**(daily balances)**

thousands of
billion u$s $/U$S as of 25-Feb-21

90 110

80 MRЕР
105 MRЕР Historical average

70
100
60

50 95

40 90

30
85
20

10 80

0 75
Jan-03 Jan-05 Jan-07 Jan-09 Jan-11 Jan-13 Jan-15 Jan-17 Jan-19 Jan-21 Feb-19 Jun-19 Oct-19 Feb-20 Jun-20 Oct-20 Feb-21

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

# Informe Monetario Mensual | February 2021 | BCRA | 9 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average

feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 feb-20 Monthly Last 12 months

Monetary Base 2,576,590 2,581,522 2,425,025 1,860,024 -0.2% 38.5%
Monetary Circulation 1,836,512 1,864,005 1,792,980 1,141,869 -1.5% 60.8%
Bills and Coins in possession of the public 1,582,918 1,613,169 1,542,542 1,009,775 -1.9% 56.8%
Bills and Coins in financial entities 253,594 250,836 250,437 132,093 1.1% 92.0%
Cancellatory Checks 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 15.2% 59.4%
Current account at the BCRA 740,078 717,517 632,045 718,156 3.1% 3.1%

Stock of BCRA Reverse Repos
Liabilities 955,558 1,025,416 1,040,553 20,051 -6.8% 4665.7%
Assets 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0%

Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,810,157 1,721,922 1,653,328 1,404,754 5.1% 28.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA 39,377 39,613 38,900 44,731 -0.6% -12.0%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 6,455,156 6,321,042 6,066,626 3,707,709 2.1% 74.1%
Deposits of the private sector 5,214,452 5,063,074 4,874,839 3,039,678 3.0% 71.5%
Current account (2) 1,235,575 1,217,068 1,223,914 698,173 1.5% 77.0%
Savings account 1,350,747 1,358,740 1,342,120 806,507 -0.6% 67.5%
Fixed-term non-adjustable by CER / UVA 2,460,800 2,332,774 2,161,654 1,401,185 5.5% 75.6%
Fixed-term adjustable by CER / UVA 59,207 48,678 41,598 51,328 21.6% 15.3%
Other deposits (3) 108,124 105,814 105,552 82,485 2.2% 31.1%

Deposits of the public sector 1,240,704 1,257,968 1,191,787 668,031 -1.4% 85.7%

Deposits of the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 18,398 18,446 17,776 21,148 -0.3% -13.0%

Loans to the private and public sectors in pesos (1) 2,867,906 2,829,966 2,752,898 1,904,999 1.3% 50.5%
# Loans to the private sector

2,822,891 2,783,255 2,706,015 1,838,430 1.4% 53.5%

Advances 305,824 293,405 279,641 218,602 4.2% 39.9%

Documents 648,748 647,352 644,466 289,828 0.2% 123.8%

Mortgage loans 219,653 217,060 214,682 213,997 1.2% 2.6%

Pledge loans 113,167 108,477 102,657 75,746 4.3% 49.4%

Personal loans 463,753 450,360 443,190 403,818 3.0% 14.8%

Credit cards 892,041 891,213 847,341 565,067 0.1% 57.9%

Others 179,705 175,387 174,038 71,372 2.5% 151.8%

Loans to the public sector 45,016 46,711 46,883 66,570 -3.6% -32.4%

Loans to the private and public sectors in dollars (1) 5,183 5,273 5,463 9,851 -1.7% -47.4%

Total monetary aggregates (1)

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) 3,267,278 3,314,354 3,237,621 1,928,035 -1.4% 69.5%

M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) 4,679,162 4,753,498 4,627,855 2,803,848 -1.6% 66.9%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) 8,038,074 7,934,211 7,609,168 4,717,485 1.3% 70.4%

M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 9,673,295 9,520,454 9,081,251 6,016,935 1.6% 60.8%

Private monetary aggregates

M1 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) 2,818,493 2,830,237 2,766,456 1,707,949 -0.4% 65.0%

M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) 4,169,239 4,188,977 4,108,576 2,514,456 -0.5% 65.8%

M3 (Banknotes and Coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) 6,797,370 6,676,243 6,417,381 4,049,453 1.8% 67.9%

M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 8,188,877 8,030,674 7,669,267 5,193,741 2.0% 57.7%

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 10 Average Variations

Variation Factors | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2021 | Last 12 months
Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4)

Monetary base -4,932 -0.2% 238,864 10.2% 151,565 6.3% 716,566 38.5%

Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 26,571 1.0% 80,541 3.4% 82,860 3.4% -296,397 -15.9%

Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -32,500 -1.3% -64,553 -2.8% -40,646 -1.7% -191,720 -10.3%

Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits 0 0.0% 363,982 15.6% 72,087 3.0% 1,962,322 105.5%

Other public sector operations -30,512 -1.2% -24,593 -1.1% 7,485 0.3% -77,881 -4.2%

Sterilization (Repo and LELIQ) 63,974 2.5% -28,813 -1.2% 96,234 4.0% -562,683 -30.3%

Others -32,465 -1.3% -87,701 -3.8% -66,455 -2.7% -117,075 -6.3%

International Reserves of the BCRA -235 -0.6% 213 0.5% 478 1.2% -5,354 -12.0%

Intervention in the foreign exchange market 303 0.8% 938 2.4% 973 2.5% -4,148 -9.3%

Payment to international organizations -380 -1.0% -585 -1.5% -443 -1.1% -2,541 -5.7%

Other public sector operations -245 -0.6% -143 -0.4% -92 -0.2% 126 0.3%

Minimum cash requirement 444 1.1% 403 1.0% 561 1.4% 1,216 2.7%

Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -357 -0.9% -399 -1.0% -522 -1.3% -7 0.0%

---

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.

2 Net of the use of unified funds.

3 Net of BODEN accounted for.

4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.

Sources: Accounting of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and SISCEN Information System.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

Feb-21 Jan-21 Dec-20
SELIC (at 1 year) 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.28
(1) Data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onwards they correspond to the daily information requirement SISCEN 18.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 138. Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current accounts at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad dual-currency aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
a.r.: annual rate.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.a.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2021 | BCRA | 14
