# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2021 | Contents

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 7 | 4. Interest rates

Page 8 | 5. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 9 | 6. International reserves

Page 10 | 7. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 14 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was May 7, 2021. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institutional 
commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication 
recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, 
resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 1

## 1. Summary

The broad monetary aggregate (private M3) at constant prices showed a downward trend in what has 
occurred so far this year. In April, it would have registered a decline of 1.1% in real terms and adjusted 
for seasonality (s.e.). As for its components, time deposits continued to be the only expansion factor. 
This dynamic was reflected in a significant and sustained increase in the relative participation of 
time instruments.

In April, the monthly growth rate of time deposits would have been 0.9% s.e. at constant prices, a 
similar figure to that of March. In year-over-year terms, time placements reached growth close to 28%, 
which implied an increase of 7.4 percentage points compared to the previous month. The acceleration 
in the year-over-year expansion rate was explained fundamentally by the low comparison base.

Distinguishing fixed-term deposits by amount bracket, it is observed that the impulse came from 
placements of more than $1 million. The segment denominated in UVA continued to be the most 
dynamic, in a context where the yield of these instruments exceeds that of placements in pesos. 
Although its participation in the total is limited, it continued to gain relative participation. Specifically, 
in April traditional time placements grew at an average monthly rate of 15.5% nominal. Meanwhile, 
placements with early redemption option registered an average monthly increase of 27.6% nominal.

Loans in pesos to the private sector, in real terms and without seasonality, would have registered a 
contraction of 2.8% in April. The credit slowdown continued to be explained almost entirely by the 
evolution of commercial lines. When we analyze the evolution of financing by type of borrower, it is 
observed that the decline concentrated in the large enterprises segment. In effect, commercial lines 
to this type of legal entities registered a year-over-year decline at constant prices of 26.2%, while 
those destined to MSMEs exhibited an expansion rate of 37.9% year-over-year.

The Productive Investment Financing Line continued to be the main vehicle used to channel commercial 
credit to MSMEs. At the end of April, loans granted under the LFIP totaled approximately $509,000 
million, which implies a growth of 24% compared to the end of March. As for the destinations of these 
funds, around 82% of the total disbursed corresponds to the financing of working capital and the rest 
to the line that finances investment projects.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Monetary Aggregates
The broad monetary aggregate (M3 private)¹ at constant prices shows a downward trend so far this year. In April, it would have registered a decline of 1.1% in real terms² and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.). As for its components, time deposits continued to be the only expansion factor (see Chart 2.1). This was reflected in a significant and sustained increase in their relative participation since mid-last year (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Private M3. Real without seasonality | Chart 2.2 | Private M3. Real without seasonality
(monthly variation and contribution by component to growth) | (monthly average balance and participation of time deposits)

%, p.p. | thousands of millions $
10 | 9,000 | 45
Fixed Term and Others (p.p.) | M3 Private | Time Deposits/M3 Private (right axis)
Demand Deposits (p.p.) | 8,000 | 40
8 | Cash in public hands (p.p.) | 7,000 | 35
M3 private (monthly variation) | 6,000 | 30
6 | 5,000 | 25
4 | 4,000 | 20
2 | 3,000 | 15
0 | 2,000 | 10
-2 | 1,000 | 5
-4 | 0 | 0
-6 | 
Apr-19 Aug-19 Dec-19 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 | Apr-17 Oct-17 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20 Oct-20 Apr-21
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

The monthly growth rate of time deposits in April would have been 0.9% in real terms, similar to that of March. Thus, and favored by a low comparison base, they reached a year-on-year growth close to 28%, which implied an increase of 7.4 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.3). Breaking down by amount bracket, the impulse came from placements of more than $1 million. In particular, the segment of $1 million to $20 million presented sustained growth throughout almost the entire month. Meanwhile, the wholesale bracket (more than $20 million) grew during the first part of the month, then stabilized and began to fall towards the end of the month. This latter behavior was explained by an increase in remunerated sight deposits of Money Market Mutual Funds (FCI), in a context of relative stability of their assets. For its part, retail deposits remained relatively stable (see Chart 2.4).

¹ Includes cash in public hands and peso deposits from the non-financial private sector.
² INDEC will release the April inflation data on May 13.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 3

Chart 2.3 | Time deposits of the private sector | Chart 2.4 | Time deposits by Amount Bracket
(variation of monthly average balances at constant prices) | (daily balance at constant prices)

% | % | thousands of millions $
20 | 40 | Less than $1 million
of 30 | Maximum 1,350 | From $1 million to $20 million
Apr
15 | Period 2004-2019 | 30 | More than $20 million
23.1 | 1,250
10 | 20
5 | 10 | 1,150
0 | 0 | 1,050
-5 | -10 | 950
-10 | Monthly variation | -20 | 850
Year-on-year variation (right axis)
-15 | -30 | 750
-20 | -40 | 650
Apr-17 Oct-17 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20 Oct-20 Apr-21 | 01-Jul 30-Aug 29-Oct 28-Dec 26-Feb 27-Apr
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

The segment denominated in UVA continued showing great dynamism and, although its participation in the total is still limited, it increased in recent months. This type of placement, in UVA adjustable by CER, continued with the trend initiated in mid-November 2020, although with significant acceleration since last January. In April, traditional placements grew at a monthly average of 15.5% nominal. Meanwhile, placements with early cancellation option registered a monthly average increase of 27.6% nominal (see Chart 2.5). Despite their low participation, the magnitude of the monthly increase led this type of placement to explain somewhat more than half of the monthly increase in time instruments.
During April, a decline in the demand for real money balances continued to be observed. Thus, private M2, at constant prices and without seasonality, registered its ninth consecutive monthly decline. In April this dynamic was explained by both a decline in sight deposits (-2.6%) as well as currency in the hands of the public (-3.4%).

In the foreign currency segment, the balance of private sector deposits was located, on average, at US$15,964 million, registering an increase of US$128 million compared to March.

Finally, the Monetary Base in April was located at $2,515 billion, remaining practically unchanged compared to March (-$6.8 billion). In year-on-year terms and at constant prices, it would have registered a decrease of 22.2%. The improvement in the access of the National Treasury to debt markets allowed channeling an increasing proportion of financing needs in local currency. Indeed, during April it would have obtained in the market net financing close to $60,000 million and accumulates about $150,000 million in what has been the year so far. However, the financial needs of April required Temporary Advances of $55,000 million. All in all, financing to the National Treasury during the first four months in terms of GDP remained in line with that of previous years (except 2020). The monetary expansion associated with financing to the Treasury and the net purchase of foreign currency by the BCRA in the exchange market were sterilized fundamentally through passive repos and LELIQ (see Graph 2.6).

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 4 Graph 2.5 | Deposits denominated in UVA Graph 2.6 | Monetary Base and Variation Factors
(daily balance at current prices) (average monthly variation)

thousands of thousands of thousands of
millions $ millions $ millions of $
100 60 500 External Sector
PF UVA Traditional Repos and Leliq
90 PF UVA Precancelable (right axis) 50 400 Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings
Rest
300 Monetary Base
80
40 200

70 100
30
60 0

20 -100
50
-200
40 10 -300

30 0 -400
apr-20 jun-20 aug-20 oct-20 dec-20 feb-21 apr-21 jan-21 feb-21 mar-21 apr-21

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

## 3. Loans to the Private Sector

Loans in pesos to the private sector, in real terms and without seasonality, would have registered in April a contraction of 2.8%. In year-on-year terms a decrease of 4.1% was registered at constant prices. The latter was influenced by the decline of the month and the high comparison base of April previous. In this way, a cycle of nine consecutive months with year-on-year increases was interrupted (see Graph 3.1). The slowdown in credit continued to be explained, almost entirely, by the evolution of commercial lines (see Graph 3.2).

Graph 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Graph 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(real without seasonality) (real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

%; p.p.
6 % % 60 8

5 50 6
4 40
3 30 4
2 20
1 10 2
0 0
-1 -10 0

-2 -20
-3 -30 -2

-4 -40 -4
-5 -50 Personal Documents
-6 Monthly var. -60 Advances Credit Cards
Year-on-year var. (right axis) -6 Rest Pawn
-7 -70 Total (monthly var.)
-8 -80 -8
apr-18 oct-18 apr-19 oct-19 apr-20 oct-20 apr-21 apr-19 jul-19 oct-19 jan-20 apr-20 jul-20 oct-20 jan-21 apr-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
The contraction of commercial financing in April would have been 6.8% real without seasonality. Within this type of financing, overdrafts on current accounts registered the greatest decline, with a monthly fall of 11.1% at constant prices. Meanwhile, the fall in documents was more limited, being 5.6% s.e. in real terms. When we analyze the composition of commercial credit by type of debtor, we observe that practically all of the decline is explained by the dynamics of large companies, which tend to use overdrafts on current accounts more intensively than SMEs. On the other hand, most of the credit for the latter is channeled through documents, which were driven by the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP). Thus, commercial credit to SMEs exhibited an expansion rate at constant prices of 37.9% y.o.y. (see Chart 3.3).

At the end of April, loans granted under the LFIP framework totaled approximately $509,000 million, which implies growth of 24% compared to the end of March. As for the destinations of these funds, around 82% of the total disbursed corresponds to the financing of working capital and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects (see Chart 3.4). At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 119,000.

Chart 3.3 | Commercial Credit at constant prices Chart 3.4 | Productive Investment Line Financings
(30-day moving average) (accumulated disbursed amounts; data at end of month)

var. % y.o.y. thousands of
100 million $
600

80
SMEs 500
60 Other Legal Entities Total
40 37.9 Investment projects (30% n.a. rate) 400

20 300

0
200
-20

-40 -26.2 100

-60 0
01-Apr-18 01-Oct-18 01-Apr-19 01-Oct-19 01-Apr-20 01-Oct-20 01-Apr-21 30-Nov-20 31-Dec-20 31-Jan-21 28-Feb-21 31-Mar-21 30-Apr-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

With regard to consumer-related loans, credit card financing remained stable compared to April, with a year-over-year growth rate that remains around 12% in real terms (see Chart 3.5). Meanwhile, personal loans exhibited a decline in the month of 0.8% at constant prices.

With respect to lines with real guarantees, chattel mortgage loans would have registered in April a monthly growth of 1.9% in real terms and without seasonality, accumulating 10 consecutive months of positive variation. In year-over-year terms, the expansion rate would be at 15.6% at constant prices (see Chart 3.6). On the other hand, the balance of mortgage loans in nominal terms continued at values similar to those at the end of 2018. In a context of scarce dynamism in mortgage credit, the National Government recently launched the "Own Home Credits" line within the framework of the Pro.Cre.Ar Program 3. This includes mortgage credits for the construction of new homes of up to 60 square meters of surface area on own lot and personal loans for renovation (purchase of materials and labor works). In both cases, the credits are at zero rate and the principal is adjusted by the Hog.Ar index 4, whose update is based on the evolution of the Wage Variation Coefficient (CVS).

3 https://www.argentina.gob.ar/habitat/casapropia
4 Resolution 230/2020 of the Ministry of Territorial Development and Housing

Chart 3.5 | Credit Cards without Seasonality Chart 3.6 | Chattel Mortgages without Seasonality and Vehicle Registrations
(var. at constant prices) (var. at constant prices)

% %
8 80 %
6 % 60
6 Monthly Var. 60
Monthly Var. Y.o.y. (right axis) Y.o.y. (right axis) 40
4 40
4 20
2 20
2 0
0 0
0 -20
-2 -20
-2 -40
-4 -40
-4 -60
-6 -60
-6 -80
-8
-8 -80 -10 -100
 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20 Oct-20 Apr-21 Apr-18 Oct-18 Apr-19 Oct-19 Apr-20 Oct-20 Apr-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector registered an average monthly increase of 5.1% (US$ 262 million), which was concentrated in the line of documents at single signature. However, it accumulated a contraction of 38.3% in the year-on-year comparison.

4. Interest Rates 5

Passive interest rates remained stable, in line with guaranteed minimum interest rates. Thus, for example, the TM20 of private banks averaged 33.9% (2.8% TEM), while the interest rate paid for deposits of individuals up to $100,000 was located on average at 36.6% (3% TEM). This stability recorded in interest rates on time placements in pesos differed from the evolution of the UVA coefficient, which in April registered an average monthly expansion of 3.8%. In this way, the return on investments denominated in UVA exceeded that of those denominated in pesos, explaining the greater demand for the former. With respect to the interbank market, interest rates were located at levels slightly higher than those of March. On average, the Call rate at 1 day was located at 31.3%, while the corresponding one for passes between third parties reached 32.9% (see Graph 4.1).

Among active interest rates, no significant changes were observed in the month. Within commercial interest rates, the one linked to documents at single signature stood out, which in the second part of the month presented an increase. In fact, said rate registered an increase of 1.9 p.p. in the monthly average and was located at 36.7%. For its part, the interest rate on discounted documents was located at 31.8%, while that on advances in current account averaged 41.7%. Finally, the rate corresponding to personal loans registered a slight decrease, to be located in the monthly average at 55.4% (see Graph 4.2).

5 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.

 Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 7 Graph 4.1 | Interest rates of policy instruments, Graph 4.2 | Active interest rates
passive and interbank

 TNA; % LELIQ TNA; %
 80
 60 Passive Passes BCRA 1 day Discounted Documents
 Passive Passes BCRA 7 days Personal
 50 PF of Natural Persons up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) 70 Documents at Single Signature
 TM20 Private Banks
 CALL at 1 day Total Advances
 40 Passes between third parties 1 day 60

 30 50

 20 40

 10 30

 0 20
 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20 Dec-20 Feb-21 Apr-21 Apr-20 Jun-20 Aug-20 Oct-20 Dec-20 Feb-21 Apr-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

5. Liquidity of Financial Entities

Broad bank liquidity in local currency 6 continued to be located at historically elevated levels. In April, it averaged 64.2% of deposits, 1.5 p.p. more than the previous month. In terms of its components, liquidity shifted in favor of passive passes, which increased their relative weight by 2.2 p.p. of deposits. Meanwhile, the rest of the components did not register significant variations in their participation (see Graph 5.1).

It is worth noting that a new series of minimum cash deductions for financial entities that have implemented remote and in-person opening of the "Universal Free Account (CGU)" 7 came into effect. First, said entities will be able to deduct the new financing granted to natural persons and SMEs that are not reported in the "Debtors Central of the Financial System" 8. Second, the minimum cash requirement will be reduced based on the growth rate in the use of electronic means through demand accounts whose holders are natural persons, the evolution of electronic checks (ECHEQ) and electronic credit invoices (FCE SME), and the operability of their automatic tellers.
Bank liquidity in foreign currency experienced a slight decline in April and averaged 76.9% of deposits, also remaining at historically elevated levels. The reduction in April in liquidity was explained by the evolution of deposits in current accounts at the BCRA, which represented 57.5% of deposits (3.6 p.p. less than in March). Meanwhile, the cash balance reached 19.4% of deposits, with an increase of 2.1 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.2).

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances from repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.
7 Communication "A" 7254.
8 Financing that may be included within this scheme are subject to a maximum annual nominal interest rate of 43% for entities in groups A, B and GSIB. For the remaining entities, the interest rate may not exceed by more than 25% the average interest rates of the financial system for unsecured personal loan operations published monthly by the BCRA.

Graph 5.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities Graph 5.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

[Charts showing percentage of deposits over time from April 2020 to April 2021, with various components including Net Repos, Leliq, Cash in Banks, Current Accounts at BCRA]

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

## 6. International Reserves

International Reserves ended the month with a balance of US$40,263 million, registering an increase of US$669 million compared to the close of March (see Graph 6.1). The expansion of international reserves was associated fundamentally with net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector, which totaled US$1,373 million. This effect was partially offset, mainly, by net payments from the National Government.

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2% in April, with an average value in the month of $92.86/US$. For its part, the multilateral real exchange rate (TCRM) registered a slight appreciation, standing at 0.5% above its historical average register in the monthly average (see Graph 6.2).

Graph 6.1 | International Reserves Graph 6.2 | Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index
(daily balances)

[Charts showing reserves in millions of US$ and exchange rate indices from 2003 to 2021]

Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 9

## 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.
# Monthly Averages and Percentage Variations

**Main monetary variables and financial system average**

| Variable | apr-21 | mar-21 | feb-21 | apr-20 | Monthly | Last 12 months |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| Monetary base | 2,515,131 | 2,521,921 | 2,576,590 | 2,168,039 | -0.3% | 16.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 1,804,298 | 1,814,533 | 1,836,512 | 1,330,994 | -0.6% | 35.6% |
| Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public | 1,569,394 | 1,578,681 | 1,583,171 | 1,139,112 | -0.6% | 37.8% |
| Banknotes and Coins in financial entities | 234,904 | 235,853 | 253,340 | 191,881 | -0.4% | 22.4% |
| Cancellation Checks | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.3 | -5.4% | 0.0% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 710,833 | 707,388 | 740,078 | 837,046 | 0.5% | -15.1% |

**BCRA Reverse Repos Stock**
| | | | | | |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| Liabilities | 1,379,466 | 1,177,580 | 955,558 | 359,478 | 17.1% | 283.7% |
| Assets | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0.0% | 0.0% |

**LELIQ Stock (at nominal value)** | 1,959,224 | 1,886,613 | 1,810,157 | 1,229,920 | 3.8% | 59.3% |

**BCRA International Reserves** | 40,005 | 39,711 | 39,377 | 43,735 | 0.7% | -8.5% |

**Deposits of private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 7,017,881 | 6,738,755 | 6,451,543 | 4,280,486 | 4.1% | 64.0% |
| Deposits of private sector | 5,554,269 | 5,400,420 | 5,210,606 | 3,565,783 | 2.8% | 55.8% |
| Current account (2) | 1,338,974 | 1,280,078 | 1,236,215 | 897,982 | 4.6% | 49.1% |
| Savings account | 1,307,937 | 1,349,965 | 1,345,484 | 1,054,810 | -3.1% | 24.0% |
| Fixed term not adjustable by CER / UVA | 2,713,468 | 2,590,437 | 2,461,975 | 1,403,589 | 4.7% | 93.3% |
| Fixed term adjustable by CER / UVA | 83,500 | 72,305 | 59,113 | 57,350 | 15.5% | 45.6% |
| Other deposits (3) | 110,391 | 107,635 | 107,819 | 152,051 | 2.6% | -27.4% |

**Deposits of public sector** | 1,463,613 | 1,338,335 | 1,240,937 | 714,703 | 9.4% | 104.8% |

**Deposits of private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 18,546 | 18,460 | 18,397 | 20,512 | 0.5% | -9.6% |

**Loans to private and public sector in pesos (1)** | 2,932,041 | 2,906,703 | 2,867,797 | 2,078,614 | 0.9% | 41.1% |

**Loans to private sector** | 2,887,903 | 2,863,234 | 2,822,741 | 2,021,206 | 0.9% | 42.9% |
| Advances | 262,798 | 281,878 | 305,788 | 305,499 | -6.8% | -14.0% |
| Documents | 651,559 | 655,131 | 648,922 | 353,890 | -0.5% | 84.1% |
| Mortgage loans | 228,372 | 223,529 | 219,676 | 212,941 | 2.2% | 7.2% |
| Pawn loans | 126,410 | 119,415 | 113,279 | 73,356 | 5.9% | 72.3% |
| Personal loans | 498,040 | 480,259 | 463,819 | 405,327 | 3.7% | 22.9% |
| Credit cards | 937,423 | 923,764 | 891,688 | 561,563 | 1.5% | 66.9% |
| Others | 183,300 | 179,258 | 179,570 | 108,632 | 2.3% | 68.7% |

**Loans to public sector** | 44,139 | 43,469 | 45,057 | 57,408 | 1.5% | -23.1% |

**Loans to private and public sector in dollars (1)** | 5,508 | 5,245 | 5,183 | 8,838 | 5.0% | -37.7% |

## **Total Monetary Aggregates (1)**

| M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + current account in pesos) | 3,441,650 | 3,330,896 | 3,268,425 | 2,285,490 | 3.3% | 50.6% |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| M2 (M1 + savings account in pesos) | 4,820,334 | 4,746,089 | 4,675,050 | 3,399,855 | 1.6% | 41.8% |
| M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in pesos) | 8,587,275 | 8,317,436 | 8,034,714 | 5,419,598 | 3.2% | 58.4% |
| M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 10,310,003 | 10,002,103 | 9,669,871 | 6,768,982 | 3.1% | 52.3% |

## **Private Monetary Aggregates**

| M1 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + private current account in pesos) | 2,908,368 | 2,858,759 | 2,819,387 | 2,037,094 | 1.7% | 42.8% |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| M2 (M1 + private savings account in pesos) | 4,216,304 | 4,208,724 | 4,164,871 | 3,091,905 | 0.2% | 36.4% |
| M3 (Banknotes and Coins in the hands of the public + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits in pesos) | 7,123,663 | 6,979,101 | 6,793,778 | 4,704,895 | 2.1% | 51.4% |
| M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) | 8,606,892 | 8,424,635 | 8,185,230 | 5,894,174 | 2.2% | 46.0% |

**Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 10 Average Variations**

**Variation Factors**

| | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2021 | Last 12 months |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) | Nominal | Contribution (4) |
Monetary Base -6,790 -0.3% -66,391 -2.6% 90,107 3.7% 347,092 16.0%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 114,996 4.6% 257,023 10.0% 313,313 12.9% -76,578 -3.5%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -20,217 -0.8% -77,733 -3.0% -85,880 -3.5% -236,953 -10.9%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings 88,435 3.5% 151,500 5.9% 223,587 9.2% 1,691,211 78.0%
Other operations of the public sector -8,628 -0.3% -22,931 -0.9% 15,066 0.6% -24,348 -1.1%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) -175,499 -7.0% -323,722 -12.5% -291,462 -12.0% -875,428 -40.4%
Others -5,877 -0.2% -50,528 -2.0% -84,517 -3.5% -130,812 -6.0%

International Reserves of the BCRA 295 0.7% 393 1.0% 1,106 2.8% -3,729 -8.5%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1,249 3.1% 2,831 7.1% 3,502 9.0% -1,789 -4.1%
 Payment to international organizations -176 -0.4% -745 -1.9% -807 -2.1% -2,455 -5.6%
 Other operations of the public sector -57 -0.1% -403 -1.0% -249 -0.6% -481 -1.1%
 Minimum cash -624 -1.6% -315 -0.8% -198 -0.5% 397 0.9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -98 -0.2% -976 -2.5% -1,141 -2.9% 599 1.4%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts. Provisional figures, subject to revision.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Net of accounted BODEN.
4 The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month for which the variation is being made.

 Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

 Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Feb - 21

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 23.5 23.9 24.9
 Integration in current accounts 10.1 10.4 11.4
 Leliq Integration 23.2 23.5 22.9
 BOTE Integration 3.6 3.7 3.8
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 75.9 77.4 77.4
 30 to 59 days 17.5 16.4 16.4
 60 to 89 days 3.2 3.0 3.0
 90 to 179 days 2.1 2.0 2.0
 more than 180 days 1.4 1.2 1.2

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 57.6 61.1 62.0
 Structure of residual maturity of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 62.6 63.0 63.0
 30 to 59 days 19.3 20.3 20.3
 60 to 89 days 7.1 6.4 6.4
 90 to 179 days 7.7 7.1 7.1
 180 to 365 days 3.3 3.1 3.1
 more than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1

 (1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
 * Data are provisional.
 Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 11 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Feb - 21 Dec - 20 Apr - 20

BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 32.00 32.00 32.00 32.00 12.35
 Liabilities 7 days 36.50 36.50 36.50 36.50 n/a
Repo rates between third parties REPO trading
 1 day 32.90 32.43 32.21 33.19 8.54

Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO trading (daily average) 5,724 3,400 4,583 5,717 8,322

LELIQ Rate 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00

 Foreign Exchange Market Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Feb - 21 Dec - 20 Apr - 20

Dollar Spot
 Wholesale 92.86 91.07 88.68 82.64 65.76
 Retail 95.39 93.54 90.89 85.07 65.45

Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 95.35 93.60 91.72 86.95 68.88
 ROFEX 1 month 95.49 93.69 91.36 86.12 68.34
 Amount operated (total terms, millions of pesos) 39,300 40,811 47,661 55,502 28,941
Real (Pesos x Real) 16.73 16.15 16.38 16.05 12.32

Euro (Pesos x Euro) 111.31 108.39 107.22 100.57 71.43

 Capital Market Apr - 21 Mar - 21 Feb - 21 Dec - 20 Apr - 20

MERVAL
 Index 48,423 48,139 50,528 52,763 29,555
Government Bonds (at parity)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 31.1 31.4 33.3 36.0 -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 32.1 32.1 34.7 37.0 -
 BONCER 2026 80.3 83.6 85.0 76.3 -
Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1,584 1,568 1,470 1,388 3,803
 EMBI+ Latin America 472 480 454 435 711

(1) Correspond to averages of the results of the auctions of each month.
# Monthly Monetary Report | April of 2021 | BCRA | 12

Rates in annual nominal percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

## Passive Interest Rates
| | apr - 21 | mar - 21 | feb - 21 | dec - 20 | apr - 20 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Call in pesos (at 15 days)** |
| Rate | 31.34 | 30.55 | 30.45 | 29.59 | 8.02 |
| Amount operated | 14,535 | 12,280 | 9,026 | 12,960 | 6,965 |
| **Fixed Term Deposits** |
| **In pesos** |
| 30-44 days | 33.48 | 33.49 | 33.51 | 33.41 | 21.34 |
| 60 days or more | 34.08 | 34.34 | 34.06 | 33.76 | 21.94 |
| TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 33.06 | 33.18 | 33.09 | 33.36 | 18.93 |
| TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 33.87 | 33.84 | 33.90 | 34.20 | 19.03 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 33.13 | 33.28 | 33.14 | 33.30 | 20.40 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 34.08 | 34.04 | 34.06 | 34.21 | 20.84 |
| **In dollars** |
| 30-44 days | 0.38 | 0.37 | 0.39 | 0.42 | 0.80 |
| 60 days or more | 0.58 | 0.54 | 0.65 | 0.60 | 1.01 |
| BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.44 | 0.42 | 0.43 | 0.50 | 0.94 |
| BADLAR Private banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) | 0.31 | 0.31 | 0.38 | 0.39 | 1.14 |

## Active Interest Rates
| | apr - 21 | mar - 21 | feb - 21 | dec - 20 | apr - 20 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repos in pesos** |
| Gross interest rate at 30 days | 33.99 | 33.08 | 34.31 | 33.77 | 17.34 |
| Amount operated (total terms) | 67,249 | 65,111 | 68,638 | 66,396 | 44,371 |
| **Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)** |
| Current account advances | 41.71 | 41.32 | 40.95 | 39.66 | 38.66 |
| Documents on signature alone | 36.67 | 34.77 | 35.09 | 35.13 | 27.94 |
| Mortgages | 30.50 | 28.72 | 30.26 | 32.29 | 28.69 |
| Pledges | 29.04 | 28.16 | 28.50 | 32.29 | 23.57 |
| Personal loans | 55.42 | 55.99 | 55.94 | 55.39 | 53.16 |
| Credit cards | 42.46 | 42.25 | 42.78 | 41.98 | 45.18 |
| Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million | 36.63 | 36.12 | 34.89 | 33.22 | 21.58 |

## International Interest Rates
| | apr - 21 | mar - 21 | feb - 21 | dec - 20 | apr - 20 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **LIBOR** |
| 1 month | 0.11 | 0.11 | 0.11 | 0.15 | 0.68 |
| 6 months | 0.21 | 0.20 | 0.21 | 0.26 | 1.07 |
| **US Treasury Bond** |
| 2 years | 0.16 | 0.15 | 0.12 | 0.13 | 0.22 |
| 10 years | 1.61 | 1.61 | 1.24 | 0.93 | 0.65 |
| **FED Funds Rate** | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 | 0.25 |
| **SELIC (at 1 year)** | 2.75 | 2.34 | 2.00 | 2.00 | 3.75 |

(1) Data until June 2010 correspond to the monthly informational requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onward correspond to the daily informational requirement SISCEN 18.

# Monthly Monetary Report | April of 2021 | BCRA | 13 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
M2: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3*: Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency of the non-financial public and private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NDF: Non-deliverable forward.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
p.p.: Percentage points.
SMEs: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2021 | BCRA | 14
