# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2021 Contents

Page 2 | 1. Summary

Page 3 | 2. Monetary aggregates

Page 5 | 3. Loans to the private sector

Page 7 | 4. Liquidity of financial entities

Page 8 | 5. Interest rates

Page 9 | 6. International reserves

Page 10 | 7. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 14 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was April 9, 2021. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries, comments or electronic subscription: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

Regarding the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. Those of us who have prepared this publication also recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 1

## 1. Summary

The monetary aggregates continued to decelerate, showing a sustained decline in terms of GDP since the maximum level reached in 2020. The ratio of private M3 to GDP stands at 18.4%, accumulating a decline of 6 percentage points since June of last year and positioning itself at a level lower than the maximum levels prior to the pandemic period. For its part, private M2 in terms of GDP reached 11.1%, more than 2 percentage points below the maximums of the 2005-2019 period and at a level similar to that observed during 2016-2017. Finally, the ratio of currency in circulation to GDP stands at 4.2%, increasingly close to the historical minimum of 2019.

Adjusted for seasonality, the broad monetary aggregate (private M3) continued to show limited variation (0.2%) in real terms. Within it, the only expansion factor was, once again, time deposits. These placements completed the first quarter of the year with a positive monthly growth rate in real terms: the increase recorded in March was 1.9%, thus reaching an average expansion rate of 2.6% in the quarter. The year-over-year variation at constant values increased 1.3 percentage points with respect to the previous month and stood at 22%, a value close to the maximum recorded for the period between 2004 and 2019.

Although the month's growth was fundamentally explained by deposits in pesos, deposits denominated in UVA continued to grow at a good pace. The latter reached a balance of $109,023 million at the end of March, which implied an increase in real terms of 20.6% with respect to February 28. This increase was composed of both traditional placements as well as those with the option of early redemption, which grew 16.7% and 35.7% during the month, respectively.
Loans in pesos to the private sector, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, showed a contraction of 1.6% in March. The moderation in loan growth occurs in a context of gradual recovery of economic activity, which has led to lower demand for credit lines created during the health emergency, allowing the BCRA to focus credit assistance efforts on the most lagging sectors. Thus, commercial lines have been making a negative contribution to the monthly variation. Nevertheless, in inter-annual terms, they grew 22.6% at constant prices. Although they reflected a marked deceleration, in large part, this is explained by a higher comparison base, since credit growth accelerated from March 2020. Differentiating by type of company, practically all the deceleration was due to the large company segment, since MSMEs maintained a relatively stable real growth rate around 65% year-on-year.

The Financing Line for Productive Investment has been widely used as a vehicle to channel commercial credit to MSMEs. At the end of March, loans granted amount to approximately $411,700 million, 32% more compared to the same period in February. In March, the BCRA decided to extend the validity of the LFIP until the end of September.

For its part, loans with pledged collateral and credit card financing contributed positively to the monthly variation. One of the factors that affects the evolution of this latter line is billing within the framework of the "Ahora 12" program. Recently, the Department of Domestic Commerce extended it until July 31 to pay for purchases financed in 3, 6, 12 or 18 fixed monthly installments with a credit card. Among its main modifications is the elimination of the 3-month grace period as well as an adjustment in financing conditions.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 22. Monetary Aggregates

The monetary aggregates continued to decelerate, showing sustained decline in terms of Product since the maximum reached in 2020. The private M3 ratio to GDP was positioned at 18.4% and accumulated a decline of 6 p.p. since June of last year. For its part, private M2 in terms of Product reached 11.1%, more than 2 p.p. below the maximums of the 2005-2019 period and at a level similar to 2016-2017, while currency in public hands approaches the 2019 minimum (see Chart 2.1).

Adjusted for seasonality, the broad monetary aggregate (private M3)¹ continued to show limited variation (0.2%) in real terms². Within it, the only expansion factor was, again, time deposits. Its contribution to monthly growth was almost entirely offset by the negative contribution of means of payment (currency in public hands and demand deposits; see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Monetary Aggregates in terms of GDP
Chart 2.2 | Private M3. Real without seasonality
(without seasonality, 3-month moving average GDP) (monthly var. and contribution by component to growth)

% of GDP %, p.p.
25 24.4 10
Private M3 Private M2 Currency in public hands Time Deposits and Others (p.p.)

20.7 8 Demand Deposits (p.p.)
20 20.0 Currency in public hands (p.p.)
Private M3 (monthly variation)
18.4 6

16.0
15 13.6 13.6 4

2
11.1
10
0
6.7 6.9
6.1 -2
5 4.2

-4

0 -6
Mar-05 Mar-07 Mar-09 Mar-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Mar-17 Mar-19 Mar-21 Mar-19 Jul-19 Nov-19 Mar-20 Jul-20 Nov-20 Mar-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
Time deposits in pesos from the private sector completed the first quarter of the year with a positive monthly growth rate in real terms. The increase recorded in March was 1.9%, thus reaching an average expansion rate of 2.6% in the quarter. The year-on-year variation increased 1.3 p.p. with respect to the previous month and stood at 22%, a value close to the maximum record for the period between 2004 and 2019 (see Chart 2.3).

Placements of higher amounts were those that drove the growth of time deposits, while deposits of up to $1 million remained relatively stable throughout the month (see Chart 2.4). In particular, in the wholesale segment (more than $20 million) growth was concentrated in the first three weeks of the month and was explained by the behavior of Financial Services Providers, which was linked to the increase in the equity of Money Market Common Investment Funds (FCI MM).

1 Includes currency in circulation and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
2 INDEC will release the March inflation data on April 15.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 3

Chart 2.3 | Time deposits from the private sector
(monthly average balance variation at constant prices)

Chart 2.4 | Time deposits from the private sector
(daily balance at constant prices by amount stratum)

%  %  thousands of
20  40  millions $  Less than $1 million
of 31-Mar
Maximum  1,250  From $1 million to $20 million
15  Period 2004-2019  30
23.1  22.0  More than $20 million
10  20  1,150

5  1.9  10  1,050

0  0
950
-5  -10
-10  Monthly variation  -20  850

Year-on-year variation (right axis)  750
-15  -30

-20  -40  650
mar-17 sep-17 mar-18 sep-18 mar-19 sep-19 mar-20 sep-20 mar-21  01-jul  30-ago  29-oct  28-dic  26-feb

Source: BCRA

Although the growth for the month was explained fundamentally by deposits in pesos, deposits denominated in UVA continued to grow at a good pace. The latter reached a balance of $109,023 million at the end of March, which implied an increase of 20.6% in real terms with respect to February 28. This increase was composed of both traditional placements and those with early cancellation options, which grew in the month 16.7% and 35.7%, respectively. Distinguishing the balance by holder, companies and natural persons are the main holders of traditional UVA deposits, with 54.6% and 38% of the total, respectively. Both types of holders show sustained growth since mid-November 2020, with an acceleration in the growth of natural persons' deposits observed from the beginning of the year (see Chart 2.5). This greater dynamism was also verified in the case of pre-cancellable deposits, whose holders are concentrated precisely in natural persons (see Chart 2.6).

Chart 2.5 | Traditional UVA Deposits
(daily balance at constant prices by type of holder)

Chart 2.6 | Pre-cancellable UVA Deposits
(daily balance at constant prices by type of holder)

thousands of millions  thousands of millions
of $ as of 31-Mar-21  of $ as of 31-Mar-21
90  Natural Persons  50
Financial Services Providers  Natural Persons
80  Other Legal Entities  45  Financial Services Providers
Total  40  Other legal entities
70  Total

60  35

50  30

25
40
20
30  15

20  10

10  5

0  0
mar-20 may-20 jun-20 ago-20 sep-20 nov-20 dic-20 feb-21 mar-21  mar-20 may-20 jun-20 ago-20 sep-20 nov-20 dic-20 feb-21 mar-21

Source: BCRA  Source: BCRA
Regarding means of payment, the aforementioned increase in the assets of the MM FCIs also had as a correlate an increase in remunerated sight deposits in the first part of the month, which was partially reversed in the last week of March. In contrast, transactional deposits, at constant prices, continued to show a downward trend. Thus, the total sight deposits would have registered a decline of 0.3% s.e. at constant prices. For its part, currency in circulation in public hands, in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, would have decreased 1.3%. In this way, private M2 continued to sustain the decline that has been observed since August 2020 (see Chart 2.7).

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 4 The Monetary Base contracted in March 2.1% ($ 54,669 million). The expansion associated with the net purchase of foreign currency by the BCRA and financing to the National Treasury were sterilized through reverse repos and LELIQ (see Chart 2.8).

Chart 2.7 | Means of Payment and Components Chart 2.8 | Monetary Base and Variation Factors
(monthly average balances s.e. at constant prices) (monthly average variation)

thousands of thousands of
billions of $ millions of $
5,500 External Sector
500 Reverse Repos and Leliq

400 Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities
5,000 Other
300 Monetary Base

4,500 200

100
4,000
0

3,500 -100

-200
3,000 -300

2,500 -400
mar-05 mar-07 mar-09 mar-11 mar-13 mar-15 mar-17 mar-19 mar-21 jan-21 feb-21 mar-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

In the dollar segment, private sector deposits ended the month at US$15,935 million, which implied an increase of US$274 million with respect to the close of February.

3. Loans to the private sector

In real terms and without seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector would have registered in March a contraction of 1.6%. Thus, the year-on-year growth rate would have decelerated slightly, standing at 4.6% at constant prices (see Chart 3.1). Said credit slowdown occurs in a context of gradual recovery in economic activity, which has led to a lower demand for credit lines created during the health emergency, allowing the BCRA to focus its credit assistance efforts on the most lagging sectors. In this way, the decline registered in the month was explained, fundamentally, by the evolution of commercial lines, while financing with credit cards and pawned loans contributed positively to the monthly variation (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 3.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector Chart 3.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector
(real without seasonality) (real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth)

% %; p.p.
6% 60 8

5 50
4 40 6

3 30 4
2 20
1 10 2
0 0
-1 -10 0
-2 -20
-3 -30 -2

-4 -40 -4
-5 -50 Personal Documents
-6 Monthly var. -60 Card Advances
Year-on-year var. (right axis) -6 Other Pawned
-7 -70 Total (monthly var.)
-8 -80 -8
mar-18 sep-18 mar-19 sep-19 mar-20 sep-20 mar-21 mar-19 jun-19 sep-19 dec-19 mar-20 jun-20 sep-20 dec-20 mar-21
Source: BCRA Source: BCRA
# Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 5

In total, commercial lines registered a monthly contraction of 5% in real terms without seasonality. Within this type of financing, discounted documents and documents on sole signature exhibited a decline of 1.3% and 2.9% in real terms. Meanwhile, overdrafts on current accounts presented the largest decrease, with a monthly decline of 11.5% s.e. at constant prices. In year-on-year terms, commercial lines grew 22.6% at constant prices. Although they reflected a marked deceleration, this is largely explained by a greater comparison base, since credit growth accelerated from March 2020. Differentiating by type of company, practically all the deceleration responded to the large enterprises segment, as SMEs maintained a relatively stable real growth rate around 65% y-o-y (see Chart 3.3).

Since its implementation, the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) has been used to channel commercial credit to SMEs. At the end of March, loans totaling approximately $411,700 million have been granted, 32% more compared to the end of February. Regarding the destinations of these funds, around 80% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects (see Chart 3.4). At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 98,000, representing 16% more compared to the previous month. It should be noted that in March the BCRA arranged to extend the validity of the LFIP until the end of September³, maintaining the quota of 7.5% of deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector in pesos⁴ for entities in Group A and 25% of said quota for financial agents that do not belong to Group A.

Chart 3.3 | Commercial Credit at constant prices | Chart 3.4 | Productive Investment Line Financings
(30-day moving average) | (disbursed amounts; acum. to Mar-21)

y-o-y var. % | thousands of millions of $

100 | 450
80 | 400 - 411.7
Remaining Commercial Credit | Total
Total | Investment Projects (30% annual rate)
60 | 64.7 | 350
40 | 300
MiPyMEs | 21.6 | 250
20 | 200
0 | -5.0 | 150
-20 | 100 | 78.4
-40 | 50
-60 | 0
mar-18 sep-18 mar-19 sep-19 mar-20 sep-20 mar-21 | nov-20 dic-20 ene-21 feb-21 mar-21

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

Regarding consumer loans, credit card financings would have presented a monthly expansion of 1.4% s.e. in real terms, accumulating a growth of 12.7% over the last twelve months (see Chart 3.5). One of the factors that affects the evolution of this credit line is billing under the "Now 12" program. It should be noted that the Secretary of Interior Commerce extended it until July 31 to pay for financed purchases in 3, 6, 12 or 18 fixed monthly installments with a credit card. Among its main modifications is the elimination of the 3-month grace period as well as an adjustment in financing conditions⁵. For its part, personal loans exhibited a decline close to 0.6% at constant prices.

---

³ Communication "A" 7240.
⁴ Calculated on the average of deposits from the private sector for the month of March.
⁵ Resolution 282/2021 of the Secretary of Interior Commerce of the Ministry of Productive Development.
# Monthly Monetary Report | March of 2021 | BCRA | 6

Regarding the measures adopted to alleviate the financial burden on families in the context of the pandemic, the BCRA decided to establish a gradual transition in the definition of debtors for clients who chose to postpone the payment of credit installments, a benefit that will not be renewed starting from the expiration at the end of the month⁶. In particular, clients who cannot afford to pay installments starting in April will be able over the following two months to seek an agreement with the financial entity for a credit reprogramming, before it is considered that they have entered into arrears status. In this way, unpaid installments during the months of April and May will not be considered for the Central Registry of Debtors, and only starting in June will financial entities classify their debtors according to the arrears criteria that existed prior to March 2020.

With regard to lines with real guarantee, chattel mortgage loans presented in March a monthly expansion of 2% in real terms and without seasonality, accumulating 9 consecutive months of positive variation. In this way, the year-over-year expansion rate at constant prices would be located around 10.6% (see Graph 3.6). The great dynamism that chattel mortgage credits continue to present is linked to the recovery of sales in the automotive market, which was reflected in the higher levels of vehicle registration⁷. On the other hand, the balance of mortgage loans in nominal terms continued at values similar to those at the end of 2018.

Graph 3.5 | Credit Cards without Seasonality | Graph 3.6 | Chattel Mortgages without Seasonality and Vehicle Registrations
(var. at constant prices) | (var. at constant prices)

% | % | var. % y.o.y.
8 | 80 | 110 | Vehicle Registration
6 | Monthly Var. | 60 | 90 |
  | Y.o.y. Var. (right axis) | Chattel mortgage loans in real terms |
4 | 40 | 70 | 12 per. moving average (Vehicle Registration) |
  | | 50 |
2 | 20 | 30 |
0 | 0 | 10 |
-2 | -20 | -10 |
-4 | -40 | -30 |
  | -50 |
-6 | -60 | -70 |
-8 | -80 | -90 |
mar-18 sep-18 mar-19 sep-19 mar-20 sep-20 mar-21 | mar-16 sep-16 mar-17 sep-17 mar-18 sep-18 mar-19 sep-19 mar-20 sep-20 mar-21 |
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA |

Finally, loans in foreign currency to the private sector grew 1.2% (US$ 63 million), after 19 months of presenting negative variations. Thus, in the last twelve months they accumulated a contraction of 44.6%.

## 4. Liquidity of Financial Entities

In March, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁸ increased 1 p.p. to average 62.7% of deposits, in line with the value of previous months. In this way, it continues to be at historically elevated levels (see Graph 4.1).

⁶ Communication "A" 7245.
⁷ In March, vehicle registrations presented a monthly variation of 20%. In year-over-year terms they grew 105.3%, which is explained by the low comparison base.
⁸ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.

## Monthly Monetary Report | March of 2021 | BCRA | 7

Regarding the components of banking liquidity, within remunerated liabilities, liquidity shifted in favor of reverse repos, which experienced an increase of 2.3 p.p. in terms of deposits, while current accounts of financial entities at the Central Bank contracted by 0.8 p.p. of deposits. For its part, cash in banks fell back to 3.4% of deposits.
For its part, it is worth mentioning that as of April a new series of minimum cash deductions will come into effect for financial entities that have implemented remote and in-person opening of the "Universal Free Account (CGU)"9. In the first place, said entities will be able to deduct the new financing granted to individuals and SMEs that are not reported in the "Financial System Debtors' Registry" subject to a certain maximum interest rate. In the second place, the minimum cash requirement will be deducted based on the growth rate in the use of electronic means through demand accounts whose holders are individuals, on the evolution of electronic checks (ECHEQ) and electronic credit invoices (FCE SME), and on the operability of their ATMs.

Bank liquidity in foreign currency experienced a slight contraction in March and averaged 79.1% of deposits, maintaining itself at historically elevated levels. The decline occurred both in current accounts at the Central Bank and in cash in banks (see chart 4.2).

Chart 4.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities | Chart 4.2 | Liquidity in dollars of financial entities

[Chart data with components: Net Repos Leliq - Remaining Leliq - Requirement Encajes % of deposits CC BCRA $ BOTES for Integration Cash in Banks $ deposits | Cash in Banks USD CC BCRA USD Liquidity USD % of deposits]

[Chart displays data from March 2020 to March 2021 with various percentage values]

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

## 5. Interest Rates10

Money market interest rates remained stable in March. Passive rates continued to be positioned around guaranteed minimum rates. Thus, for example, the TM20 of private banks averaged 33.9%, while the interest rate paid on deposits by individuals of up to $100,000 was positioned, on average, at 36.6%. For its part, interbank market interest rates presented limited variations. The repo rate between third parties and the 1-day Call rate averaged 32.4% and 30.6%, respectively (see Chart 5.1).

In the same line, active interest rates remained without significant changes. Interest rates on financing implemented through documents continued to reflect the incidence of credits

9 Communication "A" 7254.
10 All interest rates are expressed in annual nominal terms, unless otherwise indicated.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 8

granted under the framework of the LFIP, which provides for a maximum interest rate of 30% for capital investment financing and 35% for working capital. The interest rate corresponding to document discounting was situated, on average, at 31.5% and that corresponding to single-signature documents averaged 34.8%. On the other hand, the interest rate charged for personal loans registered a slight increase, as did that corresponding to overdrafts, being situated, on average, at 56% and 40.1%, respectively (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Interest rates of policy instruments, passives | Chart 5.2 | Active interest rates
and interbank rates
TNA; % LELIQ TNA; % 80
 80 Passive Repos BCRA 1 day
 Passive Repos BCRA 7 days Discounted Documents
 70 Fixed Term Deposits from Individuals up to $100 thousand (up to 35 days) 70 Personal Loans
 TM20 Private Banks Documents at Sole Signature
 BADLAR Private Banks Total Advances
 60 CALL at 1 day 60
 Repos between third parties 1 day
 50

 40 50

 30 40

 20
 30
 10

 0 20
 mar-20 may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20 jan-21 mar-21 mar-20 may-20 jul-20 sep-20 nov-20 jan-21 mar-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

 6. International Reserves

The balance of International Reserves ended the month at US$39,593 million, registering an increase of US$75
million with respect to the closing of February (see Chart 6.1). The expansion of reserves was associated with
net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector, which totaled US$1,476 million. This effect was partially
offset by the decline in the current account of financial entities at the BCRA, the decrease associated with net
payments to international organizations and the effect from exchange rate valuation.

The nominal peso/US dollar exchange rate increased 2.6% in March, averaging the month at a value of 91.02.
For its part, the multilateral real exchange rate (TCRM) registered a slight appreciation, averaging the month at
a value of 120.5. In this way, it continues at a competitive level, positioning itself above the historical average
(see Chart 6.2).

Chart 6.1 | International Reserves Chart 6.2 | Multilateral real exchange rate index
(daily balances)

 thousands of $/U$S
 as of 31-Mar-21
 millions of u$s
 120
 90
 115 ITCRM
 80 ITCRM Historical Average
 70 110

 60 105

 50 100

 40 95

 30 90

 20 85

 10 80

 0 75
 jan-03 jan-05 jan-07 jan-09 jan-11 jan-13 jan-15 jan-17 jan-19 jan-21 mar-19 jun-19 sep-19 dec-19 mar-20 jun-20 sep-20 dec-20 mar-21
 Source: BCRA Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 97. Monetary and Financial Indicators

 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin.

 Monthly Averages Percentage Variations
 Main monetary and financial system variables average
 mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 mar-20 Monthly Last 12
 months
 Monetary Base 2,521,921 2,576,590 2,581,522 1,941,048 -2.1% 29.9%
 Monetary Circulation 1,814,533 1,836,512 1,864,005 1,179,646 -1.2% 53.8%
 Banknotes and Coins in Possession of the Public 1,578,676 1,583,138 1,613,407 1,032,153 -0.3% 52.9%
 Banknotes and Coins in Financial Entities 235,857 253,373 250,597 147,492 -6.9% 59.9%
 Cancellation Checks 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 -33.7% 5.8%
 Current Account at the BCRA 707,388 740,078 717,517 761,402 -4.4% -7.1%

 Stock of BCRA Repos
 Liabilities 1,177,580 955,558 1,025,416 17,612 23.2% 6,586.3%
 Assets 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0%

 Stock of LELIQ (at nominal value) 1,886,613 1,810,157 1,721,922 1,517,923 4.2% 24.3%

 BCRA International Reserves 39,711 39,377 39,613 44,263 0.8% -10.3%

 Private and Public Sector Deposits in Pesos (1) 6,738,400 6,456,573 6,320,329 3,938,080 4.4% 71.1%
 Private Sector Deposits 5,400,114 5,215,584 5,062,335 3,241,285 3.5% 66.6%
 Current Account (2) 1,279,912 1,235,961 1,217,047 765,456 3.6% 67.2%
 Savings Account 1,350,120 1,351,167 1,359,431 868,214 -0.1% 55.5%
 Fixed Term Deposits Not Adjustable by CER / UVA 2,589,951 2,461,704 2,332,880 1,454,082 5.2% 78.1%
 Fixed Term Deposits Adjustable by CER / UVA 72,314 59,209 48,689 57,011 22.1% 26.8%
 Other Deposits (3) 107,817 107,544 104,288 96,522 0.3% 11.7%

 Public Sector Deposits 1,338,286 1,240,989 1,257,993 696,795 7.8% 92.1%
 Private and Public Sector Deposits in Dollars (1) 18,461 18,397 18,446 20,724 0.3% -10.9%

 Loans to Private and Public Sector in Pesos (1) 2,905,977 2,867,697 2,829,418 1,961,617 1.3% 48.1%
Loans to private sector 2,862,442 2,822,640 2,782,634 1,897,543 1.4% 50.8%
 Advances 281,849 305,782 293,567 243,643 -7.8% 15.7%
 Documents 655,214 648,925 647,488 308,885 1.0% 112.1%
 Mortgage loans 223,526 219,676 217,051 213,232 1.8% 4.8%
 Pledge loans 119,406 113,278 108,612 74,756 5.4% 59.7%
 Personal loans 480,214 463,793 450,325 408,095 3.5% 17.7%
 Credit cards 923,005 891,594 890,311 567,345 3.5% 62.7%
 Others 179,227 179,594 175,278 81,587 -0.2% 119.7%

 Loans to public sector 43,535 45,057 46,785 64,073 -3.4% -32.1%
 Loans to private sector and public sector in dollars (1) 5,245 5,183 5,269 9,361 1.2% -44.0%

 Total monetary aggregates (1)

 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + current accounts in pesos) 3,330,719 3,267,986 3,314,584 2,032,275 1.9% 63.9%
 M2 (M1 + savings accounts in pesos) 4,746,067 4,680,293 4,754,419 2,970,462 1.4% 59.8%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total deposits in 8,317,077 8,039,711 7,933,736 4,970,233 3.4% 67.3%
 pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 10,001,809 9,674,856 9,519,979 6,283,081 3.4% 59.2%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M1 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + private current accounts in 2,858,589 2,819,099 2,830,455 1,797,609 1.4% 59.0%
 pesos)
 M2 (M1 + private savings accounts in pesos) 4,208,709 4,170,266 4,189,886 2,665,823 0.9% 57.9%
 M3 (Banknotes and coins in circulation + cancellation checks in pesos + total private deposits 6,978,791 6,798,722 6,675,743 4,273,438 2.6% 63.3%
 in pesos)
 M3* (M3 + total private deposits in dollars + cancellation checks in foreign currency + CEDIN) 8,424,390 8,190,162 8,030,175 5,430,238 2.9% 55.1%

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 10 Average variations
 Variation factors Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2021 Last 12 months
 Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4) Nominal Contribution (4)

Monetary base -54,669 -2.1% 96,896 4.0% 96,896 4.0% 580,874 29.9%
Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others 115,457 4.5% 198,317 8.2% 198,317 8.2% -186,776 -9.6%
Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury -25,016 -1.0% -65,663 -2.7% -65,663 -2.7% -216,736 -11.2%
Temporary advances and transfer of profits 63,065 2.4% 135,151 5.6% 135,151 5.6% 1,862,379 95.9%
Other public sector operations 16,209 0.6% 23,694 1.0% 23,694 1.0% -33,497 -1.7%
Sterilization (Repos and LELIQ) -212,198 -8.2% -115,963 -4.8% -115,963 -4.8% -714,379 -36.8%
Others -12,185 -0.5% -78,640 -3.2% -78,640 -3.2% -130,117 -6.7%

International reserves of BCRA 333 0.8% 811 2.1% 811 2.1% -4,552 -10.3%
 Intervention in the foreign exchange market 1,280 3.2% 2,253 5.8% 2,253 5.8% -2,963 -6.7%
 Payment to international organizations -188 -0.5% -631 -1.6% -631 -1.6% -2,474 -5.6%
 Other public sector operations -101 -0.3% -193 -0.5% -193 -0.5% -268 -0.6%
 Minimum cash -135 -0.3% 426 1.1% 426 1.1% 995 2.2%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -522 -1.3% -1,043 -2.7% -1,043 -2.7% 158 0.4%

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration

 Mar - 21 Feb - 21 Jan - 21

 National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Requirement 24.1 24.8 24.1
 Integration in current accounts 10.4 11.4 11.2
 LELIQ integration 23.3 22.8 22.6
 BOTE integration 3.7 3.8 3.9
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 77.4 77.4 77.1
 30 to 59 days 16.4 16.4 17.0
 60 to 89 days 3.0 3.0 3.0
 90 to 179 days 1.9 1.9 1.9
 More than 180 days 1.2 1.2 1.1

 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of funds) 61.4 62.0 59.5
 Residual maturity structure of fixed-term deposits %
 used for the calculation of the requirement (1)
 Up to 29 days 63.0 63.0 63.5
 30 to 59 days 20.3 20.3 20.1
 60 to 89 days 6.4 6.4 7.9
 90 to 179 days 7.1 7.1 5.9
 180 to 365 days 3.1 3.1 2.6
 More than 365 days 0.1 0.1 0.1
(1) Excludes judicial fixed-term deposits.
 * The data is provisional.
 Source: BCRA

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 11 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Reference Interest Rates mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 32.00 32.00 32.00 32.00 15.29
 Liabilities 7 days 36.50 36.50 36.50 36.50 n/a
 Repo rates between third parties REPO round
 1 day 32.40 32.21 32.78 33.19 30.81

 Amount traded in repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) 3,400 4,583 5,360 5,717 21,787

 LELIQ Rate 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.63

 Foreign Exchange Market mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 Spot Dollar
 Wholesale 91.07 88.68 85.97 82.64 63.12
 Retail 93.54 90.89 88.36 85.07 62.75

 Future Dollar
 NDF 1 month 93.60 91.72 89.86 86.95 65.96
 ROFEX 1 month 93.69 91.36 89.28 86.12 65.86
 Amount traded (all maturities, millions of pesos) 40,811 47,661 46,570 55,502 23,666
 Real (Pesos x Real) 16.15 16.38 16.06 16.05 13.04

 Euro (Pesos x Euro) 108.39 107.22 104.63 100.57 69.99

 Capital Market mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 MERVAL
 Index 48,139 50,528 50,290 52,763 29,123
 Government Bonds (at par)
 BONAR 2035 (Local Law) 31.4 33.3 34.6 36.0 -
 GLOBAL 2035 (Foreign Law) 32.1 34.7 36.1 37.0 -
 BONCER 2026 83.6 85.0 79.5 76.3 -
 Country Risk (basis points)
 EMBI+ Argentina 1,568 1,470 1,424 1,388 3,254
 EMBI+ Latin America 480 454 447 435 606

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 12 Rates in nominal annual percentage and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Passive Interest Rates mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 Call in pesos (15 days)
 Rate 30.55 30.45 30.13 29.59 30.13
 Amount traded 12,280 9,026 9,202 12,960 9,405

 Fixed-Term Deposit
 In pesos
 30-44 days 33.49 33.51 33.57 33.41 28.21
 60 days or more 34.34 34.06 34.19 33.76 29.32
 TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 33.18 33.09 33.31 33.36 28.71
 TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 33.84 33.90 34.13 34.20 29.88
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 33.28 33.14 33.27 33.30 28.29
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 34.04 34.06 34.15 34.21 29.49

 In dollars
 30-44 days 0.37 0.39 0.43 0.42 0.82
 60 days or more 0.54 0.65 0.61 0.60 1.09
 BADLAR Total (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.42 0.43 0.49 0.50 0.99
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than US$1 million, 30-35 days) 0.31 0.38 0.46 0.39 1.26

 Active Interest Rates mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 Repurchase Agreements in pesos
 Gross interest rate at 30 days 33.09 34.29 34.84 33.78 31.37
 Amount traded (all maturities) 120,638 68,638 65,262 66,396 43,069
 Loans to the private sector in pesos (1)
 Current account advances 41.32 40.95 40.47 39.66 47.51
 Unsecured loans 34.76 35.09 34.68 35.13 40.01
 Mortgage loans 28.72 30.26 29.23 32.29 30.59
 Secured loans 28.16 28.50 27.72 32.29 23.97
 Personal loans 55.95 55.94 56.38 55.39 59.81
 Credit cards 42.22 42.78 42.36 41.98 56.84
 Current account advances -1 to 7 days- with agreement to companies - more than $10 million 36.12 34.89 34.67 33.22 38.64

 International Interest Rates mar-21 feb-21 jan-21 dec-20 mar-20

 LIBOR
 1 month 0.11 0.11 0.13 0.15 0.91
 6 months 0.20 0.21 0.24 0.26 0.95

 US Treasury Bond
 2 years 0.15 0.12 0.13 0.13 0.48
 10 years 1.61 1.24 1.07 0.93 0.90

 FED Funds Rate 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.80
 SELIC (at 1 year) 2.34 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.07

 (1) The data up to June 2010 correspond to the monthly information requirement SISCEN 08, while from July 2010 onward they correspond to the daily
 information requirement SISCEN 18.

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 13 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**ANSES:** National Social Security Administration.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**SDR:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**y.o.y.:** year-over-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**CPI:** Consumer Price Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.

**M2:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.

**M3*:** Broad bimonetary aggregate, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks and total deposits in pesos and foreign currency from the non-financial public and private sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Exchange.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** effective annual.

**NDF:** Non-deliverable forward.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**p.p.:** percentage points.

**SMEs:** Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**s.e.:** seasonally unadjusted.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.

**IRR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**TNA:** Nominal Annual Rate.

**UVA:** Purchasing Power Unit.

---

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2021 | BCRA | 14
