2. Means of Payment
Means of payment (private transactional M2²), in real terms³ and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), would have registered an increase of 2.1% in January, explained mostly by the positive carryover left in December due to the payment of the mid-year bonus. Within its components, the greatest contribution to growth came from non-remunerated demand deposits, although currency in circulation also contributed positively to the monthly variation (see Chart 2.1).

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2 in terms of GDP
Contribution by component to monthly variation s.e.

p.p. Transactional demand deposits | % of GDP M2 Private Transactional

4 Currency in circulation | 16 Non-remunerated demand deposits

3 Private transactional M2 (%) | Currency in circulation

14

2 Avg. 10-19 | 12 11.4

1 10.1

10

0

8

-1 Avg. 10-19 | 6 5.8 5.9

-2 Avg. 10-19

-3 4 5.6 4.2

-4 2

jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 | jan-06 jan-08 jan-10 jan-12 jan-14 jan-16 jan-18 jan-20 jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Private transactional M2 in terms of Product continued to be positioned below the average record for the 2010-2019 period. As already mentioned in previous editions, the low levels of currency in circulation are what explain this behavior. Indeed, bills and coins in the hands of the public were positioned 1.4 p.p. below the average registered between 2010 and 2019, and at a value close to the minimum of the last 15 years (see Chart 2.2). This evolution influenced the increasingly greater use of electronic means of payment.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

In the first days of January, the BCRA Board decided to raise the minimum guaranteed interest rates on fixed-term deposits in order to support their demand⁴. Thus, a minimum guaranteed rate was set for placements by individuals for up to an amount of $10 million of 39% p.a. (46.80% e.a.), which implied an increase of 2 p.p. for depositors with investments of up to $1 million and of 5 p.p. for those with placements between $1 and $10 million. For the rest of the financial system depositors⁵ the new floor was set at 37% p.a. (43.98% e.a.). The measure falls within the Objectives and Plans defined for 2022⁶, among which is the establishment of an interest rate path that aims for Argentineans to obtain returns in line with the evolution of inflation and exchange rate.

² Private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.

³ INDEC will release the January inflation figure on February 15.

⁴ Communication "A" 7432.

⁵ Financial Service Providers, Companies and Individuals with deposits exceeding $10 million.

⁶ https://www.bcra.gob.ar/Pdfs/Institucional/ObjetivosBCRA_2022.pdf.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 3

In a context of higher interest rates, and considering that January is a month that in recent years has presented greater demand for savings instruments in pesos⁷, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector would have registered a monthly expansion in real terms of 2.5% s.e., breaking with a period of three consecutive months of declines. In this way, fixed-rate placements expanded 0.2 p.p. in terms of GDP until positioning themselves at 6.6%, placing themselves 1.1 p.p. above the average record for 2010-2019 and 1.3 p.p. below the mid-2020 maximum.
The growth in January was driven mainly by deposits from natural persons, which throughout the month showed sustained increases, both in nominal and real terms. Distinguishing by amount bracket, growth concentrated in placements of more than $1 million (see Graph 3.1). In effect, placements between $1 and $20 million, whose main holders are natural persons, registered an expansion at constant prices throughout the month. Wholesale segment deposits (more than $20 million) also grew in real terms in January. This dynamic was influenced by the behavior of Money Market Investment Funds (FCIMM), which are an important agent in this amount bracket. In a context where their assets remained without significant changes, a substitution was observed of part of their shorter-term assets (remunerated sight deposits and investments with early redemption option) for traditional fixed-term placements (see Graph 3.2). Finally, deposits of up to $1 million grew in nominal terms at a rate similar to that of prices, which implied relative stability in the month at constant prices, interrupting the downward trend initiated last August.

Graph 3.1 | Private sector fixed-term deposits
Contribution by amount bracket to real monthly variation

Graph 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of more than $20 million
Balance at constant prices by deposit type

At the instrument level, once again a preference was observed for those assets with longer terms. In this way, traditional fixed-term deposits continued with the upward trend initiated in mid-December, driven by peso-denominated placements. For their part, traditional deposits adjustable by CER remained without significant variations at constant prices. Meanwhile, investments with early redemption option showed a decline in the same period (see Graph 3.3). In particular, precancelable deposits adjustable by CER stabilized from mid-January, after two months of showing a slight upward trend (see Graph 3.4).

7 It should be noted that the series of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector does not present identifiable seasonality. However, in recent years a systematic growth of this series has been observed in the first month of the year.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 4

Graph 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector
Balance at constant prices

Graph 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Balance at constant prices

Source: BCRA.
Source: BCRA.
In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3⁸, at constant prices would have registered a monthly expansion of 1.1% s.e. in January. In the year-over-year comparison, this aggregate would have experienced a slight increase (1.5%). As a percentage of the Product it registered a slight acceleration up to 18.5%, a figure slightly higher than the average observed between 2010 and 2019.

## 4. Monetary Base

In January, the Monetary Base was located at $3,836 billion, which meant an average monthly nominal increase of 8.6% (+$291,153 million) in the original series. Said increase was explained, in large part, by the positive statistical carryover left by December, a month with strong seasonality. In effect, the point variation — between December 31 and January 31 — was -0.6% (-$22,989 million). Adjusted for seasonality and inflation, the Monetary Base would have registered an increase of 3.5% and in year-over-year terms a contraction of around 8%. As a ratio of GDP the Monetary Base was located at 6.3%, a figure similar to that at the end of 2019 and around the minimum values since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base / Chart 4.2 | Monetary Base and expansion factors by supply
Variation of monthly averages

[billions of $ / % of GDP / billions of $ from Jan-22 / Foreign currency purchases from the private sector / Repos and LELIQ / Public Sector / Rest / Monetary base / As a percentage of GDP (right axis)]

Source: BCRA. / Source: BCRA.

⁸ Includes cash in the hands of the public and peso deposits of the non-financial private sector (sight, term and other).

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 5

If we analyze the variation factors from the supply side, the expansion of the monetary base in December was explained mainly by public sector operations, due primarily to the carryover effect of monetary financing to the National Treasury in December last (see Chart 4.2). In contrast, monetary regulation instruments and private sector foreign currency purchases made a slight negative contribution in the month.

With regard to remunerated liabilities, and in line with the objectives and plans set for 2022, at the beginning of January the BCRA decided to carry out a reconfiguration of these⁹. The changes made are aimed at achieving better management of the liquidity of financial entities, increasing the average maturity of sterilization instruments and refocusing the interest rate signal of policy on the LELIQ rate. In this sense, the elimination of 7-day passive repos was provided and the creation of a new instrument, 180-day LELIQs whose auctions will be held once a week¹⁰. One-day passive repos will absorb short-term liquidity from entities, while long LELIQs will seek to channel structural liquidity. Meanwhile, 28-day LELIQs will remain as the central reference instrument of monetary policy, for which reason access was made more flexible by up to the stock of term deposits of the private sector of each financial entity.
Not only were the policy instruments readjusted, but interest rates were also increased. Specifically, it was decided to raise the interest rate on 28-day LELIQs by 2 percentage points, which rose to 40% p.a. (48.29% e.a.). Meanwhile, for 180-day LELIQs the interest rate was set at 44% p.a. (48.9% e.a.). Finally, regarding shorter-term instruments, as of January 17, the interest rate on 7-day passive repos was progressively reduced to equal that of 1-day repos, which maintain their interest rate at 32% p.a. (37.69% e.a.).

All these changes led to a modification in the composition of the BCRA's remunerated liabilities (see Chart 4.3). Regarding 7-day passive repos, the reduction in the interest rate meant that by month-end, entities did not maintain positions in this instrument. The funds were channeled toward other remunerated liabilities. Thus, 1-day passive repos expanded to represent 23.1% of the total. Meanwhile, 180-day bills came to account for 7.7% of the total as of January 31. Finally, the remaining 70% was explained by 28-day LELIQs, which implied an expansion of just over 20 percentage points compared to the December average. These changes in the relative composition of remunerated liabilities allowed the continuation of the policy of extending the terms of the BCRA's remunerated liabilities initiated at the beginning of the administration with the change in the term of the shortest LELIQs from 7 to 28 days in February 2020. With the current configuration of instruments, the average residual term of the total LELIQ stock practically doubled, rising from approximately 15 to 30 days (see Chart 4.4).

9 Communication "A" 7432.
10 To access this bill, the entity must have a fixed-term deposit balance exceeding 20% of its private sector deposits in pesos.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 6

Chart 4.3 | BCRA Remunerated Liabilities | Chart 4.4 | Average Term of LELIQs
7-day Moving Average

% | 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 days
100 | 35
90 | 30
80 | 25
70 | 
60 | 20
50 | 15
40 | 10
30 |
20 | 5
10 | 0
0 |
Avg. | 13-jan | 18-jan | 20-jan | 25-jan | 31-jan | Avg. | 0
Dec-21 | Jan-22 | jan-18 | jul-18 | jan-19 | jul-19 | jan-20 | jul-20 | jan-21 | jul-21 | jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

In real terms and without seasonality, peso-denominated loans to the private sector would have recorded a slight increase in January (0.2%), noting five consecutive months of increase. Commercial lines continued to make a positive contribution to the monthly variation, which was partially offset by a decline in credit card financing (see chart 5.1). Measured in terms of GDP, peso-denominated credit to the private sector remained slightly above 7%, at a level similar to that observed in December.

Chart 5.1 | Peso-Denominated Loans to the Private Sector | Chart 5.2 | Documents
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth | Monthly average balance variation at constant prices

% | % | %
4 | Documents | 10 | 100
Personal | 3 | 8 | 80
Advances | Monthly Var.
2 | Credit Cards | 6 | Year-on-year Var. (right axis) | 60
Real Guarantee | 1 | 4 | 40
Other | 0 | 2 | 20
Total (monthly var.) |
-1 | 0 | 0
-2 | -2 | -20
-3 | -4 | -40
-4 | -6 | -60
| -8 | -80
jan-21 | apr-21 | jul-21 | oct-21 | jan-22 | jan-21 | apr-21 | jul-21 | oct-21 | jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Commercial lines would have grown 2.8% monthly at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality. These financings were again driven by lines implemented through documents, whose expansion rate at constant prices would have been 4.6% s.e. (see Chart 5.2). This increase was explained both by the dynamics of documents with sole signature, which have a longer average term, as well as discounted documents (which would have grown at constant prices 5.4% s.e. and 3% s.e., respectively).
However, it should be noted that practically all the growth in commercial lines was explained by the carryover effect from the previous month. In fact, if we consider the month-on-month growth, no significant variations were observed and even some lines showed marked declines. This dynamic occurred in a month in which the demand for credit from companies tends to diminish in response to lower activity during the summer recess.

Despite the lower commercial credit demand observed during the month, the Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main channel through which loans were channeled to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). The preferential conditions of the line allowed the decline observed in MSME loan balances to be smaller than that recorded for the rest of companies (see Graph 5.3). In fact, in the monthly average, inflation-adjusted loans to MSMEs remained in positive territory, which was not the case with the rest of companies.

At the end of January, loans granted through the LFIP accumulated disbursements of approximately $1,628 billion since its launch, with an increase of 8.4% compared to the end of December (see Graph 5.4). To date, more than 215 thousand companies have accessed credit under the LFIP framework. Approximately 84% of the total amount lent was allocated to working capital financing and the remainder to investment projects. It should be noted that, in line with the increase in reference interest rates implemented at the beginning of 2022, the BCRA decided to increase the maximum interest rate for working capital financing by 6 p.p. to 41% p.a. and maintained unchanged at 30% p.a. the interest rate for investment project financing.

Graph 5.3 | Commercial loans to the private sector by Graph 5.4 | Financings granted through the Line of
type of borrower Financing for Productive Investment (LFIP)
Balance at constant prices Accumulated amounts disbursed; data at end of month

billions of thousands of
pesos as of 31-Jan-21 millions of pesos
1,400 MSMEs 1,800
1,300 1,628
Rest of commercial lines 1,600
1,200 1,400
Investment projects (30% p.a. rate)
1,100 1,200
1,000 976 1,000
900
800 800
700 723 600
600 400 258
500 200
400 0
Jan-18 Jul-18 Jan-19 Jul-19 Jan-20 Jul-20 Jan-21 Jul-21 Jan-22 Nov-20 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Regarding lines with real guarantees, pledged loans registered a monthly expansion rate of 2% s.a. at constant prices and thus completed nineteen consecutive months of growth. In the last twelve months they accumulated an expansion of 43.7% and together with loans instrumented through documents are the only lines that show a positive variation compared to January 2021. In contrast, the balance of mortgage credit fell 0.5% in real terms and without seasonality, accumulating a decline of 13.7% in the last twelve months.

Finally, loans associated with consumption showed a contraction during January. Financings instrumented with credit cards would have exhibited a decrease of 2% s.a. in real terms during the first month of 2022 and were positioned 12% below the level of a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would have remained relatively stable at constant prices (0.1% s.a.), reducing the year-on-year decline to 1.5%. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans rose 1.9 p.p. in the January average and stood at 54.9% p.a.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
In January, broad banking liquidity in local currency11 averaged 66.4% of deposits, 0.1 p.p. above what was observed in November, remaining at historically elevated levels.

The reformulation of monetary policy instruments at the beginning of the year (see Monetary Base Section) impacted the composition of banking liquidity. Indeed, there was an increase in unused LELIQs for minimum cash integration from 16.3 to 22.6% of deposits and a fall in passive repos from 24.4 to 18.1% of deposits. It should be noted that this trend would continue in February, given that at the end of the month there were no 7-day repos remaining (see Graph 6.1).

Furthermore, regarding the reserve requirement regime, the scales of the minimum cash deduction associated with financing to SMEs were modified, the percentage allowed to deduct for new investment project financings within the framework of the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs" was increased, and a 100% reserve requirement rate was established for balances in deposit accounts of Payment Service Providers (PSPs) that offer payment accounts in which their clients' funds are deposited12. With all these changes, the checking account increased by 0.7 p.p. of deposits on average in the month of January. Finally, it should be noted that as of February a reduction in the percentage of Ahora12 financings admitted for minimum cash integration was established, becoming 40% of new financings13.

**Graph 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities**

[Chart showing: Net Repos, LELIQ - Other, Integration in LELIQ, CC BCRA $, BOTE 2022 Integration with Other Securities, Cash in Banks $, Liquidity - as % of deposits - from 0 to 70, with monthly data points from previous months through January]

Source: BCRA.

## 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, private sector deposits showed a slight increase compared to last December. However, this increase in deposits was explained by the statistical carryover from December, due to the increase in deposits associated with the exemption from payment of the personal property tax on sight accounts. Indeed, if we consider the point variation of deposits — between December 31 and January 31 — a decrease of US$455 million is observed. In this way, January ended with a balance of US$15,301 million (see Graph 7.1). For its part, loans to the private sector showed a contraction both in the monthly average variation and at the point, accumulating its eighth consecutive decline. The decrease in financings was concentrated in single-signature documents, which represent practically all of the loans in foreign currency.

Banking liquidity in foreign currency registered an increase of 0.9 p.p., averaging 82.9% of deposits in the month of January. This increase was explained by an increase in deposits of financial entities at the Central Bank and was partially offset by a fall in cash in banks (see Graph 7.2).

---

11 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and eligible bonds for integrating reserves.
12 Communication "A" 7429.
13 Communication "A" 7448.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 9
During January, some regulatory changes took place in foreign exchange matters. On one hand, exemption was granted from requiring prior approval from the BCRA to access the foreign exchange market for sight payments or commercial debts without customs entry registration intended for the importation of inputs that will be used for the production of goods in the country, provided that the average amount of input imports that have been registered in the last twelve months does not exceed the amount established in regulation 14. On the other hand, after the Federal Administration of Public Revenues (AFIP) created the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services (SIMPES) with which compliance with tax duties and the financial and economic capacity of the taxpayer who intends to make a payment abroad for services provided to them from abroad is analyzed, the Central Bank arranged that financial entities verify that the client has the endorsement of said system to transfer funds abroad.

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector | Chart 7.2 | Foreign currency liquidity of financial entities

thousands of % of Cash in Bancos US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits
80.3 79.8 80.6 82.0 82.9
25 80 79.4 78.3 76.9 76.0 76.4 78.0
Loans Deposits 74.6 75.8

20 70

60

15 15.3 50 59.5 62.0 61.1 57.5 55.8 56.6 60.5 61.1 62.9 62.2 63.5
54.0 58.4
40

10 30

20
5 3.9 10 19.9 19.4 20.6 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.9 19.4
18.3 17.2 18.0 17.5 17.8

0
0
Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended January with a balance of US$ 37,589 million, reflecting a decline of US$ 2,073 million compared to the end of December (see Chart 7.3). Among the factors that explained this decline, the payment to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) of US$ 714 million toward the end of the month stands out. The remainder of the decline was basically explained by payments to other International Organizations, other debt payments by the National Government in foreign currency and net sale of foreign exchange to the private sector.

In line with the 2022 Objectives and Plans, the BCRA will seek to preserve levels of external competitiveness by readjusting the depreciation rate of the domestic currency to levels more compatible with the inflation rate. This policy also seeks to strengthen the position of International Reserves through the accumulation of the external surplus reflected in the foreign exchange market. In this way, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 2.0% in January to stand, on average, at $103.93/US$ (see Chart 7.4). The greater dynamism of the TCN, combined with the dynamics presented by the main trading partners, made it possible to stabilize the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) during January.

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves | Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate
Daily balance with United States

thousands of Payment to Payment to var. % avg.
millions of US$ IMF IMF monthly

50 4.5
Payment to
SDR Allocation IMF 4.0

3.5

45 3.0

2.5

2.0

40 1.5

1.0

0.5 0.3 0.2

35 0.0
Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 11

8. Regulatory Summary

Date of Issue | Regulation | Description
It was established, effective from January 7, 2022, that the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits constituted by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed in total $10 million at the date of their constitution shall be 97.5% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to that in which the deposits are made, or the last one disclosed in that case. For the rest of the deposits, it shall be 92.50% of said rate. In the case of deposits with early cancellation option, the fixed early cancellation rate shall be 85% of the Monetary Policy Rate.

In turn, it was established that financial entities may maintain a net position in BCRA Liquidity Bills (LELIQ) of shorter issuance term for up to an amount equivalent to the monthly average of daily balances of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector from the previous period, so that, for purposes of compliance, they must reduce their holdings as they collect them. Furthermore, effective from January 10, 2022, those entities that have at least 20% of fixed-term deposits in pesos constituted by the non-financial private sector with respect to the total deposits in pesos of that sector, may maintain a net positive position of LELIQ of longer issuance term.

On the other hand, regarding the minimum cash requirement regime, it is noted that it is the LELIQ of shorter issuance term that financial entities are allowed to integrate for the minimum cash requirement in pesos. Likewise, the minimum cash requirement shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to 30% (previously it was 14%) of the financing provided for in point 4.1. of the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs" that are agreed at an annual nominal interest rate of up to 30%, measured in monthly average of daily balances of the previous month. Furthermore, it was decided to increase to 41% the annual nominal fixed rate of those financing within this line intended for working capital, agreed as of January 10, 2022.

Finally, the maximum interest rate was raised from 49% p.a. (previously it was 43% p.a.) for financing linked to credit cards when the amount financed by this concept, considering each credit card account, does not exceed $200,000.

It was provided that payments at sight or commercial debts without customs entry registration intended for the import of inputs that will be used for the elaboration of goods in the country are exempted from requiring prior approval from the BCRA to access the foreign exchange market, provided that the average amount of imports of inputs that have been registered in the last twelve months (net of the amount pending regularization in arrears situation for payments with customs entry registration that the importer registers) does not exceed the equivalent of US$250,000 according to the criteria established in point 10.11.1. of the "Foreign Exchange and International Transactions" regulations.

On the other hand, following the creation of the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services (SIMPES), with which compliance with tax duties and the financial and economic capacity of the taxpayer seeking to make a payment abroad for services provided to him from abroad is analyzed, financial entities are required to verify that the client has the approval of said system to transfer the funds abroad. In this communication, the cases in which this requirement will not apply are also explicitly stated.
The validity of point 9.3 of the regulations on "Financing to the non-financial public sector" was extended until July 31, 2022, in which financial assistance to the non-financial public sector intended for the payment of personnel salaries is considered as an excluded concept for the purposes of computing the individual and global basic limits established regarding the fragmentation of credit risk that meet the requirements established in the regulation.

Effective February 1, 2022, a deduction of 40% of the sum of financing granted by entities under the AHORA 12 Program was established for the minimum cash requirement in pesos (previously it was 50%).

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 129. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average of Jan-22 | % of GDP

Main monetary variables linked to BCRA | monthly | accumulated in 2022 | year-on-year
| jan-22 | dec-21 | nov-21 | dec-21 | jan-21 | jan-22 | dec-21 | | | |
| | | | | | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real |

Monetary base | 3,685,633 | 3,394,480 | 3,148,096 | 3,394,480 | 2,581,522 | 8.6% | 3.5% | 8.6% | 3.5% | 42.8% | -7.6% | 6.3% | 6.0% |
Monetary circulation | 2,677,121 | 2,504,731 | 2,293,738 | 2,504,731 | 1,864,005 | 6.9% | -0.8% | 6.9% | -0.8% | 43.6% | -7.1% | 4.6% | 4.6% |
Cash in the hands of the public | 2,412,352 | 2,230,702 | 2,058,046 | 2,230,702 | 1,613,506 | 8.1% | 0.4% | 8.1% | 0.4% | 49.5% | -3.3% | 4.2% | 4.1% |
Cash in financial entities | 264,769 | 274,029 | 235,693 | 274,029 | 250,499 | -3.4% | -11.9% | -3.4% | -11.9% | 5.7% | -31.6% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
Current account at the BCRA | 1,008,512 | 889,749 | 854,357 | 889,749 | 717,517 | 13.3% | 13.8% | 13.3% | 13.8% | 40.6% | -9.1% | 1.8% | 1.6% |
BCRA Remunerated Liabilities (NV $) | 4,703,424 | 4,506,696 | 4,368,504 | 4,506,696 | 2,747,338 | 4.4% | 0.6% | 4.4% | 0.6% | 71.2% | 10.8% | 8.4% | 8.1% |
Passive Repos | 1,840,825 | 2,366,670 | 2,250,137 | 2,366,670 | 1,025,416 | -22.2% | -25.0% | -22.2% | -25.0% | 79.5% | 16.2% | 3.3% | 4.2% |
1 day | 349,455 | 110,546 | 93,249 | 110,546 | 104,913 | 216.1% | 204.8% | 216.1% | 204.8% | 233.1% | 115.5% | 0.6% | 0.2% |
7 days | 1,491,369 | 2,256,124 | 2,156,889 | 2,256,124 | 920,504 | -33.9% | -36.3% | -33.9% | -36.3% | 62.0% | 4.8% | 2.7% | 4.0% |
LELIQ Stock | 2,862,599 | 2,140,026 | 2,118,366 | 2,140,026 | 1,721,922 | 33.8% | 29.0% | 33.8% | 29.0% | 66.2% | 7.6% | 5.1% | 3.8% |
BCRA International Reserves in dollars | 38,964 | 40,584 | 42,464 | 40,584 | 39,610 | -4.0% | - | -4.0% | - | -1.6% | - | 7.2% | 7.6% |

| | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2022 | Year-on-year |
| | | | | |
| Factors of average monthly variation | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |

Monetary base | 291,153 | 8.6% | 676,317 | 22.5% | 291,153 | 8.6% | 1,104,111 | 42.8% |
Purchase of currency from the private sector and others | -8,332 | -0.2% | -132,924 | -4.4% | -8,332 | -0.2% | 439,151 | 17.0% |
Purchase of currency from the National Treasury | -29,387 | -0.9% | -36,839 | -1.2% | -29,387 | -0.9% | 58,814 | 2.3% |
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to National Gov. | 409,042 | 12.1% | 1,004,856 | 33.4% | 409,042 | 12.1% | 1,716,054 | 66.5% |
Other public sector operations | -39,032 | -1.1% | -34,723 | -1.2% | -39,032 | -1.1% | -96,978 | -3.8% |
Repos and LELIQ | -6,737 | -0.2% | 28,375 | 0.9% | -6,737 | -0.2% | -528,946 | -20.5% |
Others | -34,400 | -1.0% | -152,428 | -5.1% | -34,400 | -1.0% | -483,983 | -18.7% |
BCRA International Reserves | -1,621 | -4.0% | -3,956 | -9.2% | -1,621 | -4.0% | -647 | -1.6% |
Purchase of currency | -81 | -0.2% | -1,315 | -3.1% | -81 | -0.2% | 4,887 | 12.3% |
International organisms | -1,400 | -3.5% | -2,640 | -6.2% | -1,400 | -3.5% | -2,114 | -5.3% |
Other public sector operations | 594 | 1.5% | 2,405 | 5.6% | 594 | 1.5% | 2,683 | 6.8% |
Minimum Cash 566 1.4% 282 0.7% 566 1.4% 957 2.4%
Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1,300 -3.2% -2,688 -6.3% -1,300 -3.2% -7,060 -17.8%

Note: The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash jan-22 dec-21 nov-21
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement of deductions 22.6 22.1 22.8
Integration in current accounts 9.9 9.2 9.3
LELIQ Integration 18.0 18.3 19.3
BOTE 2022 Integration 3.6 3.8 3.7
Integration Rest of Public Bonds 3.9 4.0 3.9
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default of application of resources) 63.5 62.2 62.9
Position (1) 39.5 38.2 38.9

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 13 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.
Monthly averages Percentage variations average of jan-22 % of GDP 4
Main monetary and financial system variables Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-over-year
jan-22 dec-21 nov-21 dec-21 jan-21 jan-22 dec-21
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Domestic currency segment
Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 1 110,079,920 9,608,635 9,062,126 9,608,635 6,320,153 4.9% 2.0% 4.9% 2.0% 59.5% 3.2% 17.8% 17.3%

Deposits of the private sector 8,055,738 7,742,862 7,260,284 7,742,862 5,063,041 4.0% 1.3% 4.0% 1.3% 59.1% 3.0% 14.2% 13.9%
Deposits on sight of the private sector 4,222,532 4,120,701 3,730,509 4,120,701 2,575,423 2.5% 1.3% 2.5% 1.3% 64.0% 6.1% 7.3% 7.2%

Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 3,432,695 3,308,963 2,944,670 3,308,963 2,129,580 3.7% 3.3% 3.7% 3.3% 61.2% 4.3% 5.9% 5.7%
Remunerated 789,838 811,738 785,839 811,738 445,843 -2.7% -6.2% -2.7% -6.2% 77.2% 14.6% 1.4% 1.5%
Fixed-term deposits and others of the private sector 3,833,206 3,622,161 3,529,775 3,622,161 2,487,618 5.8% 2.1% 5.8% 2.1% 54.1% -0.3% 6.9% 6.7%
Fixed-term deposits 3,692,530 3,473,779 3,402,837 3,473,779 2,382,453 6.3% 2.5% 6.3% 2.5% 55.0% 0.3% 6.6% 6.4%
Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 3,523,118 3,314,129 3,248,962 3,314,129 2,319,345 6.3% 2.5% 6.3% 2.5% 51.9% -1.7% 6.3% 6.1%
Adjustable by CER/UVA 169,411 159,650 153,875 159,650 63,107 6.1% 2.3% 6.1% 2.3% 168.5% 73.7% 0.3% 0.3%
Traditional 107,527 102,682 100,535 102,682 48,615 4.7% 1.0% 4.7% 1.0% 121.2% 43.1% 0.2% 0.2%
Pre-cancelable 61,885 56,968 53,340 56,968 14,492 8.6% 4.8% 8.6% 4.8% 327.0% 176.3% 0.1% 0.1%
Other deposits 140,676 148,382 126,938 148,382 105,165 -5.2% -8.6% -5.2% -8.6% 33.8% -13.4% 0.3% 0.3%
Deposits of the public sector 2 2,024,182 1,865,772 1,801,842 1,865,772 1,257,112 8.5% 4.6% 8.5% 4.6% 61.0% 4.2% 3.6% 3.4%
Monetary aggregates
M2 Total 7,554,028 7,144,286 6,499,085 7,144,286 4,752,732 5.7% 1.7% 5.7% 1.7% 58.9% 2.8% 12.9% 12.6%
M3 Total 12,577,572 11,928,494 11,215,685 11,928,494 8,006,717 5.4% 1.5% 5.4% 1.5% 57.1% 1.6% 22.0% 21.6%
Private monetary aggregates
M2 private 6,634,884 6,351,403 5,788,555 6,351,403 4,188,928 4.5% 0.5% 4.5% 0.5% 58.4% 2.5% 11.5% 11.4%
M2 private transactional 3 5,845,047 5,539,665 5,002,716 5,539,665 3,743,086 5.5% 2.1% 5.5% 2.1% 56.2% 1.0% 10.1% 9.8%
M3 private 10,468,090 9,973,564 9,318,330 9,973,564 6,676,546 5.0% 1.1% 5.0% 1.1% 56.8% 1.5% 18.5% 18.2%
Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 4,159,475 4,058,133 3,811,700 4,058,133 2,829,302 2.5% 0.1% 2.5% 0.1% 47.0% -4.9% 7.4% 7.3%
Loans to the private non-financial sector 4,108,150 4,003,444 3,763,931 4,003,444 2,782,514 2.6% 0.2% 2.6% 0.2% 47.6% -4.5% 7.3% 7.2%
Advances 397,996 392,585 368,292 392,585 293,425 1.4% 0.4% 1.4% 0.4% 35.6% -12.2% 0.7% 0.7%
Documents 1,049,876 1,010,395 936,762 1,010,395 647,494 3.9% 4.6% 3.9% 4.6% 62.1% 4.9% 1.9% 1.8%
Mortgages 289,581 280,283 268,694 280,283 217,087 3.3% -0.5% 3.3% -0.5% 33.4% -13.7% 0.5% 0.5%
Pawn loans 241,257 229,234 213,566 229,234 108,596 5.2% 2.0% 5.2% 2.0% 122.2% 43.7% 0.4% 0.4%
Personal loans 685,376 665,885 636,455 665,885 450,270 2.9% 0.1% 2.9% 0.1% 52.2% -1.5% 1.2% 1.2%
Credit cards 1,210,953 1,198,243 1,125,049 1,198,243 890,350 1.1% -2.0% 1.1% -2.0% 36.0% -12.0% 2.1% 2.1%
Others 233,111 226,818 215,113 226,818 175,293 2.8% -0.6% 2.8% -0.6% 33.0% -14.0% 0.4% 0.4%
Loans to the non-financial public sector 51,325 54,689 47,770 54,689 46,787 -6.2% -9.5% -6.2% -9.5% 9.7% -29.0% 0.1% 0.1%
Foreign currency segment 1

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 18,742 18,237 18,753 18,237 18,446 2.8% - 2.8% - 1.6% - 3.5% 3.5%
Deposits of the private non-financial sector in dollars 15,538 15,255 15,896 15,255 15,744 1.9% - 1.9% - -1.3% - 2.9% 2.9%
At sight 11,526 11,233 11,780 11,233 11,383 2.6% - 2.6% - 1.3% - 2.1% 2.1%
Fixed term and others 4,013 4,022 4,116 4,022 4,361 -0.2% - -0.2% - -8.0% - 0.7% 0.8%
Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 3,203 2,982 2,857 2,982 2,702 7.4% - 7.4% - 18.5% - 0.6% 0.6%
Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 4,048 4,268 4,576 4,268 5,271 -5.2% - -5.2% - -23.2% - 0.8% 0.8%
Loans to the private non-financial sector in dollars 3,907 4,127 4,435 4,127 5,147 -5.3% - -5.3% - -24.1% - 0.7% 0.8%
Documents 2,550 2,729 2,984 2,729 3,467 -6.6% - -6.6% - -26.5% - 0.5% 0.5%

Credit Cards 145 137 138 137 82 6.0% - 6.0% - 76.2% - 0.0% 0.0%
Rest 1,212 1,261 1,313 1,261 1,597 -3.9% - -3.9% - -24.1% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 141 141 141 141 125 0.0% - 0.0% - 13.2% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes remunerated sight deposits with respect to private M2.
4 Calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and the non-seasonal GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary
Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 14 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

Interest Rates of monetary regulation instruments Jan-22 TEA Jan-22 Dec-21 Nov-21 Oct-21 Jan-21

BCRA repo rates
Liabilities 1 day 32.00 37.69 32.00 32.00 32.00 32.00
Liabilities 7 days 32.00 37.58 36.50 36.50 36.50 36.50
Assets 1 day 42.70 53.23 42.70 42.70 42.70 42.70
LELIQ rate at 28 days 40.00 48.29 38.00 38.00 38.00 38.00
LELIQ rate at 180 days 44.00 54.15

Interest Rates of the Interbank Market Jan-22 TEA Jan-22 Dec-21 Nov-21 Oct-21 Jan-21
Interest rates for repos between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day: 29.43 34.20 30.98 29.67 30.62 32.78

Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average): 3.753 4.489 2.959 5.284 5.360

Call in pesos (at 1 business day)

Rate: 31.36 36.82 30.46 30.94 30.94 30.27

Amount operated: 20.031 19.687 18.211 14.794 8.656

Passive Interest Rates jan-22 AER jan-22 dec-21 nov-21 oct-21 jan-21

Demand Deposits
Remunerated: 28.63 32.71 28.87 29.11 30.24 28.36

Fixed-Term Deposits
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days): 38.24 45.73 36.29 36.30 36.29 36.35

TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days): 35.28 41.59 33.25 33.26 33.31 33.31

TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days): 35.98 42.56 33.98 33.95 33.95 34.10

BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 35.78 42.28 33.34 33.37 33.40 33.27

BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days): 36.66 43.50 34.20 34.17 34.15 34.15

Early prepayment rate for UVA deposits: 34.00 39.84 30.50 30.50 30.50 30.50

Active Interest Rates jan-22 AER jan-22 dec-21 nov-21 oct-21 jan-21

Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos

Overdrafts on current account: 41.59 51.53 40.46 41.08 41.53 40.48

1 to 7 days — with agreement for companies — more than $10 million: 35.68 42.71 35.36 35.19 35.24 34.69

Unsecured promissory notes: 34.80 40.93 34.78 34.65 34.90 34.68

Mortgage loans: 30.51 35.17 29.71 28.78 31.51 29.23

Pledge loans: 28.75 32.86 28.16 27.80 27.59 27.72

Personal loans: 54.89 71.06 53.00 51.81 52.86 56.38

Credit cards: 42.84 52.35 42.87 43.03 42.73 42.35

Interest rates for the foreign currency segment jan-22 AER jan-22 dec-21 nov-21 oct-21 jan-21

Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days): 0.37 0.37 0.37 0.37 0.37 0.43

Unsecured promissory notes in dollars: 4.97 5.08 5.97 3.40 3.83 5.01

Exchange Rate jan-22 Monthly Var. (%) dec-21 nov-21 oct-21 jan-21

Official Exchange Rate peso/dollar

Wholesale (Com. "A" 3.500): 103.93 2.01 101.88 100.33 99.22 83.50

Retail: 106.28 1.93 104.27 102.68 101.60 88.26

Official Exchange Rate peso/real: 18.81 4.48 18.01 18.07 17.94 15.92

Official Exchange Rate peso/euro: 117.63 2.16 115.14 114.45 115.05 101.04

ITCNM: 693.36 3.04 672.89 668.80 664.04 590.00

ITCRM: 102.27 -0.29 102.57 104.70 106.49 123.80

---

**FOOTNOTES:**

1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from individuals who, in total, at the financial institution exceed one million pesos.
The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits at said institution do not exceed one million pesos.

2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated by considering the buying and selling exchange rates recorded by the member entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 15 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**AFIP:** Federal Administration of Public Revenue.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CC BCRA:** Deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DEG:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**i.a.:** year-on-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**ITCNM:** Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.

**ITCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.

**LFIP:** Productive Investment Financing Line.

**M2 Total:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private Transactional:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellable checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M3 Total:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M3 Private:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MM:** Money Market.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** effective annual.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**P.B.:** Basis Points.

**PSP:** Payment Service Provider.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**Mi PyMEs:** Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Futures Market.

**s.e.:** seasonally unadjusted.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**SIMPES:** Integrated System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 16

**TCN:** Nominal Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Unit of Purchasing Power.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2022 | BCRA | 17
