# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2022

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Page 6 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Page 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Page 12 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was May 6, 2022. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the Use of Inclusive Language in this Publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have produced this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

---

## Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 1. Executive Summary

| | Monetary Base | M2 Private Transactional | Fixed Term Private | Fixed Term UVA Private | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| | -5.0% | -1.5% | 1.2% | 13.9% | -1.2% |

| Loans to Private Sector | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fixed-term deposits in pesos to private sector without seasonality at constant prices | monthly var. real s.e. | | | |
| | p.p. | | | |

4 Traditional Fixed-Term in Pesos
Investments with early cancellation option -0.6%
3 Traditional Fixed-Term UVA
Fixed-Term UVA with early cancellation option LELIQ Rate 28 days
2 Adjustable by dollar quotation nominal annual
Total; var % 2.5
1.2 47.0%
1 0.9 1.1
0.4 0.6 0.3
0 0.2 Passive Reverse Repo Rate 1d
-0.1 -0.1 -0.4 nominal annual
-0.4 -0.6
-1 -0.9
-1.4 36.0%
-2
-2.2 International Reserves
-3 millions of US$; end of month
jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 mar-22

Source: BCRA. 42,007

In April, the BCRA raised its benchmark interest rates again, marking the fourth increase of the year. Likewise, to guarantee the transmission of the new interest rates to depositors and to promote positive returns for savings in domestic currency, the guaranteed minimum interest rates of savings instruments in pesos were also modified.

In this context, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector registered an increase at constant prices and without seasonality (1.2%), remaining around the maximum levels of recent decades. This expansion of fixed-term deposits was explained fundamentally by the growth of traditional placements in pesos and of placements adjustable by CER, which were partially offset by a decline in holdings of investments with early cancellation options that are not adjustable. Specifically, placements adjustable by CER continued to show growing dynamism, although they still maintain a limited share of the total. These latter were driven mainly by holdings of individuals. In this way, deposits denominated in UVA (traditional and early cancellation segments) were positioned at constant prices at a level similar to that of mid-last year, when they had reached a historical maximum.

The increase in fixed-term deposits was not enough to offset the decline in real terms of means of payment, which resulted in a contraction of private M3. Indeed, this broad monetary aggregate would have recorded a monthly decrease of 1.2% s.e. at constant prices in April.
Loans to the private sector at constant prices contracted again during the month, accumulating their third consecutive month of contraction. At the level of credit lines, all contributed negatively in the fourth month of the year, with the exception of loans with chattel mortgage guarantees.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 2. Means of Payment

The means of payment (M2 private transactional1), at constant prices2 and adjusted for seasonality (s.a.), would have registered in April a decline of 1.5%, marking its third consecutive contraction (see Chart 2.1). This dynamic was due to both the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits and currency in circulation held by the public, although the latter explained most of the decline. In the year-on-year comparison, and in real terms, the M2 private transactional would be located 1.4% below the April 2021 level.

The M2 private transactional in terms of Product would have been situated at 8.9%, which would imply a decrease (0.3 p.p.) with respect to March (see Chart 2.2). As mentioned in previous editions, currency in circulation held by the public remained around its minimum records of the last 15 years. The low level of demand for bills and coins is, in part, linked to a greater relative demand for demand deposits, given the increasing use of electronic means of payment verified in recent years.

Chart 2.1 | M2 private transactional at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | M2 private transactional
Monthly variation s.a. by component in % of GDP

[var. % monthly real s.a. | % of GDP]
[25 Non-remunerated demand deposits | 16 M2 private transactional]
[20 Currency | 14 Currency in circulation held by the public]
[15 Transactional sight | 12]
[M2 private transactional]
[10 | 10]
[8 | 8.9]
[5 | 6]
[0 -0.2 | 5.3]
[-1.5 -3.4 | 4]
[-5 | 3.6]
[-10 | 2]
[apr-18 oct-18 apr-19 oct-19 apr-20 oct-20 apr-21 oct-21 apr-22 | jan-10 may-12 sep-14 jan-17 may-19 sep-21]

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

In mid-April, the BCRA Board decided to raise for the fourth time so far this year the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits3. The measure is in line with its strategy of establishing a path of interest rates that tends to achieve returns consistent with the evolution of inflation. Thus, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements of individuals up to an amount of $10 million increased from 43.5% n.a. to 46% n.a. (57.1% e.a.). For the rest of the financial system depositors4, the interest rate was also raised by 2.5 p.p. to 44% (54.1% e.a.).

In this context, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector would have registered a monthly expansion rate in real terms (1.2% s.a.) and, in this way, remained around the maximum records of the last decades at constant prices. In terms of GDP, the April figure would have remained at 6.4%, a record that also places itself among the maximum levels of recent years.

---

1 M2 private excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.
2 INDEC will release the April inflation data on May 12.
3 Communication "A" 7474.
4 Financial Service Providers, Companies and Individuals with deposits exceeding $10 million.
When we analyze the evolution of time deposits, stratifying according to the level of guaranteed minimum rate, it can be seen that placements by natural persons of less than $10 million at constant prices would have remained without major changes throughout the month (-0.6% s.e.). The rest of the deposits from the non-financial private sector (those constituted by legal entities, regardless of amount, and by natural persons with placements of more than $10 million) would have been those that experienced an increase in the month in real terms (1.9% s.e.; see Chart 3.1).

With regard to time deposits of legal entities, the growth observed in the month was explained by the greater holdings of companies, excluding Financial Services Providers (PSF). For its part, the placements of PSFs registered a slight increase on average in the month, which was explained fundamentally by the carryover effect. In fact, in the point-to-point comparison, PSF holdings registered a decline in real terms (see Chart 3.2). This contraction occurred in a context in which the equity of Money Market Investment Funds (FCIMM), which are the main agents within PSFs, decreased in real terms. Finally, Investments with early cancellation option, which cannot be classified by type of holder, continued to exhibit a decline in the month, which was entirely explained by the non-CER adjustable segment.

Chart 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector | Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
Balance at constant prices by rate segment | Balance at constant prices by type of depositor and instrument

billions of $ as of 30-Apr-22 | billions of $ as of 30-Apr-22 | billions of $ as of 30-Apr-22 | billions of $ as of 30-Apr-22
2,200 | Fixed-term deposits of Natural persons of less than $10 million | 2,800 | 600 | 1,100

Rest of Fixed-term deposits of private sector (right axis) | 2,700 | 550 | 1,050

2,100 | 2,600 | 500 | 1,000

2,000 | 2,500 | 450 | 950

1,900 | 2,400 | 400 | 900

1,800 | 2,300 | 350 | Traditional Financial Services Providers | 850
Investments with early cancellation option
1,700 | 2,200 | Traditional Other Legal Entities (right axis) | 800

1,600 | Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 | 300 | 800
Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

At the level of instruments, traditional fixed-term deposits in pesos, not adjustable by CER, explained the largest part of the total growth of fixed-term deposits, while investments with early cancellation option, which are not updated by UVA, showed a decline in the month. Meanwhile, UVA deposits continued to exhibit growing dynamism in April, although their share in the total of time instruments remains limited, but growing (around 6% of the total). These placements registered an average monthly growth of 13.9% s.e. in real terms and reached a balance of $269,873 million at the end of April. In this way, they positioned themselves at constant prices at a level similar to that of mid-last year, when they had reached a historical maximum. This dynamic responded both to placements in traditional UVA as well as to precancellable ones, whose monthly expansion rates were located respectively at 10.7% s.e. and 19.2% s.e. at constant prices (see Charts 3.3).

Discriminating the balance by type of holder, it is verified that the impulse came from the holdings of natural persons and, to a lesser extent, from companies (excluding PSFs; see Chart 3.4).

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 4

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector | Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Monthly var. s.e. by type of instrument | Daily balance at constant prices by type of holder
monthly var. s.e. billions
 40 of $ of 30 -Apr -22

 200 192
 PF UVA Traditional 180 Natural Persons
 30 Financial Services Providers
 PF UVA Prepayable 160 Other Legal Persons
 20 140

 120
 10 100
 80 79

 0 60

 40
 -10 20
 0 3
 -20 Aug-19 Dec-19 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22
 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22 Source: BCRA.
 Source: BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3 5, at constant prices would have registered in April a
monthly decrease of 1.2% s.e., reducing the pace of decline from last month. In the year-on-year comparison
this aggregate would have experienced a slight decline (0.5%). As a percentage of Product it would have
registered a slight decrease to reach 16.5%, 0.5 p.p. below the value of March.

4. Monetary Base

In April, the Monetary Base was located at $3,628.7 billions, which meant a nominal average monthly
decline of 0.9% (-$31.6 billions) in the original series. This way two consecutive months of nominal
contraction are met. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, the Monetary Base would have presented a
contraction of 5%, recording in the last twelve months a decline of the order of 9%. In terms of GDP, the Monetary
Base would be located at 5.3%, 0.4 p.p. below the value recorded the previous month and at its historical minimum
since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base Chart 4.2 | Monetary Base and expansion factors by supply
 Variation of monthly averages

 billions % of GDP billions of Currency purchases from private s.
 of $ of Apr-22 millions of $ Repos and LELIQ
 7,000 12 500 Public Sector

 6,500 400 Other
 10 Monetary Base
 6,000 300
 5,500 8 200

 5,000 6 100

 0
 4,500 4
 -100
 4,000 -200
 3,500 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices 2
 As a percentage of GDP (right axis) -300

 3,000 0 -400
 Jan-03 Oct-04 Jul-06 Apr-08 Jan-10 Oct-11 Jul-13 Apr-15 Jan-17 Oct-18 Jul-20 Apr-22 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

5 Includes cash in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (on demand, fixed-term and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 5 If we analyze the factors of variation on the supply side, the monthly contraction of the monetary base
was explained fundamentally by the absorption of liquidity through monetary regulation instruments,
which more than offset the expansion associated with public sector operations linked, fundamentally, to
the unwinding of its sight positions at the BCRA (see Chart 4.2).

In mid-April the Board of Directors of the BCRA decided to adjust upward once again the interest rates of the
monetary policy instruments, in line with the objectives of establishing a path for the policy interest rate in a way
as to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency and to preserve monetary and exchange rate
stability. Specifically, it was decided to raise the interest rate of LELIQ at 28 days term by 2.5 p.p., which moved to
47% n.a. (58.7% e.a.). Meanwhile, the interest rate of LELIQ at 180 days term was set at 52% n.a. (58.9% e.a.). Finally,
regarding shorter-term instruments, the interest rate of passive repos at 1 day was increased by 1.5 p.p. to 36%
n.a. (43.3% e.a.); while that of active repos at 1 day was located at 50% n.a. (64.8% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread
of NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was maintained at 5.0 p.p.
With the current configuration of instruments, in April remunerated liabilities were composed of approximately 80% by LELIQ (considering both species), highlighting those with shorter terms that represented approximately 70% of total remunerated liabilities. The remainder corresponded to 1-day reverse repos and NOTALIQ, with an increasing participation of the latter (see Chart 4.3).

These changes in the relative composition of monetary regulation instruments allowed the continuation of the policy of lengthening the terms of remunerated liabilities initiated by the BCRA since the beginning of the administration. In effect, the average term of monetary regulation instruments (LELIQ, Reverse Repos and NOTALIQ) was located at approximately 50 days, more than tripling the one in effect at the beginning of this year (see Chart 4.4).

Chart 4.3 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities Chart 4.4 | Average term of remunerated liabilities
Monthly average of the BCRA
7-day moving average
% 1-day Reverse Repos 7-day Reverse Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ
100 days
60
90

80 50

70
60 40

50 30

40
30 20

20 10

10

0 0
Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Mar-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

In April, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a new monthly contraction (-0.6%). Practically all credit lines contributed negatively to the variation for the month, with the exception of secured loans which grew and credit card financings which remained practically unchanged (see Chart 5.1). Thus, in the last twelve months loans in pesos accumulated a slight contraction at constant prices of -0.2%. The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP would have remained in the order of 7%, without major changes compared to previous months (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth as % of GDP

% %
3 12

2 9

6 6.7
1
3
0
0
-1 -0.6
-3
-2 Documents Personal Monthly Var. Credit
Advances Cards -6 GDP Var.
-3 Secured Mortgage Credit/GDP
Remainder Total (monthly var.) -9

-4 -12
Apr-21 Jun-21 Aug-21 Oct-21 Dec-21 Feb-22 Apr-22 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The lines destined mainly for commercial purposes would have exhibited a decline of 0.4% s.e. at constant prices in April, standing 8.6% above the record from one year earlier. This dynamic was homogeneous by type of financing. In effect, financing provided through advances on current account registered a monthly contraction of 0.3% s.e. at constant prices (+9.7% y.o.y.), while documents presented a decline of 0.4% s.e. in real terms (+13.2% y.o.y.). By type of borrower, the monthly decrease in commercial credit, at constant prices and without seasonality, was due both to the behavior of the SME segment and to large companies. Nevertheless, in year-over-year terms, financing to SMEs grew 25.8% at constant prices, while that destined to large companies showed a contraction of 9.3% compared to one year earlier.
The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) remained as the main vehicle through which loans to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) were channeled. At the end of April, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated disbursements of approximately $2 trillion since its launch, with an increase of 8.1% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3).

As for the destinations of these funds, around 85% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects. With respect to the former, it should be noted that the maximum interest rate increased by 2.5 p.p. and rose to 45.5%, in line with the increase in monetary policy interest rates. At the time of this publication, the number of enterprises that accessed the LFIP amounted to 251,874.

Chart 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) | Chart 5.4 | Pawn Loans
Accumulated Disbursed Amounts; data at end of month | Monthly average var. s.e. at constant prices

[Thousands of millions of $ / %]
2,500 | 60
2,050 | 40
2,000 | 
Total | 220
1,500 | 0
Investment projects (rate 35% n.a.) | -20
1,000 | -40
500 | -60
309 |
0 |
nov-20 | ene-21 | mar-21 | may-21 | jul-21 | sep-21 | nov-21 | ene-22 | mar-22 | abr-20 | jul-20 | oct-20 | ene-21 | abr-21 | jul-21 | oct-21 | ene-22 | abr-22

Monthly Variation
Annual Variation (right axis)

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Among consumption-related loans, credit card financing would have remained at the same level as March in real terms, standing 11.7% below the level of a year earlier. Meanwhile, personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 1.7% monthly at constant prices and are 2% below the April 2021 level. The interest rate for personal loans rose in April to 58.0% n.a. (76.3% e.a.), increasing by 2.1 percentage points compared to March.

As for lines with real guarantees, pawn loans would have registered an increase in real terms (2.4% s.e.), reversing the decline of the previous month. In year-over-year terms, they accumulated growth of 43.1% at constant prices (see Chart 5.4). In contrast, the balance of mortgage credits registered a decline of 3.0% s.e. at constant prices in the month, accumulating a contraction of 14.3% over the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

In April, broad banking liquidity in local currency averaged 66.3% of deposits, standing 1 p.p. above the March level. Thus, it remains at historically elevated levels.

In terms of composition of banking liquidity, NOTALIQs increased their participation to average 5.0% of deposits. For their part, public securities gained weight in the integration of minimum cash (having as a counterpart a decline in LELIQ integration). Meanwhile, the balance of reverse repos again experienced a decline. There was also a decrease in the balance of current accounts at the BCRA, partly due to the increasing weight of deductions (see Chart 6.1).

Regarding regulatory changes with an impact on minimum cash, it should be noted that the percentage to determine the reduction in the requirement of investment project financings within the framework of the "Productive investment financing line for MSMEs" was increased from 30% to 34%.

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of reverse repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.
7 Communication "A" 7491

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 8 | Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
Net Passes LELIQ - Remainder
% of the NOTALIQ Integration in LELIQ
CC deposits BC RA $ BOTE 2022
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity
70 65.8 67.4 67.5 67.2 67.1 66.3 66.3 65.8 65.3 66.3
64.1 64.9 64.7 2.7 2.6
2.8 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6
3.3 2.9 2.8 2.7 3.0 3.4 3.9
3.9 0.8 2.1 3.8 3.8 4.0 3.9 4.0 4.6 5.9
60 3.6 4.0 3.8 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.6 3.6
3.8 3.6
10.0 9.4 10.1 9.6 9.6 9.1 9.0 9.3 9.2 9.8
50 10.4 9.3 8.5
10.4 8.1 7.7 7.3 6.9 6.3 5.8 5.5 4.5
10.3 9.7 6.1 5.6
40 0.6 3.3 5.0

17.3 17.8 17.8 17.5 16.8 16.3
30 17.3 17.3 17.1 22.6
29.6
20 30.1 31.1

10 19.5 21.1 20.3 22.2 23.2 23.9 24.1 24.6 24.4
18.2
9.0 6.1 5.1
0
Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22
Source: BCRA.

## 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities presented limited variations. In effect, the average monthly balance of private sector deposits was located at US$15,334 million in April, which meant an increase of US$93 million with respect to March. The increase was explained by sight deposits of individuals up to US$250,000 and by time placements of legal entities of more than US$1 million. On the other hand, the average monthly balance of loans to the private sector was US$3,780 million, which implied a decline of US$74 million with respect to March (see Graph 7.1). This contraction was explained by the lines destined for pre-financing of exports and, to a lesser extent, by financing with credit cards.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment was located at 82.5% of April deposits, registering a slight decline (0.7 p.p.). Within its components, the decline was explained fundamentally by the variation in cash in banks, given that the balance in current account at the BCRA remained practically unchanged (see Graph 7.2).

Graph 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency Graph 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities
of the private sector

thousands of % of Deposits Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ 82.9 82.7 83.2 82.5
25 79.8 80.6 82.0
80 76.9 74.6 75.8 76.0 76.4 78.0
Loans Deposits
70
20
60
15 15.3 50 57.5 55.8 56.6 60.5 61.1 62.9 62.2 63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5
54.0 58.4
40

10 30

20
5 3.7
10 19.4 20.6 19.9 19.4 18.0 17.5 18.7 17.8 19.9 19.4 18.6 19.5 19.0

0 0
Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22
Dec-19 Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Mar-22 Source: BCRA.
Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 9

During April, there were some regulatory changes in exchange rate matters. On one hand, with the objective of improving access to foreign currency for certain sectors that were alerting about the lack of essential inputs, it was established that imports corresponding to certain tariff positions that have an associated declaration in the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Imports (SIMI) category C in "EXIT" status, will have access to the foreign exchange market under the same conditions as a SIMI category A for a limit amount calculated based on the importer's usual requirements, provided that certain conditions are met. In case these conditions are not met, the way to access the foreign exchange market will be the one corresponding to a SIMI category B⁸.
The BCRA's International Reserves ended April with a balance of US$ 42.007 billion, reflecting a decrease of US$ 1.131 billion compared to the end of March (see Chart 7.3). The decrease was explained by losses due to valuation of net external assets (US$ 1.087 billion) and by the capital payment made to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) of US$ 687 million at the end of the month. These effects were partially offset by net purchases of foreign currency from the private sector and minimum cash accounts.

Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 3.5% in April to stand, on average, at $ 113.18/US$ (see Chart 7.4). Given that throughout the month the rate of depreciation of the domestic currency accelerated, the point variation in April turned out to be higher (3.9%). In this way, the rate of depreciation of the domestic currency is gradually converging to levels more compatible with the inflation rate, with the objective of preserving the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) around competitive levels. Thus, it seeks to strengthen the position of International Reserves, based on genuine inflows of foreign currency from the external sector.

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves Chart 7.4 | Change in bilateral nominal exchange rate
Daily balance with the United States

thousands of var. % average
millions of US$ monthly
50 Payment to Payment to Payment to
FMI FMI FMI 4.5

SDR Allocation Payment to 4.0
and Payment to FMI First 3.5
FMI disbursement PFE
Payment to 3.0
FMI
2.5

2.0

40 1.5

1.0

0.5

35 0.0
Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Mar-22 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

8 Communication "A" 7488.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 108. Normative Summary

Date of Regulation Description
issuance

As a complement to Communication "A" 7466, it was provided that imports corresponding to certain tariff positions that include exclusively inputs and intermediate goods that have an associated SIMI declaration category C in "EXIT" status, will have access to the foreign exchange market under the same conditions as a SIMI category A for a limit amount calculated based on the importer's usual requirements, provided that certain conditions are met. In the first place, it must be recorded that the inventories of raw materials and/or intermediate or final goods elaborated from these will not exceed the levels required for their normal activity. Furthermore, to have access to the foreign exchange market under the aforementioned conditions, the importer or its economic group must not have refused to participate or failed to comply with the conditions of the price agreement to which they were called by the National Government, in case they were requested to do so. If the aforementioned conditions were not met, the form of access to the foreign exchange market will be the one corresponding to a SIMI category B. It should be noted that these categories refer to the form of access to the foreign exchange market when it comes to imported goods for which it is necessary to have the declaration in the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Imports (SIMI) and are not included in the timeframes provided for in the foreign exchange regulation.

7-Apr-22 Com. "A" 7488

Finally, certain conditions are established under which entities may consider fulfilled the timeframe that must elapse from the registration of customs entry of goods in order to access the foreign exchange market to cancel commercial debts with foreign creditors (or, in case it is a local entity, to cancel foreign credit lines) applied to the financing of imports of goods.
With effect from April 18, 2022, the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits made by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed a total of $10 million as of their constitution was increased from 97.75% to 97.87% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to the one on which the deposits are made, or the last disclosed, as applicable. For the rest of the deposits, it went from 93.26% to 93.62% of said rate. In the case of deposits with early cancellation option, the fixed pre-cancellation rate shall be 87.23% of the Monetary Policy Rate (until this regulation, it was 86.52%).

April 13-22 Comm. "A" 7491

For its part, with effect for financing agreements made as of April 18, 2022, the rate provided for financing of working capital and for the discount of post-dated checks and Electronic Credit Invoices for SMEs was increased from 43% to 45.50% fixed annual nominal, within the framework of the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs."

Finally, it was provided that the requirement on average in pesos of minimum cash will be reduced by an amount equivalent to 34% of the balance of financing intended for investment projects within the framework of that Line.

It was provided that the installment refinancing facility provided for clients who are employers covered by the Productive Recovery Program II, that is, the incorporation of unpaid installments corresponding to maturities that occur as of May 14, 2021,

April 28-22 Comm. "A" 7497 in the month following the end of the life of the credit, shall comprise exclusively those installments pending payment of financing disbursed until April 28, 2022. As of June 1, 2022, installments that had already been subject to such refinancing treatment shall be excluded from this treatment.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 119. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage average variations of Apr-22 % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 interannual

| | apr-22 | mar-22 | feb-22 | dic-21 | apr-21 | apr-22 | dic-21 | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 3,628,710 | 3,660,266 | 3,750,943 | 3,394,480 | 2,515,131 | -0.9% | -5.0% | 6.9% | -7.4% | 44.3% | -9.3% | 5.3% | 6.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 2,688,459 | 2,674,269 | 2,686,579 | 2,504,731 | 1,804,298 | 0.5% | -3.2% | 7.3% | -7.4% | 49.0% | -6.4% | 4.0% | 4.5% |
| Cash in circulation in public hands | 2,393,635 | 2,392,878 | 2,416,993 | 2,230,702 | 1,569,154 | 0.0% | -3.4% | 7.3% | -6.9% | 52.5% | -4.2% | 3.6% | 4.0% |
| Cash in financial entities | 294,850 | 281,392 | 269,586 | 274,029 | 235,144 | 4.8% | -1.0% | 7.6% | -11.4% | 25.4% | -21.2% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 940,252 | 985,997 | 1,064,364 | 889,749 | 710,833 | -4.6% | -9.9% | 5.7% | -13.0% | 32.3% | -16.9% | 1.4% | 1.6% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN $) | 5,066,515 | 4,803,021 | 4,652,744 | 4,506,696 | 3,338,691 | 5.5% | -0.3% | 12.4% | -7.4% | 51.8% | -4.6% | 7.4% | 6.5% |
| Passive Repos | 564,228 | 649,856 | 922,635 | 2,366,670 | 1,379,466 | -13.2% | -17.9% | -76.2% | -80.4% | -59.1% | -74.3% | 0.8% | 3.4% |
| 1 day | 564,228 | 649,856 | 922,635 | 110,546 | 65,734 | -13.2% | -17.9% | 410.4% | 320.2% | 758.3% | 439.3% | 0.8% | 0.2% |
| 7 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,256,124 | 1,313,732 | -10.0% | -14.9% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 3.3% |
| Stock of LELIQ | 3,952,700 | 3,804,296 | 3,667,847 | 2,140,026 | 1,959,224 | 3.9% | -1.8% | 84.7% | 52.1% | 101.7% | 26.8% | 5.7% | 3.1% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 3,576,320 | 3,427,949 | 3,293,933 | 2,140,026 | 1,959,224 | 4.3% | -1.4% | 67.1% | 37.6% | 82.5% | 14.7% | 5.2% | 3.1% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 376,379 | 376,347 | 373,914 | - | - | 0.0% | -5.5% | - | - | - | - | 0.5% | - |
| Stock of NOTA LIQ | 549,587 | 348,869 | 62,263 | - | - | 57.5% | 48.9% | - | - | - | - | 0.8% | - |
| BCRA International Reserves in dollars | 43,011 | 38,511 | 37,252 | 40,584 | 40,005 | 11.7% | -6.0% | -7.5% | -7.1% | 7.5% | | | |

## Factors of average monthly variation

| | Monthly | | Quarterly | | Accumulated 2022 | | Interannual | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Monetary base | -31,556 | -0.9% | -56,923 | -1.5% | 234,230 | 6.9% | 1,113,579 | 44.3% |
| Purchase of currency from private sector and others | -2,803 | -0.1% | -3,293 | -0.1% | -11,625 | -0.3% | 178,835 | 7.1% |
| Purchase of currency from National Treasury | -23,532 | -0.6% | -147,613 | -4.0% | -177,000 | -5.2% | -11,066 | -0.4% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to Nat. Gov. | 5,333 | 0.1% | 111,591 | 3.0% | 520,633 | 15.3% | 1,676,145 | 66.6% |
| Other public sector operations | 132,842 | 3.6% | -40,705 | -1.1% | -79,737 | -2.3% | -114,752 | -4.6% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | -133,608 | -3.7% | 77,610 | 2.1% | 70,873 | 2.1% | -127,614 | -5.1% |
| Others | -9,788 | -0.3% | -54,513 | -1.5% | -88,913 | -2.6% | -487,969 | -19.4% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 4,500 | 11.7% | 4,047 | 10.4% | 2,427 | 6.0% | 3,006 | 7.5% |
| Purchase of currency | -25 | -0.1% | -37 | -0.1% | -118 | -0.3% | 2,019 | 5.0% |
| International organisms | 4,949 | 12.9% | 5,249 | 13.5% | 3,849 | 9.5% | 3,876 | 9.7% |
| Other public sector operations | -8 | 0.0% | -583 | -1.5% | 11 | 0.0% | 2,509 | 6.3% |
| Minimum cash | -17 | 0.0% | -201 | -0.5% | 365 | 0.9% | 1,070 | 2.7% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -399 | -1.0% | -380 | -1.0% | -1,680 | -4.1% | -6,468 | -16.2% |

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
Segment in domestic currency
Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 1 110,993,624 10,554,365 10,181,886 9,584,937 7,018,952 4.2% -0.7% 14.7% -4.2% 56.6% -1.6% 16.1% 17.3%
Fixed-term and others

3,922 3,890 3,937 4,022 4,289 0.8% -2.5% -8.6% -0.6% 0.7%

## Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars

3,099 3,165 3,228 2,982 2,583 -2.1% -3.9% 20.0% -0.6% 0.6%

## Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars

3,903 3,979 3,974 4,268 5,507 -1.9% -8.5% -29.1% -0.6% 0.8%
# Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars

3.780 3.854 3.847 4.127 5.373 -1.9% - -8.4% - -29.7% - 0.6% 0.8%

Documents 2.518 2.506 2.475 2.729 3.779 0.5% - -7.7% - -33.4% - 0.4% 0.5%

Credit Cards 190 201 199 137 64 -5.5% - 38.8% - 194.8% - 0.0% 0.0%

Rest 1.072 1.147 1.173 1.261 1.530 -6.5% - -15.0% - -29.9% - 0.2% 0.2%

# Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars

124 125 127 141 134 -0.8% - -12.3% - -7.8% - 0.0% 0.0%
1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to private M2 remunerated sight deposits.
4 It is calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and on GDP without seasonality estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 13 Interest Rates in percentage nominal annual (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments apr-22 TEA apr-22 mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21
BCRA Repo Rates
Liabilities 1 day 35.15 42.10 33.79 32.59 32.00 32.00
Assets 1 day 48.02 61.58 44.87 43.29 42.70 42.70
LELIQ Rate at 28 days 45.58 56.52 43.08 40.98 38.00 38.00
LELIQ Rate at 180 days 50.58 64.26 47.73 45.18
Interest Rates of the Interbank Market apr-22 TEA apr-22 mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21

Rates of repos between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day 36.04 43.37 33.35 32.31 30.98 32.90
Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 26,244 14,420 12,058 4,489 5,724

Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
Rate 35.06 41.97 33.14 31.08 30.46 31.33
Amount operated 23,254 18,357 17,276 19,687 14,314
Passive Interest Rates apr-22 TEA apr-22 mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21

Sight Deposits
Remunerated 30.06 34.57 28.57 27.60 28.87 29.35
Fixed-Term Deposits
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 1 44.51 54.83 41.80 39.60 36.29 36.34

TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 41.84 50.88 39.10 36.83 33.25 33.06
TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 42.58 51.97 39.84 37.58 33.98 33.87
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 42.33 51.60 39.60 37.36 33.34 33.13
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 43.21 52.91 40.48 38.28 34.20 34.08
Early redemption rate of UVA deposits 41.00 49.67 38.50 36.50 30.50 30.50

Active Interest Rates apr-22 TEA apr-22 mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21

Loans to non-financial private sector in pesos
Overdrafts in current account 44.43 55.90 43.00 42.05 40.46 41.76
1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 millions 38.89 47.32 37.19 35.96 35.36 36.62
Single signature documents 39.60 47.65 36.47 35.74 34.78 36.67
Mortgage loans 32.01 37.16 32.66 30.87 29.71 30.50
Secured loans 29.67 34.06 28.25 29.19 28.16 29.06
Personal loans 58.02 76.26 55.92 55.84 53.00 55.44
Credit cards 47.86 59.91 46.15 45.82 42.87 42.53
Interest rates of the foreign currency segment apr-22 TEA apr-22 mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21

Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.34 0.34 0.38 0.36 0.37 0.38
Single signature documents in dollars 3.49 3.55 3.04 3.70 5.97 3.92
Exchange Rate apr-22 Monthly Var. (%) mar-22 feb-22 dec-21 apr-21
NCE peso/dollar
Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) 113.18 3.48 109.37 106.38 101.88 92.73
Retail 2 115.31 3.36 111.56 108.77 104.27 95.28
NCE peso/real 23.83 8.39 21.99 20.47 18.01 16.64
NCE peso/euro 122.51 1.74 120.42 120.74 115.14 110.86
ITCNM 775.00 3.99 745.24 721.96 672.89 625.75
ITCRM 100.55 -0.94 101.51 103.02 102.60 117.80
1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, at the financial entity exceed one million pesos.
 The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total of fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed one million pesos.
 2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates bought and sold noted by the adhering entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

 Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 14 Glossary

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
a.n.: annual nominal.
e.a.: annual effective.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
MSMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.s.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

 Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 15 NCR: Nominal Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.

 Monthly Monetary Report | April 2022 | BCRA | 16
