International Reserves
Millions of US$; end of month

36,734

[Chart showing dates: 31-mar, 30-abr, 31-may, 30-jun, 31-jul, 31-ago]

Source: BCRA.

The BCRA accelerated the pace of increase in the interest rate of its monetary regulation instruments and simultaneously raised the minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits. In this way, it seeks to promote positive real returns on peso-denominated savings instruments and preserve monetary and exchange rate stability. Likewise, with the objective of strengthening the transmission channel of monetary policy to the different segments of the financial system and capital market, from mid-August, the BCRA began to offer 1-day passive pases to Investment Funds (FCI).

The broad monetary aggregate (private M3) would have registered a monthly contraction at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, after three months of positive variations. This contraction was explained by the behavior of means of payment and, to a lesser extent, by fixed-term deposits. Despite the lower dynamism shown in August, fixed-term placements remained around the maximum values of recent decades, measured at constant prices.

Loans in pesos to the private sector registered a decrease for the second consecutive month in real terms and adjusted for seasonality, with a widespread decline across the different credit lines. Commercial lines were those that presented the smallest contraction, a dynamic that was explained by the boost from the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) that offers preferential conditions for financing production.

---

Monetary Report Monthly | August 2022 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), the means of payment (private transactional M2¹) would have registered in August a contraction of 6.1%, noting seven consecutive months of decline and being the largest contraction since the end of 2018 (see Graph 2.1). This decline was due to both the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits and cash in circulation held by the public. Thus, in year-over-year terms and at constant prices, the means of payment would have presented a contraction of approximately 13.9%. In terms of product, private transactional M2 would have been positioned at 8.3%, exhibiting a decrease (0.2 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Graph 2.2). In particular, cash in circulation held by the public remains at lows of the last 15 years, while demand deposits are found at values similar to those of the average of recent years.

Graph 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices
Contribution by component to monthly change s.e.
[Data showing p.p. values and various deposit components with M2 private transactional (%) line]

Graph 2.2 | Private transactional M2
As % of GDP
[Data showing % of GDP with M2 private transactional at 8.3%, Transactional demand deposits at 4.9%, and Cash in circulation held by the public at 3.4%]

Source: BCRA.          Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

At the beginning of the month, the BCRA Board of Directors decided to raise for the eighth time in the year the minimum guaranteed interest rates on fixed-term deposits². On this occasion, it increased by 8.5 p.p. the minimum guaranteed rate for placements of natural persons up to an amount of $10 million, which went from 61% n.a. to 69.5% n.a. (96.6% e.a.). For the rest of depositors in the financial system³ the interest rate was raised by 7 p.p. to 61% n.a. (81.3% e.a.). This measure is aimed at promoting positive real returns and in this way increase the incentive to save in pesos.

In August, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector at constant prices would have registered a monthly contraction of 2.0% s.e., interrupting a period of 4 consecutive months of expansions. Although the fixed-term placements showed a decline in the month, at constant prices they still remained around the maximum levels of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have been positioned at 6.7% in August, a figure that is also among the highest of recent years.

---

1 Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.
2 Communication "A" 7527.
3 Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

*Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 3*

Analyzing the evolution of fixed-term placements by amount bracket, it is observed that, although all segments present a decrease, the monthly decline was concentrated fundamentally in the wholesale segment (more than $20 million; see Graph 3.1). Specifically, said contraction was explained by the behavior of investments with early redemption option, while traditional deposits registered an increase throughout the month (see Graph 3.2). Within this type of placements, an increase was observed both in the holdings of Financial Service Providers (PSF), fundamentally due to the statistical carryover left by the previous month, as well as in the holdings of other companies.
Chart 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
Real monthly variation without seasonality by amount bracket Balance at constant prices by instrument type
 Original series

 p.p. billions of pesos billions of pesos
 2.5 Less than $1 million as of 31-Aug-22 as of 31-Aug-22
 From $1 million to $20 million 2,350 600
 2.0
 1.5 More than $20 million 1.5 2,300 550

 Total (%) 1.3
 1.0 0.9 2,250 500

 0.5 0.3
 0.0 2,200 450

-0.5 -0.4 2,150 400

-1.0 -0.9
 2,100 350
-1.5 -1.4 Traditional Fixed-term

-2.0 -2.0 2,050 Investments with early redemption option (right axis) 300

-2.5 2,000 250
 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22

 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The segment of fixed-term deposits with CER adjustment, after maintaining sustained growth during the first seven months of the year, also showed a contraction in real terms during August. The decline was verified both in placements in traditional UVA as well as in those with early redemption options, whose monthly variation rates stood at -6.8% s.e. and -1.7% s.e. in real terms respectively (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder within instruments with CER adjustment, it is verified that the decline is explained almost entirely by the dynamics of placements by natural persons and companies (excluding FSPs; see Chart 3.4). In any case, UVA deposits reached a balance of $393,800 million at the end of August. It is worth noting that their relative share in the total of fixed-term instruments remains limited (around 7% of total fixed-term deposits).

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA from the private sector Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA from the private sector
Balance at constant prices by instrument type Balance at constant prices by type of holder
 Original series Original series
 Billions of pesos
 as of 31-Aug-22 billions of pesos
 240 as of 31-Aug-22
 220 400
 200 199.7 Natural persons
 180 194.0 350 Financial Service Providers 331

 160 300 Other Legal Entities

 140 250
 120
 100 200

 80 150
 60 Traditional UVA Fixed-term
 40 100
 20 Early redemption UVA Fixed-term 64
 50
 0
 Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 0 2
 Source: BCRA. Aug-19 Dec-19 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Aug-22
 Source: BCRA.

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 4 However, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3 4, at constant prices would have registered in August a monthly decrease of 3.1% s.e. In year-on-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced a decline of 5.0%. As a percentage of Product it stood at 16.8%, remaining stable compared to the previous month.

4. Monetary Base

In August, the Monetary Base stood on average at $4,287.3 billion, registering a monthly increase of 1.8% (+$75,240 million) in the original series at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have shown a contraction of 4.8% and over the last twelve months would have accumulated a decline of around 18.3%. As a ratio of GDP the Monetary Base would stand at 5.0%, a figure slightly lower than the previous month and the minimum value since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base

 billions of pesos % of GDP
 as of Aug-22
 8,500 12

 7,500 10

 6,500 8

 5,500 6

 4,500 4

 3,500 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices 2
 As a percentage of GDP (right axis)

 2,500 0
 Jul-03 Sep-06 Nov-09 Jan-13 Mar-16 May-19 Jul-22
 Source: BCRA.
On the supply side, among the factors that contributed positively to the monthly variation of the monetary base are the open market operations carried out by the BCRA. However, it is worth noting that said expansion was explained by the statistical carryover from July, since in August there were practically no operations of this type. In turn, the monetary regulation instruments contributed to the expansion of liquidity, due mainly to the effect of the interest and premiums of these instruments. These effects were partially offset by the contractionary effect of public sector operations and the sale of foreign currency to the private sector.

The BCRA accelerated the pace of increase in its reference interest rates in August, in order to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency and preserve monetary, exchange and financial stability. Thus, the interest rate on LELIQ with a 28-day term was raised by 9.5 p.p., reaching 69.5% n.a. (96.8% e.a.). For its part, the interest rate on LELIQ with a 180-day term increased by 7.9 p.p. to 76% n.a. (90.7% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos increased by 9.5 p.p. to 64.5% n.a. (90.5% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos was set at 88% n.a. (140.8% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread of NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was set at 8.25 p.p.

With the objective of strengthening the transmission channel of monetary policy to the different segments of the financial system and capital market, from mid-August, the BCRA began to offer 1-day passive repos to Investment Funds (FCI). The rate at which the BCRA remunerate these repos corresponds to 75% of the passive repo rate against financial entities⁵.

With the current configuration of instruments, in August the remunerated liabilities were composed of approximately 69% by LELIQ with a 28-day term. Regarding longer-term securities, LELIQ with 180 days significantly decreased its participation, representing only 0.1% of the total. As a counterpart, NOTALIQ gained participation (17.3% of the total). The rest corresponded to 1-day passive repos, which represented 13.5% of the total, somewhat less than the previous month (see Chart 4.2).

**Chart 4.2 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities**
*Monthly Average*

| | 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| % | 0-100 scale |

[Chart showing data from Dec-21 to Aug-22]

Source: BCRA. *Include repos with FCI

---

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

At constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, loans in pesos to the private sector would have registered a contraction for the second consecutive month, with a generalized decline across the different financing lines (see Chart 5.1). The decline recorded in August would have been 2.4% monthly, being the sharpest decline since November of last year. Thus, over the last twelve months they would have accumulated a decrease of 0.4% in real terms. The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP would have been around 6.8%, remaining without major variations compared to that recorded in the last year (see Chart 5.2).

**Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector**
*Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth*
[%]

**Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector**
*In terms of GDP*
[%]

---

⁴ Includes cash in the hands of the public and peso deposits of the non-financial private sector (on demand, time deposits and others).

**Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 5**

⁵ Communication "A" 7579.

**Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 6**
6 6.8
 1
 3
 0
 0
 -1
 -3
 -2 Personal Documents -6 Loans in pesos to the private sector
 Card Advances -2.4 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
 -3 Pawning Mortgages -9 Ratio to GDP
 Other Total (monthly var.)
 -4 -12
 Apr-21 Jun-21 Aug-21 Oct-21 Dec-21 Feb-22 Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Analyzing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines with essentially commercial purpose fell 1.4% monthly s.e. in real terms. In the year-on-year comparison and at constant prices they remain at a level 8.8% higher than that of August 2021. Within these lines, advances in current account would have fallen 1.1% s.e. in real terms (+11.3% y.o.y.). For its part, financing granted through documents would have exhibited a decline at constant prices of 0.6% s.e. (+14.9% y.o.y.), explained by both single signature documents as well as discounted documents.

The Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of August, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $2,867 billion since its launch, with an increase of 6% compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.3). Regarding the destinations of these funds, around 85% of total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects. At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 298,308. It should be noted that, in line with the increase in BCRA reference interest rates, the maximum rate of the line to finance working capital was raised from 58% to 69% a.r.; and the corresponding one for investment projects went from 50% to 59% a.r.

Graph 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Graph 5.4 | Commercial Loans by Type of Debtor
Investment Financing Line (LFIP) Y.o.y. var. at constant prices of the 30-day moving average balance
Accumulated disbursed amounts; data as of end of month

 thousands of y.o.y. var. %
 millions of $ 100 MSMEs
 3,500 Other Legal Entities
 Total 80
 3,000 2,867
 Investment projects (rate 35% a.r.) 60
 2,500 40

 2,000 20 26.6

 1,500 0
 -10.7
 1,000 -20

 500 431 -40

 0 -60
 Nov-20 Feb-21 May-21 Aug-21 Nov-21 Feb-22 May-22 Aug-22 Dec-18 Jun-19 Dec-19 Jun-20 Dec-20 Jun-21 Dec-21 Jun-22

 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 7

The favorable conditions of the LFIP continue to contribute to sustaining the growth of financing to relatively smaller-sized companies. In effect, differentiating commercial credit by type of debtor, it is appreciated that in July credit to MSMEs at constant prices would have expanded in year-on-year terms at a rate around 26.6%, while that destined to large companies evidenced a contraction of around 10% y.o.y. (see Graph 5.4).

Among loans associated with consumption, financing instruments implemented with credit cards would have evidenced a decrease of 3.1% s.e. in real terms and, in this way, the average balance of the month would be placed 8.0% below the level of a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 2.7% monthly at constant prices and would be found 7.9% below the level of August 2021. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans averaged 74.6% a.r. in August (106.3% e.a.), increasing 9 p.p. compared to the previous month.
Regarding lines with real guarantees, secured loans would have registered a real decrease of 1.9% s.e., although they remain 29.2% above the figure from one year ago.
For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown a decline of 4.2% s.e. at constant prices in the month, accumulating a contraction of around 20% in the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In August, broad banking liquidity in local currency 6 remained at a similar level to July, averaging 68.1% of deposits, remaining at historically elevated levels. In turn, the main modifications regarding its composition refer to the remuner­ated liabilities of the BCRA. In this regard, NOTALIQ continued gaining weight over LELIQ and reverse repos. Likewise, an increase was observed in integration with public securities and in LELIQ (see Chart 6.1).

Regarding regulatory modifications with potential impact on banking liquidity, it is worth mentioning that new "Special accounts for exporters" were created that will not be subject to minimum cash requirements 7 (see section "Foreign Currency").

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Reverse Repos Net LELIQ - Rest
% of Notaliq Integration in LELIQ
deposits CC BCRA $ BOTE 2022-2027
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity
67.4 67.5 67.2 67.1 66.3 67.1 66.6 68.8 68.1
70 66.3 65.8 65.3 66.3 2.2
2.7 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.3 5.2 2.3
2.7 3.0 3.4 3.9 4.0 3.9 4.0 6.1 5.4 5.6
60 3.8 3.8 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.6 4.6 5.9 3.6 3.5
3.6 3.8 3.6 3.6 3.7
9.6 9.1 9.0 9.3 9.8 7.6 7.4 7.4
50 9.2 10.4 9.3 8.5 8.1
7.3 6.9 5.1 5.0 5.2
7.7 6.3 5.8 5.5 6.1 5.6 4.5 4.4
40 0.6 5.0 6.0 6.3 7.5 8.5
3.3
17.8 17.8 17.5 16.8 16.3
30 22.6
29.6 30.1 30.4 28.9
20 31.1 31.8 31.2
10 23.2 23.9 24.1 24.6 24.4
18.2
9.0 6.1 5.1 4.8 5.0 7.5 6.6
0
Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22
Source: BCRA.

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and public bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.
7 Communication "A" 7571

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 8

## 7. Foreign currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities presented negative variations. Thus, the average monthly balance of private sector deposits stood around US$14,600 million, registering a decline of US$471 million compared to the previous month. Part of this decline was explained by the statistical carryover from July, with the end-of-period variation showing a contraction of US$115 million. Sight deposits of individuals with less than US$1 million were those that concentrated the largest part of the decrease observed in the month. On the other hand, the average monthly balance of loans to the private sector was US$3,714 million, which meant a decline of US$133 million compared to the previous month, explained by the behavior of demand deposits (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector

thousands of % of Deposits Loans
millions of US$ deposits
25 14.5

20

15 3.7

10

5

0
Dec-19 Aug-20 Apr-21 Dec-21 Aug-22

Source: BCRA.

Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities

Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
80 84.3
80.6 82.0 82.9 82.9 83.2 82.5 82.7 82.8 83.1
76.4 78.0 79.8

70

60

50 61.1 62.9 62.2 63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5 64.8 64.5 64.2 65.8
58.4 60.5

40

30

20

10 18.0 17.5 18.7 17.8 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.5

0
Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22

Source: BCRA.
# Translation to English

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment stood at 84.3 of August deposits, showing an increase of 1.2 p.p. with respect to the month of July. The increase was explained by the performance of current accounts at the BCRA, and was partially offset by a decline in cash in banks (see Graph 7.2).

During August, a series of regulatory modifications took place in foreign exchange matters. First, incentives were designed to increase the supply of foreign currency. Thus, the deadline was extended to enter and settle advances, prefinancings and post-financings from abroad, to the extent that the foreign currency is credited to an account that registers a monthly interest in dollars⁸. To guarantee its remuneration, financial entities can: use such funds to subscribe to BCRA Letters/Notes in dollars at 180 days or allocate them to a demand account in US dollars opened at the Central Bank.⁹ In the same sense, access was enabled to dollar-linked demand accounts for exporters ("Special accounts for exporters") that anticipate by at least thirty days the settlement with respect to the deadline determined for each sector¹⁰. In this case, local financial entities that receive these funds can allocate them to acquire internal non-transferable Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in pesos payable by the Reference Exchange Rate Communication "A" 3500 (LEDIV). Finally, access to the foreign exchange market was made more flexible to process payments for imports related to pharmaceutical products and other goods

⁸ Communication "A" 7570.
⁹ Communications "A" 7574 and 7578.
¹⁰ Communication "A" 7571.

related to health care¹¹ and for goods necessary for the construction of infrastructure works contracted by the national public sector¹².

Finally, it should be noted that at the beginning of September, the Export Increment Program was created¹³, with the objective of promoting exports and strengthening International Reserves. In this way, exports of soybeans and their by-products that are settled between September 5 and 30 will do so at an exchange rate of $200 per dollar. Due to this, it was established that the delivery of the underlying asset corresponding to the fulfillment of Soybean Futures contracts and the transaction called "Available" that take place while this program is in effect will be invoiced considering this exceptional and temporary exchange rate value. In turn, agricultural producers who make soybean sales for export with price perfected or set before September 30, 2022 and for at least 85% of their production related to the 2021-2022 harvest to brokers, traders, cooperatives, exporters and soybean processors to allocate to export operations of the aforementioned program will be able to access the benefits and programs established for the 2022-2023 harvest.

In August, the BCRA's International Reserves ended with a balance of US$36,734 million, reflecting a decrease of US$1,498 million with respect to the value recorded at the end of July (see Graph 7.3). The decline during the month was explained by valuation losses on net external assets; payments to international organizations, among which the payment of interest to the International Monetary Fund for US$452 million stood out; and the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector. It should be noted that the dynamics of the latter reversed mid-month, although without managing to reverse what happened in the first half.
Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) against the US dollar increased 5.4% in August to be located, on average, at $ 135.26/US$ (see Chart 7.4). Given that throughout the month the depreciation rate of the domestic currency accelerated, the point variation turned out to be somewhat higher (5.7%).

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves Chart 7.4 | Variation of nominal bilateral exchange rate
Daily Balance with United States

thousands of First Second var. % avg.
millions of US$ disbursement PFE disbursement monthly
and Payment to the IMF PFE
50 Payment to the IMF 7

Assignment
SDRs 6

Payments of 5
45 capital to the IMF

4

3
40
2

1

35 0
Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Aug-22 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Aug-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

11 Communication "A" 75 65.
12 Communication "A" 75 86.
13 Decree 576/2022 of the National Executive Power.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 108. Normative Summary

Date of Regulation Description
issuance

New goods were incorporated into the list of tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature
Aug 4-22 Com. "A" 7565 of Mercosur (NCM) of pharmaceutical products and/or inputs used in local elaboration
of the same or other goods related to health care, for which access to the exchange market
is made more flexible to process import payments.

The deadline was extended for entering and liquidating advances, prefinancings and post-
financings from abroad from 5 to 180 calendar days from the date of collection or disbursement
abroad, insofar as the transfer of foreign currency enters the correspondent account of the
local entity from August 4, 2022 and until November 4, 2022, and that the client has recorded
foreign currency liquidations in the exchange market for advances, prefinancings and/or post-
financings from abroad in the year 2022 for an amount equal to or greater than the equivalent
Aug 5-22 Com. "A" 7570 of USD 100 million. Furthermore, funds must be entered for accreditation in a "Special Account
for accrediting export financing" of its ownership until the liquidation of the foreign currency
is executed or must commit that the funds will remain accrued in the correspondent account
of the entity until its entry through the exchange market. The balances recorded in these
accounts carry interest determined according to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR)
reference rate in dollars at 180 days plus 0.90 of the auctioned margin of the BCRA letter/
note in dollars and will be credited monthly. Furthermore, these accounts will not be subject to
minimum cash requirements.

With the funds entered in these accounts, financial entities can acquire BCRA Letters and/or
notes in US dollars, current accounts in US dollars opened in the Central Bank and other
destinations provided for in Section 2 of the regulations on "Credit Policy".
Until November 30, 2022, exporters who anticipate the settlement by more than thirty days with respect to the deadline determined for each sector can credit the amount in pesos received as consideration for a settlement of export collections in a dollar-linked sight account called "Special Account for Exporters". The balances recorded in these accounts earn interest that is credited daily based on the evolution of the 5-Aug-22 Com. "A" 7571 US dollar – Communication "A" 3500 – on the previous business day. With the funds deposited in these accounts, financial entities may acquire 1) Non-transferable internal letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in pesos settleable by the Reference Exchange Rate Communication "A" 3500 (LEDIV) at zero rate; 2) Public and private securities, in pesos adjustable by the exchange rate; and 3) Other destinations in pesos. Furthermore, all these items were excluded from the "net global foreign currency position" and their balances are not subject to minimum cash requirements.

Since August 5, 2022, "Internal Notes of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in US dollars settleable in that same currency" have been offered to the market, for a term of 180 days and that will accrue a variable SOFR interest rate plus a spread. The interests are payable at the maturity of the security.
5-Aug-22 Com. "A" 7574 Only financial entities in group "A" with funds from "Special Accounts for financing export credit" may participate in the subscription calls. The subscription of these may not exceed the amount in dollars deposited in the system under this concept. It should be noted that the BCRA provides liquidity to these Notes starting from the fifth business day after the subscription is settled, and the holder may request redemption, total or partial, before its maturity at its technical value.

Effective as of August 12, 2022, the BCRA decided to raise the monetary policy rate by 950 basis points. Thus the TNA of the Liquidity Letters (LELIQ) at 28 days went from 60% to 69.5%. In turn, the minimum limits of interest rates on fixed-term deposits for individuals were raised, establishing the new floor at 69.5% per annum for deposits of 30 days up to 10 million pesos. For the rest of fixed-term deposits of the private sector, the guaranteed minimum rate was set at 61%. In the case of deposits with early cancellation option in Units of Acquisitive Value ("UVA"), the fixed pre-cancellation rate was set at 93.33% of the Monetary Policy Rate, which is equivalent to a TNA of 65.50%.
11-Aug-22 Com. "A" 7577 For the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of MSMEs" the rate provided for working capital financing was increased from 58% to 69% nominal per annum and the discounting of deferred payment checks and Electronic Credit Invoices MSMEs. Meanwhile, the rate provided for Project Investment financing was raised from 50% to 59% n.a. Furthermore, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to September 2022, the limit on compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities may apply was raised to 71.5% nominal per annum.
Modifications were introduced to the "Internal Notes of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in United States dollars (NODO)", created through Communication "A" 7574. It was provided that the awarded entities may choose the settlement currency, both for early redemption or at maturity. This may be in United States dollars or in pesos liquidated by the Reference Exchange Rate between the peso and the United States dollar (calculated in accordance with the methodology established in Com. "A" 3500 - of the previous business day). Furthermore, it was established that interest will be paid in monthly coupons.

12-Aug-22 Com. "A" 7579 It was established that, as of August 16, 2022, Investment Common Funds may conduct Reverse Repurchase operations with the BCRA with a 1-day term.

The minimum computable patrimonial responsibility was determined that, effective as of September 1, 2022, must be maintained by foreign exchange houses ($140 million) and foreign exchange agencies ($70 million). Foreign exchange houses and agencies in operation on that date must satisfy this basic capital requirement as of July 1, 2024, while until that date they will have lesser requirements, detailed in the regulations.

25-Aug-22 Com. "A" 7584 For its part, as of January 2023, the minimum operating level per calendar quarter that they must register – with clients not linked to the foreign exchange operator – will be an amount equivalent to 10% of the minimum computable patrimonial responsibility required at the beginning of each period and correspond to at least 120 operations.

Effective as of August 26, 2022, it was provided that the amount up to which it is mandatory to offer fixed-term deposits constituted by natural persons in the financial entity at a minimum passive rate, includes deposits with early cancellation option in Acquisition Value Units updatable by "CER", when the contractual term of these is less than 120 days in the financial entity. In turn, it was established that when the contractual term of deposits with early cancellation option in Acquisition Value Units updatable by "CER" is at least 180 days and the effective term in which the deposit has been maintained is at least 120 days, the coefficient that determines the fixed pre-cancellation rate will be 0.9712, which is equivalent to an annual nominal interest rate (TNA) of 67.50%.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 129. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of Aug-22 % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 interannual

|  | ago-22 | jul-22 | jun-22 | dic-21 | ago-21 | ago-22 | dic-21 | Nominal | Real |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real |  |  |  |
| Monetary Base | 4,287,266 | 4,212,024 | 3,891,174 | 3,394,480 | 2,927,785 | 1.8% | -4.8% | 26.3% | -16.4% | 46.4% | -18.3% | 5.0% | 6.0% |
| Monetary Circulation | 3,234,769 | 3,197,739 | 2,933,702 | 2,504,731 | 2,139,384 | 1.2% | -4.9% | 29.1% | -17.5% | 51.2% | -15.6% | 3.8% | 4.5% |
| Cash in the hands of the public | 2,905,162 | 2,897,211 | 2,637,047 | 2,230,702 | 1,915,362 | 0.3% | -5.6% | 30.2% | -16.8% | 51.7% | -15.3% | 3.4% | 4.0% |
| Cash in financial entities | 329,606 | 300,528 | 296,655 | 274,029 | 224,022 | 9.7% | 2.2% | 20.3% | -22.9% | 47.1% | -17.9% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 1,052,497 | 1,014,285 | 957,472 | 889,749 | 788,401 | 3.8% | -3.3% | 18.3% | -24.1% | 33.5% | -25.5% | 1.2% | 1.6% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN $) | 6,984,015 | 6,887,694 | 6,007,415 | 4,506,696 | 3,973,765 | 1.4% | -5.5% | 55.0% | -0.6% | 75.8% | -1.9% | 8.3% | 5.3% |
| Passive Repos | 944,336 | 1,027,065 | 634,403 | 2,366,670 | 1,894,607 | -8.1% | -14.3% | -60.1% | -74.4% | -50.2% | -72.2% | 1.1% | 2.8% |
| 1 day | 944,336 | 1,027,065 | 634,403 | 110,546 | 54,668 | -8.1% | -14.3% | 754.2% | 447.8% | 1627.4% | 864.1% | 1.1% | 0.1% |
| 7 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,256,124 | 1,839,939 | 0.0% | -6.8% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 2.7% |
| Stock of LELIQ | 4,832,790 | 4,831,273 | 4,572,617 | 2,140,026 | 2,079,158 | 0.0% | -6.8% | 125.8% | 44.8% | 132.4% | 29.7% | 5.7% | 2.5% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 4,825,195 | 4,610,899 | 4,194,993 | 2,140,026 | 2,079,158 | 4.6% | -2.5% | 125.5% | 44.6% | 132.1% | 29.5% | 5.7% | 2.5% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 7,595 | 220,374 | 377,623 | - | - | -96.6% | -96.8% | - | - | - | - | 0.0% | - |
| Stock of NOTALIQ | 1,206,889 | 1,029,356 | 800,396 | - | - | 17.2% | 9.3% | - | - | - | - | 1.4% | - |
| International Reserves of the BCRA in dollars | 37,116 | 40,335 | 40,780 | 40,584 | 43,307 | -8.0% | - | -8.5% | - | -14.3% | - | 5.9% | 7.6% |

## Factors of variation average monthly

|  | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2022 |  | Interannual |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Monetary Base | 75,242 | 1.8% | 590,884 | 16.0% | 892,786 | 26.3% | 1,359,481 | 46.4% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector and others | -150,822 | -3.6% | -112,501 | -3.0% | -39,576 | -1.2% | -253,203 | -8.6% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the National Treasury | -66,726 | -1.6% | 123,205 | 3.3% | -72,441 | -2.1% | 292,653 | 10.0% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to Nat. Gov. | 29,194 | 0.7% | 302,609 | 8.2% | 1,015,609 | 29.9% | 1,642,298 | 56.1% |
| Other public sector operations | -95,944 | -2.3% | -219,446 | -5.9% | -169,134 | -5.0% | -225,214 | -7.7% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | 196,095 | 4.7% | -728,655 | -19.7% | -968,683 | -28.5% | -981,464 | -33.5% |
| Others | 163,445 | 3.9% | 1,225,672 | 33.2% | 1,127,011 | 33.2% | 884,412 | 30.2% |
| International Reserves of the BCRA | -3,219 | -8.0% | -4,504 | -10.8% | -3,468 | -8.5% | -6,191 | -14.3% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange | -1,153 | -2.9% | -835 | -2.0% | -225 | -0.6% | -2,366 | -5.5% |
| International Organizations | -1,389 | -3.4% | -1,417 | -3.4% | 1,293 | 3.2% | 827 | 1.9% |
| Other public sector operations | -422 | -1.0% | -1,220 | -2.9% | -1,297 | -3.2% | 2,243 | 5.2% |
| Minimum cash | -88 | -0.2% | -432 | -1.0% | 217 | 0.5% | 492 | 1.1% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -167 | -0.4% | -599 | -1.4% | -3,456 | -8.5% | -7,386 | -17.1% |

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration Aug-22 Jul-22 Jun-22

Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement of deductions 21.4 20.8 21.2
Integration in current accounts 7.4 7.4 7.6
LELIQ Integration 29.6 29.8 29.8
BOTE 2022 Integration 3.5 3.6 3.7
Integration Rest Public Securities 5.6 5.2 5.4

Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default of resource application) 65.8 64.2 64.5
Position (1) 41.8 40.2 40.5

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 13 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average of Aug-22 % of GDP 4
Main monetary variables and financial system Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-Year
Aug-22 Jul-22 Jun-22 Dec-21 Aug-21 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real Aug-22 Dec-21

Domestic currency segment

Total Deposits of non-financial sector in pesos 114,061,561 13,542,577 12,468,263 9,585,924 8,077,738 3.8% -2.3% 46.7% -6.2% 74.1% -2.8% 16.5% 17.5%

Deposits of the private sector 11,430,340 11,113,048 10,124,012 7,725,433 6,509,635 2.9% -3.0% 48.0% -5.4% 75.6% -2.0% 13.4% 14.1%

Sight deposits of the private sector 5,438,174 5,436,746 4,922,317 4,094,910 3,218,522 0.0% -3.9% 32.8% -9.2% 69.0% -5.7% 6.5% 7.1%

Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 4,088,636 4,237,774 3,861,942 3,283,152 2,619,505 -3.5% -6.4% 24.5% -13.4% 56.1% -12.9% 4.9% 5.6%

Remunerated 1,349,537 1,198,971 1,060,375 811,758 599,017 12.6% 4.9% 66.2% 6.6% 125.3% 25.7% 1.6% 1.5%

Fixed-term deposits and other deposits of the private sector 5,992,166 5,676,302 5,201,694 3,630,523 3,291,112 5.6% -2.2% 65.0% -1.5% 82.1% 1.6% 6.9% 7.0%

Fixed-term deposits 5,812,302 5,493,821 5,024,650 3,482,489 3,170,444 5.8% -2.0% 66.9% -0.7% 83.3% 2.3% 6.7% 6.7%

Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 5,412,829 5,106,729 4,682,534 3,322,813 2,985,382 6.0% -1.8% 62.9% -3.1% 81.3% 1.2% 6.3% 6.4%

Adjustable by CER/UVA 399,473 387,092 342,116 159,676 185,062 3.2% -4.4% 150.2% 48.8% 115.9% 20.5% 0.5% 0.3%

Traditional 204,200 202,947 186,863 102,705 119,997 0.6% -6.8% 98.8% 18.3% 70.2% -5.0% 0.2% 0.2%
Pre-cancelable 195,273 184,145 155,253 56,970 65,065 6.0% -1.7% 242.8% 103.9% 200.1% 67.5% 0.2% 0.1%
# Other deposits 179,864 182,481 177,044 148,035 120,668 -1.4% -8.1% 21.5% -22.1% 49.1% -16.8% 0.2% 0.3%
Public sector deposits 22,631,222 2,429,529 2,344,251 1,860,491 1,568,103 8.3% 0.9% 41.4% -9.3% 67.8% -6.4% 3.1% 3.4%

## Monetary Aggregates
M2 Total 9,243,486 9,185,771 8,432,114 7,120,815 5,675,289 0.6% -4.1% 29.8% -13.2% 62.9% -9.1% 11.0% 12.5%
M3 Total 17,079,684 16,542,738 15,224,330 11,905,669 10,091,005 3.2% -2.9% 43.5% -6.6% 69.3% -5.5% 20.1% 21.4%

## Private Monetary Aggregates
Private M2 8,343,336 8,333,957 7,559,364 6,325,612 5,133,884 0.1% -4.7% 31.9% -13.1% 62.5% -9.3% 9.8% 11.2%
Private M2 transactional 36,993,798 7,134,985 6,498,989 5,513,854 4,534,867 -2.0% -6.1% 26.8% -14.8% 54.2% -13.9% 8.3% 9.6%
Private M3 14,335,502 14,010,259 12,761,059 9,956,135 8,424,996 2.3% -3.1% 44.0% -7.9% 70.2% -5.0% 16.8% 18.1%

Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 5,723,500 5,471,918 5,163,849 4,058,133 3,225,959 4.6% -2.5% 41.0% -6.4% 77.4% -1.0% 6.9% 7.2%

Loans to the non-financial private sector 5,666,267 5,410,631 5,107,994 4,003,444 3,175,431 4.7% -2.4% 41.5% -6.0% 78.4% -0.4% 6.8% 7.1%

Advances 641,391 610,748 560,731 392,585 321,546 5.0% -1.1% 63.4% 8.6% 99.5% 11.3% 0.8% 0.7%
Documents 1,497,913 1,399,079 1,294,751 1,010,395 727,815 7.1% -0.6% 48.3% -0.9% 105.8% 14.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Mortgages 350,450 341,945 330,165 280,283 244,951 2.5% -4.2% 25.0% -19.3% 43.1% -20.2% 0.4% 0.5%
Pledges 384,579 359,362 332,258 229,234 166,186 7.0% -1.9% 67.8% 9.6% 131.4% 29.2% 0.5% 0.4%
Personal 901,476 863,856 834,880 665,885 546,543 4.4% -2.7% 35.4% -11.4% 64.9% -7.9% 1.1% 1.2%
Credit Cards 1,595,936 1,540,242 1,459,822 1,198,243 968,053 3.6% -3.1% 33.2% -6.1% 64.9% -8.0% 2.0% 2.1%

Other 294,523 295,400 295,387 226,818 200,337 -0.3% -6.1% 29.8% -19.1% 47.0% -18.0% 0.3% 0.4%

Loans to the non-financial public sector 57,232 61,287 55,855 54,689 50,529 -6.6% -13.0% 4.7% -32.9% 13.3% -36.8% 0.1% 0.1%

## Foreign Currency Segment¹
Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 17,548 18,120 18,517 18,237 19,000 -3.2% - -3.8% - -7.6% - 2.9% 3.5%

Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 14,604 15,075 15,585 15,255 16,393 -3.1% - -4.3% - -10.9% - 2.3% 2.8%

On demand 10,825 11,228 11,682 11,233 12,072 -3.6% - -3.6% - -10.3% - 1.7% 2.1%
Fixed term and other 3,779 3,847 3,903 4,022 4,321 -1.8% - -6.0% - -12.6% - 0.6% 0.8%

Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2,944 3,045 2,932 2,982 2,607 -3.3% - -1.3% - 13.0% - 0.5% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,835 3,968 3,958 4,268 5,451 -3.4% - -10.1% - -29.7% - 0.6% 0.8%

Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,714 3,847 3,836 4,127 5,310 -3.4% - -10.0% - -30.1% - 0.6% 0.8%

Documents 2,434 2,608 2,609 2,729 3,767 -6.7% - -10.8% - -35.4% - 0.4% 0.5%
Credit Cards 272 253 246 137 78 7.7% - 99.5% - 250.8% - 0.0% 0.0%
Other 1,008 986 981 1,261 1,465 2.2% - -20.0% - -31.2% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 121 121 122 141 141 -0.6% - -14.5% - -14.6% - 0.0% 0.0%

---

¹ Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
² Net of unified funds utilization.
³ Excludes with respect to private M2 remunerated on-demand deposits.
⁴ Calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and GDP without seasonality estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary.
ITCRM | 92.68 | 0.57 | 92.15 | 95.93 | 102.60 | 112.60
1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the guaranteed minimum interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from individuals who, in total, at the financial entity exceed one million pesos.
 The guaranteed minimum interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits at said entity do not exceed one million pesos.
 2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates for purchase and sale noted by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 15 Glossary

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M2 private: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
M2 private transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3 private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancelable checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 16 TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Purchasing Power.

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2022 | BCRA | 17
