2. Means of payment
## 2. Means of Payment

Means of payment (private transactional M2¹), at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality (s.a.) would have registered a contraction of 0.7% in June, noting five consecutive months of decline (see Chart 2.1). This dynamic responded to both the behavior of cash in the hands of the public as well as non-remunerated demand deposits. In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned almost 5% below the level of June 2021. In terms of Product, private transactional M2 would have registered a decrease (0.1 p.p.) with respect to May, placing itself at 8.5% (see Chart 2.2). In particular, cash in the hands of the public remained at minimum levels of the last 15 years, while demand deposits are found at values similar to those of the average of recent years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly s.a. variation | In % of GDP

[Chart descriptions with data points preserved as shown]

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

In mid-June, the BCRA Board decided to raise for the sixth time in the year the guaranteed minimum interest rates on fixed-term deposits². The measure is in line with the objective of guaranteeing greater availability of savings instruments that allow Argentines to obtain returns in accordance with the evolution of inflation and the exchange rate. In this way, the guaranteed minimum rate for placements of natural persons up to an amount of $10 million was increased from 48% n.a. to 53% n.a. (68% a.a.). For the rest of depositors in the financial system³ the interest rate was raised by 4 p.p. to 50% (63.2% a.a.).

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos would have registered an expansion of 1.5% s.a. in the month. In this way, fixed-term placements persist around the maximum records of recent decades. As a ratio of GDP they would reach 6.4%, a record that continues to be positioned among the maximums of recent years.

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² Communication "A" 7,527.
³ Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

When analyzing the evolution of fixed-term instruments according to the categories generated from the minimum interest rates set by the BCRA, heterogeneous behaviors are observed. In effect, placements of natural persons of less than $10 million at constant prices would have experienced a slight decline of 0.2% s.a. in the monthly average. In contrast, the rest of the deposits of the non-financial private sector (those constituted by legal entities, regardless of amount, and by natural persons with placements of more than $10 million) would have experienced an increase in the month in real terms (2.7% s.a.; see Chart 3.1).
Regarding fixed-term deposits of legal entities, companies (excluding Financial Services Providers – FSP –) increased their holdings on average during the month, although the peak variation experienced a slight decline. With respect to FSPs, a portfolio rebalancing was observed, with an increase in sight deposits to the detriment of fixed-term holdings. This behavior occurred in a context in which the equity of Money Market Investment Funds (IMF MM) increased, which are the main agents within FSPs. It should be noted that, in a context of excessive volatility in the secondary domestic debt market, at the beginning of the month there was a liquidation of public securities positions of the National Government, especially those adjustable by CER, which led to a marked decline in their price. Part of the funds that came out of fixed-income IMFs were those that nourished the equity of IMF MM, which in turn resulted in a significant increase in remunerated sight deposits (see Chart 3.2). Part of that liquidity could also have contributed to the reversal of the downward trend in investments with early cancellation options that began at the beginning of the year.

Chart 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector | Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
At constant prices by rate segment | At constant prices by type of depositor and instrument
Original series | Original series

billions of $ as of June 30, 22 | billions of $ as of June 30, 22 | billions of $ as of June 30, 22 | Remunerated sight deposits of FSPs | billions of $ as of June 30, 22
2,600 | 3,300 | 1,300 | Traditional fixed-term deposits of FSPs | 2,600
Fixed-term deposits of natural persons of less than $10 million | Rest of fixed-term deposits of the private sector (right axis) | 1,200 | IMF MM Equity (right axis) | 2,500
2,500 | 3,200 | 2,400
1,100 | 2,500
2,400 | 3,100 | 2,200
1,000
2,300 | 3,000 | 900 | 2,100
2,000
2,200 | 2,900 | 800 | 1,900
700 | 1,800
2,100 | 2,800 | 1,700
600 | 1,600
2,000 | 2,700 | 500 | 1,500
1,900 | 2,600 | 400 | 1,400
1,300
1,800 | 2,500 | 300 | 1,200
Sep-21 | Nov-21 | Jan-22 | Mar-22 | May-22 | Dec 01 | Jan 01 | Feb 01 | Mar 01 | Apr 01 | May 01 | Jun 01

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

At the level of instruments, a preference was observed for those assets with shorter terms. As we mentioned, deposits with early cancellation options showed a significant increase in the period, driven by wholesale placements. The greater dynamism of cancellable fixed-term deposits was verified both in placements in pesos and those adjustable by CER. Deposits in UVA continued to extend their growing trend that began at the beginning of the year, with an increasing relative participation in the total of fixed-term instruments, although it continued to be very limited (around 7% of total fixed-term deposits). At constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, these placements recorded an average monthly increase of 9.6%, reaching a balance of $359,740 million at the end of June and a new historical maximum in real terms. This dynamics responded both to placements in traditional UVA as well as to cancellable ones, whose monthly expansion rates were placed at 3.7% s.e. and 17.7% s.e. at constant prices, respectively (see chart 3.3). Discriminating the balance by type of holder, it is observed that the impulse came again from placements of natural persons, while companies (excluding FSPs) decreased their holdings (see Chart 3.4).

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector | Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Monthly variation s.e. by type of instrument | Daily balance at constant prices by type of holder
Original series |
var. monthly s.e. billions
of $ of 30-jun-22
40 300 288
30 Natural Persons
PF UVA Traditional PF UVA Cancellable in Advance 250 Financial Services Providers

Other Legal Entities
20 200

10 150

0 100

77
-10 50

-20 0 3
jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 mar-22 may-22 aug-19 dec-19 apr-20 aug-20 dec-20 apr-21 aug-21 dec-21 apr-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, M3 private 4, at constant prices would have registered in June a
monthly expansion of 1.1% s.e. In the year-on-year comparison, this aggregate would have shown a slight
increase (0.6%) and as a percentage of GDP it would have been positioned at 16.5%, 0.2 p.p. above the
record of the previous month.

4. Monetary Base

In June, the Monetary Base stood at $3,891.2 billions, which implied an average monthly nominal increase
of 5.3% (+$194,792 millions) in the original series. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would
have exhibited a contraction of 2.5% and over the last twelve months it would have accumulated a drop of
around 13%. In terms of GDP the Monetary Base would be positioned at 5.2%, a figure around the minimum
values since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base

billions % of GDP
of $ of jun-22 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices
7,500 12
As a percentage of GDP (right axis)
7,000
10
6,500

6,000 8

5,500
6
5,000

4,500 4

4,000
2
3,500

3,000 0
jan-03 oct-04 jul-06 apr-08 jan-10 oct-11 jul-13 apr-15 jan-17 oct-18 jul-20 apr-22
Source: BCRA.

4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (sight deposits, time deposits and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | June of 2022 | BCRA | 5 Among the factors of variation of the monetary base, mention can be made of the expansion from operations
of the public sector, which in terms of GDP remained among the lowest levels of recent years; the BCRA's
intervention in the secondary market for public securities with the objective of stabilizing the curve in pesos
of those bonds given the greater volatility in global and local financial markets and the net purchase of
foreign currency from the private sector. The counterpart of these operations was the absorption of liquidity
through the BCRA's monetary regulation instruments.

In mid-June the BCRA Board decided to raise once again the interest rates of the monetary policy
instruments, maintaining the objective of promoting positive real returns on investments in local currency.
Specifically, the interest rate of the 28-day LELIQ was raised by 3 p.p., which moved to 52% n.a. (66.5% e.a.).
For its part, the interest rate of the 180-day LELIQ increased by 4 p.p. and was set at 58.5% n.a. (67.2% e.a.).
With regard to shorter-term instruments, the interest rate of 1-day passive repos increased by 3 p.p. to
40.5% n.a. (49.9% e.a.); while the interest rate of 1-day active repos stood at 57.5% n.a. (77.6% e.a.).
Finally, the fixed spread of the NOTALIQ in the last tender of the month remained at 5.0 p.p.

With the current configuration of instruments, in June the remunerated liabilities were composed of
approximately 70% by 28-day LELIQ. With respect to longer-term species, the 180-day LELIQ decreased
their participation to 6.3% of the total, unlike what occurred with NOTALIQ whose participation continued
to increase in the month (13.3% of the total). The remainder corresponded to 1-day passive repos, which
slightly increased their relative weight to 10.6% of the total (see Chart 4.2).

Chart 4.2 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities
Monthly Average

% 1-day Repos 7-day Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ
100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30
20

10

0
dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22
Source: BCRA.

5. Loans to the Private Sector
In June, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have grown 1.6%, thus interrupting four consecutive months of decline. Thus, in the last twelve months, loans in pesos would have accumulated an increase at constant prices of 3.4%. The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP grew 0.1 p.p. in the month and reached 6.7% (See Graph 5.1).

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 6 Graph 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Graph 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
In terms of Real GDP without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth

%  %
12  3

9  2
6.7  1.6
6  1

3
0
0
-1
-3
Loans in pesos to the private sector  -2 Personal Documents
-6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving avg.) Overdrafts Credit Cards
Ratio to GDP  -3 Pawn Mortgage
-9 Other  Total (monthly var.)

-12  -4
Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22 Apr-21 Jun-21 Aug-21 Oct-21 Dec-21 Feb-22 Apr-22 Jun-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Analyzing the evolution of loans by type of financing (see Graph 5.2), commercial lines made a positive contribution to monthly growth. Indeed, this type of financing grew 1.6% s.e. at constant prices and interrupted 4 consecutive months of decline. In year-over-year terms, commercial loans would have registered an increase of 14.3% at constant prices. Within these financings, the growth of overdrafts in current account stood out, which was the most dynamic line and would have registered a monthly growth of 7.8% s.e. at constant prices (+24.2% y.o.y.). In contrast, documents would have fallen 0.6% s.e. in real terms (+16.8% y.o.y.), a dynamic that was explained by the behavior of documents on single signature.

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to sustain the growth of loans to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of June, the financings channeled through the LFIP accumulated disbursements of approximately $2,500 billion since its launch, with an increase of 11.6% compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.3). As for the destinations of these funds, around 85% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financings and the rest to the line that finances investment projects. At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 284,572.

Graph 5.3 | Financings granted through the Productive Graph 5.4 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor
Investment Financing Line (LFIP) Y.o.y. var. at constant prices of the 30-day moving average balance
Accumulated disbursed amounts; data at end of month

thousands of  y.o.y. var. %
millions of $  100 MSMEs
3,000  Other Legal Persons
80
2,500  Total 2,499
60
Investment projects (35% n.a. rate)
2,000  40
20  27.4
1,500
0  -1.9
1,000
-20

500  378

0  -60
Nov-20 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Dec-18 Jun-19 Dec-19 Jun-20 Dec-20 Jun-21 Dec-21 Jun-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 7

Thus, the LFIP continues to sustain financing for companies of smaller relative size. Indeed, distinguishing commercial credit by type of debtor, it is observed in June that credit to MSMEs would have grown around 27% year-over-year, while that destined to large companies showed a contraction on the order of 2% compared to a year ago and measured at constant prices (see Graph 5.4).
# TRANSLATED TEXT

Another one of the lines that contributed to the growth of loans in June was the financing arranged with credit cards. These would have grown 2.9% s.e. in real terms, reversing a prolonged decline. Thus, the average monthly balance was located around 7% below the level of a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would have exhibited a contraction of 0.6% monthly at constant prices and would be found 2.9% below the level of June 2021. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans rose in June to 60.3% n.a. (80.1% e.a.), increasing 1.3 p.p. compared to the previous month.

As for lines with real guarantee, pawnshop loans would have registered an increase in real terms of 2.8% s.e. and in year-on-year terms would have accumulated growth of 41%. In contrast, the balance of mortgage credit would have registered in the month a decline of 0.9% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of around 15% in the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In the month of June, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁵ averaged 66.6% of deposits, placing itself 0.5 p.p. below the level of May. Thus, it remains at historically elevated levels.

Regarding the composition of banking liquidity, a modification occurred in the form of integration of minimum cash, with LELIQs gaining relative weight to the detriment of public securities, and recording a decline in current accounts at the Central Bank. For its part, integration with BOTE 2027 experienced an increase as a product of the full effect of the auction held at the end of May. Excess liquidity, considering that the LELIQ balance remained without major changes and a larger portion was allocated to integration of minimum cash, was channeled into an increase in the NOTALIQ balance, with passive repos remaining constant in terms of deposits (see Graph 6.1).

**Graph 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities**

[Chart showing composition of liquidity from June 2021 to June 2022, with percentages of deposits on y-axis (0-80%) and months on x-axis, displaying different components: Net Repos, LELIQ, NOTALIQ Integration in LELIQ, BCRA CC $, BOTE 2022-2027, Integration with Other Securities, Cash in Banks $, and Liquidity]

Source: BCRA.

⁵ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and NOTALIQs and public bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.

Regarding regulatory changes, it is worth mentioning that the BCRA began a simplification process of the minimum cash scheme with the objective of reinforcing the transmission channel of monetary policy. In this regard, a series of exemptions were eliminated, preserving only those that favor productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and household consumption financing (through financing with the Ahora12 Program). With the intention of having a neutral monetary effect, a modification in the rates applied to minimum cash items was made. This modification will enter into force in the month of October, while the exemption associated with ATM withdrawals will be computed through the month of December inclusive⁶.

## 7. Foreign currency
In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities recorded limited positive variations. In effect, the monthly average balance of private sector deposits stood at US$ 15,585 million, which represented an increase of US$ 199 million compared to May. This increase was driven mainly by sight deposits, especially from the legal entities segment with more than US$ 1 million. On the other hand, the monthly average balance of loans to the private sector was US$ 3,837 million, which implied an increase of US$ 125 million compared to the previous month, explained by both financings granted through single-signature documents as well as credit cards (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector | Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities

thousands of % of Effective in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits
25 79.8 80.6 82.0 82.9 82.8 83.2 82.4 82.8 82.8
80 75.8 76.0 76.4 78.0
Deposits Loans
20 70

60
15 15.5 50 61.1 62.9 62.2 63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5 64.8 64.5
55.8 56.6 58.4 60.5

40
10
30

5 20
4.0
10 19.9 19.4 18.0 17.5 18.7 17.8 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 18.0 18.3

0 0
Dec-19 May-20 Oct-20 Mar-21 Aug-21 Jan-22 Jun-22 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment stood at 82.8% of June deposits, remaining stable compared to May. Among its components, the increase was observed in the variation of effective cash in banks, which was partially offset by a decline in current accounts at the BCRA (see Chart 7.2).

During June, some regulatory changes took place in foreign exchange matters. Thus, in the first days of the month, the BCRA approved the regime of currency availability for service exporters⁷. In this way, individuals who export services linked to the knowledge economy will be able to dispose of up to US$ 12,000 annually in accounts at local financial entities without the requirement to liquidate in pesos. The benefit extends to companies in the sector, which will have currency availability for salary payments for a percentage of the increase in external sales they make this year compared to 2021.

At the same time, the system that governed access to the foreign exchange market by non-residents for the purchase of foreign currency was extended for beneficiary persons of retirements and/or pensions paid by the National Social Security Administration (ANSES) to other agencies and/or retirement life annuities so they can collect them in a bank account in their name abroad⁸. Furthermore, the conditions for establishing Fixed Terms for Ranchers were improved, which can be established by individuals and companies with agricultural activity and whose yield is linked to the value of cereals or oilseeds and the quotation of the United States dollar, removing limits for their renewal⁹. In line with the foregoing, it was decided to increase the amount for access to peso financing for agro-exporting companies intended for the purchase for export¹⁰.
On the other hand, the normative scheme was being refined corresponding to those imported goods and services for which it is necessary to have a declaration in the Comprehensive Import Monitoring System (SIMI) and are not included in the timeframes provided for in the foreign exchange regulation. Thus, during the month of June, exceptions and particular regulatory frameworks continued to be incorporated for imports linked to certain productive activities, with the objective of responding to extraordinary foreign exchange needs to address energy imports, promote the development of SMEs and sustain economic growth¹¹. Finally, at the end of the month, the strategy continued to promote an efficient allocation of foreign exchange by preventing financial entities and non-financial credit providers from financing in installments the purchase of products or services from abroad¹².

In this context, the BCRA's International Reserves ended June with a balance of US$42,787 million, reflecting an increase of US$1,226 million with respect to the end of May (see Chart 7.3). The dynamics in June were impacted by the second IMF disbursement towards the end of the month for US$4,013 million, within the framework of the Extended Facilities Program (PFE) signed with our country. This allowed for meeting the capital payments to the organization in June and will allow for facing those scheduled for July. Another factor that contributed to the growth of Reserves was the net purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector, which totaled US$948 million in the month.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 4.1% in June to stand, on average, at $122.65/US$ (see Chart 7.4). In this way, the depreciation rate of the domestic currency is gradually converging to levels more compatible with the inflation rate, with the objective of preserving the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) around appropriate competitiveness levels.

⁸ Communication "A" 7528.
⁹ Communication "A" 7530.
¹⁰ Communication "A" 7531.
¹¹ Communications "A" 7528 and "A" 7532.
¹² Communication "A" 7535.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 10

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate
Daily balance with the United States

thousands of First Second
millions of US$ disbursement PFE disbursement var. % avg.
50 Payment to IMF and Payment to IMF PFE monthly

Payment to IMF 4.5
Assignment
SDRs 4.0
Payment to IMF Payment to IMF 3.5
45 Payment to IMF 3.0

2.5

2.0
40 1.5

1.0

0.5

35 0.0
Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Mar-22 Jun-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 11

8. Regulatory Summary

Issue Date Standard Description
It was established that natural persons may collect up to 12,000 dollars per year in their accounts in Argentina for services rendered to non-residents. Income above said amount must be settled. The condition to use this mechanism is that they do not acquire foreign currency through the financial system (agreed sales of securities with settlement in foreign currency 90 days before the accreditation of funds and commit to not doing so for the 90 subsequent days).

For their part, legal entities may obtain a "certification of increased income from service export collections in the year 2022" to be exclusively intended for the payment of remuneration to their workers for up to the minimum between 50% of the increase in service exports in the accumulated total of 2022 with respect to the entirety of the year 2021 and 20% of gross remuneration for the remainder of 2022. This mechanism may be used only insofar as the firm has no record of non-compliance to date in the matter of income and settlement of service exports, commits to settling the funds that have not been allocated to the payment of remuneration, and have not agreed on sales of securities with settlement in foreign currency 90 days before certification and that it also commits to not doing so for the 90 subsequent days.

This exceptional regime to the obligation of settlement of foreign currency for service export collections for certain items is retroactive to January 1, so it will be possible to dispose of the total annual amount until the end of the year.

Effective as of June 21, 2022, the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits constituted by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed a total of $10 million on the date of their constitution was raised from 97.96% to 101.92% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to the one in which the deposits are made, or the last one disclosed in any case. For the rest of the deposits, it went from 93.88% to 96.15% of said rate. In the case of deposits with early withdrawal option, the fixed early withdrawal rate will be 92.31% of the Monetary Policy Rate (until this regulation, it was 87.76%).

For its part, the rate provided for working capital financing and the discount of deferred payment checks and Electronic Credit Invoices SMEs was increased from 47.50% to 52.50% fixed nominal annual, and from 37% to 42% that provided for the financing of Investment Projects, within the framework of the "Financing line for productive investment of SMEs".

Finally, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to July 2022, the limit on compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities may apply was raised to 57% fixed nominal annual.
Access to the foreign exchange market was allowed for payment of imports of goods that have an associated SIMI declaration category B or C in force and that involve goods necessary for the production of automobiles and/or auto parts in the country. It is worth recalling that these categories refer to the form of access to the foreign exchange market when it comes to imported goods for which it is necessary to have the declaration in the Integral System for Monitoring Imports (SIMI) and are not included in the periods provided for in foreign exchange regulations.

16-Jun-22 Com. "A" 7528 In turn, new goods were added to the list of tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature of Mercosur (NCM) of pharmaceutical products and/or inputs that are used in their local production and other goods related to health care, to which access to the foreign exchange market will be granted for processing import payments.

Finally, it was established that persons residing abroad will be able to receive pensions, retirement benefits or annuity income, provided that it is made to a bank account held by the beneficiary in their country of registered residence and the foreign currency transfers are for up to the amount received for such concepts in the last 30 consecutive days.

It was established that persons and companies with agricultural activity may establish "Chacarero Fixed Terms" deposits, whose yields are related to the value of cereals or oilseeds and the exchange rate of the US dollar, for an amount of up to two times the total value of their sales of cereals and/or oilseeds registered as of January 1, 2022. In addition, the renewal of said existing term investments as of that date was permitted for up to the amount to be collected at their maturities, without taking into account the aforementioned limit.

23-Jun-22 Com. "A" 7530

The amount for access to peso financing for agro-exporting companies intended for the purchase for export was raised to $15,000 million, when the controlling shareholders are residents in the country and provided that the client commits, through the submission of an affidavit, not to increase their stock of exportable goods at the time of requesting the financing.

23-Jun-22 Com. "A" 7531
The possibility of adding an amount to the monthly limit of SIMI categories A and C was removed. In turn, the system of financing imports was extended to those carried out under Non-Automatic License and to the import of services for one quarter. In this way, in the new payment scheme, SIMI A will maintain access to the foreign exchange market for the equivalent of the average monthly imports of 2021 plus 5% or of 2020 plus 70%, and SIMI B corresponding to Non-Automatic Licenses will be able to access the market as of 180 days after clearance to market. For their part, small and medium-sized enterprises were exempted from the current requirements to finance their imports by an increase of 15% compared to the previous year, with a limit of up to one million US dollars.

27-Jun-22 Com. "A" 7532 Regarding capital goods imports, a rule was established that allows payment of 80% at port of origin and 20% with nationalization. Complementarily, pre-financing of exports was facilitated (changing the obligation to liquidate foreign currency entering from 5 to 15 days) and long-term financing to prepay local debts in foreign currency. Furthermore, the treatment of service imports was equated to that of goods, allowing access to the market for the same amount as in 2021 and, in case of exceeding the amount, the balance at 180 days.

Finally, in coordination with the Ministry of Productive Development, tariff positions of goods equivalent to those produced in the country were expanded, which will have access to the market as of 180 days, and luxury goods that will be able to access as of 360 days.

As a complement to Communication "A" 7407, which prevented financial entities and non-financial credit providers from financing in installments their clients' purchases of travel tickets abroad and other tourism services abroad, this new communication prevents,
30-Jun-22 Com. "A" 7535 effective as of July 4, 2022, financing in installments their clients' purchases of products abroad that are received through postal shipping system without commercial purpose according to the Customs Code, and international services of freight, "couriers" and customs procedure management.

A simplification of the Minimum Cash Regime in pesos was established with the objective of strengthening the transmission channel of monetary policy. The simplification contemplates a reduction in the number of exemptions, maintaining those that favor productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) and consumer financing for households. Complementarily, the rates applied to their items were recalibrated. This first stage of the simplification plan of the Minimum Cash Regime will be implemented gradually starting in October through the end of the year.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 139. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures subject to revision.
Average monthly Percentage variations average of Jun-22 % of GDP
Foreign Currency | % of total deposits in foreign currency

| | jun-22 | may-22 | apr-22 |
|---|---|---|---|
| Requirement | 24.0 | 24.0 | 24.0 |
| Integration (includes default in resource application) | 64.5 | 64.8 | 63.5 |
| Position (1) | 40.5 | 40.8 | 39.5 |
(1) Position = Integration - Requirement
 Monthly Monetary Report | June of 2022 | BCRA | 14 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.
 Monthly averages Percentage variations average of June-22 % of GDP 4
 Main monetary and financial system variables Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-year
 Jun-22 May-22 Apr-22 Dec-21 Jun-21 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real Jun-22 Dec-21

 Segment in domestic currency
 Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 112,505,002 11,690,708 10,976,936 9,585,194 7,543,810 7.0% 0.5% 30.5% -3.5% 65.8% 0.4% 16.2% 17.3%
 Deposits of the private sector 10,162,959 9,465,447 8,871,947 7,725,393 5,981,798 7.4% 0.5% 31.6% -2.7% 69.9% 2.9% 13.1% 14.0%
 Sight deposits of the private sector 4,958,897 4,626,032 4,294,363 4,094,953 2,920,926 7.2% -0.5% 21.1% -4.9% 69.8% 2.8% 6.5% 7.0%
 Non-remunerated (Transactional) 3,894,234 3,613,655 3,463,216 3,283,216 2,428,853 7.8% -0.7% 18.6% -5.4% 60.3% -2.9% 5.1% 5.6%
 Remunerated 1,064,664 1,012,376 831,147 811,737 492,072 5.2% 0.3% 31.2% -2.9% 116.4% 31.0% 1.4% 1.5%
 Fixed-term deposits and other deposits of the private sector 5,204,062 4,839,416 4,577,584 3,630,440 3,060,872 7.5% 1.6% 43.3% -0.4% 70.0% 3.0% 6.7% 6.9%
 Fixed-term deposits 5,025,347 4,673,582 4,415,803 3,482,486 2,939,308 7.5% 1.5% 44.3% 0.0% 71.0% 3.5% 6.4% 6.7%
 Non-adjustable by CER/UVA 4,683,271 4,378,907 4,165,595 3,322,813 2,772,894 7.0% 1.0% 40.9% -2.3% 68.9% 2.3% 6.0% 6.3%
 Adjustable by CER/UVA 342,076 294,675 250,208 159,673 166,414 16.1% 9.6% 114.2% 48.5% 105.6% 24.5% 0.4% 0.3%
 Traditional 186,850 170,131 152,494 102,705 109,737 9.8% 3.7% 81.9% 26.1% 70.3% 3.1% 0.2% 0.2%
 Precancellable 155,226 124,544 97,714 56,968 56,676 24.6% 17.7% 172.5% 88.8% 173.9% 65.9% 0.2% 0.1%
 Other deposits 178,715 165,833 161,781 147,954 121,564 7.8% 2.8% 20.8% -10.6% 47.0% -11.0% 0.2% 0.3%
 Deposits of the public sector 2 2,342,043 2,225,260 2,104,989 1,859,801 1,562,013 5.2% 0.4% 25.9% -6.8% 49.9% -9.2% 3.0% 3.4%
 Monetary aggregates
 Total M2 8,468,226 7,913,009 7,485,577 7,120,852 5,223,266 7.0% 0.2% 18.9% -6.8% 62.1% -1.8% 11.2% 12.4%
 Total M3 15,261,823 14,276,911 13,507,940 11,905,632 9,334,701 6.9% 1.3% 28.2% -2.3% 63.5% -1.0% 20.0% 21.2%
 Private monetary aggregates
 Private M2 7,596,643 7,097,594 6,687,820 6,325,655 4,641,477 7.0% 0.2% 20.1% -7.9% 63.7% -0.9% 9.9% 11.1%
 Private transactional M2 3 6,531,980 6,085,217 5,856,673 5,513,918 4,149,405 7.3% -0.7% 18.5% -7.4% 57.4% -4.7% 8.5% 9.5%
 Private M3 12,800,705 11,937,009 11,265,404 9,956,095 7,702,349 7.2% 1.1% 28.6% -4.9% 66.2% 0.6% 16.5% 18.0%
 Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 5,166,678 4,857,924 4,638,927 4,058,133 3,037,585 6.4% 1.6% 27.3% -2.9% 70.1% 3.0% 6.8% 7.2%
 Loans to the non-financial private sector 5,110,825 4,802,692 4,584,961 4,003,444 2,993,305 6.4% 1.6% 27.7% -2.6% 70.7% 3.4% 6.7% 7.1%
 Advances 560,944 500,687 457,337 392,585 273,538 12.0% 7.8% 42.9% 9.3% 105.1% 24.2% 0.7% 0.7%
 Documents 1,294,836 1,230,418 1,174,617 1,010,395 670,251 5.2% -0.6% 28.2% -0.3% 93.2% 17.0% 1.7% 1.8%
 Mortgage loans 330,123 318,428 311,622 280,283 235,295 3.7% -0.9% 17.8% -12.7% 40.3% -15.0% 0.4% 0.5%
 Pledge loans 332,321 308,739 288,148 229,234 142,982 7.6% 2.8% 45.0% 12.1% 132.4% 40.8% 0.4% 0.4%
 Personal loans 834,907 806,791 777,109 665,885 520,757 3.5% -0.6% 25.4% -6.6% 60.3% -2.9% 1.1% 1.2%
 Credit cards 1,462,550 1,365,258 1,315,089 1,198,243 953,564 7.1% 2.9% 22.1% -1.4% 53.4% -7.1% 2.0% 2.1%
 Others 295,143 272,370 261,040 226,818 196,917 8.4% 0.2% 30.1% -9.4% 49.9% -9.2% 0.4% 0.4%
 Loans to the non-financial public sector 55,853 55,232 53,966 54,689 44,281 1.1% -3.5% 2.1% -24.4% 26.1% -23.6% 0.1% 0.1%
 Segment in foreign currency 1
Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 18,516 18,480 18,433 18,237 18,860 0.2% - 1.5% - -1.8% - 3.0% 3.4%
Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15,585 15,386 15,334 15,255 16,242 1.3% - 2.2% - -4.0% - 2.5% 2.8%
On demand 11,682 11,473 11,413 11,233 11,918 1.8% - 4.0% - -2.0% - 1.9% 2.1%
Fixed term and others 3,904 3,914 3,922 4,022 4,323 -0.2% - -2.9% - -9.7% - 0.6% 0.7%
Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2,931 3,093 3,099 2,982 2,619 -5.3% - -1.7% - 11.9% - 0.5% 0.6%
Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,959 3,835 3,902 4,268 5,551 3.2% - -7.2% - -28.7% - 0.6% 0.8%

Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,837 3,712 3,778 4,127 5,416 3.4% - -7.0% - -29.2% - 0.6% 0.8%
Documents 2,609 2,526 2,518 2,729 3,837 3.3% - -4.4% - -32.0% - 0.4% 0.5%
Credit Cards 247 205 188 137 77 20.7% - 80.9% - 220.4% - 0.0% 0.0%
Rest 981 981 1,072 1,261 1,503 -0.1% - -22.2% - -34.7% - 0.2% 0.2%
Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 122 122 124 141 135 -0.7% - -13.7% - -9.9% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to private M2 the remunerated sight deposits.
4 It is calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and on the seasonally adjusted GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary
Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 15 Rates in annual percentage terms (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

**Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments** jun-22 TEA jun-22 may-22 apr-22 dic-21 jun-21

**BCRA Repo Rates**
Liabilities 1 day 38.50 46.93 36.92 35.15 32.00 32.00
Assets 1 day 54.50 72.39 51.84 48.02 42.70 42.70
LELIQ Rate at 28 days 50.00 63.34 48.23 45.58 38.00 38.00
LELIQ Rate at 180 days 55.83 72.76 53.53 50.58

**Interest Rates of the Interbank Market** jun-22 TEA jun-22 may-22 apr-22 dic-21 jun-21

**Repo rates between third parties REPO round at 1 day** 39.11 47.84 37.62 36.04 30.98 32.71
Amount traded in repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) 19,567 23,356 26,244 4,489 3,664
Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
Rate 40.35 49.67 38.27 35.11 30.46 31.62
Amount traded 28,906 26,767 24,704 19,687 11,179

**Passive Interest Rates** jun-22 TEA jun-22 may-22 apr-22 dic-21 jun-21
Sight Deposits
Remunerated 34.92 41.09 32.82 29.77 28.87 29.89
Fixed Term
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)¹ 49.98 63.20 46.90 44.51 36.29 36.32

TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 46.90 58.43 44.05 41.84 33.25 33.29
TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 47.96 60.05 45.04 42.58 33.98 33.87
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 47.60 59.51 44.61 42.33 33.34 33.39
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 48.63 61.10 45.67 43.21 34.20 34.11
Early repayment rate of deposits in UVA 44.67 55.06 42.23 39.58 30.50 30.50

**Active Interest Rates** jun-22 TEA jun-22 may-22 apr-22 dic-21 jun-21
# Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos

| | jun-22 | TEA jun-22 | may-22 | apr-22 | dec-21 | jun-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Overdrafts on current account** | 47.91 | 61.42 | 46.37 | 44.43 | 40.46 | 41.59 |
| 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 million | 42.44 | 52.60 | 40.61 | 38.89 | 35.36 | 35.91 |
| Documents at single signature | 43.28 | 53.01 | 41.11 | 39.60 | 34.78 | 35.70 |
| Mortgages | 36.67 | 43.52 | 34.42 | 32.01 | 29.71 | 28.25 |
| Pledges | 34.61 | 40.67 | 30.98 | 29.62 | 28.16 | 27.28 |
| Personal | 60.26 | 80.06 | 58.95 | 58.02 | 53.00 | 52.70 |
| Credit cards | 49.91 | 63.09 | 48.36 | 47.24 | 42.87 | 42.52 |

# Interest rates of the foreign currency segment

| | jun-22 | TEA jun-22 | may-22 | apr-22 | dec-21 | jun-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days)** | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.34 | 0.37 | 0.38 |
| Documents at single signature in dollars | 3.45 | 3.51 | 3.26 | 3.49 | 5.97 | 3.40 |

# Exchange Rate

| | jun-22 | Monthly Var. (%) | may-22 | apr-22 | dec-21 | jun-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **ECN peso/dollar** | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 122.65 | 4.13 | 117.79 | 113.18 | 101.88 | 95.26 |
| Retail | 124.62 | 3.89 | 119.95 | 115.31 | 104.27 | 97.47 |
| **ECN peso/real** | 24.38 | 2.23 | 23.85 | 23.83 | 18.01 | 18.92 |
| **ECN peso/euro** | 129.75 | 4.17 | 124.55 | 122.51 | 115.14 | 114.65 |
| **ITCNM** | 812.76 | 3.50 | 785.28 | 775.00 | 672.89 | 662.61 |
| **ITCRM** | 95.80 | -0.90 | 96.68 | 100.18 | 102.60 | 117.60 |

---

## FOOTNOTES

1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, in the financial entity exceed one million pesos.

The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor insofar as the total of fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed one million pesos.

2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated by considering the exchange rates bought and sold noted by the adhering entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

---

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 16 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Mutual Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total of deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 17

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Unit of Acquisitive Value.

Monthly Monetary Report | June 2022 | BCRA | 18
