# Monetary Report
Monthly
July 2022

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings instruments in pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary base

Page 8 | 5. Loans in pesos to the private sector

Page 10 | 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Page 10 | 7. Foreign currency

Page 13 | 8. Regulatory summary

Page 17 | 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 20 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was August 5, 2022. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and valuation schemes.

In this document, efforts have been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

---

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Monetary Base | M2 Private transactional | Fixed Term S. Priv. | Fixed Term UVA S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. |
| | -0.5% | -1.6% | 1.8% | 5.4% | 0.5% |

| Loans to S. Priv. | Structure of Interest Rates | Tasa de LELIQ 28 días |
|---|---|---|
| var. monthly real s.e. | % LEDE oct-22 secondary | nominal annual |
| -0.6% | 120 LEDE oct-22 primary |
| | 110 LELIQ 28 days |
| | 100 Passive Repo |
| | 90 Active Repo |
| | 80 60.0% |
| | 70 |
| | 60 Passive Repo Rate 1d |
| | 50 nominal annual |
| | 40 55.0% |
| | 30 |
| | | International Reserves |
| | 01-jul 06-jul 11-jul 16-jul 21-jul 26-jul 31-jul | millions of US$; end of month |
| | Source: BCRA. | 38,232 |

The BCRA established in its objectives and plans to set a path for the policy interest rate in order to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency, to preserve monetary and exchange rate stability. To that end, the BCRA currently conducts its monetary policy through changes in the interest rates of the 28-day Liquidity Bills (LELIQ), an instrument through which it defines the reference interest rate for monetary policy. Likewise, so that financial entities can calibrate their short-term liquidity, they have available a window of passive and active repos, which is regulated using the LELIQ rate as a reference. Also, in the current environment of high levels of savings in the financial system and reduced credit depth, the BCRA manages structural bank liquidity through periodic auctions of its instruments (LELIQ and NOTALIQ).

In the medium term, the BCRA seeks to gradually converge towards an administration of the economy's liquidity through open market operations (OMO) with Treasury bills and other short-term securities denominated in local currency, as occurs in other countries and in line with what is expressed in the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies within the framework of the current program with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), where this reform is considered a convenient alternative to reduce the quasi-fiscal cost of monetary policy. The pursuit of this objective requires greater liquidity, depth, and transparency of sovereign debt markets.
In this regard, the BCRA used on various occasions its capacity for intervention through open market operations. In particular in the last two months, the monetary authority sought to reduce volatility in the prices of Treasury instruments. This action is complemented by a deepening of coordination efforts with the Ministry of Economy of the Nation so that the BCRA interest rate structure presents reasonable spreads with National Treasury bills.

Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2022 | BCRA | 22. Means of payment

The means of payment (M2 private transactional1), at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.) would have registered in July a contraction of 1.6%, accumulating six consecutive months of declines (see Graph 2.1). The dynamics of the month responded to both the behavior of cash in the hands of the public as well as non-remunerated demand deposits. In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, the M2 private transactional would be positioned around 7.6% below the level of July 2021. In terms of the Product, the M2 private transactional would have been positioned at 8.6%, approaching the lowest levels of the last 15 years (see Graph 2.2). In particular, cash in the hands of the public reached a minimum, while demand deposits are at values similar to the average of recent years.

Graph 2.1 | M2 private transactional at constant prices | Graph 2.2 | M2 private transactional
Contribution by component to the monthly var. s.e. | In % of GDP

p.p. % of GDP
6                                           16    M2 private transactional
Demand deposits transactional               Demand deposits non-remunerated
Cash in the hands of the public             14    Cash in the hands of the public
4                                           M2 private transactional (%)
2                                           12
                                            10
0                                           8.6
                                            8
-2                                          6
                                            5.1
-4                                          4
                                            3.5
-6                                          2
jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 mar-22 may-22 jul-22 | jan-10 may-12 sep-14 jan-17 may-19 sep-21
Source: BCRA.                              | Source: BCRA.

3. Savings instruments in pesos

At the end of the month the BCRA Board decided to raise for the seventh time in the year the guaranteed minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits2. On this occasion, it increased by 8 p.p. the guaranteed minimum rate for placements of natural persons up to an amount of $10 million, which went from 53% n.a. to 61% (81.3% e.a.). For the rest of the depositors of the financial system3 the interest rate was raised by 4 p.p. to 54% (69.6% e.a.). This measure is aimed at promoting positive real returns on investments in local currency and preserving monetary and exchange rate stability.

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector would have registered a monthly growth of 1.8% s.e., completing four consecutive months of expansion. In this way, fixed-term placements persist around the maximum records of recent decades. As a ratio of GDP they would have registered an increase with respect to June (0.3 p.p.) and would reach 6.7%, a record that continues to be positioned among the highest of recent years.

1 Corresponds to M2 private excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.
2 Communication "A" 7527.
3 Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.
# Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2022 | BCRA | 3

The growth of the month was concentrated in the wholesale segment (more than $20 million; see Graph 3.1) and was explained by investments with early cancellation option. Meanwhile, traditional deposits remained without major changes throughout the month (see Graph 3.2). Within this type of placements, an increase in holdings of Financial Service Providers (PSF) was observed, offset by a decrease in holdings of other companies. The main agents within the PSF are Mutual Investment Funds, whose assets continued to increase during the month. The dynamism shown by the wholesale segment was partially offset by the fall in placements of $1 to $20 million, while placements of less than $1 million remained relatively stable at constant prices.

**Graph 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector**
Real monthly variation without seasonality by amount stratum

- Less than $1 million
- From $1 million to $20 million
- More than $20 million
- Total (%)

Original Series
p.p.
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
-1.5
-2.0

Values shown: 1.8, 1.3, 0.9, 0.3, -0.4, -0.9, -1.4

Time period: jan-22, mar-22, may-22, jul-22

Source: BCRA.

**Graph 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million**
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument

Original Series
1.8
1.3
0.9
0.3

---

At the level of instruments, in a context of greater financial volatility, the preference for assets with shorter terms was accentuated. In effect, deposits with early cancellation option continued with the upward trend they have been showing since early June, driven mostly by wholesale segment placements. In particular, in the segment of deposits adjustable by CER, a similar behavior was also verified. While precancelable placements continued with the upward trend of previous months, traditional placements stabilized throughout July (see Graph 3.3). Thus, the monthly expansion rate of placements in UVA with early cancellation option would have been located at 10.5% s.e. at constant prices, compared to 1.1% s.e. in the case of traditional UVA deposits. Distinguishing by type of holder, it is verified that the impulse came mostly from holdings of individuals (see Graph 3.4). In any case, UVA deposits reached a balance of $405,215 million at the end of July. Nevertheless, their relative participation in the total of fixed-term instruments continued to be limited (around 7% of total fixed-term deposits).

**Graph 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector**
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument

Original Series

Billions of $ as of 31-jul-22

- Traditional UVA Fixed-term
- Precancelable UVA Fixed-term

Values: 220, 208.8, 200, 196.4, 180, 160, 140, 120, 100, 80, 60, 40, 20, 0

Time period: jan-21, may-21, sep-21, jan-22, may-22

Source: BCRA.

**Graph 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector**
Balance at constant prices by type of holder

Original Series

Billions of $ as of 31-jul-22

- Individuals
- Financial Service Providers
- Other Legal Entities

Values: 350, 335, 300, 250, 200, 150, 100, 72, 50, 0, 4

Time period: ago-19, dic-19, abr-20, ago-20, dic-20, abr-21, ago-21, dic-21, abr-22

Source: BCRA.

---

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices would have registered a slight monthly expansion in July (0.5% s.e.). In the year-over-year comparison, this aggregate would have exhibited a slight contraction (-0.2%) and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at 17%, 0.4 p.p. above the record of the previous month.

**4. Monetary Base**
The Monetary Base on average in July stood at $4,212.0 billion, which implied a monthly increase of 8.2% (+$320,850 million) in the original series at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a contraction of 0.5% and in the last twelve months it would accumulate a decline of around 13.9%. In terms of GDP, the Monetary Base would be positioned at 5.2%, a figure around the minimum values since 2003 (see Graph 4.1).

Graph 4.1 | Monetary Base

billions of $ of Jun-22 | % of GDP
8,000 | 12
7,000 | 10
6,000 | 8
5,000 | 6
4,000 | 4
Monetary base s.e., at constant prices | As a percentage of GDP (right axis) | 2
2,000 | 0
Jul-03 Sep-06 Nov-09 Jan-13 Mar-16 May-19 Jul-22

Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, among the factors of monthly expansion of the monetary base, mention can be made of the BCRA's intervention in the secondary market of public securities with the objective of stabilizing the curve in pesos of those bonds and, to a lesser extent, the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector. These effects

4 Includes cash in public hands and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (sight, term and other).

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 5 were partially offset by the absorption of liquidity through the BCRA's monetary regulation instruments.

The BCRA set in its objectives and plans to establish a monetary policy interest rate path in order to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency, to preserve monetary and exchange rate stability. To that end, the BCRA currently conducts its monetary policy through changes in the interest rates of 28-day Liquidity Bills (LELIQ), an instrument through which it defines the reference interest rate of monetary policy.

The BCRA also manages liquidity to avoid imbalances that translate directly or indirectly into additional inflationary pressures. So that financial entities can calibrate their short-term liquidity, they have at their disposal a window of passive and active repurchase agreements, which is regulated taking the LELIQ rate as a reference. Likewise, in the current environment of high levels of savings in the financial system and reduced credit depth, the BCRA manages structural bank liquidity through the periodic auctioning of its instruments (LELIQ and NOTALIQ).

Within this framework, towards the end of the month the BCRA raised the interest rates on its instruments so that the structure of its rates presents as floor the rate of its 1-day passive repurchase agreements at 55% n.a. (73.3% e.a.) and as ceiling the rate of its active repurchase agreements at 75% n.a. (111.5% e.a.), establishing the monetary policy interest rate within these limits, so that the 28-day LELIQ remained at 60% n.a. (79.8% e.a.). For its part, the interest rate on 180-day LELIQ was set at 68.1% n.a. (79.9% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread of NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was maintained at 5.0 p.p.

In the medium term, the BCRA seeks to gradually converge towards managing the economy's liquidity through open market operations (OMA) with Treasury bills and other short-term securities denominated in local currency, as occurs in other countries and in line with what was expressed in the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies within the framework of the current program with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), where this reform is considered a convenient alternative to reduce the quasi-fiscal cost of monetary policy. The pursuit of this objective requires that the local capital market assume growing importance for the financing of economic actors, both from the public sector and from the private sector.
In this regard, the BCRA used on various occasions its capacity for intervention through open market operations, in order to promote greater liquidity, depth and transparency of sovereign debt markets. In particular in the last two months, the monetary authority sought to reduce volatility in the prices of Treasury instruments, reaffirming its commitment to operate on the yield curve of public debt in local currency, ensuring that yields in the secondary market remain in a reasonable relationship with those determined within the framework of the Treasury's primary auctions.5

To these ends, the Board of Directors of the Central Bank decided to incorporate as a reference for the design and decisions of monetary policy the interest rate of short-term Treasury Bills (currently discount Bills - LEDES - with maturity periods of 60-90 days). This decision is part of the strategy to (i) aim towards a structure of interest rates positive in real terms, taking as reference the main financial assets of the economy, (ii) strengthen the public debt market in pesos so that it achieves depth and liquidity and (iii) advance gradually in the use of Treasury instruments as monetary policy instruments.

This action is complemented by a deepening of coordination efforts with the Ministry of Economy of the Nation so that the structure of interest rates of the BCRA presents reasonable spreads with the National Treasury Bills (see Graph 4.2). In this regard, the interest rate of the shortest instrument from the last auction, the Discount Bill with maturity on October 31, was placed in the primary market at 70% n.a. (90.1% e.a.).

**Graph 4.2 | Structure of Interest Rates (TEA)**

| % | |
|---|---|
| 120 | LEDE Oct-22 secondary |
| 110 | LEDE Oct-22 primary |
| 100 | LELIQ 28 days |
| 90 | Passive Repo |
| 80 | Active Repo |
| 70 | |
| 60 | |
| 50 | |
| 40 | |
| 30 | |
| | 01-Jul 06-Jul 11-Jul 16-Jul 21-Jul 26-Jul 31-Jul |

Source: BCRA.

Going forward, the BCRA will continue monitoring the secondary market for public securities and the evolution of their prices in relation to primary auctions, participating to limit their volatility, in consistency with the prevailing structure of interest rates. In this way, it aims to prevent the yield of these securities from being placed outside their macroeconomic fundamentals, which could alter the normal mechanisms of transmission of monetary policy. In the near future the Board will determine the monetary policy rate in such a way as to maintain an adequate structure of rates with said fundamentals, generating favorable conditions for adequate functioning of the local capital market, while fulfilling the objectives set in terms of monetary, financial and exchange rate stability.

With the current configuration of instruments, in July the remunerated liabilities were composed of approximately 67% by LELIQ at 28 days maturity. With respect to longer-term securities, LELIQ at 180 days decreased their participation to 3.2% of the total, unlike what occurred with NOTALIQ whose participation continued to increase during the month (14.9% of the total). The remainder corresponded to 1-day passive repos, which increased their relative weight to 14.9% of the total (see Graph 4.3).

**Graph 4.3 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities**
Monthly Average

| % | Repos 1 day | Repos 7 days | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 100 | | | | | |
| 90 | | | | | |
| 80 | | | | | |
| 70 | | | | | |
| 60 | | | | | |
| 50 | | | | | |
| 40 | | | | | |
| 30 | | | | | |
| 20 | | | | | |
| 10 | | | | | |

---

**Footnote 5:** The BCRA arranged its participation in the secondary market of securities issued by the National Government as of July with residual maturity greater than 15 days, purchasing at rates similar to those of the latest auctions, plus a maximum spread of 2%.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 6-7
---

0
 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22
 Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

Loans to the private sector, adjusted for seasonality, would have registered a contraction of 0.6%
s.e. monthly at constant prices. Nevertheless, in the last twelve months they would have accumulated an increase
of 2.2% in real terms. Among the different credit lines, the decline was explained fundamentally by the
behavior of consumer financing (see Graph 5.1). The ratio of loans in pesos to the private
sector to GDP would have been located at 6.8%, remaining at the levels of the last 12 months (See Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector | Graph 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth | In terms of GDP

 % %
 3 12

 2 9

 6 6.8
 1
 3
 0
 -0.6 0
 -1
 -3
 -2 Loans in pesos to the private sector
 Personal Documents -6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
 -3 Advances Cards
 Chattel Mortgages Mortgages -9 Ratio to GDP
 Other Total (monthly var.)
 -4 -12
 Apr-21 Jun-21 Aug-21 Oct-21 Dec-21 Feb-22 Apr-22 Jun-22 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Analyzing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines with essentially commercial destination would have remained relatively stable in real terms. In the year-on-year comparison at constant prices, they are located 12.0% above the level of the same month of the previous year. Within these lines, documents would have grown 0.1% s.e. in real terms (+18.4% y.o.y.). This relative stability hides heterogeneous behavior by document type, with growth in those instruments issued on signature alone and a decline in discounted documents. For its part, the financing granted through current account advances would have experienced an expansion at constant prices of 0.9% s.e. (+13.1% y.o.y.).

 Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 8

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MiPyMEs). At the end of July, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated disbursements of approximately $2,693 billion since its launch, with an increase of 8% compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.3). Regarding the destinations of these funds, approximately 85% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects. At the time of this publication, the number of enterprises that accessed the LFIP amounted to 291,314. It should be noted that, in line with the increase in the BCRA's reference interest rates, the maximum rate of the line to finance working capital was raised from 52.5% to 58% a.r.; and the corresponding rate for investment projects went from 42% to 50% a.r.

Graph 5.3 | Financing granted through the Productive | Graph 5.4 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor
Investment Financing Line (LFIP) | Year-on-year var. at constant prices of the 30-day moving average balance
Accumulated disbursed amounts; data as of end of month

 thousands of % y.o.y.
 millions of $ 100 MiPyMEs
 3,000 Other Legal Entities
 Total 2,693 80

 2,500 Investment projects (rate 35% a.r.) 60

 2,000 40
 32.0
 1,500 20

 0
 1,000 -8.8
 -20

 500 407 -40

 0 -60
 Nov-20 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Dec-18 Jun-19 Dec-19 Jun-20 Dec-20 Jun-21 Dec-21 Jun-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.
# Translation to English

In this manner, the favorable conditions of the LFIP contributed to sustaining the growth of financing to relatively smaller-sized companies. Indeed, differentiating commercial credit by type of debtor, it can be seen that in July credit to SMEs would have expanded in year-on-year terms at a rate around 32%, while that destined to large companies showed a contraction of around 8.8% at constant prices in the last twelve months (see Graph 5.4).

Among loans associated with consumption, financings implemented with credit cards would have shown a decrease of 0.9% s.e. in real terms, with the average monthly balance located 6.4% below the level of a year earlier. Meanwhile, personal loans would have exhibited a contraction of 2.1% monthly at constant prices and would be found 5.0% below the level of July 2021. It should be noted that the interest rate corresponding to personal loans rose in July to 65.6% n.a. (89.5% e.a.), increasing 5.4 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

With regard to lines with real guarantees, pledged loans would have registered an increase in real terms (0.1% s.e.), and, in this way, completed 4 consecutive months of growth. In year-on-year terms they would have accumulated growth of 35.7%. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have presented in the month a fall of 3.1% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of around 17% in the last twelve months.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 96. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In the month of July, broad banking liquidity in local currency averaged 68.9% of deposits, 2.3 p.p. above the June level. Thus, it remains at historically elevated levels. This increase is explained mainly by the behavior of remunerated liabilities of the BCRA, which increased 2.9 p.p. during the month.

As for the composition of banking liquidity, there was a modification in the structure of remunerated liabilities, with reverse repos and NOTALIQ gaining weight over LELIQ. This is explained in part by the maturity of the first series of LELIQ at 180 days, and the placement of NOTALIQ at variable rate as a replacement. For its part, a decline of 0.2 p.p. was observed in current accounts at the BCRA and in integration with public securities (see Graph 6.1).

Regarding normative modifications with potential impact on banking liquidity, it should be mentioned that the minimum term of national public securities in pesos acquired by primary subscription accepted to integrate minimum cash was reduced from 120 to 90 calendar days. In turn, new "special accounts for holders with agricultural activity" (in pesos adjustable by the reference exchange rate Com. "A" 3500) were created, which will not be subject to minimum cash requirements. Financial entities may apply such resources to the acquisition of the new non-transferable internal letters of the BCRA in pesos payable by the Reference Exchange Rate Com. "A" 3500 (LEDIV) at zero rate. Finally, the percentage of financings under the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs" admitted as a reduction of minimum cash was increased from 34 to 40%.

Graph 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
# 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities showed heterogeneous behavior. On one hand, deposits from the private sector registered on average a decline of around US$ 500 million compared to June. Thus the monthly average balance was located at US$ 15,074 million. This decrease was driven mainly by sight deposits of individuals. On the other hand, the monthly average balance of loans to the private sector was US$ 3,850 million, remaining without major changes compared to the previous month (see Graph 7.1).

Graph 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector | Graph 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities

| thousands of millions of US$ | % of deposits | | Cash in Banks US$ | CC BCRA US$ | Liquidity US$ |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Deposits | Loans | | 80.6 | 82.0 | 82.9 | 82.9 | 83.2 | 82.5 | 82.7 | 82.8 | 82.5 | 78.0 | 79.8 | 80 | 76.0 | 76.4 | 70 | 14.6 | 60 | 56.6 | 58.4 | 60.5 | 61.1 | 62.9 | 62.2 | 63.5 | 64.1 | 63.6 | 63.5 | 64.8 | 64.5 | 64.2 | 50 | 40 | 30 | 20 | 10 | 3.9 | 19.4 | 18.0 | 17.5 | 18.7 | 17.8 | 19.9 | 19.4 | 18.7 | 19.6 | 19.0 | 17.9 | 18.3 | 18.3 | 0 |
| dec-19 | may-20 | oct-20 | mar-21 | aug-21 | jan-22 | jun-22 | jul-21 | aug-21 | sep-21 | oct-21 | nov-21 | dec-21 | jan-22 | feb-22 | mar-22 | apr-22 | may-22 | jun-22 | jul-22 |

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA. |

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment was located at 82.5% of deposits in July, remaining stable compared to June. This decline was explained by the decrease in current accounts at the BCRA (see Graph 7.2).

During July, a series of regulatory changes in foreign exchange matters took place. First, the financing conditions for imports of fertilizers, phytosanitary products and the inputs necessary for their production in the country were improved, and access to the market for automotive terminals for the production of units intended for export was simplified¹⁰. In turn, access to the foreign exchange market was freed up for the payment of imports of inputs that will be used for the production of goods in the country and that were shipped from origin until June 27, 2022¹¹. Additionally, financial entities were allowed to apply external financial lines to foreign currency foreign trade financing operations¹². For its part, the possibility of paying in installments with cards for purchases in duty-free shops was restricted, extending the prohibition that applies to passages and tourist services abroad and products from abroad that are received through the door-to-door system¹³. In the same sense, the maximum rate was increased to finance unpaid credit card balances when the monthly account statement records consumption for an amount exceeding US$ 200 in foreign currency¹⁴.

---

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net transactions agreed with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.
7 Communication "A" 7545
8 Communication "A" 7556
9 Communication "A" 7561

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 10

---

10 Communication "A" 7545
11 Communication "A" 7556
12 Communication "A" 7561
# Translation to English

Likewise, it was decided to include the holding of CEDEARs in the availability limit of US$ 100,000 that companies accessing the official foreign exchange market can have, and it was prohibited to operate these instruments in the 90 days before and after access to the official market 15. Finally, measures were taken regarding the value of the exchange rate at which customers have access. Thus, on one hand, it was established that non-resident tourists can sell foreign currency at the reference value of the dollar in the financial market for a maximum amount of US$ 5,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies) monthly 16 and, on the other hand, the withholding on account of income tax or personal property tax (as applicable) for payments recorded in foreign currency abroad was increased from 35% to 45% 17.

In this context, the BCRA's International Reserves ended July with a balance of US$ 38,232 million, reflecting a decrease of US$ 4,555 million compared to the end of June (see Chart 7.3). The dynamics of the month were impacted by principal payment obligations to the International Monetary Fund for a total of US$ 1,961 million, commitments assumed with Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) received under the Extended Facilities Program (PFE) in effect. Other Government National debt payments also had a negative impact, including the payment of interest for holders of global bonds (foreign legislation); the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, losses from the valuation of net external assets.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) against the United States dollar increased 4.7% in July, standing on average at $128.39/US$ (see Chart 7.4).

**Chart 7.3 | International Reserves** | **Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate**
Daily balance | with the United States
(thousands of millions of US$) | (% var. monthly average)

[Shows daily balance data with First PFE disbursement and Payment to IMF, SDG allocation, and Payments of capital to IMF marked on the chart from dic-20 onwards]

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

---

**8. Regulatory Summary**

| Date of issuance | Standard | Description |
|---|---|---|
| 7-jul-22 | Com. "A" 7540 | The possibility of paying in installments with credit cards for purchases in duty-free shops was restricted, extending the prohibition that applies to tickets and tourist services abroad and foreign products received through the door-to-door system. |
Access to the foreign exchange market was permitted for processing import payments to those customers who have an associated SIMI category B or C declaration in force and who have a "Certification of temporary input exports under the customs warehouse regime (RAF)". It should be recalled that these categories refer to the form of access to the foreign exchange market when it comes to imported goods for which it is necessary to have the declaration in the Comprehensive Import Monitoring System (SIMI) and are not included in the timeframes provided for in the foreign exchange regulations.

On the other hand, the deadline for access to the foreign exchange market for the import of fertilizers, phytosanitary products and the inputs necessary for their elaboration in the country was reduced from 90 days to 60 days, and from 365 to 60 days the deadline for accessing the foreign exchange market to pay inputs that will be used for local production of goods for export, when advances or pre-financing of exports are simultaneously liquidated.

Finally, payments made by companies that collect in the country the funds paid by residents to non-resident providers of digital services may be processed.

Regarding the minimum cash requirement, it was provided that national public securities in pesos with returns in dual currency receive the same treatment as securities issued in pesos. In turn, effective as of July 13, 2022, a minimum residual period of 90 days was established for national public securities in pesos acquired through primary subscription.

It was provided that the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic may conduct auctions of put options on securities allocated by the National Government as of July 2022 and that mature before December 31, 2023. The contracts for these put options may be exercised at any time until their expiration, which will be up to 15 days before the maturity of the collateral. The price will be set by the maximum rate between the closing value of the asset on the business day prior to settlement and the weighted average TNA, plus a spread. For this right, the financial entity holding the option must pay a premium.

The minimum deadline that must exist between the actual provision of the service by the non-resident and access to the foreign exchange market for payment was reduced to 60 calendar days, in the case that the payment corresponds to services contracted by companies in the energy sector to meet their operational needs. In turn, compliance with certain access requirements was exempted when it comes to a payment made within the framework of a temporary import for transformation of the tariff positions detailed in the regulations.

For its part, if the goods to be paid correspond to fertilizers and/or phytosanitary products and/or inputs that will be used for their local elaboration, access to the foreign exchange market will be admitted for the equivalent of the amount that is entered and liquidated as advances and pre-financing abroad that has an expiration date equal to or later than the date of customs entry registration of the goods (or the estimated date) plus 60 calendar days.

Finally, it was established that the "Certifications of temporary input exports under the customs warehouse regime (RAF)" referred to in Com. "A" 7542 may be reassigned in part or in full to one or more of the direct suppliers of the beneficiary, so that it can be used by the recipient under the conditions detailed in the regulations.
# Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 13

The validity of point 9.3 of the regulations on "Financing to the non-financial public sector" was extended until January 31, 2023, in which financial assistance to the non-financial public sector intended for the payment of personnel salaries is considered as an excluded concept for the purposes of calculating the basic individual and global limits established regarding the fragmentation of credit risk, with the requirements established in the regulation.

**21-Jul-22 Com. "A" 7549**

It was established that financial entities may apply external financing lines to foreign trade financing operations in foreign currency.

**21-Jul-22 Com. "A" 7550**

It was established that non-resident tourists may sell foreign currency at the reference value of the dollar in the financial market for a maximum amount of US$ 5,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies) monthly, at entities regulated by the BCRA authorized to operate in the foreign exchange market. The entities must identify the non-resident tourist through a valid identification document and verify that they are not included in the lists drawn up in accordance with the United Nations Security Council Resolutions regarding the fight against terrorism and that they do not reside in countries or territories where the Recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force are not applied, or are not sufficiently applied. Furthermore, they must require a sworn statement from the non-resident natural person stating their condition as a tourist and that, in the last 30 consecutive days and across all entities, they have not carried out operations exceeding the equivalent of 5,000 dollars.

**21-Jul-22 Com. "A" 7551**

The intervening entity may settle the operation based on the reference prices available at that moment and must execute the securities operations within 2 business days of being requested by the non-resident tourist.

It was decided to include the holding of CEDEARs in the US$ 100,000 availability limit that companies accessing the official foreign exchange market may have. Likewise, these instruments may not be operated either in the 90 days prior to or in the 90 days following access to the official market.

**21-Jul-22 Com. "A" 7552**
Access to the foreign exchange market was opened for the payment of imports of inputs that will be used for the production of goods in the country and that were shipped from origin until June 27, allowing payment of all orders up to US$ 4 million or 40% up to a limit of US$ 20 million. In turn, companies in the energy sector and/or companies engaged in the construction of infrastructure works for the aforementioned sector were exempted from compliance with the provisions established in the "Foreign Exchange and Changes" regulations regarding payments for capital goods with pending customs entry registration, instead the scheme in effect at the time of entry into force of Com. "A" 7532 will be applied to them. On the other hand, commercial financing granted by local entities based on financial credit lines from abroad were admitted to meet certain requirements to access the foreign exchange market (previously only commercial credit lines from abroad were considered). Likewise, within the framework of additional requirements for operations of clients covered by the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services (SIMPES) or specific to the entity for the concepts for which declaration in said system is required for clients, payments corresponding to services contracted from non-residents by companies engaged in the transport of persons and/or goods and air transport of persons to meet their operational needs were incorporated as conditions under which the entity can grant them access to the foreign exchange market.

Additionally, it was established that the provisions regarding "Certification of increase in exports of goods" and "Certification of increase in income from collections of exports of services" will also apply, with equal definitions and conditions, for those exporters that register increases in the year 2023 compared to the year 2022. Finally, the annual limit was raised to US$ 20 million by which certifications of income from new financial indebtedness with abroad can be issued.

Com. "A" 7546 was modified so that put option contracts on National Government securities awarded from July 22, 2022 can be exercised from 5 business days after the settlement of the security until its maturity, which will be up to 15 days before the collateral expires. In turn, at the time of exercising the option, the exercise price of these contracts will be equivalent to the rate resulting from a combination of formulas in which volumes by instrument are evaluated. In this way, for its calculation, the market rate with the highest concentration will be considered. For the rate of the negotiated security to be considered in the calculation of the purchase value, its volume must be equal to or greater than 20% of the average volume of the last 5 business days for the same term and be at minimum equal to $ VN 3 million, to prevent insignificant operations from generating distortions when calculating the purchase value. Finally, in case there is no value for the security, the purchase price will be calculated based on the values negotiated for similar instruments and different negotiation terms using linear interpolation with them.
In the first place, it was established that natural or legal persons resident that are grain producers
and/or operators in their commercialization and that sell soy as of July 27, 2022 to a buyer that
carries out its export in direct form or as a result of a real productive process carried out in the
country (and that do not carry out exports of these goods on their own account), may credit 70%
of the amount in pesos received from the sale in a "Special Account for holders with agricultural
activity", which has a variable daily return based on the evolution of the evolution that registers the
United States dollar (Com. "A" 3500) in the previous business day. In particular, the balances of
this account may be destined to 1) Non-transferable internal letters of the Central Bank of the
Argentine Republic in pesos payable by the Reference Exchange Rate Communication "A" 3500
(LEDIV) at zero rate; 2) Public and private securities, in pesos adjustable by the exchange rate;
and 3) Other destinations in pesos. Furthermore, all these concepts were excluded from the "net
global position of foreign currency" and their balances are not included in the minimum cash
requirement.

Furthermore, for the remaining 30% the Formation of External Assets will be permitted, at the value
of the official dollar plus the PAIS tax and the withholdings on account that the AFIP receives.

As a complement to Communication "A" 7556, it was established that, as of July 27, 2022, the
Central Bank of the Argentine Republic will offer "Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the
Argentine Republic in dollars and payable in pesos by the Reference Exchange Rate (LEDIV) at
zero rate". Financial entities that have in portfolio deposits with Interest rates calculated according
to the wholesale value of the dollar may participate in the subscription calls. In turn, the maximum
issuance term of these Letters was set at 365 days with the possibility of being redeemed, if the
financial entity requests it, as of 48 hours.

It was established that the maximum rate set by the BCRA for credit cards issued by financial
entities shall not be applied when the monthly account statement registers consumptions for an
amount exceeding 200 dollars in foreign currency, but rather the limit provided for in the Credit
Cards law applies. For its part, the financing of statements up to $200 thousand monthly will
maintain the maximum rate set by the BCRA, of 62%.
# Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2022 | BCRA | 15

Effective as of July 29, 2022, the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits constituted by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed a total of $10 million as of the date of their constitution was established at 101.67% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to the one in which the deposits are made, or the last published one if applicable, and at 90% for the rest of the deposits. In the case of deposits with early cancellation option, the fixed early redemption rate is 93.33% of the Monetary Policy Rate (until this regulation, it was 92.31%). For its part, the rate provided for working capital financing and discounting of deferred payment checks and Electronic Credit Invoices for SMEs was increased from 52.50% to 58% fixed nominal annual, and from 42% to 50% that provided for the financing of Investment Projects, within the framework of the "Financing Line for productive investment of SMEs". Furthermore, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to August 2022, the limit on compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities can apply was raised to 62% nominal annual. Finally, as of that same date, the requirement of minimum cash in pesos applicable to financial entities covered by the regulations on "Financing Line for productive investment of SMEs" for investment project financing was reduced to 40%. At the same time, financing destined for working capital and discounting of deferred payment checks and other documents agreed to SMEs with agricultural activity registered in the Simplified Agricultural Information System (SISA) in the capacity of "Producer" of cereals and/or oilseeds cannot be computed, except that they are categorized as microenterprises.

The deadline that must elapse to access the foreign exchange market was reduced from 180 to 90 calendar days from the date of customs registration of the goods in the case where the paid goods are the inputs that will be used for local production of goods detailed in the regulations. On the other hand, as of this regulation, deferred payment to the supplier is contemplated as one of the financings granted by a foreign financial entity categorized as commercial debts for the import of goods.

---

Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2022 | BCRA | 16. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average of Jul-22 % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 interannual

| | jul-22 | jun-22 | may-22 | dic-21 | jul-21 | jul-22 | dic-21 | jul-22 | dic-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 4,212,024 | 3,891,174 | 3,696,382 | 3,394,480 | 2,847,839 | 8.2% | -0.5% | 24.1% | -11.9% | 47.9% | -13.9% | 5.2% | 6.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 3,197,739 | 2,933,702 | 2,743,185 | 2,504,731 | 2,090,819 | 9.0% | -1.8% | 27.7% | -13.0% | 52.9% | -10.9% | 3.9% | 4.5% |
| Cash in possession of the public | 2,896,997 | 2,636,970 | 2,471,600 | 2,230,702 | 1,870,921 | 9.9% | -1.4% | 29.9% | -11.6% | 54.8% | -9.8% | 3.5% | 4.0% |
| Cash in financial entities | 300,742 | 296,731 | 271,584 | 274,029 | 219,898 | 1.4% | -5.3% | 9.7% | -24.3% | 36.8% | -20.4% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 1,014,285 | 957,472 | 953,197 | 889,749 | 757,020 | 5.9% | -1.0% | 14.0% | -21.3% | 34.0% | -22.0% | 1.3% | 1.6% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) | 6,887,694 | 6,007,415 | 5,557,121 | 4,506,696 | 3,773,717 | 14.7% | 7.2% | 52.8% | 5.5% | 82.5% | 6.3% | 8.6% | 5.6% |
| Passive Repurchase Agreements | 1,027,065 | 634,403 | 572,009 | 2,366,670 | 1,760,118 | 61.9% | 51.3% | -56.6% | -70.1% | -41.6% | -66.0% | 1.3% | 2.9% |
| 1 day | 1,027,065 | 634,403 | 572,009 | 110,546 | 55,632 | 61.9% | 51.3% | 829.1% | 541.2% | 1746.2% | 975.1% | 1.3% | 0.1% |
| 7 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,256,124 | 1,704,485 | 0.0% | -6.5% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 2.8% |
| Stock of LELIQ | 4,831,273 | 4,572,617 | 4,281,073 | 2,140,026 | 2,013,599 | 5.7% | -1.3% | 125.8% | 55.8% | 139.9% | 39.7% | 6.0% | 2.7% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 4,610,899 | 4,194,993 | 3,904,694 | 2,140,026 | 2,013,599 | 9.9% | 2.7% | 115.5% | 48.7% | 129.0% | 33.4% | 5.7% | 2.7% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 220,374 | 377,623 | 376,379 | - | - | -41.6% | -45.5% | - | - | - | - | 0.3% | - |
| Stock of NOTALIQ | 1,029,356 | 800,396 | 704,039 | - | - | 28.6% | 20.2% | - | - | - | - | 1.3% | - |
| International reserves of the BCRA in dollars | 40,335 | 40,780 | 41,620 | 40,584 | 42,835 | -1.1% | - | -0.6% | - | -5.8% | - | 6.5% | 7.6% |

| | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2022 | Interannual |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Factors of average monthly variation | | | | | | | | |
| Monetary base | 320,850 | 8.2% | 583,313 | 16.1% | 817,544 | 24.1% | 1,364,185 | 47.9% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 37,123 | 1.0% | 122,872 | 3.4% | 111,246 | 3.3% | -84,193 | -3.0% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury | -97,631 | -2.5% | 171,284 | 4.7% | -5,716 | -0.2% | 268,734 | 9.4% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits to the Nat. Gov. | 296,565 | 7.6% | 465,782 | 12.8% | 986,415 | 29.1% | 1,852,782 | 65.1% |
| Other public sector operations | -120,201 | -3.1% | 6,547 | 0.2% | -73,190 | -2.2% | -63,342 | -2.2% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | -658,928 | -16.9% | -1,235,651 | -34.1% | -1,164,778 | -34.3% | -1,257,060 | -44.1% |
| Others | 863,923 | 22.2% | 1,052,479 | 29.0% | 963,566 | 28.4% | 647,264 | 22.7% |
| International Reserves of the BCRA | -445 | -1.1% | -2,676 | -6.2% | -249 | -0.6% | -2,500 | -5.8% |
| Purchase of foreign currency | 302 | 0.7% | 1,046 | 2.4% | 928 | 2.3% | -1,024 | -2.4% |
| International organizations | 606 | 1.5% | -1,167 | -2.7% | 2,681 | 6.6% | 3,069 | 7.2% |
| Other public sector operations | -695 | -1.7% | -886 | -2.1% | -875 | -2.2% | 2,176 | 5.1% |
| Minimum cash | -299 | -0.7% | -60 | -0.1% | 305 | 0.8% | 981 | 2.3% |
| Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -359 | -0.9% | -1,609 | -3.7% | -3,289 | -8.1% | -7,702 | -18.0% |

Note: The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being made.
# Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash Jul-22 Jun-22 May-22

**Domestic Currency** % of total deposits in pesos

Net requirement of deductions 20.9 21.3 21.9
Integration in current accounts 7.4 7.6 8.1
LELIQ Integration 28.3 29.7 29.3
BOTE 2022 Integration 3.6 3.7 3.6
Integration Rest of Public Securities 5.2 5.4 6.1

**Foreign Currency** % of total deposits in foreign currency

Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes resource application default) 64.2 64.5 64.8
Position (1) 40.2 40.5 40.8

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2022 | BCRA | 17 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

**Monthly Averages Percentage Variations Average of Jul-22 % of GDP 4**

**Principal Monetary and Financial System Variables** Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-Year

jul-22 jun-22 may-22 dic-21 jul-21 jul-22 dic-21
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real

**Domestic Currency Segment**

Total Deposits of non-financial sector in pesos 113.541.302 12.504.574 11.650.525 9.585.965 7.832.178 8.3% 0.0% 41.3% -3.7% 72.9% 0.7% 16.6% 17.5%

Deposits of private sector 11.111.973 10.162.582 9.425.563 7.725.480 6.303.491 9.3% 0.7% 43.8% -2.2% 76.3% 2.7% 13.6% 14.1%

Sight deposits of private sector 5.435.964 4.959.502 4.590.017 4.094.957 3.131.317 9.6% -0.1% 32.7% -5.3% 73.6% 1.1% 6.6% 7.1%

Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 4.236.414 3.899.127 3.576.228 3.283.199 2.626.815 8.7% -1.7% 29.0% -7.2% 61.3% -6.1% 5.1% 5.6%

Remunerated 1.199.550 1.060.375 1.013.789 811.758 504.502 13.1% 5.7% 47.8% 2.0% 137.8% 38.5% 1.5% 1.5%

Time deposits and others of private sector 5.676.008 5.203.080 4.835.546 3.630.523 3.172.174 9.1% 1.6% 56.3% 0.9% 78.9% 4.2% 6.9% 7.0%

Fixed rate 5.493.322 5.025.752 4.673.793 3.482.489 3.051.794 9.3% 1.8% 57.7% 1.6% 80.0% 4.8% 6.7% 6.7%

Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 5.106.324 4.683.656 4.379.117 3.322.813 2.869.187 9.0% 1.5% 53.7% -1.0% 78.0% 3.6% 6.2% 6.4%

Adjustable by CER/UVA 386.998 342.096 294.676 159.676 182.607 13.1% 5.4% 142.4% 56.1% 111.9% 23.4% 0.5% 0.3%

Traditional 202.859 186.867 170.129 102.705 118.751 8.6% 1.1% 97.5% 27.2% 70.8% -0.5% 0.2% 0.2%

Precancelable 184.139 155.230 124.547 56.970 63.856 18.6% 10.5% 223.2% 108.1% 188.4% 67.9% 0.2% 0.1%

Other deposits 182.686 177.328 161.753 148.035 120.380 3.0% -3.7% 23.4% -14.8% 51.8% -11.6% 0.2% 0.3%

Deposits of public sector 2.429.330 2.341.992 2.224.962 1.860.485 1.528.687 3.7% -3.1% 30.6% -9.9% 58.9% -7.5% 3.0% 3.4%

**Monetary Aggregates**

M2 Total 9.185.755 8.467.954 7.876.970 7.120.856 5.531.341 8.5% -2.4% 29.0% -9.2% 66.1% -3.3% 11.2% 12.5%

M3 Total 16.541.295 15.260.555 14.236.754 11.905.714 9.801.559 8.4% -1.0% 38.9% -3.5% 68.8% -1.7% 20.3% 21.4%

**Private Monetary Aggregates**

M2 Private 8.332.961 7.596.472 7.061.617 6.325.659 5.002.237 9.7% -0.4% 31.7% -8.5% 66.6% -3.0% 10.1% 11.2%

M2 Private Transactional 3 7.133.411 6.536.097 6.047.828 5.513.901 4.497.735 9.1% -1.6% 29.4% -9.0% 58.6% -7.6% 8.6% 9.6%

M3 Private 14.008.969 12.799.553 11.897.163 9.956.182 8.174.411 9.4% 0.5% 40.7% -4.6% 71.4% -0.2% 17.0% 18.1%
# TOTAL LOANS TO NON-FINANCIAL SECTOR IN PESOS

5.471.388 5.163.779 4.857.566 4.058.133 3.130.609 6.0% -0.5% 34.8% -3.6% 74.8% 1.8% 6.9% 7.2%

**Loans to non-financial private sector**

5.410.275 5.107.930 4.802.332 4.003.444 3.082.166 5.9% -0.6% 35.1% -3.3% 75.5% 2.2% 6.8% 7.1%

Advances

611.187 560.980 500.372 392.585 314.815 8.9% 0.9% 55.7% 10.0% 94.1% 13.1% 0.8% 0.7%

Documents

1.398.144 1.294.846 1.230.453 1.010.395 687.669 8.0% 0.1% 38.4% 0.0% 103.3% 18.4% 1.7% 1.8%

Mortgages

341.972 330.163 318.420 280.283 239.976 3.6% -3.1% 22.0% -15.5% 42.5% -17.0% 0.4% 0.5%

Pledges

359.460 332.242 308.749 229.234 154.254 8.2% 0.1% 56.8% 12.2% 133.0% 35.7% 0.5% 0.4%

Personal Loans

863.940 834.910 806.785 665.885 529.420 3.5% -2.1% 29.7% -8.7% 63.2% -5.0% 1.1% 1.2%

Credit Cards

1.539.738 1.459.789 1.365.207 1.198.243 957.766 5.5% -0.9% 28.5% -2.6% 60.8% -6.4% 2.0% 2.1%

Others

295.834 295.001 272.345 226.818 198.266 0.3% -4.2% 30.4% -13.2% 49.2% -13.1% 0.4% 0.4%

**Loans to non-financial public sector**

61.114 55.849 55.234 54.689 48.444 9.4% 2.3% 11.7% -22.9% 26.2% -26.5% 0.1% 0.1%

## FOREIGN CURRENCY SEGMENT¹

**Deposits of non-financial sector in dollars**

18.119 18.516 18.480 18.237 18.890 -2.1% - -0.6% - -4.1% - 2.9% 3.5%

**Deposits of non-financial private sector in dollars**

15.074 15.585 15.386 15.255 16.293 -3.3% - -1.2% - -7.5% - 2.4% 2.8%

On demand

11.227 11.682 11.473 11.233 11.949 -3.9% - -0.1% - -6.0% - 1.8% 2.1%

Fixed term and others

3.847 3.904 3.914 4.022 4.344 -1.4% - -4.4% - -11.4% - 0.6% 0.8%

**Deposits of non-financial public sector in dollars**

3.045 2.931 3.093 2.982 2.597 3.9% - 2.1% - 17.3% - 0.5% 0.6%

**Loans to non-financial sector in dollars**

3.972 3.958 3.835 4.268 5.507 0.3% - -6.9% - -27.9% - 0.6% 0.8%

**Loans to non-financial private sector in dollars**

3.850 3.836 3.712 4.127 5.372 0.4% - -6.7% - -28.3% - 0.6% 0.8%

Documents

2.607 2.609 2.526 2.729 3.829 -0.1% - -4.5% - -31.9% - 0.4% 0.5%

Credit Cards

256 247 205 137 80 3.7% - 87.0% - 218.4% - 0.0% 0.0%

Rest

988 981 981 1.261 1.463 0.7% - -21.7% - -32.5% - 0.2% 0.2%

**Loans to non-financial public sector in dollars**

121 122 122 141 135 -0.3% - -14.0% - -10.2% - 0.0% 0.0%

---

¹ Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.

² Net of unified funds utilization.

³ Excludes, with respect to private M2, remunerated on-demand deposits.

⁴ Calculated based on the seasonally unadjusted series of the month and the seasonally unadjusted GDP estimated 3-month moving average.

**Note:** The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 18 Rates in annual nominal percentage (except where otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

## INTEREST RATES OF MONETARY REGULATION INSTRUMENTS

| | jul-22 TEA | jul-22 | jun-22 | may-22 | dic-21 | jul-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA Repo Rates** | | | | | | |
| Liabilities 1 day | 44.89 | 56.61 | 38.50 | 36.92 | 32.00 | 32.00 |
| Assets 1 day | 62.90 | 87.48 | 54.50 | 51.84 | 42.70 | 42.70 |
| LELIQ Rate at 28 days | 53.03 | 68.17 | 50.00 | 48.23 | 38.00 | 38.00 |
| LELIQ Rate at 180 days | 59.74 | 79.34 | 55.83 | 53.53 | | |

## INTERBANK MARKET INTEREST RATES

| | jul-22 TEA | jul-22 | jun-22 | may-22 | dic-21 | jul-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repo between third parties wheel at 1 day** | 44.04 | 55.30 | 39.11 | 37.62 | 30.98 | 32.06 |
| Amount traded from repos between third parties wheel REPO (daily average) | 13.815 | 19.567 | 23.356 | 4.489 | 4.528 | |
| **Call in pesos (at 1 business day)** | | | | | | |
| Rate | 43.31 | 54.16 | 40.38 | 38.27 | 30.46 | 31.45 |
| Amount traded | 32.733 | 30.215 | 26.767 | 19.687 | 11.345 | |
# PASSIVE INTEREST RATES July-22

| | TEA July-22 | July-22 | June-22 | May-22 | Dec-21 | July-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Demand Deposits** |
| Remunerated | 36.04 | 42.65 | 34.68 | 32.40 | 28.87 | 29.94 |
| **Fixed-Term Deposits** |
| Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)¹ | 53.15 | 68.24 | 49.98 | 46.90 | 36.29 | 36.31 |
| TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 49.28 | 62.10 | 46.90 | 44.05 | 33.25 | 33.29 |
| TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 50.08 | 63.36 | 47.96 | 45.04 | 33.98 | 33.89 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 50.18 | 63.52 | 47.60 | 44.61 | 33.34 | 33.37 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 51.16 | 65.06 | 48.63 | 45.67 | 34.20 | 34.12 |
| Early redemption rate for deposits in UVA | 49.03 | 61.72 | 44.67 | 42.23 | 30.50 | 30.50 |

# ACTIVE INTEREST RATES July-22

| | TEA July-22 | July-22 | June-22 | May-22 | Dec-21 | July-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Loans to non-financial private sector in pesos** |
| Current account advances | 51.28 | 66.94 | 47.90 | 46.37 | 40.46 | 41.28 |
| 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 million | 46.21 | 58.42 | 42.42 | 40.61 | 35.36 | 35.84 |
| Documents at sole signature | 49.32 | 62.16 | 43.29 | 41.11 | 34.78 | 36.25 |
| Mortgages | 39.32 | 47.25 | 36.67 | 34.42 | 29.71 | 30.11 |
| Secured loans | 37.53 | 44.72 | 34.62 | 30.98 | 28.16 | 26.61 |
| Personal loans | 65.64 | 89.51 | 60.26 | 58.95 | 53.00 | 53.82 |
| Credit cards | 51.25 | 65.20 | 50.66 | 48.36 | 42.87 | 42.47 |

# INTEREST RATES IN THE FOREIGN CURRENCY SEGMENT July-22

| | TEA July-22 | July-22 | June-22 | May-22 | Dec-21 | July-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) | 0.34 | 0.34 | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.37 | 0.37 |
| Documents at sole signature in dollars | 4.01 | 4.08 | 3.45 | 3.26 | 5.97 | 3.50 |

# EXCHANGE RATE July-22

| | July-22 | Monthly Var. (%) | June-22 | May-22 | Dec-21 | July-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **TCN peso/dollar** |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 128.39 | 4.68 | 122.65 | 117.79 | 101.88 | 96.21 |
| Retail² | 131.18 | 5.27 | 124.62 | 119.95 | 104.27 | 98.46 |
| **TCN peso/real** | 23.97 | -1.68 | 24.38 | 23.85 | 18.01 | 18.65 |
| **TCN peso/euro** | 130.83 | 0.83 | 129.75 | 124.55 | 115.14 | 113.74 |
| **ITCNM** | 824.02 | 1.39 | 812.76 | 785.28 | 672.89 | 659.94 |
| **ITCRM** | 93.28 | -2.74 | 95.91 | 96.68 | 102.60 | 114.40 |

---

¹ The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, at the financial institution exceed one million pesos.
The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits at said institution does not exceed one million pesos.

² The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the purchase and sale exchange rates noted by the participating entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 19 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informative Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 20

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days term.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2022 | BCRA | 21
