# Monthly Monetary Report
May 2022

## Contents

Pág. 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Pág. 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Pág. 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Pág. 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Pág. 6 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Pág. 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Pág. 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Pág. 12 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Pág. 14 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Pág. 17 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was June 7, 2022. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## Regarding the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of a language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and assessment schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

---

# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 1

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Monetary Base | M2 | Priv. Transactional | Fixed Term | S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. | var. monthly real s.e. |
| | -2.7% | -2.3% | 0.2% | 11.4% | -0.3% |

**Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector without seasonality at constant prices and in terms of GDP**

| | Loans to S. Priv. |
|---|---|
| | var. monthly real s.e. |
| | -1.4% |

**28-day LELIQ Rate**
nominal annual: 49.0%

**Passive Repo Rate 1d**
nominal annual: 37.5%

**International Reserves**
millions of US$; end of month: 41,561

Thousands of millions of $ of May-22: chart showing Fixed Term Private without seasonality at constant prices and As percentage of GDP (right axis) from May-04 to May-22

Source: BCRA.

In the fifth month of the year, the broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) would have registered a slight monthly contraction at constant prices (-0.3% s.e.), moderating for the second consecutive month the rate of decline. This contraction was explained fundamentally by what occurred with transactional means of payment, given that fixed-term deposits remained practically unchanged during the month.

The balances of fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector remained around the maximum levels of recent decades, both at constant prices and as a percentage of GDP. In terms of instruments, the behavior was heterogeneous. In particular, the growth of deposits denominated in UVA stood out, which reached a balance of $312,700 million at the end of May. In this way, they exceeded the historical maximum they had registered in the middle of last year, although they still maintain a limited participation in the total (6.5%).

The Monetary Base adjusted for seasonality and for inflation, on average in May, would have exhibited a decline of 2.7% (-10.9% y.o.y.). As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would be positioned at 5.2%, at its minimum value since 2003.

Finally, loans to the private sector at constant prices contracted again during the month, accumulating four consecutive months of declines. Most of the lines contributed negatively to the variation of the month, with the exception of loans with pledge guarantee and discounted documents.

---

# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), the means of payment (private transactional M2¹) would have registered in May a contraction of 2.3%, noting four consecutive months of decline (see Chart 2.1). At the level of its components, the decrease was explained both by the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits and circulating currency in the hands of the public. Thus, in year-on-year terms, private M2 would have presented a contraction on the order of 4.6% at constant prices.

In May, private transactional M2 would have been located at 8.6% of the Product, exhibiting a decrease (0.3 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.2). As mentioned in previous editions, circulating currency in the hands of the public remained around its lowest records of the last 15 years. The low level of demand for bills and coins is, in part, linked to a greater relative demand for demand deposits, given the increasing use of electronic means of payment verified in recent years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e. | as % of GDP
p.p. | % of GDP M2 private transactional
6 Transactional demand deposits | 16 Non-remunerated demand deposits
Circulating currency in the hands of the public | 14 Circulating currency in the hands of the public
4 M2 private transactional (%) | 12
2 | 10
0 | 8.6
-2 | 8
-4 | 6
5.1
-6 | 4
3.5
2
Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 | Jan-10 May-12 Sep-14 Jan-17 May-19 Sep-21
Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The BCRA Board decided in mid-May to raise the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits, this being the fifth consecutive increase so far in 2022². The measure is in line with its strategy of establishing a path of interest rates that tends to achieve returns in accordance with the evolution of inflation. In this way, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements by natural persons up to an amount of $10 million was increased from 46% n.a. to 48% n.a. (60.1% e.a.). For the rest of the financial system depositors³, the interest rate was also raised by 2 p.p. to 46% (57.1% e.a.).

In May, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector at constant prices would have remained practically unchanged (0.2% s.e.), and in this way, they are still sustained around the maximum records of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have been positioned in the fifth month of the year at a value of 6.3%, a figure that is also among the highs of recent years.

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² Communication "A" 7512.
³ Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

**Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 3**

Analyzing the evolution of fixed-term deposits, segmenting according to minimum guaranteed rate strata, it is observed that placements by natural persons of less than $10 million in real terms would have remained relatively stable throughout the month, as in April. For its part, the rest of the deposits of the non-financial private sector (those constituted by legal persons, regardless of amount, and by natural persons with placements of more than $10 million) would have registered, adjusted for seasonality, a slight increase in the monthly average, which was explained by an increasing trend from the second week of May (see Chart 3.1).
Regarding time deposits of legal entities, companies (excluding Financial Service Providers – FSP –) registered an average increase during the month, which was fundamentally explained by the carry-over effect from April. Meanwhile, FSPs slightly reduced their holdings in May, although in the point-to-point variation they verified an expansion of approximately 2% at constant prices. The behavior within the month of these agents was heterogeneous. In the first part of the month, they evidenced a portfolio rebalancing, with an increase in demand deposits with remuneration at the expense of time deposit holdings, in a context of decline in the equity of Money Market Mutual Funds (MM MF), which are the main agents within FSPs. From the second week onwards, the trend in equity reversed, which led to a relative recomposition in the holdings of fixed-term deposits of FSPs (see Graph 3.2).

Graph 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector Graph 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
At constant prices by interest rate segment at constant prices by type of depositor and instrument
original series original series

 billions of $ of 31-May-22 billions of $ of 31-May-22 billions of $ of 31-May-22 billions of $ of 31-May-22
 2,400 Fixed-term deposits of individuals under $10 million 3,000 650 1,150

 2,300 Remaining fixed-term deposits of the private sector (right axis) 2,900 600 1,100

 2,200 2,800 550 1,050

 2,100 2,700 500 1,000

 2,000 2,600 450 950

 1,900 2,500 400 900

 1,800 2,400 Traditional Financial Service Providers
 350 Investments with early redemption option 850
 1,700 2,300 Traditional Other Legal Entities (right axis)
 sep-21 oct-21 nov-21 dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 300 800
 sep-21 oct-21 nov-21 dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The relative stability of peso-denominated savings instruments hides heterogeneous behavior at the instrument level. Indeed, investments with early redemption options made a negative contribution to the monthly variation of total time placements, which was offset by the expansion of CER-adjusted deposits and traditional fixed-term deposits in pesos. Thus, deposits in UVA prolonged the growing trend initiated at the beginning of the year and their relative participation continued to grow during the month, reaching 6.5% of total time deposits of the private sector towards the end of the month. At constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, said placements exhibited average monthly growth of 11.4%, reaching a balance of $312,700 million at the end of May, surpassing the historical maximum reached in the middle of last year. This growth was verified both in the case of traditional UVA placements and precancellable ones, whose monthly expansion rates were positioned at 5.5% s.a. and 20.7% s.a. in real terms, respectively (see Graph 3.3). Discriminating the balance by type of holder, it is verified that the impulse came from placements of individuals, given that companies (excluding FSPs) slightly decreased their holdings (see Graph 3.4).

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 4

Graph 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector Graph 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Monthly variation s.a. by type of instrument Daily balance at constant prices by type of holder
 Original Series

 monthly variation s.a. billions of $
 40 of 31-May-22
 250
 Traditional UVA FT Individuals 237
 30 Financial Service Providers
 Precancellable UVA FT 200
 Other Legal Entities
 20

 150
 10

 0 100
 78

 -10 50
-20 0 4
 Jan-21 Mar-21 May-21 Jul-21 Sep-21 Nov-21 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Aug-19 Dec-19 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3 4 , at constant prices would have registered in May
a monthly decrease of 0.3% s.e., moderating for the second consecutive month the rate of decline. In
year-on-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced a decline of 1.4%. As a percentage of GDP
it was located at 16.4%, 0.1 p.p. below the April value.

4. Monetary Base

The Monetary Base on average in May was located at $3,696.4 billion, registering a monthly increase
of 1.9% in the original series at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and inflation, it would have
exhibited a decline of 2.7% (-10.9% y.o.y.). As a ratio of GDP the Monetary Base would be located at 5.2%, 0.1 p.p.
below the value recorded in the previous month and at its minimum value since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base Chart 4.2 | Primary emission from the public sector as % of GDP
 Accumulated to May of each year

 billions % of GDP % of GDP
 of $ of May-22 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices Pandemic
 7,500 12 4.0 3.55
 As a percentage of GDP (right axis) 3.5
 7,000
 10 3.0
 6,500 2.5

 6,000 8 2.0
 5,500 1.5 1.35 1.19
 6 1.06
 5,000 1.0
 0.5 0.30 0.38 0.26
 4,500 4 0.11
 0.0
 4,000 -0.5 -0.23
 2
 3,500 -1.0
 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
 3,000 0
 Jan-03 Oct-04 Jul-06 Apr-08 Jan-10 Oct-11 Jul-13 Apr-15 Jan-17 Oct-18 Jul-20 Apr-22 *Includes transfer of profits, transitory advances, net purchase of foreign exchange and
 other operations from the public sector.
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the monthly expansion of the monetary base was explained mostly by public sector
operations. However, the primary emission from the public sector in terms of GDP remained, in the first five months of 2022, among the lowest levels of recent years (see Chart

4 Includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits from the non-financial private sector (sight, term and others).

 Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 54.2). The net purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector was another expansive factor of liquidity in May,
although it had a lesser impact. These effects were partially offset by the absorption of liquidity
through BCRA monetary regulation instruments.

In mid-May the BCRA adjusted upward once again the interest rates of monetary policy instruments.
Specifically, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQs was raised by 2 p.p., which increased to 49% n.a.
(61.8% e.a.). Meanwhile, the interest rate on 180-day LELIQs increased by 2.5 p.p.
and was set at 54.5% n.a. (62% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day
passive repos increased by 1.5 p.p. to 37.5% n.a. (45.5% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day
active repos was set at 53% n.a. (69.8% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread on NOTALIQs in the last auction
of the month remained at 5.0 p.p.

With the current configuration of instruments, in May remunerated liabilities were made up of
around 70% by 28-day LELIQs. As for longer-term instruments, 180-day LELIQs reduced their participation to 6.8% of the total, unlike what occurred with NOTALIQs whose participation
continued to increase in the month (12.7% of the total). The remainder corresponded to 1-day
passive repos, which again reduced their relative weight (see Chart 4.3).
These changes in the relative composition of monetary regulation instruments allowed the continuation of the policy of extending the terms of remunerated liabilities initiated by the BCRA since the beginning of the current administration. In effect, the average residual term of monetary regulation instruments (LELIQ, Repos and NOTALIQ) was located at almost 30 days, tripling the one in effect at the beginning of this year (see Chart 4.4).

**Chart 4.3 | Composition of BCRA's Remunerated Liabilities | Chart 4.4 | Average Residual Term of BCRA's Remunerated Liabilities**
Monthly Average | 7-day Moving Average

% 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ days
100 | 40
90 | 35
80 | 30
70 | 25
60 | 20
50 | 15
40 | 10
30 | 5
20 | 0
10 |
0 |
dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 | dec-19 apr-20 aug-20 dec-20 apr-21 aug-21 dec-21 apr-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

In May, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a monthly contraction of 1.4%, its fourth consecutive monthly decline. All loan lines, with the exception of pledged loans and discounted documents, contributed negatively to the variation for the month (see Chart 5.1). Thus, in the last twelve months, loans in pesos accumulated a contraction at constant prices of 0.3%. The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP fell slightly during the month (0.1 p.p.) and was located at 6.6% (see Chart 5.2).

**Chart 5.1 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector | Chart 5.2 | Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector**
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth | % of GDP

% | %
3 | 12
2 | 9
1 | 6.6
0 | 3
-1 | 0
-2 | Documents | Personal | -1.4 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
-3 | Advances | Credit Cards | -3 | GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving avg.)
 | Pledged | Mortgage | -6 | Ratio to GDP
-4 | Other | Total (monthly var.) | -9
 | | | -12
apr-21 jun-21 aug-21 oct-21 dec-21 feb-22 apr-22 | mar-20 aug-20 jan-21 jun-21 nov-21 apr-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) remained as the main vehicle through which loans to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) were channeled. At the end of May, loans granted under the LFIP accumulated disbursements of approximately $2,238 billion since its implementation, with an increase of 9.2% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3). Regarding the destinations of these funds, around 85% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the remainder to the line that finances investment projects. At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 269,308.

In this way, the LFIP has contributed to sustaining financing for relatively smaller-sized companies. In effect, distinguishing commercial credit by type of debtor, it is verified that at constant prices and in year-on-year terms, credit to MSMEs would have grown somewhat more than 25.8%, while that destined to large companies showed a contraction of around 7.2% compared to a year ago (see Chart 5.4).

**Chart 5.3 | Financings Granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) | Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by Type of Debtor**
Accumulated Disbursed Amounts; Data at End of Month | Y-o-y Var. at Constant Prices of 30-day Moving Average Balance

billions of $ var. % y-o-y
2,500 | 100 MSMEs
2,238 | Other Legal Entities
2,000 | 80
 | Total | 60
1,500 | 40
 | Investment projects (35% n.a. rate) | 25.8 | 20
1,000 | 0 | -7.2
 | | -20
500 | 333 | -40
 | | -60
0 |
nov-20 jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 mar-22 may-22 | dec-18 apr-19 aug-19 dec-19 apr-20 aug-20 dec-20 apr-21 aug-21 dec-21 apr-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2022 | BCRA | 7

In any case, lines with mainly commercial destination would have exhibited a decline of 2.1% s.e. at constant prices in May, placing themselves 9.9% above the record from a year ago. This dynamic proved homogeneous by type of financing. In effect, financing granted through current account advances would have registered a monthly contraction of 0.6% s.e. at constant prices (+16.9% y.o.y.), while documents would have presented a decline of 2.1% s.e. in real terms (+14.1% y.o.y.). The evolution of documents was explained by the fall of those instruments at sole signature, which was partially compensated by the growth of discounted documents.

Among loans associated with consumption, financings instrumented with credit cards would have fallen 0.5% s.e. in real terms, placing themselves 12.1% below the level from a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would also have exhibited a contraction of 1.3% monthly at constant prices and are found 3.9% below the level of May 2021. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans rose in May to 59.0% n.a. (77.8% e.a.), increasing almost 1.0 p.p. with respect to April.

Regarding lines with real guarantee, pledged loans would have registered an increase in real terms (1.9% s.e.) and in year-over-year terms would have accumulated growth of 40.3%. In contrast, the balance of mortgage credits would have registered in the month a decline of 3.3% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction on the order of 16% in the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In May, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁵ averaged 67.1% of deposits, placing itself 0.8 p.p. above the April level. Thus, it remains at historically elevated levels.

In terms of composition of banking liquidity, there was an increase in the holding of LELIQ (in particular, those that are not used for the integration of minimum cash), NOTALIQ and public securities admitted for integration. As a counterpart, the balance of reverse repurchase agreements again experienced a decline, as did current accounts at the BCRA (see Chart 6.1).

Regarding normative changes with impact on minimum cash, it was established that the requirement associated with deposits in pesos in accounts of payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPOCP) in which their clients' funds are deposited will be determined based on the average of daily balances registered at the close of each day during each calendar month⁶.

In turn, it is worth mentioning that on May 23, the settlement of the first auction of the new National Treasury Bond in Pesos maturing May 23, 2027 (BOTE 2027) admitted for the integration of minimum cash⁷ took place in replacement of the BOTE 2022 that expired on May 21. Thus, it is expected that in June an increase in integration with this bond will be verified, when the new balance impacts fully in the monthly average.

⁵ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repurchase agreements arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and bonds eligible to integrate reserves.
⁶ Communication "A" 7515
⁷ Communication "A" 7511

# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2022 | BCRA | 8 Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
# FOREIGN CURRENCY

In the foreign currency segment, in May, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities presented limited variations. In fact, the average monthly balance of private sector deposits was located at US$15,386 million, which meant an increase of US$52 million with respect to April. This slight increase was driven by sight deposits and, to a lesser extent, by time deposits of individuals. On the other hand, the average monthly balance of loans to the private sector was US$3,713 million, which implied a decrease of US$65 million with respect to the previous month (see Chart 7.1).

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment was located at 82.8% of May deposits, registering an increase (0.3 p.p.) with respect to April. Among its components, the increase observed was linked to the variation of current accounts in the BCRA, which was partially offset by a decrease in cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector

Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities

During May, some regulatory changes in foreign exchange matters took place. First, the creation of regimes for access to foreign currency for the incremental production of petroleum and natural gas was determined. These aim to generate certainty and incentives to promote investments and the increase in production of the hydrocarbon sector. Access to foreign currency may be used to pay capital and interest on commercial or financial liabilities with the exterior, including liabilities with non-resident related companies, and/or profits and dividends, and/or repatriation of direct investments of non-residents. This right may be transferred in whole or in part to direct suppliers of the beneficiary for the same purposes available to the operator.

Likewise, in the first days of June the BCRA approved the regime for availability of foreign currency for service exporters. Thus, individuals who export services linked to the knowledge economy will be able to dispose of up to US$12,000 annually in accounts in local financial entities without the requirement of liquidation in pesos. The benefit extends to companies in the sector, which will have currency availability for salary payments for a percentage of the increase in external sales they make this year with respect to 2021.
On the other hand, the conditions under which access to the foreign exchange market is granted for payment of imports of goods were made more flexible for those that have an associated active SIMI declaration category B or C, provided that the goods paid for correspond to pharmaceutical products and/or their production inputs and inputs that are used for the local elaboration of goods necessary for the construction of infrastructure works contracted by the national public sector. Finally, access to the foreign exchange market was enabled, with certification of entry of new financial borrowing from abroad, when it comes to capital payments prior to the maturity of commercial debts for the importation of goods and services, under certain conditions detailed in the regulations 10.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended May with a balance of US$ 41,561 million, reflecting a decrease of US$ 446 million compared to the end of April (see Chart 7.3). The decrease was explained by various factors. In the month, the payment of interest made to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for US$ 364 million had a negative impact, as well as the loss from valuation of net external assets and the variation of dollar balances in current account at the BCRA. These effects were partially offset by net purchases of foreign exchange from the private sector, which contributed positively during the month (US$ 784 million).

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 4.1% in May to stand, on average, at $ 117.79/US$ (see Chart 7.4). Given that the pace of depreciation of the domestic currency accelerated throughout the month, the end-of-April variation resulted higher (4.2%). In this way, the pace of depreciation of the domestic currency is gradually converging to levels more compatible with the inflation rate, with the objective of preserving the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) around competitive levels.

8 Decree 277/2022 of the National Executive Power.
9 Communication 7518.
10 Communications "A" 7507 and "A" 7516.

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves | Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate
Daily balance with the United States

thousands of | var. % prom.
millions of US$ | monthly
50 | IMF Payment IMF Payment | 4.5
Allocation First | 4.0
DEGs Payment to IMF | disbursement PFE
and IMF Payment | 3.5
45 | IMF Payment | 3.0
| 2.5
| 2.0
40 | 1.5
| 1.0
| 0.5
35 | 0.0
dec-20 apr-21 aug-21 dec-21 apr-22 | dec-20 apr-21 aug-21 dec-21 apr-22
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 11

## 8. Regulatory Summary

| Issue Date | Regulation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| 5-may-22 | Com. "A" 7506 | It was established that financial institutions may not carry out or facilitate their customers in carrying out operations with digital assets, including cryptoassets and those whose returns are determined based on the variations they register, that are not regulated by national authority and authorized by the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA). |
| | Com. "A" 7507 | Access to the foreign exchange market was permitted for payment of imports of goods for those that have an associated active SIMI declaration category B or C and that the goods paid for correspond to pharmaceutical products and/or inputs, insofar as they are used for local elaboration of the same. It should be recalled that these categories refer to the form of access to the foreign exchange market when it comes to imported goods for which it is required to have the declaration in the Comprehensive Import Monitoring System (SIMI) and are not included in the terms provided for in foreign exchange regulations. |
Additionally, it was established that prior approval from the BCRA will not be required to access the foreign exchange market when it is a payment with a pending customs entry registration that is processed with funds originated from an import financing of goods granted by a local financial entity based on a commercial credit line from abroad, insofar as the maturity date of the financing granted is equal to or later than the estimated date of arrival of the goods to the country plus 15 calendar days and that there is a sworn statement from the importer in which they commit to complete the customs entry registration of the goods within 15 calendar days of their arrival to the country, except in cases of force majeure beyond their control.

Finally, partial or total compliance with the monitoring of a bill of lading can be considered for the amount equivalent to the sums paid locally in pesos and/or in foreign currency to the exporter by a local agent of the company owning the means of transport of foreign flag, if the local agent has not used this mechanism for an amount exceeding the equivalent of two million United States dollars in the current calendar month.

It was established that financial entities included in Group "A" and branches or subsidiaries of G-SIB not included in that group may integrate the minimum cash requirement in pesos – for the period and daily – with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity May 23, 2027", applying the same criteria provided in the regulations on "Minimum Cash" for integration with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos at fixed rate maturity May 2022", consuming the maximum quota currently provided for "National Treasury Bonds in pesos at fixed rate maturity May 2022". The "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity May 23, 2027" that are applied for the integration of minimum cash in that currency will be excluded from the limits provided in the regulations on "Financing to the non-financial public sector".

Effective as of May 13, 2022, the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits constituted by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed a total of $10 million at the date of their constitution was increased from 97.87% to 97.96% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to that on which the deposits are made, or the last one disclosed in its case. For the rest of the deposits, it went from 93.62% to 93.87% of said rate. In the case of deposits with early cancellation option, the fixed early cancellation rate will be 87.76% of the Monetary Policy Rate (until this regulation, it was 87.23%).

For its part, effective for financings agreed as of May 13, 2022, the rate provided for working capital financings and for the discount of deferred payment checks and Electronic Credit Invoices SME was increased from 45.50% to 47.50% fixed nominal annual, and from 35% to 37% that provided for Investment Project financing, within the framework of the "Financing line for productive investment of SME".

Finally, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to June 2022, the limit on compensatory interest for financings linked to credit cards that financial entities may apply was raised to 53% nominal annual.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 12

In order to facilitate the operation of the electronic payment system, it was stipulated that accounts (demand or payment accounts) that are debited to make payments with transfers and the remaining payment instruments may be provided or issued by other financial entities or payment service providers that offer payment accounts, beyond those that provide the digital wallet service. In this way, users will be able to make transfer payments or immediate transfers from a digital wallet using funds deposited in other associated accounts.

On the other hand, September 30, 2022 was established as the deadline for a set of provisions to be implemented and operational. First, all administrators of immediate transfer schemes must implement the mechanisms to process from a demand or payment account requests for funds that allow, through the debit of the recipient client's account, the immediate credit of funds to the requesting client's account, with prior authorization from the recipient client. In turn, said fund requests should be able to be used to make transfer payments from accounts – demand or payment – that are not provided by whoever provides the digital wallet service from which those payments are ordered. Finally, it was stipulated that the operation of immediate debit (DEBIN) must contemplate both demand accounts and payment accounts to allow ordering and/or receiving DEBIN.

Effective as of June 1, 2022, the requirement for minimum cash on deposits in pesos of clients of financial entities that are deposited in accounts of payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPOCP) will be determined based on the daily balances of the same month to which the calculation corresponds, unlike what happens with the remaining deposits in pesos, whose requirement is calculated based on daily balances recorded in the previous month.

New goods were added to the list of tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature of Mercosur (NCM) of pharmaceutical products and/or inputs that are used in their local production and other goods related to health care to which access to the foreign exchange market will be given to process payments for imports, as detailed in Communication "A" 7507.

In turn, new conditions were established under which access to the foreign exchange market will be given to process payments for imports of goods by those that have an associated SIMI declaration category B or C in force. First, if the goods paid correspond to the tariff positions detailed in the regulations, to the extent that they are intended for the local production of goods necessary for the construction of infrastructure works contracted by the national public sector. Second, if the client accesses the foreign exchange market simultaneously with funds liquidated as advances or pre-financing of exports from abroad or granted by local financial entities with funding from foreign credit lines, to the extent that the goods paid are inputs that will be used for the local production of goods to be exported and the expiration date of the financing granted is equal to or later than the date of access to the foreign exchange market plus 365 calendar days.
# Translation to English

Finally, access to the foreign exchange market was enabled with certification of the entry of new financial indebtedness with the exterior, when it comes to capital payments in advance of the maturity of commercial debts for the importation of goods and services (as they are framed in the regulations of "Exterior y cambios"), insofar as the average life of the new indebtedness is at minimum 2 years greater than the average remaining life of the pre-canceled debt.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 139. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of May-22 % of GDP

Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 year-on-year
May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21 May-22 Dec-21
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real

Monetary base 3,696,382 3,628,710 3,660,266 3,394,480 2,526,536 1.9% -2.7% 8.9% -10.7% 46.3% -10.9% 5.2% 6.0%
Monetary circulation 2,743,185 2,688,459 2,674,269 2,504,731 1,831,076 2.0% -3.7% 9.5% -11.6% 49.8% -8.8% 3.9% 4.5%
Cash in public hands 2,472,276 2,393,210 2,392,933 2,230,702 1,617,069 3.3% -2.5% 10.8% -10.0% 52.9% -6.9% 3.5% 4.0%
Cash in financial entities 270,909 295,249 281,337 274,029 214,008 -8.2% -13.4% -1.1% -23.8% 26.6% -22.9% 0.4% 0.5%
Current account at the BCRA 953,197 940,252 985,997 889,749 695,459 1.4% -4.3% 7.1% -17.4% 37.1% -16.6% 1.3% 1.6%
Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) 5,557,121 5,082,656 4,803,021 4,506,696 3,609,319 9.3% 3.2% 23.3% -5.0% 54.0% -6.3% 7.6% 6.1%
Passive Repos 572,009 564,228 649,856 2,366,670 1,560,224 1.4% -4.3% -75.8% -81.4% -63.3% -77.7% 0.8% 3.2%
1 day 572,009 564,228 649,856 110,546 71,818 1.4% -4.3% 417.4% 298.9% 696.5% 384.8% 0.8% 0.2%
7 days 0 0 0 2,256,124 1,488,406 3.9% -1.8% -100.0% -100.0% -100.0% -100.0% 0.0% 3.1%
Stock of LELIQ 4,281,073 3,965,042 3,804,296 2,140,026 2,049,095 8.0% 2.0% 100.0% 54.2% 108.9% 27.2% 5.8% 2.9%
Stock of LELIQ at 28 days 3,904,694 3,588,663 3,427,949 2,140,026 2,049,095 8.8% 2.7% 82.5% 40.6% 90.6% 16.0% 5.3% 2.9%
Stock of LELIQ at 180 days 376,379 376,379 376,347 - - 0.0% -5.6% - - - - 0.5% -
Stock of NOTA LIQ 704,039 553,386 348,869 - - 27.2% 20.1% - - - - 1.0% -
International reserves of the BCRA in dollars 41,620 43,011 38,511 40,584 41,107 -3.2% -2.6% 1.2% -6.7% 7.5%

Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2022 Year-on-year
Factors of average monthly variation
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution

Monetary base 67,671 1.9% -54,561 -1.5% 301,902 8.9% 1,169,846 46.3%
Purchase of currency from the private sector and others 84,550 2.3% 103,872 2.8% 72,925 2.1% 90,057 3.6%
Purchase of currency from the National Treasury -18,647 -0.5% -52,147 -1.4% -195,647 -5.8% 19,899 0.8%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to the Nat. Gov. 192,367 5.3% 197,700 5.3% 713,000 21.0% 1,812,270 71.7%
Other public sector operations 130,050 3.6% 194,565 5.2% 50,313 1.5% 2,714 0.1%
Monetary regulation instruments -310,901 -8.6% -461,990 -12.3% -240,028 -7.1% -274,320 -10.9%
Others -9,747 -0.3% -36,562 -1.0% -98,660 -2.9% -480,774 -19.0%
International Reserves of the BCRA -1,391 -3.2% 4,368 11.7% 1,035 2.6% 513 1.2%
Purchase of currency 728 1.7% 906 2.4% 610 1.5% 895 2.2%
International organizations -1,139 -2.6% 5,159 13.8% 2,710 6.7% 3,109 7.6%
Other public sector operations -88 -0.2% -349 -0.9% -77 -0.2% 2,540 6.2%
Minimum cash 284 0.7% 126 0.3% 649 1.6% 1,918 4.7%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -1,177 -2.7% -1,474 -4.0% -2,857 -7.0% -7,948 -19.3%
Note: The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22
Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement less deductions 21.9 22.2 23.0
Integration in current accounts 8.1 8.4 9.3
LELIQ Integration 19.1 19.5 19.3
BOTE 2022 Integration 3.5 3.6 3.8
Integration Rest of Public Securities 6.1 5.9 4.6
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default of application of resources) 64.8 63.5 63.6
Position (1) 40.8 39.5 39.6

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 14 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average for May-22 % of GDP 4
Main monetary and financial system variables Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-over-year
May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21 May-22 Dec-21
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Domestic currency segment
Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 111.689.939 10.993.533 10.540.839 9.585.195 7.332.430 6.3% 0.4% 22.0% -4.6% 59.4% -2.9% 16.1% 17.3%

Deposits of the private sector 9.465.345 8.888.361 8.473.993 7.725.394 5.752.440 6.5% 0.6% 22.5% -3.8% 64.5% 0.2% 13.1% 14.0%
Sight deposits of the private sector 4.625.999 4.310.624 4.172.514 4.094.953 2.760.747 7.3% 1.1% 13.0% -5.1% 67.6% 2.0% 6.5% 7.0%
Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 3.611.543 3.479.419 3.355.898 3.283.216 2.263.891 3.8% -2.2% 10.0% -5.4% 59.5% -2.9% 5.1% 5.6%
Remunerated 1.014.456 831.205 816.616 811.737 496.856 22.0% 15.2% 25.0% -3.7% 104.2% 24.3% 1.4% 1.5%
Fixed-term deposits and others of the private sector 4.839.345 4.577.737 4.301.479 3.630.441 2.991.693 5.7% 0.1% 33.3% -2.6% 61.8% -1.5% 6.6% 6.9%
Fixed-term 4.673.066 4.415.643 4.144.989 3.482.486 2.877.212 5.8% 0.2% 34.2% -2.2% 62.4% -1.1% 6.3% 6.7%
Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 4.378.434 4.165.309 3.936.543 3.322.817 2.734.126 5.1% -0.5% 31.8% -3.9% 60.1% -2.5% 5.9% 6.3%
Adjustable by CER/UVA 294.631 250.335 208.446 159.669 143.086 17.7% 11.4% 84.5% 34.5% 105.9% 25.3% 0.4% 0.3%
Traditional 170.093 152.630 130.583 102.704 97.036 11.4% 5.5% 65.6% 20.8% 75.3% 6.7% 0.2% 0.2%
Precancellable 124.538 97.705 77.863 56.964 46.051 27.5% 20.7% 118.6% 59.4% 170.4% 64.6% 0.2% 0.1%
Other deposits 166.280 162.094 156.490 147.955 114.481 2.6% -3.1% 12.4% -13.4% 45.2% -11.6% 0.2% 0.3%
Public sector deposits 2.224.595 2.105.172 2.066.846 1.859.801 1.579.990 5.7% -0.2% 19.6% -7.8% 40.8% -14.3% 3.0% 3.4%
Monetary aggregates
M2 Total 7.913.571 7.501.609 7.384.945 7.120.852 5.046.725 5.5% 0.6% 11.1% -7.6% 56.8% -4.5% 11.2% 12.4%
M3 Total 14.276.930 13.524.345 13.037.897 11.905.633 9.019.021 5.6% -0.1% 19.9% -4.2% 58.3% -3.6% 19.8% 21.2%
Private monetary aggregates
Private M2 7.098.275 6.703.834 6.565.447 6.325.655 4.377.816 5.9% -0.2% 12.2% -8.7% 62.1% -1.3% 9.9% 11.1%
Private transactional M2 6.083.819 5.872.629 5.748.830 5.513.918 3.880.960 3.6% -2.3% 10.3% -7.3% 56.8% -4.6% 8.6% 9.5%
Private M3 11.937.621 11.281.570 10.866.926 9.956.096 7.369.509 5.8% -0.3% 19.9% -6.5% 62.0% -1.4% 16.4% 18.0%
Total Loans to non-financial sector in pesos 4.858.186 4.638.825 4.417.985 4.058.133 2.977.205 4.7% -1.5% 19.7% -5.4% 63.2% -0.7% 6.7% 7.2%
Loans to non-financial private sector 4.802.919 4.584.861 4.367.427 4.003.444 2.932.195 4.8% -1.4% 20.0% -5.2% 63.8% -0.3% 6.6% 7.1%
Advances 500.542 457.348 444.089 392.585 260.579 9.4% -0.6% 27.5% -2.4% 92.1% 16.9% 0.7% 0.7%
Documents 1.230.417 1.174.611 1.098.377 1.010.395 656.413 4.8% -2.1% 21.8% -0.8% 87.4% 14.1% 1.7% 1.8%
Mortgage loans 318.469 311.622 302.440 280.283 231.764 2.2% -3.3% 13.6% -12.6% 37.4% -16.4% 0.4% 0.5%
Pledge loans 308.733 288.147 267.462 229.234 133.940 7.1% 1.9% 34.7% 8.3% 130.5% 40.3% 0.4% 0.4%
Personal loans 806.907 777.133 743.047 665.885 511.262 3.8% -1.3% 21.2% -6.9% 57.8% -3.9% 1.1% 1.2%
Credit cards 1.365.910 1.314.901 1.273.703 1.198.243 945.460 3.9% -0.5% 14.0% -5.3% 44.5% -12.1% 1.9% 2.1%
Others 271.941 261.098 238.310 226.818 192.778 4.2% -4.6% 19.9% -11.7% 41.1% -14.1% 0.4% 0.4%
Loans to non-financial public sector 55.268 53.965 50.557 54.689 45.010 2.4% -3.3% 1.1% -22.1% 22.8% -25.3% 0.1% 0.1%
Foreign currency segment 1
Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 18.479 18.433 18.405 18.237 18.726 0.3% - 1.3% - -1.3% - 3.0% 3.4%
Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15.386 15.334 15.241 15.255 16.084 0.3% - 0.9% - -4.3% - 2.5% 2.8%
At sight 11.472 11.412 11.351 11.233 11.763 0.5% - 2.1% - -2.5% - 1.8% 2.1%
Time deposits and others 3.913 3.921 3.890 4.022 4.321 -0.2% - -2.7% - -9.4% - 0.6% 0.7%
Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 3.094 3.099 3.165 2.982 2.642 -0.2% - 3.7% - 17.1% - 0.5% 0.6%
Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3.836 3.902 3.977 4.268 5.676 -1.7% - -10.1% - -32.4% - 0.6% 0.8%
Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3.713 3.779 3.853 4.127 5.541 -1.7% - -10.0% - -33.0% - 0.6% 0.8%
Documents 2.527 2.518 2.507 2.729 3.954 0.4% - -7.4% - -36.1% - 0.4% 0.5%
Credit Cards 205 189 200 137 59 8.9% - 50.2% - 250.1% - 0.0% 0.0%
Rest 981 1.072 1.146 1.261 1.529 -8.5% - -22.2% - -35.8% - 0.2% 0.2%
Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 123 124 125 141 135 -0.9% - -13.1% - -9.0% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted by financial trusts.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Excludes with respect to private M2 the remunerated sight deposits.
4 Calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and on the estimated seasonal adjustment average moving 3 months GDP.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary
Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 15 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

**Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments May-22 TEA May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21**

**BCRA Repo Rates**
Liabilities 1 day 36.92 44.63 35.15 33.79 32.00 32.00
Assets 1 day 51.84 67.87 48.02 44.87 42.70 42.70
LELIQ rate at 28 days 48.23 60.57 45.58 43.08 38.00 38.00
LELIQ rate at 180 days 53.53 68.98 50.58 47.73

**Interest Rates of the Interbank Market May-22 TEA May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21**
Repo rates between third parties wheel REPO at 1 day 37.62 45.65 36.04 33.35 30.98 33.19
Amount traded in repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 23.356 26.244 14.420 4.489 4.060
Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
Rate 38.30 46.63 35.19 33.13 30.46 32.23
Amount traded 26.612 25.965 19.284 19.687 10.612

**Passive Interest Rates May-22 TEA May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21**

**Sight Deposits**
Remunerated 32.82 38.25 29.77 28.41 28.87 30.05
Time Deposits
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 1 46.90 58.44 44.51 41.80 36.29 36.34

TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 44.05 54.14 41.84 39.10 33.25 33.17
TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 45.04 55.62 42.58 39.84 33.98 33.87
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 44.61 54.98 42.33 39.60 33.34 33.25
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 45.67 56.56 43.21 40.48 34.20 34.10
Early cancellation rate of deposits in UVA 43.00 52.59 41.00 38.50 30.50 30.50
**Active Interest Rates May-22 TEA May-22 Apr-22 Mar-22 Dec-21 May-21**
# Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos

| | may-22 | apr-22 | mar-22 | dic-21 | may-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Current account advances | 46.37 | 58.94 | 44.43 | 43.00 | 40.46 | 41.82 |
| 1 to 7 days — with agreement enterprises — more than $10 million | 40.61 | 49.87 | 38.89 | 37.19 | 35.36 | 36.00 |
| Documents at sole signature | 41.11 | 49.82 | 39.60 | 36.47 | 34.78 | 35.59 |
| Mortgage loans | 34.42 | 40.42 | 32.01 | 32.66 | 29.71 | 29.92 |
| Pledge loans | 30.98 | 35.79 | 29.62 | 28.25 | 28.16 | 28.66 |
| Personal loans | 58.95 | 77.84 | 58.02 | 55.92 | 53.00 | 54.65 |
| Credit cards | 48.04 | 60.18 | 47.30 | 45.79 | 42.87 | 42.63 |

# Interest rates of the segment in foreign currency

| | may-22 TEA | may-22 | apr-22 | mar-22 | dic-21 | may-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.34 | 0.38 | 0.37 | 0.37 |
| Documents at sole signature in dollars | 3.26 | 3.31 | 3.49 | 3.04 | 5.97 | 3.16 |

# Exchange Rate

| | may-22 | Monthly Var. (%) | apr-22 | mar-22 | dic-21 | may-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| TCN peso/dollar | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 117.79 | 4.07 | 113.18 | 109.37 | 101.88 | 94.10 |
| Retail² | 119.95 | 4.03 | 115.31 | 111.56 | 104.27 | 96.45 |
| TCN peso/real | 23.85 | 0.06 | 23.83 | 21.99 | 18.01 | 17.77 |
| TCN peso/euro | 124.55 | 1.67 | 122.51 | 120.42 | 115.14 | 114.26 |
| ITCNM | 785.28 | 1.33 | 775.00 | 745.24 | 672.89 | 648.08 |
| ITCRM | 96.76 | -3.25 | 100.01 | 101.51 | 102.60 | 118.20 |

---

¹ The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from individuals who, in total, at the financial entity exceed one million pesos.
The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits at said entity do not exceed one million pesos.

² The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated by considering the buying and selling exchange rates registered by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

---

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 16 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**AFIP:** Federal Administration of Public Revenue.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CC BCRA:** Deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DEG:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Mutual Investment Fund.

**i.a.:** year-on-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**ITCNM:** Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.

**ITCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.

**LFIP:** Productive Investment Financing Line.

**M2 Total:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private Transactional:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M3 Total:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M3 Private:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Market.

**MM:** Money Market.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** effective annual.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.

**B.P.:** Basis Points.

**PSP:** Payment Service Provider.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**Mi PyMEs:** Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**s.e.:** seasonally unadjusted.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.

**SIMPES:** Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 17

**TCN:** Nominal Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Acquisition Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2022 | BCRA | 18
