Executive Summary

| | Monetary Base | M2 | Priv. transactional | Fixed Term | S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | S. Priv. M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| | -6.5% | -3.7% | 3.5% | -6.5% | 0.5% |

| | Loans to S. Priv. | Deposits at fixed term in pesos of the private sector |
|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | Billions of $ of Sep-22 | % of GDP |
| | -3.4% | |
| 7,000 | 12 |

| Tasa de LELIQ 28 días |
|---|
| annual nominal |
| 28 |
| 6,500 | 10 |
6,000
8 75.0%
5,500
6 Passive Repo Rate 1d
5,000 annual nominal
4
4,500 70.0%
Private fixed-term deposits, at constant prices
4,000 As percentage of GDP (right axis) 2 International Reserves
millions of US$; end of month
3,500 0
sep-04 sep-07 sep-10 sep-13 sep-16 sep-19 sep-22 37,625
Source: BCRA.

On September 5, the "Export Increase Program" came into effect, which allowed the soybean complex to liquidate foreign currency at an exceptional and temporary value of $200/US$. The BCRA acquired US$ 7,646 million through this mechanism and, together with the rest of the private sector's foreign exchange operations, left a net balance of US$5,000 million in the month. These operations implied a liquidity expansion and, in terms of the monetary base, were sterilized with remunerated liabilities.

In terms of monetary aggregates, funds were channeled toward remunerated deposits, highlighting those at remunerated sight deposits and, to a lesser extent, time deposits, in both cases driven fundamentally by the placements of Money Market Mutual Funds (FCIs MM). This behavior was influenced by the continuity in the process of interest rate increases set by the BCRA. In this way, the monetary authority seeks to promote positive real returns on peso savings instruments.

Thus, the broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) would have registered a monthly expansion at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality. The behavior by component was heterogeneous, with a decline in demand for means of payment and growth in remunerated components.

Loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a monthly contraction of 3.4%, accumulating three consecutive months of decline. Although the month's decrease was generalized, it was more intense in the commercial segment despite the positive effect of the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP). This behavior could be explained, among other things, by the cancellation of loans with the liquidity injected by operations linked to the Export Increase Program.

---

## Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 22. Means of Payment

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), the means of payment (M2 private transactional¹) would have registered in September a contraction of 3.7%, noting eight consecutive months of decline (see Chart 2.1). This decrease responded to both the behavior of non-remunerated sight deposits and circulating cash in the hands of the public. In year-over-year terms and at constant prices, means of payment would have presented a contraction of around 17%. As a ratio of Output, M2 private transactional would have been located at 8.2%, exhibiting a decrease (0.1 p.p.) with respect to last month (see Chart 2.2). Both components of means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 15 years.

Chart 2.1 | M2 private transactional at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | M2 private transactional
Contribution by component to monthly change s.e. | As % of GDP
p.p. % of GDP
4 | 16 M2 private transactional
Transactional sight deposits | Non-remunerated sight deposits
3 | Circulating cash in the hands of the public
Circulating cash in the hands of the public | 14
2 | M2 private transactional (%)
1 | 12
0 | 10
-1 | 
-2 | 8 8.2
-3 | 6
-4 | 4.9
-5 | 4
-6 | 2 3.2
jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 aug-22 sep-22 | jan-10 may-12 sep-14 jan-17 may-19 sep-21
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

3. Peso Savings Instruments
The low dynamism of transactional payment instruments contrasted with the growth of savings instruments in pesos. Remunerated demand deposits registered an expansion of 9.9% at constant prices and without seasonality, a dynamic explained almost fully by the holdings of Financial Services Providers (PSF). On the other hand, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector at constant prices would have registered a monthly expansion of 3.5% s.e. in September, reversing the decline from the previous month. In this way, placements at constant prices remained around the maximum levels of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have been located at 7.1% in September (0.4 p.p. more than in August), a figure that is also among the highest of recent years.

It is worth noting that in mid-month the BCRA Board decided to raise for the ninth time in the year the guaranteed minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits². On this occasion, it increased by 5.5 p.p. the guaranteed minimum rate for placements by natural persons up to an amount of $10 million, which moved to 75% n.a. (107.05% e.a.). For the rest of the depositors in the financial system³ the interest rate was raised by the same amount to 66.5% n.a. (91.07% e.a.). This measure is aimed at promoting positive real returns to encourage savings in domestic currency.

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial services providers. This component was excluded because it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² Communication "A" 7527.
³ Financial Services Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

---

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 3

Analyzing the evolution of placements by term according to amount bracket, a generalized increase is verified, although the most dynamic segment was the wholesale market (more than $20 million; see Graph 3.1). Within this type of placements, PSF were those that increased their holdings significantly, hand in hand with the growth in the assets of Money Market Investment Funds (FCIMM; 7.4% at constant prices), which are the main agents within PSF. The rest of the companies also increased their traditional fixed-term placements, although to a lesser extent. Meanwhile, investments with early redemption option (which cannot be classified by type of holder) continued to decline (see Graph 3.2).

Graph 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector
Monthly real change without seasonality by amount bracket

Graph 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
Balance at constant prices by type of holder and instrument
The fixed-term deposit segment with CER adjustment showed a contraction in real terms for the second consecutive month. The decrease was verified both in placements in traditional UVA and in those with early redemption options, whose monthly variation rates were located respectively at -8.4% s.e. and -4.4% s.e. in real terms (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder within instruments with CER adjustment, it is verified that the decline is explained almost entirely by the dynamics of placements of individuals and companies (excluding FSPs; see Chart 3.4). In any case, deposits in UVA reached a balance of $386,200 million at the close of the month.

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Balances s.o. at constant prices by type of instrument Balances s.o. at constant prices by type of holder
Billions of $ as of 30-Sep-22 Billions of $ as of 30-Sep-22
260 400
240 Individuals
220 350 Financial Services Providers
200 195.9 326
300 Other Legal Entities
180 190.3
160 250
140 200
120
100 150
80
60 Traditional UVA Fixed-Term Deposit 100

40 Early Redemption UVA Fixed-Term Deposit 50 57
20
0 0 1
Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 Sep-22 Aug-19 Dec-19 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Aug-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the other hand, increases were observed in deposits with adjustment based on the value of the reference exchange rate. Currently the agricultural sector has at its disposal two different types of deposits with exchange rate coverage: a demand account, commonly known as "farmer deposits" and on the other hand fixed-term investments, called DIVA dollar. The first type of deposits reached a balance in the month of $90,000 million, with more marked growth in the second half of the month. DIVA dollars accumulated at the end of September a balance of $41,800 million, which implied an average monthly expansion of 14% s.o. at current prices in the ninth month of the year (9% real s.e.). To cover the exchange rate risk of these deposits, financial entities have at their disposal Letters with adjustment based on the value of the dollar (LEDIV).

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3 4, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, would have registered in September a monthly expansion (0.5%). In year-on-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced a decline of 5.6%. As a percentage of Product, it was located at 17.3%, 0.5 p.p. above the August figure.

4. Monetary Base

In September, the Monetary Base was located on average at $4,179.9 billion, registering a monthly contraction of 2.5% ($107,357 million) in the original series at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a contraction of 6.5% and in the last twelve months it would accumulate a decline of around 23%. In terms of GDP, the Monetary Base would be located at 4.8%, 1.2 p.p. below the December figure and the minimum value since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base

Billions of $ as of Sep-22 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices % of GDP
9,000 As a percentage of GDP (right axis) 12

8,000 10

7,000 8

6,000 6

5,000 4

4,000 2

3,000 0
Sep-04 Sep-06 Sep-08 Sep-10 Sep-12 Sep-14 Sep-16 Sep-18 Sep-20 Sep-22
Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the only expansive factor of liquidity was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector, which was driven by the "Exporter Increase Program". Most of these funds were channeled towards MMF (Money Market Funds) which recorded a significant increase in their equity. Other destinations for these funds were time deposits and sight accounts adjusted according to the official exchange rate quotation ("Special accounts for exporters"). The expansion of liquidity was sterilized fundamentally through monetary regulation instruments, although the operations of the public sector also had a contractionary effect.

The BCRA again increased its reference interest rates in September, with the aim of promoting positive real returns on investments in local currency and preserving monetary, exchange rate and financial stability. Thus, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQ was raised by 5.5 p.p., which increased to 75% n.a. (107.35% e.a.). Meanwhile, the interest rate on 180-day LELIQ increased by 7.5 p.p. to 83.5% n.a. (101.23% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos increased by 5.5 p.p. to 70% n.a. (101.24% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos rose by 7 p.p. and thus stood at 95% n.a. (158.25% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread of NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was set at 8.5 p.p.

With the current configuration of instruments, in September remunerated liabilities were comprised of approximately 67% by 28-day LELIQ, while longer-term instruments represented 14.7% of the total, concentrated almost entirely in NOTALIQ. Meanwhile, 1-day passive repos significantly increased their weight in the total instruments, representing 17.7%, 4.2 p.p. more than the previous month. It is worth noting that in September the use of letters with adjustments for exchange rate evolution (LEDIV) was implemented, and together with LEGAR they concentrated 0.8% of the total (see Chart 4.2).

**Chart 4.2 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities**
**Monthly Average**

| % | 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ | LEGAR | LEDIV |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 100 | | | | | | | |
| 90 | | | | | | | |
| 80 | | | | | | | |
| 70 | | | | | | | |
| 60 | | | | | | | |
| 50 | | | | | | | |
| 40 | | | | | | | |
| 30 | | | | | | | |
| 20 | | | | | | | |
| 10 | | | | | | | |
| 0 | dic-21 | ene-22 | feb-22 | mar-22 | abr-22 | may-22 | jun-22 | jul-22 | ago-22 | sep-22 |

Source: BCRA. *Include repos with FCI

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

In September, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have recorded a monthly contraction of 3.4%, accumulating three consecutive months of decline. The decrease for the month was widespread across the major credit lines (see Chart 5.1). In this way, over the last twelve months they would have accumulated a decline of 4.3% in real terms. The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP fell slightly during the month (0.1 p.p.) and stood at 6.7% (see Chart 5.2).

**Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector**
**Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth**

| % |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 3 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 2 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 1 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 0 | Personal Documents | | | | | | | | | |
| -1 | Advances | Cards | | | | | | | | |
| -2 | Pawn | Mortgages | | | | | | | | |
| -3 | | Rest | Total (monthly var.) | -3.4 | | | | | | |
| -4 | | | | | | | | | | |
| -5 | apr-21 | jun-21 | ago-21 | oct-21 | dic-21 | feb-22 | apr-22 | jun-22 | ago-22 | |

Source: BCRA.

**Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector**
**In terms of GDP**

| % |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 12 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 9 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 6 | 6.7 | | | | | | | | | |
| 3 | | | | | | | | | | |
| 0 | Loans in pesos to private sector (s.e.) | | | | | | | | | |
| -3 | GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average) | | | | | | | | | |
| -6 | Ratio to GDP | | | | | | | | | |
| -9 | mar-20 | jun-20 | sep-20 | dic-20 | mar-21 | jun-21 | sep-21 | dic-21 | mar-22 | jun-22 | sep-22 |

Source: BCRA.
# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 6

Analyzing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines with mainly commercial destination would have exhibited a decline of 6.3% monthly s.e. in real terms, being the most marked decline since April of last year. However, in the year-on-year comparison at constant prices they remain at a level 1.7% higher than that of September 2021. Within these financings, advances in current account would have fallen 8.1% s.e. in real terms (+7.0% y.o.y.). For its part, financing granted through documents would have exhibited a reduction at constant prices of 6.2% s.e. (+4.9% y.o.y.), explained by both documents at single signature and discounted documents. The decline in commercial financings could be explained, among other reasons, by an application of liquidity injected by operations linked to the Export Increase Program.

The Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of September, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated disbursements of approximately $3,065 billion since its launch, with an increase of 7% compared to the previous month. It should be noted that the average balance of financings granted through the LFIP reached approximately $900,000 million in August (latest available information), of which 40.5% corresponded to investment projects and the rest to working capital. Said balance represented about 16% of total loans and 37% of the total commercial loans (see Chart 5.3). At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 304,680. In line with the increase in the BCRA's reference interest rates, the maximum rate of the line to finance working capital was raised from 69% to 74.5% p.a.; and that corresponding to investment projects went from 59% to 64.5% p.a. It should be noted that the validity of this line was recently renewed until March 31, 2023, under conditions similar to those of the previous edition⁵.

**Chart 5.3 | Balance of financings granted through the | Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor**
**LFIP in relation to loans in pesos to the private sector | Y.o.y. var. at constant prices of 30-day moving average balance**

| % var. | % y.o.y. |
|--------|----------|
| LFIP over Total Loans | 100 | MSMEs |
| LFIP over Commercial Loans | 45 | 80 |
| | 40 | Other Legal Entities |
| | 37.0 | 60 |
| | 35 | 40 |
| | 30 | 20 |
| | 25 | 0 |
| | 20 | 15.8 |
| | 15 | -20 |
| | 15.9 | -40 |
| | 10 | -14.8 |
| | 5 | -60 |
| | 0 | |

nov-20 ene-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 ene-22 mar-22 may-22 jul-22 | dic-18 jun-19 dic-19 jun-20 dic-20 jun-21 dic-21 jun-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Differentiating commercial credit by type of debtor, in September credit to MSMEs in real terms would have expanded at a rate around 16% y.o.y., moderating at the margin. Meanwhile, financing destined to large companies would have shown a contraction of 14.8% y.o.y. (see Chart 5.4).

⁵ Communication "A" 7612.

**Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 7**

Among loans associated with consumption, financings implemented with credit cards would have registered a reduction in real terms of 1.8% s.e. during September, with the average balance placed 8.4% below the level of a year ago. Personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 2.9% monthly at constant prices, with a decline of 11.2%. The interest rate of personal loans averaged in September 78.2% p.a. (113.5% e.a.), increasing 3.5 p.p. with respect to the previous month.
Regarding lines with real guarantees, pledged loans would have registered a decrease of 1.7% s.e. in real terms, although they would remain 22.3% above the figure from a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credit would have shown a decline of 3.5% s.e. at constant prices in the month, accumulating a contraction close to 22% over the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In September, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁶ showed an increase of 1.6 p.p. with respect to August, averaging 69.7% of deposits. Thus it remained at historically elevated levels. This increase was driven mainly by remunerated liabilities of the BCRA (with increases in net repos and LELIQs that are not used to integrate minimum cash, partially offset by NOTALIQs). Regarding the integration of minimum cash, there was an increase in public securities at the expense of LELIQs and current accounts at the BCRA (see Chart 6.1).

As for regulatory modifications with potential impact on banking liquidity, it is worth noting that as of October the simplification of the minimum cash regime enacted in June⁷ will come into effect. In turn, it was provided that financial entities may integrate the requirement associated with deposits in pesos in accounts of payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPOCP) in which their clients' funds are deposited with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity May 23, 2027" (BOTE 2027) of up to 45 p.p.⁸ Finally, the maximum term of national public securities in pesos acquired by primary subscription admitted for integration of minimum cash was raised to 630 days, and it was specified that national public securities with dual currency returns (DUAL BOND) can be used for the integration of minimum cash⁹.

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

[Net Repos LELIQ - Rest
% of deposits Notaliq Integration in LELIQ
CC BCRA $ BOTE 2022 - 2027
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity
67.5 67.2 67.1 67.1 66.6 68.9 68.1 69.7
70 66.3 66.3 65.8 65.3 66.3 2.2 2.1
2.6 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.3 2.3 6.1
3.0 3.4 3.9 4.0 3.9 4.0 2.6 6.1 5.4 5.2 5.6
60 3.8 3.6 3.7 4.6 5.9 3.6 3.5 3.3
3.8 3.6 3.6 3.8 3.6 3.6 3.7
9.1 9.0 9.3 7.4 7.4 6.6
50 9.2 9.8 10.4 9.3 8.5 8.1 7.6 4.6
7.3 5.0 5.2
6.9 6.3 5.8 5.5 6.1 5.6 4.5 4.4 5.1 7.7
40 6.0 6.3 7.5 8.5
0.6 3.3 5.0
17.8 17.5 16.8 16.3
30 22.6
29.6 30.4 30.1
20 30.1 31.1 31.8 31.2 28.9

23.9 24.1 24.6 24.4
10 18.2
9.0 6.1 5.1 4.8 5.0 7.5 6.6 9.2
0
sep-21 oct-21 nov-21 dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 aug-22 sep-22
Source: BCRA.]

⁶ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and NOTALIQs and public bonds eligible for integration of reserve requirements.
⁷ Communication "A" 7536.
⁸ Communication "A" 7611.
⁹ Communication "A" 7614.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 87. Foreign Currency
In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities showed disparate performance. On one hand, deposits from the private sector interrupted the downward trend observed since early July and showed an increase of US$ 393 million in the month of September when looking at the variation between end-of-month balances. Said variation is more limited (US$ 219 million) if monthly average is analyzed, due to the statistical carryover from August. The increase was explained mainly by demand deposits of legal entities with more than US$ 1 million. On the other hand, the monthly average balance of loans to the private sector was US$ 3,594 million, which meant a decline of US$ 121 million compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities
of the private sector
 Thousands of % of Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
 millions of U$S deposits 82.9 82.9 83.2 82.7 82.8 83.1 84.5 84.3
 25 79.8 80.6 82.0 82.5
 80 78.0
 Deposits Loans
 20 70

 60
 15 14.9 50 61.1 62.9 62.2 63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5 64.8 64.5 64.2 65.8 64.2
 60.5
 40
 10
 30

 5 20
 3.7
 10 17.5 18.7 17.8 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.1

 0 0
 dec-19 may-20 oct-20 mar-21 aug-21 jan-22 jun-22 sep-21 oct-21 nov-21 dec-21 jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 aug-22 sep-22
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment stood at 84.3% of September deposits, just below the August level. However, changes were seen in its composition, with an increase in cash in banks that was offset by a decline in the balance of current accounts in foreign currency (see Chart 7.2).

During September, a series of regulatory modifications took place in exchange rate matters, aimed at increasing the supply of foreign currency and at the same time allocating it more efficiently. First, at the beginning of the month the "Exporter Increase Program"¹⁰ was created. Thus, exports of soybeans and their by-products that were settled between September 5 and 30 did so at an exchange rate of $200/US$¹¹. Furthermore, to encourage settlement a minimum rate of 120% of the monetary policy rate was set for financing to producers who maintain a stock of soybeans exceeding 5% of their production¹². Finally, access to the exchange market was made more flexible for processing import payments linked to various productive sectors¹³, while access to the official exchange market as financial to other agents was restricted¹⁴.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended September with a balance of US$ 37,625 million, reflecting an increase of US$ 891 million compared to the end of August. This increase was explained by the [text continues - incomplete in source material]

---

¹⁰ Decree 576/2022 of the National Executive Power and Communication "A" 7595.
¹¹ For the difference in exchange rate between the official exchange rate quotation and the quotation set for soybean complex settlements, the National Treasury will issue a non-transferable letter in dollars, with a rate equivalent to the yield of international reserves and with a 10-year term.
¹² Communication "A" 7600.
¹³ Communications "A" 7594 and "A" 7601.
¹⁴ Communications "A" 7606 and "A" 7609.
# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 9

Net purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector, which totaled around US$ 5,000 million in the month, driven mainly by the "Export Growth Program" which contributed approximately US$ 7,600 million (see Chart 7.3). This dynamic was partially offset by payments to international organizations, among which capital payments to the International Monetary Fund stood out at US$ 2,602 million. The loss from valuation of net external assets and, to a lesser extent, the variation in dollar balances in current account at the BCRA contributed negatively to monthly dynamics. It should be noted that, in the first days of October, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund completed the second review of the Extended Facilities Program, approving a disbursement that will impact the balance of International Reserves in the following month.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 5.8% in August to stand, on average, at $ 143.13/US$ (see Chart 7.4). Given that throughout the month the pace of depreciation of the domestic currency accelerated, the point variation turned out to be somewhat higher (6.2%).

**Chart 7.3 | Net purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector - Accumulated variation - Millions of US$**

- Export Growth Program
- Rest
- Total

**Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate with United States - Monthly avg. Var. %**

[Charts showing data from 01-sep through 29-sep for Chart 7.3, and dic-20 through sep-22 for Chart 7.4]

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 10

## 8. Regulatory Summary

| **Issue Date** | **Norm** | **Description** |
|---|---|---|
| 1-sep-22 | Com. "A" 7593 | Effective as of 180 consecutive days counted from the dissemination of this communication, it incorporated within the rules of "Protection of Users of Financial Services" the Providers of payment services that offer payment accounts and Providers of payment services that perform the initiation function (PSI) and provide the digital wallet service. |
| 1-sep-22 | Com. "A" 7594 | Access to the foreign exchange market was granted to those imports that have an associated valid SIMI declaration category B or C and the billed goods correspond to pharmaceutical products and/or inputs insofar as they are used for local elaboration of the same, other goods related to health care or food for human consumption covered by the provisions of Article 155 Tris of the Argentine Food Code. In turn, new goods were incorporated into the list of tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature of Mercosur (NCM) of the pharmaceutical products and/or inputs mentioned. |
| 5-sep-22 | Com. "A" 7595 | Effective as of September 5, 2022, it was provided that resident clients in the country engaged in agricultural activity that sell goods within the framework of Decree No. 576/22 who carry out their export directly or as a result of a productive process carried out in the country, may deposit the net amount in pesos received from said sales in "Special accounts for holders with agricultural activity". |
| 8-sep-22 | Com. "A" 7600 | Effective as of September 9, 2022 and for a period of 180 consecutive days, the minimum rate for financing to producers who maintain a soybean stock exceeding 5% of their production was set at 120% of the last Monetary Policy rate. Producers whose total amount of financing in the financial system does not exceed the amount equivalent to $ 2 million – in pesos and in foreign currency – and who certify not having a stockpile of their soybean production exceeding 5% of their annual harvest capacity were exempted from this rate. |
Some points of Communication "A" 7532 were extended until December 31, 2022, 8-sep-22 Com. "A" 7601, among which the limit amount established for imports processed through SIMI A and C stands out, maintaining the exemption for companies in the energy sector and/or companies that are engaged in the construction of infrastructure works for that sector.

Effective as of September 16, 2022, the minimum limits of interest rates on fixed-term deposits for natural persons were raised, establishing the new floor at 75% annual for deposits at 30 days up to 10 million pesos. For the rest of the fixed-term deposits of the private sector, the guaranteed minimum rate was set at 66.50%. In the case of deposits with early redemption option in Units of Acquisitive Value ("UVA"), an annual rate (TNA) of 71% was set, which rises to 73% when the contractual term of the deposit is at least 180 days and the effective term in which it has been maintained is at least 120 days. For the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs" the rate provided for working capital financing and the discount of post-dated checks and Electronic Credit Invoices for SMEs was increased from 69% to 74.50% nominal annual. Meanwhile, the rate provided for Investment Project financing was raised from 59% to 64.50% n.a. Furthermore, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to October 2022, the limit on compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities may apply was raised to 77% nominal annual.

15-sep-22 Com. "A" 7605

15-sep-22 Com. "A" 7606

It was established that users of natural gas supply through networks, electrical energy, and potable water, while receiving subsidies for any or all of these services, cannot access the official market nor conduct operations with securities and other values with settlement in foreign currency.

For its part, regarding operations of clients covered by the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services (SIMPES) or those of the entity itself for the concepts for which declaration in said system is required for clients, access to the foreign exchange market is granted if the client accesses simultaneously with the settlement of 1) new financial indebtedness with abroad or; 2) financing of service imports granted by a local financial entity based on a commercial credit line from abroad; with an average life of no less than 180 days and at minimum 50% of the capital has maturity after the date of actual provision of the service plus a period of 90 days.
# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 11

Effective as of September 20, 2022, it was established that economic agents who have sold soybeans within the framework of the "Export Increase Program" will not be able to access the foreign exchange market for purchases of foreign currency nor carry out operations with securities and bonds with settlement in foreign currency. This regulation does not apply to natural persons.

Effective as of September 22, 2022, it was established that financial entities may integrate the requirement in pesos – for the period and daily – associated with peso deposits in accounts of payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPOCP) in which their clients' funds are deposited with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity May 23, 2027" in up to 45 percentage points of the planned rate.

The Line of Financing for Productive Investment (LFIP) was extended until March 31, 2023. In this way, financial entities must maintain a balance of financing within this line that is equivalent, at a minimum, to 7.5% of their deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos, calculated based on the monthly average of daily balances as of September 2022. In the case of affected entities not included in Group "A", the minimum percentage to apply is 25% of the previously provided amount.

Effective as of September 28, it is established a maximum term of 630 calendar days for national public titles in pesos acquired by primary subscription, provided in the regulations on "Minimum cash".

Effective as of October 1, 2022, it was ordered that, for the determination of the balance of financing included for the 2022/2023 Quota of the "Line of financing for productive investment of SMEs", the affected financial entities must exclude deposits of clients residing in the country engaged in agricultural activity that sell merchandise within the framework of Decree No. 576/22 who carries out its export directly or as a result of a productive process carried out in the country.

# Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 12

Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average of Sep-22 | % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 interannual

|  | sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 | sep-22 | dic-21 |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 4,179,909 | 4,287,266 | 4,212,024 | 3,394,480 | 2,937,229 | -2.5% | -6.5% | 23.1% | -21.5% | 42.3% | -22.7% | 4.8% | 6.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 3,171,405 | 3,234,769 | 3,197,739 | 2,504,731 | 2,164,627 | -2.0% | -6.6% | 26.6% | -22.6% | 46.5% | -20.5% | 3.6% | 4.5% |
| Cash in circulation held by the public | 2,857,110 | 2,904,431 | 2,897,214 | 2,230,702 | 1,945,661 | -1.6% | -6.2% | 28.1% | -21.6% | 46.8% | -20.3% | 3.2% | 4.0% |
| Cash in financial entities | 314,295 | 330,337 | 300,525 | 274,029 | 218,966 | -4.9% | -10.8% | 14.7% | -30.7% | 43.5% | -22.1% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 1,008,504 | 1,052,497 | 1,014,285 | 889,749 | 772,602 | -4.2% | -10.1% | 13.3% | -31.5% | 30.5% | -29.1% | 1.1% | 1.6% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (NV $) | 7,853,743 | 6,984,015 | 6,887,694 | 4,506,696 | 4,156,737 | 12.5% | 5.5% | 74.3% | 5.3% | 88.9% | 2.6% | 8.9% | 5.1% |
| Passive Repos | 1,398,559 | 944,336 | 1,027,065 | 2,366,670 | 2,027,150 | 48.1% | 38.9% | -40.9% | -64.3% | -31.0% | -62.5% | 1.6% | 2.7% |
| 1 day | 1,398,559 | 944,336 | 1,027,065 | 110,546 | 49,100 | 48.1% | 38.9% | 1165.1% | 664.3% | 2748.4% | 1446.4% | 1.6% | 0.1% |
| 7 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,256,124 | 1,978,050 | 0.0% | -6.2% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 2.6% |
| Stock of LELIQ | 5,289,805 | 4,832,790 | 4,831,273 | 2,140,026 | 2,129,586 | 9.5% | 2.6% | 147.2% | 49.3% | 148.4% | 34.9% | 6.0% | 2.4% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 5,285,251 | 4,825,195 | 4,610,899 | 2,140,026 | 2,129,586 | 9.5% | 2.7% | 147.0% | 49.2% | 148.2% | 34.7% | 6.0% | 2.4% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 4,555 | 7,595 | 220,374 | - | - | -40.0% | -43.8% | - | - | - | - | 0.0% | - |
| Stock of NOTALIQ | 1,165,378 | 1,206,889 | 1,029,356 | - | - | -3.4% | -9.4% | - | - | - | - | 1.3% | - |
| BCRA international reserves in dollars | 37,174 | 37,116 | 40,335 | 40,584 | 44,929 | 0.2% | - | -8.4% | - | -17.3% | - | 6.0% | 7.6% |

---

# Factors of average monthly variation

|  | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2022 |  | Interannual |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Monetary base | -107,357 | -2.5% | 288,735 | 7.4% | 785,429 | 23.1% | 1,242,680 | 42.3% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector and other | 478,414 | 11.2% | 364,715 | 9.4% | 438,838 | 12.9% | 291,619 | 9.9% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the National Treasury | -60,390 | -1.4% | -224,747 | -5.8% | -132,831 | -3.9% | 97,373 | 3.3% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to the Nat. Gov. | -2,258 | -0.1% | 323,500 | 8.3% | 1,013,351 | 29.9% | 1,560,003 | 53.1% |
| Other public sector operations | -64,443 | -1.5% | -280,588 | -7.2% | -233,577 | -6.9% | -260,179 | -8.9% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | -433,984 | -10.1% | -896,818 | -23.0% | -1,402,667 | -41.3% | -1,358,014 | -46.2% |
| Others | -24,696 | -0.6% | 1,002,672 | 25.8% | 1,102,315 | 32.5% | 911,878 | 31.0% |
| International Reserves of the BCRA | 58 | 0.2% | -3,606 | -8.8% | -3,410 | -8.4% | -7,755 | -17.3% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange | 2,089 | 5.6% | 1,238 | 3.0% | 1,864 | 4.6% | 400 | 0.9% |
| International organisms | -978 | -2.6% | -1,761 | -4.3% | 315 | 0.8% | -2,458 | -5.5% |
| Other public sector operations | 158 | 0.4% | -958 | -2.3% | -1,138 | -2.8% | 1,868 | 4.2% |
| Minimum cash | -348 | -0.9% | -735 | -1.8% | -131 | -0.3% | -235 | -0.5% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -863 | -2.3% | -1,389 | -3.4% | -4,319 | -10.6% | -7,329 | -16.3% |

---

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
# Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash sep-22 ago-22 jul-22
**Domestic Currency** % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement after deductions 20.4 21.4 20.9
Integration in current accounts 6.6 7.4 7.4
Integration LELIQ 30.3 29.8 29.8
Integration BOTE 2027 3.3 3.5 3.6
Integration Other Public Securities 6.1 5.6 5.2

**Foreign Currency** % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes application of resources default) 64.2 65.8 64.2
Position (1) 40.2 41.8 40.2

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 13 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of sep-22 % of GDP 4

**Principal monetary variables and financial system** Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-year
sep-22 ago-22 jul-22 dic-21 sep-21 sep-22 dic-21
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real

**Segment in domestic currency**
Total deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 115,095,699 14,061,919 13,536,629 9,585,924 8,379,370 7.4% 1.8% 57.5% -4.0% 80.2% -2.2% 17.2% 17.5%

Private sector deposits 12,274,161 11,430,942 11,107,579 7,725,433 6,752,798 7.4% 2.1% 58.9% -2.9% 81.8% -1.3% 14.0% 14.1%
Private sector sight deposits 5,798,200 5,438,672 5,431,737 4,094,910 3,339,022 6.6% 0.9% 41.6% -7.9% 73.6% -5.7% 6.7% 7.1%
Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 4,224,754 4,096,129 4,233,795 3,283,152 2,662,607 3.1% -2.0% 28.7% -14.5% 58.7% -13.9% 4.9% 5.6%
Remunerated 1,573,446 1,342,543 1,197,942 811,758 676,415 17.2% 9.9% 93.8% 17.1% 132.6% 26.3% 1.8% 1.5%
Time deposits and others of the private sector 6,475,961 5,992,270 5,675,842 3,630,523 3,413,776 8.1% 3.3% 78.4% 2.1% 89.7% 3.0% 7.3% 7.0%
Time deposits 6,290,164 5,812,418 5,493,814 3,482,489 3,294,928 8.2% 3.5% 80.6% 3.2% 90.9% 3.6% 7.1% 6.7%
Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 5,899,273 5,412,944 5,106,749 3,322,813 3,123,308 9.0% 4.2% 77.5% 1.4% 88.9% 2.5% 6.7% 6.4%
Adjustable by CER/UVA 390,891 399,474 387,065 159,676 171,620 -2.1% -6.5% 144.8% 39.9% 127.8% 23.7% 0.4% 0.3%
Traditional 195,672 204,200 202,920 102,705 112,246 -4.2% -8.4% 90.5% 8.8% 74.3% -5.4% 0.2% 0.2%
Cancellable in advance 195,219 195,274 184,145 56,970 59,374 0.0% -4.4% 242.7% 95.8% 228.8% 78.5% 0.2% 0.1%
Other deposits 185,797 179,852 182,029 148,035 118,849 3.3% -3.1% 25.5% -24.2% 56.3% -15.1% 0.2% 0.3%
Public sector deposits 2 2,821,538 2,630,977 2,429,050 1,860,491 1,626,571 7.2% 0.6% 51.7% -8.4% 73.5% -5.8% 3.2% 3.4%

**Monetary aggregates**
M2 Total 9,700,814 9,243,012 9,181,282 7,120,815 5,850,427 5.0% -0.9% 36.2% -13.6% 65.8% -10.0% 11.1% 12.5%
M3 Total 18,075,698 17,079,275 16,536,780 11,905,669 10,439,810 5.8% -0.2% 51.8% -6.3% 73.1% -6.0% 20.6% 21.4%

**Private monetary aggregates**
Private M2 8,655,309 8,343,103 8,328,951 6,325,612 5,284,683 3.7% -0.7% 36.8% -13.3% 63.8% -11.1% 10.0% 11.2%
Private transactional M2 3 7,081,864 7,000,560 7,131,009 5,513,854 4,608,267 1.2% -3.7% 28.4% -17.5% 53.7% -16.6% 8.2% 9.6%
M 3 private 15,131,270 14,335,373 14,004,793 9,956,135 8,698,459 5.6% 0.5% 52.0% -7.0% 74.0% -5.6% 17.3% 18.1%
 Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 5,888,123 5,723,167 5,471,617 4,058,133 3,349,230 2.9% -3.3% 45.1% -9.2% 75.8% -4.6% 6.8% 7.2%
 Loans to the non-financial private sector 5,824,092 5,666,052 5,410,329 4,003,444 3,304,707 2.8% -3.4% 45.5% -9.0% 76.2% -4.3% 6.7% 7.1%
 Advances 624,859 641,004 610,375 392,585 317,158 -2.5% -8.1% 59.2% -0.3% 97.0% 7.0% 0.7% 0.7%
 Documents 1,509,224 1,497,945 1,399,085 1,010,395 781,440 0.8% -6.2% 49.4% -6.8% 93.1% 4.9% 1.7% 1.8%
 Mortgage loans 360,582 350,445 341,944 280,283 250,667 2.9% -3.5% 28.6% -21.8% 43.8% -21.9% 0.4% 0.5%
 Pledge loans 408,260 384,540 359,363 229,234 181,180 6.2% -1.7% 78.1% 8.0% 125.3% 22.3% 0.5% 0.4%
 Personal loans 933,314 901,596 863,869 665,885 570,481 3.5% -2.9% 40.2% -13.6% 63.6% -11.2% 1.1% 1.2%
 Credit cards 1,686,599 1,596,034 1,540,338 1,198,243 999,370 5.7% -1.8% 40.8% -7.4% 68.8% -8.4% 2.0% 2.1%
 Others 301,254 294,486 295,356 226,818 204,411 2.3% -2.7% 32.8% -20.9% 47.4% -20.0% 0.3% 0.4%
 Loans to the non-financial public sector 64,031 57,115 61,287 54,689 44,523 12.1% 5.1% 17.1% -29.3% 43.8% -21.9% 0.1% 0.1%
 Segment in foreign currency 1

 Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 17,454 17,548 18,120 18,237 18,931 -0.5% - -4.3% - -7.8% - 2.9% 3.5%
 Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 14,823 14,604 15,075 15,255 16,355 1.5% - -2.8% - -9.4% - 2.4% 2.8%
 On sight 11,075 10,825 11,228 11,233 12,087 2.3% - -1.4% - -8.4% - 1.8% 2.1%
 Fixed term and others 3,749 3,779 3,847 4,022 4,269 -0.8% - -6.8% - -12.2% - 0.6% 0.8%
 Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2,631 2,944 3,045 2,982 2,576 -10.7% - -11.8% - 2.1% - 0.5% 0.6%
 Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,712 3,835 3,970 4,268 5,224 -3.2% - -13.0% - -29.0% - 0.6% 0.8%
 Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,594 3,715 3,849 4,127 5,083 -3.3% - -12.9% - -29.3% - 0.6% 0.8%
 Documents 2,344 2,434 2,610 2,729 3,582 -3.7% - -14.1% - -34.5% - 0.4% 0.5%
 Credit cards 262 272 253 137 96 -3.8% - 91.9% - 173.9% - 0.0% 0.0%
 Rest 987 1,008 986 1,261 1,406 -2.1% - -21.7% - -29.8% - 0.2% 0.2%
 Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 118 120 121 141 141 -2.2% - -16.5% - -16.5% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to M2 private the remunerated sight deposits.
4 Calculated based on the non-seasonally adjusted series for the month and the estimated non-seasonally adjusted GDP with a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

 Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 14 Rates in annual percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.
# Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments

| | sep-22 | TEA sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **BCRA Repo Rates** |
| Liabilities 1 day | 67.25 | 95.79 | 61.44 | 44.89 | 32.00 | 32.00 |
| Assets 1 day | 91.50 | 149.39 | 83.81 | 62.90 | 42.70 | 42.70 |
| LELIQ Rate at 28 days | 72.25 | 102.02 | 66.44 | 53.03 | 38.00 | 38.00 |
| LELIQ Rate at 180 days | 79.75 | 116.85 | 73.45 | 59.74 | | |

# Interest Rates of the Interbank Market

| | sep-22 | TEA sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Repo rates between third parties round at 1 day** | 64.62 | 90.71 | 59.84 | 44.04 | 30.98 | 31.59 |
| Amount operated of repos between third parties REPO round (daily average) | 6,393 | 11,723 | 13,815 | 4,489 | 3,754 | |
| **Call in pesos (at 1 business day)** | | | | | | |
| Rate | 63.85 | 89.25 | 57.79 | 43.31 | 30.46 | 31.27 |
| Amount operated | 24,289 | 22,249 | 32,733 | 19,687 | 13,121 | |

# Passive Interest Rates

| | sep-22 | TEA sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Demand Deposits** | | | | | | |
| Remunerated | 53.36 | 68.57 | 45.27 | 35.65 | 28.87 | 30.33 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | | | | |
| Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)¹ | 71.98 | 101.23 | 65.56 | 53.15 | 36.29 | 36.30 |
| TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 63.66 | 85.98 | 57.44 | 49.28 | 33.25 | 33.20 |
| TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) | 64.30 | 87.13 | 58.14 | 50.08 | 33.98 | 33.94 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 65.97 | 90.12 | 59.74 | 50.18 | 33.34 | 33.30 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 66.84 | 91.69 | 60.71 | 51.16 | 34.20 | 34.16 |
| **Rate of early cancellation of deposits in UVA** | 68.25 | 94.26 | 62.44 | 49.03 | 30.50 | 30.50 |

# Active Interest Rates

| | sep-22 | TEA sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Loans to non-financial private sector in pesos** | | | | | | |
| Overdrafts on current account | 68.17 | 97.60 | 60.09 | 51.47 | 40.47 | 41.31 |
| 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 million | 69.55 | 99.55 | 61.71 | 46.68 | 35.36 | 35.77 |
| Documents on signature alone | 58.98 | 77.89 | 54.10 | 49.33 | 34.78 | 35.09 |
| Mortgages | 49.09 | 61.80 | 43.80 | 39.29 | 29.71 | 28.03 |
| Pawn loans | 48.37 | 60.70 | 41.66 | 37.53 | 28.16 | 27.74 |
| Personal loans | 78.24 | 113.45 | 74.76 | 65.64 | 53.00 | 53.65 |
| Credit cards | 57.75 | 75.81 | 54.87 | 52.42 | 42.87 | 42.87 |

# Interest Rates of the Foreign Currency Segment

| | sep-22 | TEA sep-22 | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days)** | 0.34 | 0.34 | 0.34 | 0.34 | 0.37 | 0.38 |
| **Documents on signature alone in dollars** | 4.95 | 5.07 | 5.31 | 4.01 | 5.97 | 3.71 |

# Exchange Rate

| | sep-22 | Monthly Var. (%) | ago-22 | jul-22 | dic-21 | sep-21 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **TCN peso/dollar** | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 143.13 | 5.81 | 135.26 | 128.39 | 101.88 | 98.27 |
| Retail² | 145.69 | 5.56 | 138.02 | 131.18 | 104.27 | 100.61 |
| **TCN peso/real** | 27.33 | 3.82 | 26.32 | 23.97 | 18.01 | 18.61 |
| **TCN peso/euro** | 141.71 | 3.48 | 136.95 | 130.83 | 115.14 | 115.70 |
| **ITCNM** | 911.76 | 3.89 | 877.58 | 824.53 | 672.89 | 669.58 |
| **ITCRM** | 89.80 | -2.23 | 91.85 | 92.08 | 102.57 | 110.81 |

---

¹ The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the guaranteed minimum interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, at the financial institution exceed one million pesos.
The guaranteed minimum interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor insofar as the total fixed-term deposits at said institution does not exceed one million pesos.

² The Reference Retail Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated by considering the exchange rates bought and sold noted by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 15 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.
**AFIP:** Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
**CC BCRA:** Current account deposits at the BCRA.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**DEG:** Special Drawing Rights.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash.
**FCI:** Investment Fund.
**i.a.:** year-on-year.
**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.
**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.
**ITCNM:** Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
**ITCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.
**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.
**LFIP:** Productive Investment Financing Line.
**M2 Total:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M2 Private:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
**M2 Private Transactional:** Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and unpaid sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
**M3 Total:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
**M3 Private:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Market.
**MM:** Money Market.
**n.a.:** nominal annual.
**e.a.:** effective annual.
**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.
**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.
**GDP:** Gross Domestic Product.
**B.p.:** Basis Points.
**PSP:** Payment Service Provider.
**p.p.:** Percentage Points.
**Mi PyMEs:** Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.
**s.e.:** non-seasonally adjusted.
**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informative Requirements.
**SIMPES:** Comprehensive System for Monitoring Overseas Service Payments.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 16

**TCN:** Nominal Exchange Rate.
**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
**TNA:** Nominal Annual Rate.
**UVA:** Acquisition Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | September 2022 | BCRA | 17
