# Monthly Monetary Report
February 2022

## Contents

Pág. 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Pág. 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Pág. 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Pág. 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Pág. 7 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Pág. 9 | 6. Peso Liquidity of Financial Entities

Pág. 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Pág. 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Pág. 12 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Pág. 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was March 8, 2022. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have produced this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value systems.

In this document, we have sought to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

---

## 1. Executive Summary

| Indicator | Monthly var. real s.e. |
|-----------|----------------------|
| Monetary Base | -0.9% |
| M2 | -1.4% |
| Private Transactional | 1.6% |
| Fixed Term | 5.6% |
| S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | -0.9% |
| M3 Private | |

**Fixed-term deposits in pesos to the private sector without seasonality at constant prices**

Contribution by type of instrument to monthly growth

| Instrument Type | p.p. |
|-----------------|------|
| Traditional peso fixed-term | 4.0 |
| Traditional UVA fixed-term | 4 |
| Precancelable UVA fixed-term | 2 |
| | 1.7 |
| Adjustable by dollar quotation | 1.0 |
| | 1.6 |
| | 0.5 |
| | 0.7 |
| | 0.7 |
| | 0.6 |
| | 0 |
| | -0.6 |
| | -1.4 |
| | -1.1 |
| | -1.7 |
| | -2 |
| | -2.2 |
| | -4 |
| | ene-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 ene-22 |

| Loans to S. Priv. | Monthly var. real s.e. |
|------------------|----------------------|
| | -1.3% |

**LELIQ 28-day Rate**
nominal annual
2.9

**Total (Var. %)** 42.5%

**1-day Passive Repo Rate**
nominal annual
33.5%

**International Reserves**
millions of US$; end of month

37,017

Source: BCRA.

---

Mid-month, the BCRA decided to once again raise reference interest rates and create a new monetary regulation instrument at variable rate and with a term of up to 190 days (NOTALIQ). These measures aim to achieve better liquidity management of financial entities, as well as to increase the average term of sterilization instruments. To ensure the transmission of the new rates to depositors and to promote positive returns for savings in domestic currency, minimum guaranteed rates for peso savings instruments were also modified.

In this context, peso savings instruments grew at constant prices for a second consecutive month. As a counterpart, means of payment would have registered a contraction, a dynamic that was explained both by the behavior of currency in public hands and by non-remunerated sight deposits. Thus, the broad monetary aggregate, M3 private, at constant prices would have registered in February a monthly decrease of 0.9% s.e.
On the other hand, recently the National Government submitted to the Congress of the Nation the technical agreement reached with the IMF for an extended facilities program¹ that allows refinancing the substantial obligations of 2022 and 2023 established in the Stand-By Agreement signed in 2018. The new program seeks to continue generating the necessary conditions of stability to address existing structural challenges and strengthen the foundations for sustainable and inclusive growth. The resolution of the negotiation with the IMF will help improve the expectations of those agents who condition their view regarding the sustainability of the external sector to the outcome of said negotiation, contributing to contain exchange rate pressures and inflation expectations.

1 https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/el-gobierno-argentino-cerro-el-acuerdo-con-el-staff-del-fondo-monetario-internacional-y-se and
https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/03/pr2256-argentina-imf-and-argentine-authorities-reach-staff-level-agreement-on-an-eff .

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 22. Means of payment

The means of payment (M2 private transactional²), in real terms³ and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), would have registered a decrease of 1.4% in February. This dynamic responded to both the behavior of non-remunerated sight deposits and cash in the hands of the public (see Chart 2.1). In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, the M2 private transactional would be positioned 1.0% above the level of February 2021.

In terms of Product, the M2 private transactional would continue to be positioned below the average record for the period 2010-2019. As already mentioned in previous editions, the low levels of cash in the hands of the public are what explain this behavior. In fact, bills and coins in the hands of the public were positioned 1.4 p.p. below the average verified between 2010 and 2019, and at a value close to the minimum of the last 15 years (see Chart 2.2). The growing use of electronic means of payment is influencing this dynamic.

Chart 2.1 | M2 private transactional at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | M2 private transactional in terms of GDP
Contribution by component to the monthly var. s.e. | p.p. Transactional sight deposits | % of GDP M2 Private Transactional
4 Cash in the hands of the public | 16 Non-remunerated sight deposits
3 M2 private transactional (%) | Cash in the hands of the public
14
2 Avg. 10-19
12 11.4
1 10.1
10
0
8
-1 Avg. 10-19
6 5.8
-2 5.9
Avg. 10-19
-3 4 5.6 4.2

-4 2
ene-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 ene-22 | feb-06 feb-08 feb-10 feb-12 feb-14 feb-16 feb-18 feb-20 feb-22
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

3. Savings instruments in pesos

In line with its strategy of establishing a path of interest rates that aims for people to obtain returns consistent with the evolution of inflation, in mid-February, the BCRA Board decided to raise again the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits⁴. Thus, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements by natural persons up to an amount of $10 million increased from 39% n.a. to 41.5% n.a. (50.40% e.a.). For the rest of the financial system depositors⁵ the interest rate was also raised by 2.5 p.p. to 39.5% (47.5% e.a.).

In this context, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector registered, for the second consecutive month, a positive monthly expansion rate in real terms (1.6% s.e.). Thus, placements at term continued to expand in terms of GDP (0.2 p.p.) until reaching 6.8%. Therefore,
2 Private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.

3 INDEC will release the inflation data for February on March 15.

4 Communication "A" 7459.

5 Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits exceeding $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 3 the February figure was located 1.3 p.p. above the average record of 2010-2019 and 1.2 p.p. below the peak of mid-2020.

The month's growth was fundamentally explained by placements from natural persons, highlighting the segment between $1 and $10 million (see Graph 3.1). It should be noted that this stratum was the one that experienced the largest interest rate increase since the BCRA began raising reference interest rates in early January (it accumulated an increase of 7.5 p.p.). Meanwhile, time deposits from natural persons under $1 million grew at a rate lower than prices. The rest of the deposits from the non-financial private sector (those constituted by legal entities, regardless of amount, and by natural persons with placements of more than $10 million) registered a slight increase in real terms.

Regarding the instrumentalization of time deposits from legal entities, companies (excluding Financial Service Providers — FSP —) increased their holdings of fixed-term instruments, following the relative stability observed throughout 2021 (see Graph 3.2). Regarding FSPs, a portfolio rebalancing was observed, with an increase in time deposits at the expense of demand placements. This behavior occurred in a context in which the BCRA raised interest rates on time deposits and a relative stability in the assets of Money Market Mutual Funds (FMMI) which are the main agents within FSPs. Finally, Investments with early cancellation option, which cannot be classified by type of holder, presented a systematic decline during the month.

Graph 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector | Graph 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million
Balance at constant prices by type of depositor and amount stratum | Balance at constant prices by type of depositor
billions of pesos as of 28-Feb-22 | billions of pesos as of 28-Feb-22

1,200 | 2,500
Fixed-term of Natural persons under $1 million | 950
Fixed-term of Natural persons from $1 million to $10 million | 900
Rest of Fixed-term placements from private sector (right axis) | 850
1,100 | 2,400 | 500
1,000 | 2,300 | 450
900 | 2,200 | 400
800 | 2,100 | 350
Traditional Financial Service Providers | 750
700 | 2,000 | Investments with early cancellation option
Traditional Other Legal Entities (right axis) | 300 | 700
600 | 1,900 |
Sep-21 | Oct-21 | Nov-21 | Dec-21 | Jan-22 | Feb-22 | Sep-21 | Oct-21 | Nov-21 | Dec-21 | Jan-22 | Feb-22
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

At the instrument level, growth continued to be fundamentally explained by traditional fixed-term placements denominated in pesos. The dynamism of the traditional segment was partially offset by the decline in investments with early cancellation option. On the other hand, placements adjustable by CER, both in the traditional segment and in the precancellable segment, grew throughout the month. Overall, deposits denominated in UVA registered a monthly growth rate of 5.6% s.a. at constant prices, contributing positively to the month's expansion (see Graphs 3.3 and 3.4).
# Monthly Monetary Report | February of 2022 | BCRA | 4

**Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector** | **Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA from the private sector**
Contribution by instrument type to monthly var. s.e. | Balance at constant prices

p.p. billions of pesos | billions of pesos of 28-feb-22 | of 28-feb-22
6 | Traditional Fixed Rate in pesos | 160 | 130
Investments with early cancellation option | 150 | 120
4.0 | Traditional Fixed Rate UVA | 140 | 110
4 | Fixed Rate UVA precancelable | | 
Adjustable by dollar quotation | 130 | 123.2 | 100
Total; var. % 2.9 | 120 | 90
2 | 1.7 | 110 | 72.6 | 80
1.0 | 1.6 | 0.7 | 0.6 | 100 | 70
0 | | 90 | 60
-0.6 | | 80 | 50
-1.4 | -1.1 | -1.7 | 70 | 40
-2 | FR UVA Traditional | 60 | FR UVA Precancelable (right axis) | 30
| | 50 | | 20
-4 | | 40 | | 10
jan-21 | mar-21 | may-21 | jul-21 | sep-21 | nov-21 | jan-22 | jan-21 | mar-21 | may-21 | jul-21 | sep-21 | nov-21 | jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3⁶, at constant prices would have registered in February
a monthly decrease of 0.9% s.e. Meanwhile, in year-on-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced
an increase of 1.8%. As a percentage of Product, it would have remained at 18.6%, a figure slightly higher than
the average observed between 2010 and 2019.

## 4. Monetary Base

In February, the Monetary Base was located on average at $3,751 billion pesos, which meant a monthly
increase of 1.8% (+$65,310 million) in the original series at current prices. In this way, it registered the
smallest expansion of the last five months. Adjusted for seasonality and for inflation, the Monetary Base
would have presented a contraction of almost 1%, registering in year-on-year terms a contraction of around
5%. As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would be located at 6.3%, a figure similar to that of late 2019
and around the minimum values since 2003 (see Chart 4.1).

**Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base** | **Chart 4.2 | Monetary Base and expansion factors by supply**
Variation of monthly averages

thousands of | thousands of millions of $ | Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
billions of $ | of feb-22 | % of GDP | 500 | Repos and LELIQ
6,000 | | 12 | | 400 | Public Sector
| | | | | Remainder
5,500 | | 10 | | 300 | Monetary Base
| | | | 200 |
5,000 | | 8 | |
| | | | 100 |
4,500 | | 6 | 0 |
| | | | -100 |
4,000 | | 4 | -200 |
| Monetary base s.e. at constant prices | 2 | Monetary base s.e. at constant prices | -300 |
3,500 | As percentage of GDP (right axis) | | | -400 |
| | 0 |
3,000 | |
| | |
2,500 | |
jan-03 | jan-05 | jan-07 | jan-09 | jan-11 | jan-13 | jan-15 | jan-17 | jan-19 | jan-21 | jan-21 | mar-21 | may-21 | jul-21 | sep-21 | nov-21 | jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

⁶ Includes cash in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (sight, term and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | February of 2022 | BCRA | 5

On the supply side, the monthly expansion of the monetary base was explained fundamentally by the unwinding
of 7-day repos by financial entities. This responded to the reduction of the interest rate of this instrument within
the framework of the reconfiguration of monetary policy instruments that the BCRA carried out at the beginning
of January⁷. Said expansionary effect more than compensated for the absorption of liquidity through the rest
of the monetary regulation instruments (see Chart 4.2). In contrast, operations of the public sector and purchases
of foreign currency from the private sector had a contractionary effect in the month.
Regarding remunerated liabilities, and in line with the objectives and plans set for 2022, the BCRA decided to raise reference interest rates and create a new monetary regulation instrument. These measures aim to achieve better liquidity management for financial entities, as well as increase the average term of sterilization instruments. Thus, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQs was increased by 2.5 p.p. to 42.5% n.a. (51.96% e.a.). The rate on 180-day LELIQs was raised by 3 p.p. to 47% n.a. (52.61% e.a.). As for instruments designed to absorb short-term liquidity from entities, the interest rate on 1-day reverse repos was increased by 1.5 p.p. to 33.5% n.a. (39.77% e.a.). It should be noted that the interest rate on 1-day repos was also modified, which came to be set at 44.2% n.a. (55.54% e.a.). In parallel, the creation of Liquidity Notes (NOTALIQ) at variable rate was established, which are auctioned once per week⁸. These notes have a term of up to 190 days and their interest rate is defined as the average of the Monetary Policy Rate (28-day LELIQ) during the life of the Note plus a fixed spread that is reported to the market on the auction day⁹. In this way, financial entities may opt for this new instrument, which captures changes in the Monetary Policy Rate, or for 180-day LELIQs depending on their expectations regarding the evolution of the Monetary Policy Rate.

With the current instrument configuration, in February remunerated liabilities were composed of approximately 80% by LELIQs (considering both types). In particular, those with shorter terms represented somewhat more than 70% of the total, while those placed at 180 days had a participation of 8%. The remainder corresponded fundamentally to 1-day reverse repos, while an incipient participation of NOTALIQs was verified (see Chart 4.3).

These changes in the relative composition of monetary regulation instruments allowed the BCRA to continue with the policy of extending the terms of remunerated liabilities initiated at the beginning of the administration with the change of term of the shortest LELIQs from 7 to 28 days in February 2020. Indeed, the average residual term of the total stock of LELIQs was placed at approximately 30 days, practically double the average term observed in 2020 and 2021 (see Chart 4.4).

⁷ See Monthly Monetary Report of January 2022.
⁸ See Com. "A" 7460
⁹ The variable interest rate is computed as the simple daily average of the Monetary Policy Rate (TPM) from one business day prior to the issuance of the NOTALIQ to one business day before the maturity date plus a spread that is reported on the auction day.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 6

Chart 4.3 | BCRA Remunerated Liabilities        Chart 4.4 | Average Term of LELIQs
Monthly Average                                 7-day Moving Average

%  1-day Repos  7-day Repos  28-day LELIQ  180-day LELIQ  NOTALIQ        Days
100                                            35
90                                             30
80                                             25
70
60                                             20
50                                             15
40
30                                             10
20                                             5
10
0                                              0
dec-21  jan-22  feb-22                         jan-18  jul-18  jan-19  jul-19  jan-20  jul-20  jan-21  jul-21  jan-22

Source: BCRA.                                  Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

Loans in pesos to the private sector, in real terms and without seasonality, would have registered in February a monthly contraction of 1.3%, after five months of uninterrupted growth. The decrease for the month was widespread across most financing lines (see Chart 5.1). The ratio of loans in pesos to the private sector to GDP would have been placed in February at 7.3%, a value similar to that of the previous months (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector    Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector as % of GDP
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth
# DOCUMENTS

| Category | Percentage |
|----------|-----------|
| Personal | 12 |
| Advances | 3 |
| Credit Cards | 9 |
| Real Guarantee | 7.3 |
| Rest | 2 |
| **Total (monthly var.)** | **6** |

---

| Metric | Values |
|--------|--------|
| | 1 |
| | 0 |
| | -1 |
| | -2 |

**Loans in pesos to the private sector (s.e.)**

**GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)**

**Ratio to GDP**

feb-21 may-21 ago-21 nov-21 feb-22 | feb-20 may-20 ago-20 nov-20 feb-21 may-21 ago-21 nov-21 feb-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

---

The lines with essentially commercial destinations would have exhibited, as a whole, a monthly contraction of 0.4% s.e. at constant prices, after 7 months of positive real variations. Within these financings, heterogeneous behavior was observed. On one hand, shorter-term lines contributed negatively to the monthly variation. In effect, financing granted through current account advances registered a monthly decline of 1.2% s.e. at constant prices and discounted documents presented a contraction of 3% s.e. in real terms. Meanwhile, single-signature documents, which have a longer average life, registered an increase of 1.5% s.e. in real terms during the month, partially offsetting the decline.

The contraction of commercial lines was explained, in large part, by the negative statistical drag left by January, a month in which demand for financing by companies tends to decrease in response to lower activity during the summer recess. In effect, when we analyze the composition of commercial loans by type of debtor, it is appreciated that both the balance of loans to SMEs and to large companies stopped falling in February and remained relatively stable (see Chart 5.3)

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main vehicle through which loans to Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) were channeled. At the end of February, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated disbursements of approximately $1,743 billion since its launch, with an increase of 7% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.4). Regarding the destinations of these funds, around 84% of the total disbursed corresponds to working capital financing and the rest to the line that finances investment projects. At the time of this publication, the number of companies that accessed the LFIP amounted to 219,000. The favorable conditions for access to the line allowed credit to SMEs to maintain a positive expansion rate in year-on-year terms and at constant prices (18.4%), unlike what occurred with financing to large companies, which registered a contraction (-22.4%).

**Chart 5.3 | Commercial loans to the private sector by type of debtor**
Balance at constant prices

thousands of millions of $
- MiPyMEs: 1,017.8
- Rest of commercial lines: 736

**Chart 5.4 | Financings granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP)**
Accumulated disbursed amounts; data at end of month

thousands of millions of $
- Total: 1,743
- Investment projects (30% n.a. rate): 273
- Working capital (implied): 1,470

jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22 | nov-20 jan-21 mar-21 may-21 jul-21 sep-21 nov-21 jan-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

---

Among loans associated with consumption, financings implemented with credit cards would have exhibited a new decrease in real terms during February (-2.5% s.e.), placing itself 11.6% below the level from a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would have shown a decline of 1% monthly at constant prices, interrupting the recovery process they had been showing in the last 5 months. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans increased approximately 1 p.p. in the February average and rose to 55.8% n.a.

**Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 7**
Regarding lines with real collateral, pledged loans once again showed the greatest dynamism among all lines, completing a period of 20 months of growth at constant prices. In February, they would have shown a monthly increase of 2.4% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating an expansion of 45.8% over the last twelve months. In contrast, the balance of mortgage loans would have fallen 2.1% in real terms and without seasonality in February, which would represent a decline of 13.1% over the last 12 months.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 86. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In February, broad banking liquidity in local currency10 averaged 65.9% of deposits, a figure similar to that of January. In this way it remained at historically elevated levels. The composition of banking liquidity continued to be modified based on the regulatory changes introduced in January. On one hand, the expansion of limits for the subscription of LELIQ (up to the average stock of fixed-term deposits of the private sector from the previous month) led to LELIQ that are not computed for the integration of minimum cash increasing their participation in terms of deposits by 7.2 p.p. As a counterpart, a decline of 8.2 p.p. was verified in passive repos. In turn, NOTALIQ were incorporated, which began to be auctioned in February, although their participation in deposits is still limited (see Chart 6.1).

Regarding the reserve requirement regime, it should be noted that as of February a reduction in the percentage of Ahora 12 financing admitted for integration of minimum cash came into effect, going from 50% to 40% of new financing11.

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Net Repos LELIQ - Other
% of deposits NOTALIQ Integration in LELIQ
CC BCRA $ BOTE 2022
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity
70 64.9 64.7 65.8 67.4 67.5 67.2 67.1 66.3 66.3 65.9
61.7 62.7 64.1 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.6
3.3 2.9 2.8 2.8 2.7 3.0 3.4 3.9 2.8 2.6 2.6
3.9 3.5 3.9 0.8 2.1 3.8 3.8 4.0 3.9 4.0
60 3.7 3.6 4.0 3.8 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.6 3.6
3.8 9.4 9.6 9.1 9.0
10.4 10.0 10.1 9.6 9.3 9.2 9.8 10.3
50 11.4
10.4 8.1 7.7 7.3 6.9 6.3 5.8 5.5
10.1 10.3 9.7 5.9
40 10.1 0.6

17.3 17.8 17.8 17.5 16.8 16.3
30 17.3 17.3 17.1 22.6
17.7 29.8
17.8
20

10 19.5 21.1 20.3 22.2 23.2 23.9 24.1 24.6 24.4
14.7 17.3 18.2
9.0
0
Feb-21 Mar-21 Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22
Source: BCRA.

7. Foreign currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities registered negative variations, although of a limited magnitude. Private sector deposits registered an average monthly decrease of US$ 290 million explained in part by the carryover effect from the previous month. This behavior was linked to the evolution of sight deposits of natural persons in the segment between US$ 50,000 and US$ 250,000. Thus, the average monthly balance of private sector deposits was located at US$ 15,249 million in February. For their part, loans to the private sector accumulated their ninth consecutive decline, although with moderation in the margin. In particular, on average, a decline of US$ 62 million was recorded, such that the average monthly balance was US$ 3,845 million. The decrease in financing was concentrated in single-name documents, which represent practically the totality of loans in foreign currency.

10 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.
11 Communication "A" 7448
# MONTHLY MONETARY REPORT | February of 2022 | BCRA | 9

Bank liquidity in foreign currency remained at elevated levels. In fact, in February it averaged 82.7% of deposits. In this way, it remained at a value similar to that of the previous month and, in terms of its components, no significant changes were recorded either (see Chart 7.2).

**Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private financial sector**

**Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities**

[Tables with numerical data showing deposits, loans, cash in banks, US$ liquidity from December 2019 to February 2022]

The BCRA's International Reserves ended February with a balance of US$ 37,017 million, reflecting a decline of US$ 572 million with respect to the end of January (see Chart 7.3). Among the factors that explained this decrease, the payment of interest to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) stands out for US$ 367 million at the beginning of the month. The rest of the decline was explained fundamentally by foreign currency payments by the National Government to other International Organizations and other debt payments.

Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 2.4% in February to be located, on average, at $106.38/US$ (see Chart 7.4). In this way, the rate of depreciation of the domestic currency is converging gradually to levels more compatible with the inflation rate. The greater dynamism of the TCN, added to the dynamics presented by the quotations of the main trading partners, allowed the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) to remain at competitive levels during February. Thus, it seeks to strengthen the position of International Reserves, based on the genuine income of foreign exchange from the external sector.

**Chart 7.3 | International Reserves**
**Daily balance**

**Chart 7.4 | Variation of nominal bilateral exchange rate with the United States**

[Charts showing international reserves in thousands of millions of US$ and monthly average percentage variation from December 2019 onwards, with annotations for IMF payments and SDR allocation]

---

# 8. REGULATORY SUMMARY

| Date of Issue | Regulation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| 17-Feb-22 | Com. "A" 7459 | It was established, effective as of February 18, 2022, that the minimum interest rate for fixed-term deposits made by natural persons in the financial entity that do not exceed a total of $ 10 million on the date of their establishment will be 97.65% of the Monetary Policy rate of the day prior to that on which the deposits are made, or the last one disclosed in its case. For the rest of the deposits, it will be 92.94% of said rate. In the case of deposits with the option of early cancellation, the fixed early redemption rate will be 85.88% of the Monetary Policy Rate. On the other hand, it was provided that the requirement for minimum cash will be reduced by an amount equivalent to 30% of the balance of financing aimed at investment projects within the framework of the "Financing line for productive investment of SMEs" that are agreed at an annual nominal interest rate of up to 30%, measured on the monthly average of daily balances of the previous month. |
Effective as of February 17, 2022, the issuance and placement of Variable Rate Liquidity Notes (NOTALIQ) was established. These are notes that are subscribed and paid in pesos, can have a term of up to 190 days, and their variable rate is calculated as the simple daily average of the Monetary Policy Rate from a business day prior to the issuance of the NOTALIQ until a business day before the maturity date plus a spread that is announced on the day of the auction.

For its part, only local entities can operate as counterparties of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In the same sense, the secondary market is restricted to financial entities to be traded only locally, highlighting that they can be used as collateral for REPO operations.

The digital wallet service is considered as that which is offered by a financial entity or Payment Service Providers (PSP) through an application on a mobile device or in a web browser that must allow, among other transactions, to make payments with transfers (PCT) and/or with other payment instruments, such as debit cards, credit cards, purchase cards or prepaid cards. Thus, it was established that Payment Service Providers (PSP) and financial entities that offer this service must obtain a certification from the Interoperable Digital Wallets Registry in order to provide the payment transfer service (PCT) initiated with QR code reading.

Finally, as of May, the administrators of immediate transfer schemes will not be able to enable an acceptor to receive payments with transfers initiated with QR codes, if they have not verified that such codes can be read by all digital wallets registered in the aforementioned Central Bank registry.

New technical requirements were established for Payment Service Providers (PSP) and financial entities that offer the digital wallet service, which must implement mechanisms to detect suspicious or unusual activities of users aimed at mitigating fraud risk. Additionally, they must enable technical means so that the client who is the holder of the digital wallet service, at the time of enrollment of a checking or payment account, can provide their consent in a simple and immediate manner, and verify that such consent remains valid at the time of authorizing any payment instruction ordered by the client.

Financial entities and payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPCP) will have 180 days from the issuance of the regulation to adjust their systems to this normative. These technical requirements complement and reinforce the security measures previously adopted and are based on the need for interaction between the wallets and the account providers (banking or payment), in order to manage client consent to link their account to the wallet where they wish to operate. In turn, it is aligned with the recommendations of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), which warns about cybersecurity and fraud risks.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 119. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average of Feb-22 | % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 interannual

|  | feb-22 | jan-22 | dec-21 | dec-21 | feb-21 | feb-22 | dec-21 | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 3,750,943 | 3,685,633 | 3,394,480 | 3,394,480 | 2,576,590 | 1.8% | -0.9% | 10.5% | 3.0% | 45.6% | -5.7% | 6.3% | 6.0% |
| Monetary circulation | 2,686,579 | 2,677,121 | 2,504,731 | 2,504,731 | 1,836,512 | 0.4% | -1.4% | 7.3% | -1.8% | 46.3% | -5.3% | 4.6% | 4.6% |
| Cash in the hands of the public | 2,417,014 | 2,412,219 | 2,230,702 | 2,230,702 | 1,583,194 | 0.2% | -1.3% | 8.4% | -0.4% | 52.7% | -1.2% | 4.2% | 4.1% |
| Cash in financial entities | 269,565 | 264,902 | 274,029 | 274,029 | 253,317 | 1.8% | -2.5% | -1.6% | -13.7% | 6.4% | -31.1% | 0.4% | 0.5% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 1,064,364 | 1,008,512 | 889,749 | 889,749 | 740,078 | 5.5% | 1.1% | 19.6% | 15.5% | 43.8% | -6.9% | 1.8% | 1.6% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) | 4,652,744 | 4,703,424 | 2,366,670 | 2,366,670 | 955,558 | -1.1% | -5.2% | 96.6% | 82.3% | 386.9% | 215.3% | 8.1% | 4.1% |
| Passive repos | 922,635 | 1,840,825 | 2,366,670 | 2,366,670 | 955,558 | -49.9% | -52.0% | -61.0% | -63.9% | -3.4% | -37.5% | 1.6% | 4.1% |
| 1 day | 922,635 | 349,455 | 110,546 | 110,546 | 74,570 | 164.0% | 152.9% | 734.6% | 673.9% | 1137.3% | 701.1% | 1.6% | 0.2% |
| 7 days | 0 | 1,491,369 | 2,256,124 | 2,256,124 | 880,989 | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 3.9% |
| Stock of LELIQ | 3,667,847 | 2,862,599 | 2,140,026 | 2,140,026 | 1,810,157 | 28.1% | 22.7% | 71.4% | 58.9% | 102.6% | 31.2% | 6.4% | 3.7% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 3,293,933 | 2,591,823 | 2,140,026 | 2,140,026 | 1,810,157 | 27.1% | 21.7% | 53.9% | 42.7% | 82.0% | 17.8% | 5.7% | 3.7% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 373,914 | 270,776 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 38.1% | 32.3% | - | - | - | - | 0.6% | 0.0% |
| Stock of NOTALIQ | 62,263 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | - | - | - | - | - | - | 0.1% | 0.0% |
| International reserves of the BCRA in dollars | 37,252 | 38,964 | 40,584 | 40,584 | 39,377 | -4.4% | - | -8.2% | - | -5.4% | - | 6.9% | 7.6% |

## Factors of average monthly variation

|  | Monthly |  | Quarterly |  | Accumulated 2022 |  | Interannual |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Monetary base | 65,310 | 1.8% | 602,848 | 19.1% | 356,463 | 10.5% | 1,174,353 | 45.6% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector and others | -22,615 | -0.6% | -104,065 | -3.3% | -30,947 | -0.9% | 389,965 | 15.1% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange from the National Treasury | -114,113 | -3.1% | -143,500 | -4.6% | -143,500 | -4.2% | -22,799 | -0.9% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits to the National Gov. | 106,258 | 2.9% | 875,000 | 27.8% | 515,300 | 15.2% | 1,822,312 | 70.7% |
| Other public sector operations | -105,220 | -2.9% | -134,184 | -4.3% | -144,253 | -4.2% | -171,687 | -6.7% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | 228,698 | 6.2% | 218,077 | 6.9% | 221,962 | 6.5% | -364,221 | -14.1% |
| Others | -27,698 | -0.8% | -108,480 | -3.4% | -62,098 | -1.8% | -479,216 | -18.6% |
| International Reserves of the BCRA | -1,711 | -4.4% | -5,211 | -12.3% | -3,332 | -8.2% | -2,125 | -5.4% |
| Purchase of foreign exchange | -215 | -0.6% | -1,019 | -2.4% | -296 | -0.7% | 4,369 | 11.1% |
| International organisms | -1,048 | -2.7% | -3,198 | -7.5% | -2,449 | -6.0% | -2,782 | -7.1% |
| Other public sector operations | -322 | -0.8% | 1,151 | 2.7% | 272 | 0.7% | 2,606 | 6.6% |
| Minimum cash | -43 | -0.1% | 65 | 0.2% | 523 | 1.3% | 470 | 1.2% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -83 | -0.2% | -2,211 | -5.2% | -1,383 | -3.4% | -6,788 | -17.2% |

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration feb-22 jan-22 dec-21
 Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Net requirement of deductions 23.5 22.6 22.1
 Integration in current accounts 10.3 9.8 9.2
 Integration LELIQ 19.0 18.1 18.3
 Integration BOTE 2022 3.6 3.6 3.8
 Integration Rest of Public Securities 4.0 3.9 4.0
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default of application of resources) 64.1 63.5 62.2
 Position (1) 40.1 39.5 38.2

 (1) Position = Integration - Requirement
 Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 12 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.
 Monthly averages Percentage variations average of feb-22 % of GDP 4
 Main monetary variables and financial system Monthly Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-year
 feb-22 jan-22 dec-21 dec-21 feb-21 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real feb-22 dec-21
 Segment in domestic currency

 Total Deposits of non-financial sector in pesos 1 10,193,487 10,080,046 9,608,635 9,608,635 6,451,538 1.1% -3.2% 6.1% -0.9% 58.0% 2.3% 17.8% 17.3%

 Private sector deposits 8,262,118 8,062,972 7,742,862 7,742,862 5,210,373 2.5% -1.8% 6.7% -0.1% 58.6% 2.7% 14.4% 13.9%
 Private sector sight deposits 4,179,982 4,222,272 4,120,701 4,120,701 2,581,461 -1.0% -1.8% 1.4% -0.1% 61.9% 4.8% 7.3% 7.2%
 Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 3,379,046 3,432,241 3,308,964 3,308,964 2,135,834 -1.5% -1.5% 2.1% 2.1% 58.2% 2.4% 5.9% 5.7%
 Remunerated 800,936 790,031 811,737 811,737 445,627 1.4% -2.9% -1.3% -8.5% 79.7% 16.4% 1.4% 1.5%
 Fixed-term and other private sector deposits 4,082,136 3,840,700 3,622,161 3,622,161 2,628,912 6.3% 1.8% 12.7% 4.5% 55.3% 0.5% 7.1% 6.7%
 Fixed-term deposits 3,925,358 3,700,053 3,473,779 3,473,779 2,521,233 6.1% 1.6% 13.0% 4.8% 55.7% 0.8% 6.8% 6.4%
 Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA 3,738,651 3,530,641 3,314,131 3,314,131 2,442,825 5.9% 1.4% 12.8% 4.6% 53.0% -0.9% 6.5% 6.1%
 Adjustable by CER/UVA 186,707 169,412 159,648 159,648 78,408 10.2% 5.6% 16.9% 8.4% 138.1% 54.2% 0.3% 0.3%
 Traditional 117,775 107,527 102,680 102,680 59,120 9.5% 4.9% 14.7% 6.4% 99.2% 29.0% 0.2% 0.2%
 Precancellable 68,932 61,885 56,968 56,968 19,288 11.4% 6.7% 21.0% 12.2% 257.4% 131.4% 0.1% 0.1%
 Other deposits 156,778 140,647 148,382 148,382 107,679 11.5% 6.8% 5.7% -2.0% 45.6% -5.7% 0.3% 0.3%
 Public sector deposits 2 1,931,370 2,017,074 1,865,772 1,865,772 1,241,165 -4.2% -8.3% 3.5% -4.0% 55.6% 0.8% 3.4% 3.4%

 Monetary aggregates
 M2 Total 7,366,062 7,553,712 7,144,286 7,144,286 4,675,060 -2.5% -3.8% 3.1% -1.8% 57.6% 2.0% 12.6% 12.6%
M3 Total 12,699,414 12,577,543 11,928,494 11,928,494 8,075,641 1.0% -1.8% 6.5% 0.0% 57.3% 1.8% 21.9% 21.6%

**Private monetary aggregates**

M2 private 6,596,996 6,634,490 6,351,403 6,351,403 4,164,656 -0.6% -1.3% 3.9% -0.4% 58.4% 2.6% 11.5% 11.4%

M2 private transactional³ 5,796,059 5,844,459 5,539,666 5,539,666 3,719,028 -0.8% -1.4% 4.6% 1.0% 55.8% 0.9% 10.1% 9.8%

M3 private 10,679,131 10,475,190 9,973,564 9,973,564 6,793,567 1.9% -0.9% 7.1% 0.6% 57.2% 1.8% 18.6% 18.2%

**Total loans to the non-financial sector in pesos** 4,234,637 4,160,408 4,058,133 4,058,133 2,867,631 1.8% -1.3% 4.3% -1.0% 47.7% -4.4% 7.4% 7.3%

Loans to the private non-financial sector 4,183,105 4,109,324 4,003,444 4,003,444 2,822,504 1.8% -1.3% 4.5% -0.9% 48.2% -4.0% 7.3% 7.2%

Advances 412,767 398,010 392,585 392,585 305,567 3.7% -1.2% 5.1% -0.6% 35.1% -12.5% 0.7% 0.7%

Documents 1,058,306 1,049,937 1,010,395 1,010,395 648,889 0.8% 0.4% 4.7% 5.5% 63.1% 5.6% 1.9% 1.8%

Mortgages 294,730 289,440 280,283 280,283 219,714 1.8% -2.1% 5.2% -2.3% 34.1% -13.1% 0.5% 0.5%

Pledges 255,184 241,268 229,234 229,234 113,326 5.8% 2.4% 11.3% 5.1% 125.2% 45.8% 0.4% 0.4%

Personal 713,091 685,554 665,885 665,885 463,707 4.0% -1.0% 7.1% -0.5% 53.8% -0.4% 1.2% 1.2%

Credit cards 1,217,306 1,211,694 1,198,243 1,198,243 891,851 0.5% -2.5% 1.6% -4.1% 36.5% -11.6% 2.0% 2.1%

Others 231,721 233,420 226,818 226,818 179,451 -0.7% -2.9% 2.2% -3.4% 29.1% -16.4% 0.4% 0.4%

Loans to the public non-financial sector 51,532 51,084 54,689 54,689 45,126 0.9% -3.4% -5.8% -12.6% 14.2% -26.1% 0.1% 0.1%

**Foreign currency segment¹**

Non-financial sector deposits in dollars 18,478 18,742 18,237 18,237 18,396 -1.4% -1.3% -0.4% -3.5% 3.5%

Private non-financial sector deposits in dollars 15,249 15,539 15,255 15,255 15,649 -1.9% -0.0% - -2.6% -2.8% 2.9%

On demand 11,313 11,527 11,233 11,233 11,346 -1.9% -0.7% - -0.3% -2.1% 2.1%

Fixed-term and others 3,936 4,013 4,022 4,022 4,303 -1.9% - -2.1% - -8.5% -0.7% 0.8%

Public non-financial sector deposits in dollars 3,229 3,203 2,982 2,982 2,747 0.8% -8.3% -17.5% -0.6% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,974 4,049 4,268 4,268 5,184 -1.8% - -6.9% - -23.3% -0.7% 0.8%

Loans to the private non-financial sector in dollars 3,845 3,908 4,127 4,127 5,050 -1.6% - -6.8% - -23.9% -0.7% 0.8%

Documents 2,473 2,551 2,729 2,729 3,382 -3.0% - -9.4% - -26.9% -0.5% 0.5%

Credit Cards 200 145 137 137 82 37.8% -46.2% -144.1% -0.0% 0.0%

Rest 1,173 1,212 1,261 1,261 1,586 -3.3% - -7.0% - -26.1% -0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the public non-financial sector in dollars 128 141 141 141 134 -8.9% - -8.9% - -4.4% -0.0% 0.0%

---

¹ Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
² Net of unified funds utilization.
³ Excludes with respect to M2 private the remunerated demand deposits.
⁴ Calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and the non-seasonal GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.

Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 13 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

**Interest Rates of monetary regulation instruments Feb-22** TEA Feb-22 Jan-22 Dec-21 Feb-21

**BCRA repo rates**

Liabilities 1 day 32.59 38.51 32.00 32.00 32.00

Assets 1 day 43.29 54.13 42.70 42.70 42.70

LELIQ rate 28 days 40.63 49.19 39.35 38.00 38.00

LELIQ rate 180 days 44.75 55.27 44.00
# Interest Rates in the Interbank Market feb-22

**REPO 1-day round rates between third parties**
- TEA feb-22: 32.31
- feb-22: 38.11
- ene-22: 29.43
- dic-21: 30.98
- feb-21: 32.21

**Amount operated in REPO round between third parties (daily average)** 12,058 | 3,753 | 4,489 | 4,583

**Call in pesos (1 business day)**
- Rate: 31.27 | 36.70 | 31.36 | 30.46 | 30.42
- Amount operated: 15,957 | 20,031 | 19,687 | 8,764

---

# Passive Interest Rates feb-22

**Sight Deposits**
- Remunerated: 27.71 | 31.52 | 28.63 | 28.87 | 28.90

**Fixed Term**
- Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)¹: 39.60 | 47.65 | 38.24 | 36.29 | 36.33

**TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days)** 36.83 | 43.74 | 35.28 | 33.25 | 33.09

**TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days)** 37.58 | 44.79 | 35.98 | 33.98 | 33.91

**BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days)** 37.36 | 44.48 | 35.78 | 33.34 | 33.14

**BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days)** 38.24 | 45.73 | 36.66 | 34.20 | 34.06

**Early prepayment rate for UVA deposits** 36.50 | 43.28 | 34.00 | 30.50 | 30.50

---

# Active Interest Rates feb-22

**Loans to non-financial private sector in pesos**

- Current account advances: 42.05 | 52.24 | 41.59 | 40.46 | 40.96
- 1 to 7 days — with business agreement — more than $10 million: 35.96 | 43.10 | 35.68 | 35.36 | 34.89
- Documents at sole signature: 35.74 | 42.22 | 34.80 | 34.78 | 35.09
- Mortgages: 30.87 | 35.64 | 30.51 | 29.71 | 30.26
- Pledged loans: 28.78 | 32.90 | 28.75 | 28.16 | 28.55
- Personal loans: 55.82 | 72.60 | 54.89 | 53.00 | 55.98
- Credit cards: 45.04 | 55.62 | 42.84 | 42.87 | 42.79

---

# Interest Rates in the Foreign Currency Segment feb-22

**Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days)** 0.36 | 0.36 | 0.37 | 0.37 | 0.39

**Documents at sole signature in dollars** 3.70 | 3.76 | 4.97 | 5.97 | 4.99

---

# Exchange Rate feb-22

**TCN peso/dollar**
- Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500): 106.38 | Monthly Var. (%): 2.36 | ene-22: 103.93 | dic-21: 101.88 | feb-21: 88.72
- Retail²: 108.77 | 2.34 | 106.28 | 104.27 | 90.94

**TCN peso/real** 20.47 | 8.82 | 18.81 | 18.01 | 16.39

**TCN peso/euro** 120.74 | 2.65 | 117.63 | 115.14 | 107.30

**ITCNM** 721.08 | 4.00 | 693.36 | 672.89 | 606.51

**ITCRM** 103.36 | 1.06 | 102.27 | 102.57 | 123.43

---

¹ The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, at the financial entity exceed one million pesos. The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits at said entity do not exceed one million pesos.

² The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the purchase and sale exchange rates recorded by the adhering entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 14 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
SIMPES: Integrated System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 15

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Nominal Annual Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2022 | BCRA | 16
