2. Means of Payment
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), the means of payment (private transactional M2¹) would have registered in November a contraction of 1.6%, accumulating 10 consecutive months of decline (see Graph 2.1). At the level of its components, the decrease was explained fundamentally by the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits, while currency in circulation remained relatively stable. In year-on-year terms and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would have presented a contraction of around 20%. As a ratio of Product, the means of payment would have been located at 7.7%, evidencing a decrease of (0.3 p.p.) with respect to the previous month (see Graph 2.2). Both components of the means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the minimums of the last 20 years and, in the case of currency in circulation, a new minimum was marked.

This dynamics of means of payment is expected in a context of high interest rates, which increases the opportunity cost for agents to maintain holdings of non-remunerated money. The counterpart of the lower demand for means of payment is the greater intensity in the use of remunerated deposits, either directly through fixed-term deposits or indirectly through the subscription of Money Market Investment Funds (FCI MM), whose main investments are remunerated current account and fixed-term instruments.

Graph 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant Graph 2.2 | Private transactional M2
prices
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e.
 p.p.
 4% of GDP
 Transactional demand deposits 16 Private transactional M2
 3 Non-remunerated demand deposits
 Currency in circulation Currency in circulation
 2 Private transactional M2 (%) 14

 1
 12
 0

 -1 10

 -2 8 7.7

 -3
 -4 6
 4.6
 -5 4
 -6 3.1
 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 2
 Source: BCRA. Jan-10 Nov-11 Sep-13 Jul-15 May-17 Mar-19 Jan-21 Nov-22
 Source: BCRA.

3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The Board of Directors of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) decided to maintain for a second consecutive month without changes the guaranteed minimum interest rates for fixed-term deposits in November². The decision was made considering the moderation in the rate of growth of prices in October, the evolution of the leading indicators of November and future perspectives of inflation. In this way, the guaranteed minimum rate for placements of natural persons up to an amount of $10 million was maintained at 75% n.a. (107.05% e.a.), while for the rest of the depositors of the financial system³ the interest rate was located at 66.5% n.a. (91.07% e.a.).

1 Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
2 The interest rates currently in force are those established through communication "A" 7527.
3 Financial Service Providers, Companies and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 3

In this context, in November fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector at constant prices would have registered a new monthly expansion, this time of 3.6% s.e. In this way, the balance of fixed-term placements marked a new maximum at constant prices and reached a value equivalent to that of the means of payment, when in the last 20 years fixed-term deposits represented on average only 50% of the means of payment. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have been located at 7.6% in November (0.1 p.p. more than in October), a figure that is among the highs of recent years.
# Translation to English

Analyzing the evolution at constant prices of time deposits by amount bracket, a generalized increase is verified, although the most dynamic segment was that of $1 to $20 million (see Chart 3.1).
Deposits of more than $20 million grew on average, driven mainly by the increase in corporate holdings (excluding Financial Services Providers — FSP —). Regarding FSPs, they maintained their holdings practically unchanged in real terms and without seasonality; in a context in which the equity of Money Market Investment Funds (MM IF), the main agents within FSPs, barely varied. Meanwhile, investments with early cancellation option (which cannot be classified by type of holder) continued to decline (see Chart 3.2). Finally, deposits of less than $1 million remained relatively stable once adjusted for price evolution.

Chart 3.1 | Fixed-rate time deposits of the private sector | Chart 3.2 | Fixed-rate time deposits of more than $20 million
Monthly real variation without seasonality by amount bracket | Balance at constant prices by type of depositor and instrument. Original series

p.p. billions of pesos as of 30-Nov-22 | billions of pesos as of 30-Nov-22
6 Less than $1 million | Traditional | 1,900
1,200 Investments with early cancellation option | Financial Services Providers
5 From $1 million to $20 million | Traditional | 1,100 | 1,800
More than $20 million | Other Legal Entities (for example)
4 Total (%) | 3.6 | 1,000 | 1,700
3 | 900 | 1,600
2 | 800 | 1,500
1 | 700 | 1,400
| 600 | 1,300
0 | 500 | 1,200
-1 | 400 | 1,100
-2 | 300 | 1,000
Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 | Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

The segment of CER-adjusted fixed-rate time deposits exhibited a new contraction at constant prices, accumulating 4 consecutive months of declines. While placements in traditional UVA continued with a downward trend similar to that of previous months, precancelable placements stabilized during November. Thus, the monthly rate of variation of traditional UVA placements would have been -9.2% s.e. at constant prices, compared to 0.1% s.e. in the case of UVA deposits with early cancellation option (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder within instruments with CER adjustment, it is verified that the average monthly decline is explained almost entirely by the dynamics of holdings of individuals and companies (excluding FSPs); nevertheless, the peak variation of individual holdings proved positive, reversing the downward trend (see Chart 3.4).
In all, UVA deposits reached a balance of $365,000 million at month-end, which represented approximately 5% of the total time instruments denominated in domestic currency.

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-rate time deposits in UVA of the private sector | Chart 3.4 | Fixed-rate time deposits in UVA of the private sector
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument | Balance at constant prices by type of holder

billions of pesos as of 30-Nov-22 | billions of pesos as of 30-Nov-22
280 | 450
260 | Individuals
240 | 400 | Financial Services Providers
220 | 202.9 | 350 | Other Legal Entities
200 | 330
180 | 300
160 | 162.1 | 250
140 | 200
120 |
100 | 150
80 |
60 | Fixed-rate UVA Traditional | 100
40 | Fixed-rate UVA Precancelable | 50 | 53
20 |
0 | 0 | 2
Jan-21 Apr-21 Jul-21 Oct-21 Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 | Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 Sep-22
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.
On the other hand, deposits with adjustments based on the reference exchange rate value registered a decline in the penultimate month of the year. Currently, the agricultural sector has two different types of deposits with exchange rate coverage available: a demand account, commonly known as "chacarero deposits" and fixed-term investments, called DIVA dollar. The first type of deposit registered a variation at the end of the month of -8.6% at current prices, reaching a balance of $106,000 million at the end of November. This decline reflects the use of part of the funds obtained through the sale of dollars through the Export Increment Program in September. The new edition of the program launched at the end of the month could give new impetus to these deposits. For its part, DIVA dollars reached a balance of $40,700 million at the end of the month, which implied an average monthly contraction of 1.4% at current prices. To cover the exchange rate risk of these deposits, financial entities have Letters with adjustments based on the dollar value (LEDIV) available.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3⁴, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality would have registered a slight expansion in November (0.7%). In the year-on-year comparison, this aggregate would have registered a decline of 5.1% and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at 17.3%, 0.2 p.p. below the record of the previous month.

## 4. Monetary Base

In November, the Monetary Base was located at $4,388.4 billion, registering an average nominal monthly increase of 3.9% ($163,198 million) in the original series. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a contraction of 1.7% and in the last twelve months would have accumulated a decline close to 27%. In terms of GDP the Monetary Base would be located at 4.5%, 0.1 p.p. below the value recorded the previous month and at its minimum value since 2003 (see Graph 4.1).

⁴ Includes cash in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (on demand, fixed-term and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 5

**Graph 4.1 | Monetary Base**
Graph 4.2 | Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
Average monthly

billions of $ of nov-22 | Monetary base s.e., at constant prices | % of GDP | millions of $
11,000 | As a percentage of GDP (right axis) | 12 | 1,200 | Rest*
1,000 | Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
10,000 | 10 | 800 | Public Sector
600 | Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
9,000 | 8 | Monetary base
400
8,000 | 200
6 | 7,000 | 0
4 | 6,000 | -200
-400
5,000 | 2 | -600

-800
4,000 | 0 | jan-22 | mar-22 | may-22 | jul-22 | sep-22 | nov-22
nov-04 | nov-06 | nov-08 | nov-10 | nov-12 | nov-14 | nov-16 | nov-18 | nov-20 | nov-22 | *includes BCRA intervention in the secondary market for public bonds.

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Among the factors of variation in the monetary base, we can mention the expansion due to operations of the public sector (fundamentally due to the reduction of the balance of the National Treasury account at the BCRA) and the BCRA's intervention in the secondary market for public bonds with the objective of stabilizing the peso curve of those bonds. In the same sense, the extension of the Export Increment Program impacted toward the end of the month. Monetary regulation instruments contributed to the expansion of liquidity, due to the increase in demand for monetary base, mainly for monetary circulation. These factors were partially offset by the contractionary effect of the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector (see Graph 4.2).
The BCRA kept its reference interest rates unchanged in November, given the moderation in the rate of price growth in October, the evolution of forward-looking indicators in November, and future inflation prospects. Thus, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQ at 75% n.a. (107.35% e.a.), while the interest rate on 180-day LELIQ remained at 83.5% n.a. (101.23% e.a.). Regarding shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos is at 70% n.a. (101.24% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos is at 95% n.a. (158.25% e.a.). Finally, the fixed spread on NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was set at 8.5 p.p.

With the current instrument configuration, in November remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 68.6% by 28-day LELIQ. Longer-term instruments represented 12.4% of the total, concentrated practically entirely in NOTALIQ. For their part, 1-day passive repos increased their participation in the total of instruments, representing 17.7% of the total (1.5 p.p. more than the previous month). Finally, LEDIV, together with LEGAR, concentrated the remaining 1.3%, with a decline of 0.1 p.p. compared to October (see Chart 4.3).

*Monthly Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.3 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities
Monthly Average

% 1-day Repos 7-day Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ LEGAR LEDIV
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22

*Include repos with FCI.
Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

During November, loans in pesos to the private sector, measured in real terms and without seasonality, would have again registered a decline, on this occasion of 2% monthly. In this way, peso financing to the private sector accumulates five consecutive months of decline, in which the stock was reduced 10.6% in real terms. The decrease occurred practically across all major financing lines, with the exception of advances (see Chart 5.1). Thus, in the last twelve months, credit would have accumulated a decline of 11.3% in real terms. The ratio between loans in pesos to the private sector and current GDP fell 0.2 p.p. in the month and stood at 6.2% (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth In terms of GDP

% %
3 12
2 9
1 6 6.2
0 3
-1 0
-2 -2.0 -3
Loans in pesos to the private sector
-3 Personal Documents -6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
Advances Credit Cards
-4 Pawn Shop Mortgages -9 Ratio to GDP
Remaining Total (monthly var.) -12
-5 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22 Sep-22
Apr-21 Jul-21 Oct-21 Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Lines with primarily commercial destination would have exhibited in the eleventh month of the year a decline of 1.3% monthly s.e. in real terms and in the year-on-year comparison would be located 7.8% below the level of November 2021. Among these financings, advances in current accounts would have grown 3.2% s.e. in real terms (+5.3% y.o.y.). For their part, financing granted through documents would have exhibited a reduction at constant prices of 2.2% s.e. (-8.7% y.o.y.), explained both by documents at single signature (-1.1% monthly; -5% y.o.y.) as well as by discounted documents (-5% monthly; -10.8% y.o.y.).
# Monthly Monetary Report | November of 2022 | BCRA | 7

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of November, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $3,585 billion since its launch, with an increase of 10% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3). For its part, of the total financing granted through the LFIP, 14% corresponded to investment projects and the remainder to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financing granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,056 billion in October (latest available information), which represents about 17.5% of total loans and 41.9% of total commercial loans.

Regarding commercial credit by type of debtor, it is observed that in November, credit to MSMEs in real terms would have contracted on a year-over-year basis at a rate of around 2.8%, while that destined to large companies would have evidenced a contraction of 17.2% y.o.y. (see Chart 5.4).

Chart 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) | Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by Type of Debtor
Accumulated Disbursed Amounts; data at end of month | Y.o.y. Var. at constant prices of the 30-day moving average balance

thousands of | % y.o.y. var.
millions of $ | 100 MSMEs
4,000 | Other Legal Entities
3,585 | 80 Total Investment Projects
3,500 | 60
3,000 | 40
2,500 | 20
2,000 | 0 -2.8
1,500 | -20 -17.2
1,000 | -40
500 | -60
0
nov-20 feb-21 may-21 ago-21 nov-21 feb-22 may-22 ago-22 nov-22 | dic-18 jun-19 dic-19 jun-20 dic-20 jun-21 dic-21 jun-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Among loans associated with consumption, financing implemented with credit cards would have evidenced a decrease in real terms of 2.5% s.e. in November, with the average balance 13.3% below the level from a year ago. Meanwhile, personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 2.1% monthly at constant prices and would be 16.3% below the level of November 2021. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans averaged 79.1% n.a. (115.2% e.a.) in November, with a decrease of 3.8 percentage points compared to the previous month.

With regard to lines with real guarantees, pawn loans would have registered a decrease in real terms of 2.2% s.e., although they remain 8.2% above the figure from a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credit would have shown a decline of 4.7% s.e. in the month at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of 28.3% over the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

In November, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁵ showed an increase of 0.7 percentage points with respect to October, averaging 71.6% of deposits, the highest in the last 20 years. Thus, it remained at historically elevated levels. This increase was driven mainly by remunerated liabilities of the BCRA (with increases in Net Repos and LELIQ, partially offset by NOTALIQ) and by integration with public securities.⁶

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

---

⁵ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.

⁶ [Footnote continues in next section]
Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial
foreign currency from the private sector entities

thousands of % of Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits
25 90 82.0 82.9 82.9 83.2 82.5 82.7 82.8 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3
80.6
Deposits Loans 80

20 70

60
15 15.3 50 62.2 63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5 64.8 64.5 64.2 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9
62.9

10 40

30

5 20
3.6
10 17.8 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 21.9 21.4

0 0
Dec-19 May-20 Oct-20 Mar-21 Aug-21 Jan-22 Jun-22 Nov-22 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

6 Among the regulatory changes, it is worth mentioning that it was established that, as of November 17, financial entities may integrate the requirement of integrable minimum cash with BOTE 2027, with the new "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity November 23, 2027", through Com. "A" 7637.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment registered a decline of 0.9 percentage points with respect to the previous month, reaching 84.3% of November deposits and remaining at historically elevated levels. The decline was explained both by cash in banks and by current accounts in foreign currency (see Chart 7.2).

During October, a series of regulatory modifications took place regarding foreign exchange matters. Thus, seeking to allocate foreign currency more efficiently, certain exceptions were established relating to access to the foreign exchange market, within the framework of the new Import System of the Argentine Republic (SIRA) regulated by the National Government7. Among them, the possibility of accessing the foreign exchange market for up to US$ 50,000 to make advance payments for imports of goods stands out. Additionally, the settlement requirement was flexibilized for collections for the provision of services by residents to non-residents8. For its part, with the objective of increasing the supply of foreign currency through the establishment of incentives for exports, at the end of the month the "Export Increment Program" was re-established, with which soybean exports and byproducts can be settled at a differential exchange rate of $230/US$, exceptionally and temporarily until December 30.
The International Reserves of the BCRA ended November with a balance of US$38,009 million, regis-
tering a decrease of US$667 million compared to the end of October. This decline was explained prin-
cipally by the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector and payments to international organizations, among which the payment of interest to the International Monetary Fund stood out. These effects were partially compensated by gains from valuation of net external assets and the variation of dollar balances in current account at the BCRA (see Graph 7.3)

In the last days of November, operations linked to the Export Increase Program began to be recorded. In effect, between November 28 and the last day of the month, net purchases of foreign currency of US$578 million were recorded within the framework of the program.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 6.6% in November, an increase greater than that of the previous month (see Graph 7.4). In this way, it was located, on average, at $162.1/US$.

Graph 7.3 | Variation of month-end balance of International Graph 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate
Reserves with the United States
Explanatory factors. November 2022

millions of US$ var. % prom.
1,000 monthly
836 7

500 6
303

5
0
-49 4

-500 -311
3
-667 -672
-773 2
-1,000

1
-1,500 0
Total Var. Purchase Intern. Other Pub. Minimum Cash Valuation Exchange Other dec-20 mar-21 jun-21 sep-21 dec-21 mar-22 jun-22 sep-22
of foreign Org. Sect. Rate Change
currency
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

7 Communications "A" 7629, "A" 7638 and "A" 7643.
8 Communication "A" 7630.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 108. Regulatory Summary

Date Norm Description
of issuance

It was provided to grant access to the foreign exchange market for up to the equivalent of US$50,000 to make payments for imports of goods in advance, on sight or deferred before the term provided in the SIRA statement is fulfilled.

In turn, it was established that access can be obtained before the term provided in the SIRA statement when it comes to deferred payments for imports of goods that correspond to the tariff positions according to the Common Nomenclature of MERCOSUR, to the extent that the inventories
3-nov-22 Com. "A" 7629 of raw materials and/or intermediate or final goods elaborated from these do not exceed the levels required for their normal activity and that, in case both he and his economic group have been called to a price agreement by the National Government, they have not rejected participating in such agreements nor have they failed to comply with what was agreed in case of having a current program. They can also access before the term provided when it comes to payments for imports of goods made by the national public sector, all business organizations in which the National State has majority participation in capital or in the formation of corporate decisions and trusts constituted with contributions from the national public sector.

With effectiveness as of November 4, 2022, the requirement for settlement in the foreign exchange market was exempted, to the extent that they are entered within the established regulatory periods, for collections for: 1) consumptions made by non-residents through debit, credit,
3-nov-22 Com. "A" 7630 purchase or prepaid cards issued abroad; 2) any type of tourist service in the country contracted by non-residents, including those contracted through wholesale and/or retail travel and tourism agencies in the country; and 3) passenger transport services of non-residents with destination in the country.
Effective as of November 17, 2022, it was established that the requirement for minimum cash that financial entities can integrate with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity May 23, 2027" may also be integrated, under the same conditions and effects in force, with "National Treasury Bonds in pesos maturity November 23, 2027".

It was established that entities may grant access to the foreign exchange market to make payments for imports of goods associated with a SIRA declaration before the term provided for in such declaration, if it is a payment with pending customs registration for an operation for which a SIRA or SIMI declaration is not required, or if the client accesses the foreign exchange market simultaneously with the settlement of funds as advances or pre-financing of exports from abroad or pre-financing of exports granted by local financial entities with funding from foreign credit lines, to the extent that the conditions detailed in the regulations are met.

Furthermore, the validity of certain regulations related to access to the foreign exchange market for payment of imports was extended to January 1, 2023.

It was established that entities may grant access to the foreign exchange market to make payments for imports of goods associated with a SIRA declaration before the term provided for in such declaration, if it is a payment for goods framed within the Import Regime for Inputs Intended for Scientific-Technological Research of Law 25.613 that is completed before the minimum required access date, to the extent that the conditions detailed in the regulations are met. For its part, in the case that operations that do not require SIRA or SIMI declarations must be financed, the minimum required term may be considered fulfilled when the maturity date of the financing granted is equal to or later than the estimated date of arrival of the goods to the country plus 15 calendar days.

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 119. Monetary and financial indicators
# FIGURES IN MILLIONS, EXPRESSED IN THE CURRENCY OF ORIGIN. PROVISIONAL FIGURES AND SUBJECT TO REVISION.

Monthly Averages | Average Percentage Variations from Nov-22 | % of GDP
 
Principal monetary variables linked to the BCRA | monthly | accumulated 2022 | interannual
| nov-22 | oct-22 | sep-22 | dec-21 | nov-21 | nov-22 | dec-21
| Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real

**Monetary Base** | 4,388,339 | 4,225,141 | 4,179,909 | 3,394,480 | 3,148,096 | 3.9% | -1.7% | 29.3% | -24.8% | 39.4% | -26.7% | 4.5% | 6.0%

**Monetary Circulation** | 3,348,968 | 3,240,179 | 3,171,405 | 2,504,731 | 2,293,738 | 3.4% | -0.2% | 33.7% | -23.5% | 46.0% | -23.2% | 3.4% | 4.5%

**Cash in hands of the public** | 3,021,168 | 2,911,774 | 2,856,141 | 2,230,702 | 2,058,046 | 3.8% | 0.3% | 35.4% | -22.1% | 46.8% | -22.8% | 3.1% | 4.0%

**Cash in financial entities** | 327,800 | 328,405 | 315,264 | 274,029 | 235,693 | -0.2% | -5.2% | 19.6% | -34.3% | 39.1% | -26.9% | 0.3% | 0.5%

**Current account at the BCRA** | 1,039,372 | 984,962 | 1,008,504 | 889,749 | 854,357 | 5.5% | 0.2% | 16.8% | -35.9% | 21.7% | -36.0% | 1.0% | 1.6%

**Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN $)** | 9,110,754 | 8,653,499 | 7,853,743 | 4,506,696 | 4,368,504 | 5.3% | 0.0% | 102.2% | 11.0% | 108.6% | 9.7% | 9.1% | 4.5%

**Passive Repos** | 1,636,090 | 1,428,092 | 1,398,559 | 2,366,670 | 2,250,137 | 14.6% | 8.8% | -30.9% | -62.0% | -27.3% | -61.8% | 1.6% | 2.4%

**1 day** | 1,636,090 | 1,428,092 | 1,398,559 | 110,546 | 93,249 | 14.6% | 8.8% | 1380.0% | 712.7% | 1654.5% | 822.7% | 1.6% | 0.1%

**7 days** | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2,256,124 | 2,156,889 | 0.0% | -5.1% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 2.3%

**Stock of LELIQ** | 6,336,682 | 6,035,569 | 5,289,805 | 2,140,026 | 2,118,366 | 5.0% | -0.3% | 196.1% | 62.6% | 199.1% | 57.3% | 6.4% | 2.1%

**Stock of LELIQ at 28 days** | 6,332,127 | 6,031,014 | 5,285,251 | 2,140,026 | 2,118,366 | 5.0% | -0.3% | 195.9% | 62.5% | 198.9% | 57.2% | 6.3% | 2.1%

**Stock of LELIQ at 180 days** | 4,555 | 4,555 | 4,555 | - | - | 0.0% | -5.1% | - | - | - | - | 0.0% | -

**Stock of NOTALIQ** | 1,137,983 | 1,189,838 | 1,165,378 | - | - | -4.4% | -9.2% | - | - | - | - | 1.1% | -

**International Reserves of the BCRA in dollars** | 37,897 | 38,710 | 37,174 | 40,584 | 42,464 | -2.1% | - | -6.6% | - | -10.8% | - | 6.2% | 7.6%

---

| | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2022 | Interannual |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Variation Factors - Average Monthly** | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |

**Monetary Base** | 163,198 | 3.9% | 101,073 | 2.4% | 993,859 | 29.3% | 1,240,243 | 39.4%

**Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others** | -154,995 | -3.7% | 972,658 | 22.7% | 933,082 | 27.5% | 859,964 | 27.3%

**Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury** | -27,452 | -0.6% | -362,910 | -8.5% | -435,351 | -12.8% | -435,351 | -13.8%

**Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to the National Gov.** | 0 | 0.0% | -2,258 | -0.1% | 1,013,351 | 29.9% | 1,373,051 | 43.6%

**Other public sector operations** | 113,797 | 2.7% | 44,237 | 1.0% | -124,897 | -3.7% | -114,829 | -3.6%

**Monetary regulation instruments** | 57,584 | 1.4% | -682,368 | -15.9% | -1,651,051 | -48.6% | -1,654,936 | -52.6%

**Others** | 174,264 | 4.1% | 131,715 | 3.1% | 1,258,726 | 37.1% | 1,212,344 | 38.5%

**International Reserves of the BCRA** | -813 | -2.1% | 781 | 2.1% | -2,687 | -6.6% | -4,567 | -10.8%

**Purchase of foreign currency** | -1,004 | -2.6% | 3,872 | 10.4% | 3,647 | 9.0% | 2,924 | 6.9%

**International organisms** | -79 | -0.2% | -1,818 | -4.9% | -526 | -1.3% | -1,275 | -3.0%

**Other public sector operations** | -89 | -0.2% | 134 | 0.4% | -1,163 | -2.9% | -284 | -0.7%

**Minimum cash** | 294 | 0.8% | -167 | -0.4% | 50 | 0.1% | -408 | -1.0%

**Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation)** | 65 | 0.2% | -1,240 | -3.3% | -4,696 | -11.6% | -5,524 | -13.0%

---

**Note:** The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the principal variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash nov-22 oct-22 sep-22
 Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Net requirement of deductions 19.4 18.7 20.5
 Integration in current accounts 6.1 6.0 6.6
 Integration LELIQ 30.6 31.5 30.2
 Integration BOTE 2027 3.2 3.3 3.3
 Integration Rest of Public Securities 7.1 6.7 6.1
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 62.9 63.3 64.2
 Position (1) 38.9 39.3 40.2

 (1) Position = Integration - Requirement
 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 12 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.
 Monthly averages Percentage variations average of nov-22 % of GDP 4

 Main monetary variables and financial system Accumulated in 2022 Year-on-year
 nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21 nov-22 dic-21
 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
 Segment in domestic currency
 Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 116.961.265 16.225.836 15.077.964 9.585.924 9.061.480 4.5% -0.1% 76.9% -0.8% 87.2% -1.6% 17.3% 17.5%

 Deposits of the private sector 13.801.816 13.083.663 12.257.092 7.725.433 7.267.708 5.5% 0.9% 78.7% 0.7% 89.9% -0.1% 14.1% 14.1%
 Sight deposits of the private sector 6.268.691 6.015.834 5.799.449 4.094.910 3.729.875 4.2% -2.1% 53.1% -10.9% 68.1% -11.6% 6.3% 7.1%
 Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 4.575.049 4.409.610 4.226.955 3.283.152 2.944.035 3.8% -2.9% 39.3% -17.6% 55.4% -18.3% 4.6% 5.6%
 Remunerated 1.693.642 1.606.224 1.572.494 811.758 785.840 5.4% 0.1% 108.6% 14.6% 115.5% 13.3% 1.7% 1.5%
 Agricultural deposits 109 116 19 0 0 -5.8% -8.4% 0.0%
 Time deposits and others of the private sector 7.533.125 7.067.829 6.457.643 3.630.523 3.537.833 6.6% 3.5% 107.5% 12.4% 112.9% 12.0% 7.8% 7.0%
 Time deposits 7.322.596 6.868.625 6.272.288 3.482.489 3.410.967 6.6% 3.6% 110.3% 13.8% 114.7% 12.9% 7.6% 6.7%
 Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange rate 6.911.315 6.450.778 5.842.401 3.299.094 3.236.794 7.1% 4.1% 109.5% 13.4% 113.5% 12.3% 7.2% 6.4%
 Adjustable by CER/UVA 369.104 375.083 390.789 159.676 153.884 -1.6% -4.3% 131.2% 25.1% 139.9% 26.1% 0.4% 0.3%
 Traditional 168.217 180.008 195.553 102.705 100.543 -6.6% -9.2% 63.8% -11.4% 67.3% -12.0% 0.2% 0.2%
 Precancellable 200.888 195.075 195.236 56.970 53.341 3.0% 0.1% 252.6% 90.8% 276.6% 98.0% 0.2% 0.1%
 DIVA 42.176 42.763 39.098 23.719 20.289 -1.4% -4.1% 77.8% -3.8% 107.9% 9.3% 0.0% 0.0%
 Other deposits 210.529 199.205 185.355 148.035 126.866 5.7% 0.3% 42.2% -21.9% 65.9% -12.7% 0.2% 0.3%
 Deposits of the public sector 3.159.449 3.142.173 2.820.872 1.860.491 1.793.772 0.5% -4.5% 69.8% -6.7% 76.1% -7.4% 3.2% 3.4%

 Monetary Aggregates
 M2 Total 10.403.297 10.172.804 9.701.442 7.120.815 6.498.411 2.3% -3.0% 46.1% -15.4% 60.1% -15.8% 10.6% 12.5%
 M3 Total 20.103.644 19.253.693 18.057.056 11.905.669 11.215.033 4.4% -0.6% 68.9% -4.7% 79.3% -5.7% 20.3% 21.4%
 Private Monetary Aggregates
 M2 private 9.289.859 8.927.608 8.655.590 6.325.612 5.787.921 4.1% -1.4% 46.9% -15.4% 60.5% -15.6% 9.4% 11.2%
 M2 private transactional 3 7.596.217 7.321.384 7.083.096 5.513.854 5.002.081 3.8% -1.6% 37.8% -19.5% 51.9% -20.1% 7.7% 9.6%
# M3 private 16,822,983 15,995,438 15,113,233 9,956,135 9,325,754 5.2% 0.7% 69.0% -4.1% 80.4% -5.1% 17.3% 18.1%

Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 6,411,575 6,090,582 5,887,940 4,058,133 3,811,700 5.3% -2.1% 58.0% -13.2% 68.2% -11.5% 6.3% 7.2%

Loans to the private non-financial sector 6,347,164 6,023,077 5,823,871 4,003,444 3,763,931 5.4% -2.0% 58.5% -12.9% 68.6% -11.3% 6.2% 7.1%

Advances 737,226 660,872 625,122 392,585 368,292 11.6% 3.2% 87.8% 2.1% 100.2% 5.3% 0.7% 0.7%

Documents 1,626,488 1,547,729 1,509,230 1,010,395 936,762 5.1% -2.2% 61.0% -11.8% 73.6% -8.7% 1.6% 1.8%

Mortgage 366,310 364,942 360,617 280,283 268,694 0.4% -4.7% 30.7% -27.8% 36.3% -28.3% 0.4% 0.5%

Pledge 439,325 422,261 408,243 229,234 213,566 4.0% -2.2% 91.6% 3.7% 105.7% 8.2% 0.4% 0.4%

Personal 1,012,601 971,352 932,568 665,885 636,455 4.2% -2.1% 52.1% -16.3% 59.1% -16.3% 1.0% 1.2%

Credit Cards 1,855,399 1,747,030 1,686,822 1,198,243 1,125,049 6.2% -2.5% 54.8% -12.5% 64.9% -13.3% 1.8% 2.1%

Others 309,814 308,890 301,269 226,818 215,113 0.3% -6.3% 36.6% -23.6% 44.0% -24.3% 0.3% 0.4%

Loans to the public non-financial sector 64,411 67,506 64,069 54,689 47,770 -4.6% -9.4% 17.8% -35.3% 34.8% -29.1% 0.1% 0.1%

Segment in Foreign Currency 1

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 18,091 17,523 17,454 18,237 18,752 3.2% - -0.8% - -3.5% - 3.0% 3.5%

Deposits of the private non-financial sector in dollars 15,208 14,983 14,823 15,255 15,895 1.5% - -0.3% - -4.3% - 2.5% 2.8%

On demand 11,468 11,254 11,074 11,233 11,779 1.9% - 2.1% - -2.6% - 1.9% 2.1%

Time deposits and others 3,740 3,729 3,749 4,022 4,116 0.3% - -7.0% - -9.1% - 0.6% 0.8%

Deposits of the public non-financial sector in dollars 2,883 2,541 2,631 2,982 2,857 13.5% - -3.3% - 0.9% - 0.5% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,704 3,696 3,710 4,268 4,576 0.2% - -13.2% - -19.1% - 0.6% 0.8%

Loans to the private non-financial sector in dollars 3,561 3,586 3,592 4,127 4,435 -0.7% - -13.7% - -19.7% - 0.6% 0.8%

Documents 2,295 2,296 2,345 2,729 2,984 0.0% - -15.9% - -23.1% - 0.4% 0.5%

Credit Cards 199 250 261 137 138 -20.2% - 45.9% - 44.7% - 0.0% 0.0%

Other 1,067 1,040 987 1,261 1,313 2.5% - -15.4% - -18.8% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the public non-financial sector in dollars 143 111 118 141 141 29.3% - 1.3% - 1.3% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include financial sector nor residents abroad. The loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to M2 private the remunerated on-demand deposits.
4 It is calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and the seasonally adjusted GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 13 Rates in percentage nominal annual (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments nov-22 TEA nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21

BCRA Repo Rates

Liabilities 1 day 70.00 101.24 70.00 67.25 32.00 32.00

Assets 1 day 95.00 158.25 95.00 91.50 42.70 42.70

LELIQ Rate at 28 days 75.00 107.35 75.00 72.25 38.00 38.00

LELIQ Rate at 180 days 83.50 101.23 83.50 79.75

Interest Rates of the Interbank Market nov-22 TEA nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21
Rates of passes between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day 69.01 99.26 70.70 64.62 30.98 29.67
 Amount operated of passes between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 9.942 19.455 6.393 4.489 2.959
 Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
 Rate 65.64 92.67 66.10 63.85 30.46 30.94
 Amount operated 25.400 30.297 24.289 19.687 18.211
 Passive Interest Rates nov-22 TEA nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21
 Sight Deposits
 Remunerated 57.51 75.40 56.11 52.88 28.87 29.11
 Fixed Term
 Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 1 74.66 106.39 74.65 71.98 36.29 36.30
 TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 65.80 89.81 65.81 63.66 33.25 33.26
 TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 66.49 91.05 66.48 64.30 33.98 33.95
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 68.52 94.77 68.38 65.97 33.34 33.37
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 69.31 96.22 69.19 66.84 34.20 34.17
 Early repayment rate of deposits in UVA 71.00 99.38 71.00 68.25 30.50 30.50
 Active Interest Rates nov-22 TEA nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21
 Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos
 Overdrafts on current account 74.50 110.49 72.45 68.28 40.47 41.08
 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 millions 73.92 108.33 72.37 69.63 35.36 35.19
 Documents at sole signature 61.22 81.71 61.09 58.98 34.78 34.65
 Mortgage loans 56.50 73.72 60.85 49.10 29.71 28.78
 Pledge loans 48.91 61.54 50.30 48.64 28.80 27.80
 Personal loans 79.13 115.24 82.93 78.30 53.00 51.81
 Credit cards 77.12 111.22 68.77 58.50 42.87 43.03
 Interest rates of the segment in foreign currency nov-22 TEA nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21
 Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.33 0.33 0.34 0.34 0.37 0.37
 Documents at sole signature in dollars 4.26 4.34 4.55 4.95 5.97 3.40
 Exchange Rate nov-22 Monthly Var. (%) oct-22 sep-22 dic-21 nov-21
 TCN peso/dollar
 Wholesale (Com. "A" 3.500) 162.10 6.61 152.05 143.13 101.88 100.33
 Retail 2 164.85 6.60 154.64 145.69 104.27 102.68
 TCN peso/real 30.74 6.25 28.93 27.33 18.01 18.07
 TCN peso/euro 161.68 8.05 149.64 141.71 115.14 114.45
 ITCNM 1.032.70 7.80 958.02 911.76 672.89 668.80
 ITCRM 90.33 1.96 88.60 89.57 102.57 104.69

 1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, at the financial entity exceed one million pesos.
 The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total of fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed one million pesos.
 2 The Reference Retail Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates bought and sold noted by the adhered entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

 Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 14 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.

**AFIP:** Federal Administration of Public Revenue.

**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.

**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.

**CC BCRA:** Deposits in current account at the BCRA.

**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.

**CNV:** National Securities Commission.

**DEG:** Special Drawing Rights.

**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.

**EM:** Minimum Cash.

**FCI:** Investment Fund.

**i.a.:** year-on-year.

**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.

**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.

**ITCNM:** Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.

**ITCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.

**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.

**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.

**LFIP:** Productive Investment Financing Line.

**M2 Total:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M2 Private Transactional:** Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**M3 Total:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.

**M3 Private:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation, cancellation checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.

**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Securities Market.

**MM:** Money Market.

**n.a.:** nominal annual.

**e.a.:** annual effective.

**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.

**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.

**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.

**P.B.:** Basis Points.

**PSP:** Payment Service Provider.

**p.p.:** Percentage Points.

**Mi PyMEs:** Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.

**s.e.:** seasonally unadjusted.

**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.

**SIMPES:** Integral System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

**Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 15**

**TCN:** Nominal Exchange Rate.

**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.

**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.

**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.

**UVA:** Purchasing Power Unit.

**Monthly Monetary Report | November 2022 | BCRA | 16**
