# Monthly Monetary Report
December 2022

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Page 6 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Page 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Page 8 | 7. Foreign Currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Page 12 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was January 6, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monthly Monetary Report – BCRA.

## Regarding the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Base Monetary | M2 Priv. transactional | Fixed-term Deposits S. Priv. | Fixed-term Deposits UVA S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| | -1.7% | 2.5% | 1.4% | -5.2% | 1.9% |

| Loans to S. Priv. | Fixed-term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector | monthly var. real s.e. |
|---|---|---|
| thousands of millions of $ of Dec-22 | Fixed-term priv. s.e., at constant prices | % of GDP 0.0% |

8,500
8,000
7,500
7,000
6,500
6,000
5,500
5,000
4,500
4,000
3,500

12
10
8
6
4
2
0

LELIQ Rate 28 days
nominal annual
75.0%

Passive Repo Rate 1d
nominal annual

70.0%

International Reserves
millions of US$; end of month
Dec-22
44,597

dec-03 feb-07 apr-10 jun-13 aug-16 oct-19 dec-22

Source: BCRA.

The broad monetary aggregate (private M3) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered an increase in the last month of the year. At the component level, means of payment showed an increase, unlike what occurred during almost all of the year, and fixed-term deposits continued to grow. Thus, the latter would have marked at constant prices a new historical maximum and in a similar record to the pandemic maximum in terms of Product.

The growth of fixed-term placements occurred in an environment of positive real rates. During December the minimum interest rates on deposits remained at 75% n.a. (107.05% e.a.) for placements by natural persons up to an amount of $10 million and at 66.5% n.a. (91.07% e.a.) for the rest of the depositors of the financial system.

On November 28, the "Exporter Increment Program" was reopened, which allowed the soy complex to liquidate foreign currency at an exceptional and temporary value of $230/US$ until December 30. The BCRA acquired US$ 3,155 million through this mechanism and, together with the rest of the private sector's foreign exchange operations, left a net balance of US$ 2,330 million in the month. These operations implied a liquidity expansion that was sterilized with remunerated liabilities.

Finally, loans to the private sector at constant prices and without seasonality would have remained unchanged in the month, after 5 consecutive months of contraction. In this way they would have ended the year with an annual decline of approximately 12%.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
Means of payment (M2 private transactional¹) at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.) would have registered in December an expansion of 2.5%, thereby reversing the downward trend observed practically throughout the entire year (see Chart 2.1). At the level of its components, the increase was explained by the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits and, to a lesser extent, by the expansion of currency in circulation held by the public. In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned 16.4% below the level of December 2021. In terms of Product, means of payment would have been located at 7.9%, closing the year at a record slightly higher than that of the previous months (see Chart 2.2). Both components of means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 20 years.

Chart 2.1 | M2 private transactional at constant prices
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e.

Chart 2.2 | M2 private transactional
% of GDP M2 private transactional
Non-remunerated demand deposits
Transactional demand deposits Currency in circulation held by the public
Currency in circulation held by the public M2 private transactional (%)
[Values range from -6 to 4 p.p. on left axis, 2 to 16% on right axis]
7.9
4.8
3.2
Dec-21 Mar-22 Jun-22 Sep-22 Dec-22 | Dec-04 Dec-06 Dec-08 Dec-10 Dec-12 Dec-14 Dec-16 Dec-18 Dec-20 Dec-22

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The BCRA's Board of Directors decided to maintain for the third consecutive month without changes the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits in December². This decision was made taking into account the deceleration in the rate of price growth in November, the advanced data from December and short-term perspectives. Thus, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements of natural persons up to an amount of $10 million was maintained at 75% n.a. (107.05% e.a.), while for the rest of the depositors of the financial system the interest rate was located at 66.5% n.a. (91.07% e.a.)³.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector would have registered in December a monthly expansion at constant prices of 1.4% s.e., moderating its growth rate compared to the previous months. As a result of this, in the last month of the year they marked a new all-time high at constant prices and in percentage of GDP would be located at 7.7%, which is a record similar to the maximum reached during the pandemic.

¹ Corresponds to M2 private excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² The interest rates currently in force are those established through communication "A" 7527.
³ The rest of the depositors is made up of Legal Persons and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 3

Breaking down by amount bracket, it is verified that growth for the month concentrated in segments of more than $1 million; being, in particular, the most dynamic one of $1 to $20 million (see Chart 3.1). The average monthly growth of deposits of more than $20 million was explained in part by the carryover effect from the previous month. Analyzing the daily evolution of this type of placements, it is verified that the holdings of traditional fixed-term deposits from Financial Service Providers (FSP) ended the month at a level similar to the end of November and those of the rest of companies registered a decline. Meanwhile, investments with early cancellation option (which cannot be classified by type of holder) reversed their downward trend (see Chart 3.2). Finally, deposits of less than $1 million showed a slight decline in real terms and without seasonality.
**Chart 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits of the private sector | Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits of more than $20 million**
Contribution by amount stratum to monthly var. at constant Balance at constant prices by type of depositor
prices and without seasonality and instrument. Original series

p.p. billions Tradicional Financial Services Providers billions
of $ as of 31-Dec-22 of $ as of 31-Dec-22
6 Less than $1 million Investments with early cancellation option
From $1 million to $20 millions 1,300 Tradicional Other Legal Entities (right axis) 2,000
5 More than $20 millions 1,200 1,900

4 1,100 1,800

3 1,000 1,700

900 1,600
2 1.4 800 1,500

1 700 1,400

0 600 1,300

-1 500 1,200

400 1,100
-2 300 1,000
jan-22 feb-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 ago-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dec-22 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 ago-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dec-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

In a context of moderation in the inflation rate, the segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER exhibited a new contraction in real terms, accumulating 5 consecutive months of declines. On this occasion the decrease was verified both in placements in traditional UVA as well as in pre-cancelable ones, whose monthly rates of variation were located at -9.5% s.e. and -1.6% s.e. at constant prices respectively (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder within the instruments with CER adjustment it is verified that the average monthly decline was explained almost entirely by the dynamics of placements of natural persons and companies (excluding PSF; see Chart 3.4). In any case, UVA deposits ended the year with a balance of $352,700 million, which represented approximately 4.4% of the total of the instruments at term denominated in domestic currency.

**Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private s. | Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private s.**
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument Balance at constant prices by type of holder

billions billions
of $ of 31-Dec-22 of $ of 31-Dec-22
280 450
260 Natural persons
240 400 Financial Services Providers
220 350 Other Legal Entities
200 202.0 338
180 300
160 250
140 150.7
120 200
100 150
80
60 Traditional UVA Fixed Term 100
40 Pre-cancelable UVA Fixed Term 50 51
20
0 0 2
jan-21 apr-21 jul-21 oct-21 jan-22 apr-22 jul-22 oct-22 jan-21 may-21 sep-21 jan-22 may-22 sep-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 4

On the other hand, deposits with adjustment based on the value of the reference exchange rate registered an increase in the last month of the year, although with heterogeneous behavior at the level of its components. Currently, the agricultural sector has at its disposal two different types of deposits with exchange rate coverage: a sight account, commonly known as "farmer deposits" and term investments, called dollar DIVA. The first type of deposit registered a variation at end of month of 37.4% at current prices, reaching a balance of $146,100 million at the end of December. It should be noted that the origin of these funds were operations carried out under the "Exporter Increase Program". Meanwhile, dollar DIVA reached at the end of the month a balance of $42,500 million, which implied an average monthly contraction of 2.0% at current prices. To cover the exchange rate risk of these deposits, financial entities have at their disposal Letters with adjustment based on the value of the dollar (LEDIV).
With everything considered, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality,
would have registered an expansion in December (1.9%), accumulating 4 consecutive months of positive variations⁴. In
year-on-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced a decline of 1.7% and as a percentage of GDP would have been
located at 17.7%, 0.3 p.p. above the previous month's figure and at a level similar to the 2010-19 average.

4. Monetary Base

In December, the Monetary Base was located on average at $4,781.9 billion, which implied a monthly increase of 9%
($393,590 million) in the original series at current prices. It should be noted that the Monetary Base presents positive
seasonality in December, so if we correct for this effect it would have exhibited a monthly contraction of 1.7% s.e. at
constant prices. In 2022 it would accumulate a decline close to 26% in real terms. As a ratio of GDP the Monetary Base
would be located at 4.4%, 0.1 p.p. below the value recorded the previous month and at its minimum value since the exit
from convertibility (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base Chart 4.2 | Explanatory factors of the Monetary Base
Monthly average

billions of $ thousands of December-22 % of GDP millions of $
11,000 As a percentage of GDP (right axis) 12 1,200 Rest*
10,000 10 Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
1,000 Public Sector
9,000 8 800 Purchase of foreign exchange from the private sector
Monetary base
8,000 6 600
7,000 4 400
6,000 2 200
5,000 0 0
4,000 -2 -200
-400
dic-04 dic-06 dic-08 dic-10 dic-12 dic-14 dic-16 dic-18 dic-20 dic-22 ene-22 feb-22 mar-22 abr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 ago-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dic-22
-600
-800

*includes the BCRA's intervention in the secondary market for securities.
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the average monthly growth of the base was explained mostly by net purchases of foreign exchange
from the private sector that drove the reopening of the "Export Increase Program". These funds were channeled in large
part to Money Market Investment Funds (FCI MM)⁵, which resulted in an increase in remunerated deposits. Other factors
of monetary base expansion were the BCRA's purchases in the secondary market for public securities, with the objective
of limiting excessive price volatility, and operations of the public sector⁶. The expansion of liquidity was partially sterilized
through monetary regulation instruments (see Chart 4.2).

The BCRA kept its reference interest rates unchanged in December considering the deceleration of the inflation rate in
November, the evolution of the leading indicators in December and future inflation prospects. In this way, the real interest
rate of monetary policy is in positive territory, which contributes to consolidating financial and exchange rate stability. The
interest rate on 28-day LELIQ stood at 75% n.a. (107.35% a.a.), while the interest rate on 180-day LELIQ continued at
83.5% n.a. (101.23% a.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos is at 70% n.a. (101.24%
a.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos stands at 95% n.a. (158.25% a.a.). Finally, the spread on NOTALIQ in
the last auction of the month was set at 8.5 p.p.
With the current instrument configuration, in the last month of the year remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 67.6% by LELIQ at 28-day terms. Longer-term securities represented 11.1% of the total, concentrated practically entirely in NOTALIQ. Meanwhile, 1-day reverse repos increased their participation in the total of instruments, representing almost 20% of the total (2.2 p.p. more than the previous month). Finally, LEDIV, together with LEGAR, concentrated the remaining 1.3%, remaining stable compared to November (see Chart 4.3).

Chart 4.3 | Composition of Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
Monthly Average

% 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ | LEGAR | LEDIV

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

*Include repos with FCI.
Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

During the last month of the year, loans in pesos to the private sector would have remained unchanged measured in real terms and without seasonality, after 5 consecutive months of decline, with heterogeneous behavior among loan lines (see Chart 5.1). Thus, throughout 2022 credit would have accumulated a decline of 12.0% in real terms and would have been positioned at 6.3% in terms of GDP (see Chart 5.2).

6 Within public sector operations, the purchase of SDRs from the National Treasury stands out.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 6 

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Average monthly variation; Real without seasonality

Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
In terms of GDP

%
6 Monthly Var.
5 Y.o.y. Var. (right axis)
4
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
-4
-5
-6
-7
-8
Dec-19 Jun-20 Dec-20 Jun-21 Dec-21 Jun-22 Dec-22

%
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
-60
-70
-80

%
12
9
6.3
6
3
0
-3
-6
-9
-12

Loans in pesos to the private sector
GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
Ratio to GDP

Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22 Sep-22

Source: BCRA.
Source: BCRA.

When observing the evolution of loans by type of financing, lines with primarily commercial destination showed the best relative performance with a monthly decline of only 0.3% s.e. at constant prices, closing 2022 with a contraction of 9% y.o.y. Among these financings, discounted documents (1.6% s.e.; -9.4% y.o.y.) and overdrafts on current account (0.5% s.e.; 4.7% y.o.y.) stood out in real terms. Meanwhile, financing granted through promissory notes would have exhibited a decrease at constant prices of 0.8% s.e. (-9.4% y.o.y.).

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of December, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $3,890 billion since its launch, with an increase of 8.5% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3). Meanwhile, of the total financing granted through the LFIP, 14% corresponds to investment projects and the rest to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financing granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,212 billion in November (latest available information). The line represents approximately 19% of total loans and 45% of total commercial loans.

Chart 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP)
Cumulative Disbursed Amounts; data at end of month

Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor
Y.o.y. Var. at constant prices of the 30-day moving average balance

thousands of millions of $
4,500
4,000 3,890
3,500
3,000
2,500

var. % y.o.y.
100 MSMEs
80 Other Legal Entities
60 Total Investment Projects
40
20
2,000 0
1,500 -6.7
-20 -14.8
1,000
548 -40
500
0 -60
nov-20 feb-21 may-21 ago-21 nov-21 feb-22 may-22 ago-22 nov-22 dic-18 jun-19 dic-19 jun-20 dic-20 jun-21 dic-21 jun-22 dic-22

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Regarding commercial credit by type of borrower, it is observed that credit to SMEs in real terms would have accumulated a decline of 6.7% over the year, while that destined to large companies would have shown a contraction of 14.8% (see Graph 5.4).

Among loans associated with consumption, financing arrangements made with credit cards would have decreased in real terms 1.0% s.e. in December, with a decline of 12.5% over 2022. Likewise, personal loans would have exhibited a monthly decline of 1.6% at constant prices and would be 17.1% below the December 2021 level. The interest rate corresponding to personal loans averaged 81.7% n.a. in December (120.5% e.a.), with an increase of 2.5 p.p. with respect to the previous month.

With respect to lines with real collateral, chattel mortgage loans would have registered a slight increase in real terms (0.1% s.e.) and would position themselves 5.4% above the record from a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown a decline of 3.6% s.e. at constant prices in the month, accumulating a contraction of 30.1% over the year.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In December, broad banking liquidity in local currency7 showed an increase of 1.5 p.p. with respect to November, averaging 73.4% of deposits. Thus, it reached a maximum level since the end of convertibility. The increase was driven again by remunerated liabilities of the BCRA (with increases in net repos and LELIQ, partially offset by NOTALIQ) and by integration with public securities (including the new BOTE 2027).

Among regulatory changes with an impact on banking liquidity, it should be mentioned that the validity of the minimum cash deduction associated with cash withdrawals at automatic teller machines located in localities included in categories II to VI as established in the regulations on "Categorization of localities for financial entities"8 was extended until June 2023.

Graph 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial
entities

Net Repos LELIQ - Rest
% of NOTALIQ Integration in LELIQ
deposits CC BCRA $ BOTE 2022 - 2027
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity 69.7 71.0 71.9 73.4
70 66.3 66.3 65.8 65.3 66.3 67.1 66.6 68.9 68.1 2.0 1.9 2.2
2.3 2.2 2.3 2.1 7.1 7.8
2.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 5.2 5.6 6.1 6.7
60 4.0 3.9 4.0 4.6 5.9 6.1 5.4 3.6 3.3 3.3 3.4 3.7
3.8 3.6 3.6 3.8 3.6 3.7 3.5 6.1 5.5
3.6 7.4 7.4 6.6 6.0 2.2
50 9.2 9.8 10.4 9.3 8.5 8.1 7.6 4.6 3.1 2.8
5.0 5.2 7.3 6.7 6.0
5.8 5.5 4.5 4.4 5.1 7.7
40 6.1 5.6 6.0 7.5 8.5
0.6 3.3 5.0 6.3

16.3
30 22.6 35.0
29.6 30.1 33.9 34.3
30.1 31.1 31.8 31.2 30.4 28.9
20
10 24.4
18.2
9.0 6.1 7.5 6.6 9.2 8.7 9.6 10.9
5.1 4.8 5.0
0
dic-21 ene-22 feb-22 mar-22 abr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 ago-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dic-22

Source: BCRA.

7. Foreign currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities had a disparate performance. On one hand, the balance of private sector deposits increased for the fourth consecutive month, averaging US$15,684 million in the month, which implied an increase of US$475 million with respect to November. The same was explained fundamentally by sight deposits

7 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and public bonds eligible to integrate reserve requirements.
8 Communication "A" 7661
# Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 8

of natural persons, which tend to rise at this time of year given the exemption from the payment of personal property tax on this type of placements. On the other hand, the average monthly balance of loans to the private sector in foreign currency was US$ 3,488 million, which implied a decline of US$ 74 million compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in Chart 7.2 | Foreign currency liquidity of financial
foreign currency of the private sector entities

thousands of % of Effective in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits
25 90 82.9 82.9 83.2 82.7 82.8 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.8
82.0 82.5
Deposits Loans 80

20 70

16.3 60
15 63.5 63.6 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5
50 62.2 64.1 63.5 64.8 64.5 64.2

10 40

30

5 20
3.5
10 19.9 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 21.9 21.4 22.3

0 0
Dec-19 May-20 Oct-20 Mar-21 Aug-21 Jan-22 Jun-22 Nov-22 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced an increase of 0.5 p.p. with respect to the previous month, standing at 84.8% of December deposits and maintaining historically high levels. The increase was explained by effective cash in banks, partially offset by a decline in foreign currency current accounts (see Chart 7.2).

During December, a series of regulatory modifications took place regarding exchange matters. Thus, seeking to allocate foreign currency more efficiently, access to the foreign exchange market was made more flexible for the payment of imports of a new set of goods related to health care⁹. For its part, with the objective of increasing the supply of foreign currency, the amount limit of financing admitted in pesos and/or in foreign currency to "Large exporting companies"¹⁰ was increased and the period was set at 180 consecutive days to enter and liquidate advances, pre-financing and post-financing from abroad when the transfer of foreign currency has entered the correspondent account of the local entity from November 28, 2022 and until December 30¹¹. Finally, with the objective of promoting the development of certain productive sectors, the obligation to liquidate exports of goods and services corresponding to activities of the knowledge economy was made more flexible¹².

The BCRA's International Reserves ended the year with a balance of US$ 44,597 million, registering an increase of US$ 6,588 million in December. This increase was driven mainly by the disbursement of US$ 6,021 million from the International Monetary Fund made within the framework of the Extended Facilities Program (PFE), which was partially offset by capital payments to said organization for US$ 2,717 million. In turn, since its reopening on November 28, the Export Increase Program allowed the BCRA to acquire foreign currency for US$ 3,155 million and, together with the rest of the private sector's exchange operations, left a net balance of US$ 2,330 million. Also contributing positively were gains from valuation of net external assets and the variation of dollar balances in current account at the BCRA (see Chart 7.3).

⁹ Communication "A" 7662.
¹⁰ Communication "A" 7648.
¹¹ Communication "A" 7649.
¹² Communication "A" 7664.

# Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 9

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 6.4% in December to stand, on average, at $ 172.45/US$ (see Chart 7.4). In this way, the BCRA has decelerated the depreciation rate of the domestic currency in line with the moderation of inflation.
**Chart 7.3 | Variation of International Reserves balance at end of month** **Chart 7.4 | Variation of nominal exchange rate**
**Explanatory Factors. December 2022** **bilateral with United States**

millions of US$ var. % monthly
7,000 6,588 average
6,000 7

5,000 6

4,000 3,753 5

3,000 4

2,000 1,988 3

1,000 563 698 2

0 1
-280 -134
-1,000 0
Total Var. Currency Purchase Org. Other Op. Cash Val. Exchange Other dec-20 mar-21 jun-21 sep-21 dec-21 mar-22 jun-22 sep-22 dec-22
of foreign Internac. Sect. Public Minimum Rate
exchange
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

**Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 108. Regulatory Summary**

**Date of** **Regulation** **Description**
**issuance**

The limit of financings admitted in pesos and/or foreign currency was increased from $1,500 million
1-dec-22 Com. "A" 7648 to $5,000 million, as provided in point 7.1.2. of the standards on "Credit Policy", linked to
financings for "Large exporting companies".
It was established that the 180-day period for entering and settling advances, pre-financing and post-financing from abroad will also be applicable, insofar as the remaining regulatory requirements are met, when the transfer of the foreign currency has entered the local entity's correspondent account as of November 28, 2022 and until December 30, 2022.

As a complement to Com. "A" 7650, it was provided that the "Special accounts for financing exports" must be used to enter advances, pre-financing and post-financing from abroad, and the "Special accounts for exporters" to credit the amount in pesos received as consideration for a settlement of export collections.

A new modality of daily passive repos was put into effect: the BCRA Round. The entities that adhere to this operation must instruct daily, until the MEP closing, the arrangement of a passive repo for the Central Bank at one day's term for the balance of their peso current account that exceeds the amount they report on each date, and the settlement of maturity is effective at 11:00 a.m. on the following business day. The rate applied is the one set by the Central Bank for passive repo operations at one day's term, without commissions or administration charges of any kind.

With effect from January 1, 2023 and until December 31, 2023, the suspension of the distribution of results of financial entities was provided.

In turn, the regulation was extended until December 31, 2023, which states that the compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities belonging to Group C can apply cannot exceed the nominal annual rate applicable to non-financial credit card issuers.

First, point 6.3.1. of the regulations on "Minimum cash" (relative to the deduction of the requirement in pesos) was extended until June 30, 2023, for cash withdrawals made at automated teller machines located in localities included in categories II to VI, in accordance with what is established in the regulations on "Categorization of localities for financial entities". In turn, the endorsement limit established for checks and bills of exchange in points 5.1.1. of the regulations on "Regulation of the bank current account" and 4.1.1. of the regulations on "Current accounts opened in cooperative credit boxes" was extended until December 31, 2027.

Finally, with effect from January 1, 2023, the amount of the guarantee for certain deposits detailed in the regulations was established at $6 million.

New tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature of Mercosur (NCM) were incorporated, relating to pharmaceutical products and/or inputs used in their local elaboration, other goods related to health care or food for human consumption covered by the provisions of Article 155 Tris of the Argentine Food Code, for which access to the foreign exchange market is made more flexible to process import payments.

Legal entities that are beneficiaries of the Knowledge Economy Promotion Regime that can access an amount of free availability of United States dollars of 30% of the foreign currency entered by incremental net exports to be applied to the payment of remuneration of employees in a dependent relationship, are exempted from the obligation to settle the collections of exports of goods and services that have entered through the foreign exchange market, within the periods established in each case, and that correspond to activities
of the knowledge economy, to the extent that they have a "Certification of increase in exports associated with the knowledge economy (Decree No. 679/22)".
# Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 119. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of Dec-22 % of GDP
Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2022 year-on-year
Dec-22 Nov-22 Oct-22 Sep-22 Dec-21 Dec-22 Dec-21
Nominal w.o. Real w.e. Nominal w.o. Real w.e. Nominal Real

Monetary base 4,781,929 4,388,339 4,225,141 4,179,909 3,394,480 9.0% -1.7% 40.9% -25.6% 40.9% -25.6% 4.4% 6.0%
Monetary circulation 3,767,917 3,348,968 3,240,179 3,171,405 2,504,731 12.5% 3.2% 50.4% -20.6% 50.4% -20.6% 3.6% 4.6%
Cash in the hands of the public 3,362,664 3,020,099 2,911,674 2,856,142 2,230,702 11.3% 1.7% 50.7% -20.4% 50.7% -20.4% 3.2% 4.0%
Cash in financial entities 405,253 328,868 328,505 315,263 274,029 23.2% 17.8% 47.9% -21.9% 47.9% -21.9% 0.4% 0.5%
Current account at the BCRA 1,014,012 1,039,372 984,962 1,008,504 889,749 -2.4% -6.7% 14.0% -39.8% 14.0% -39.8% 1.0% 1.6%
Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) 9,946,599 9,110,754 8,653,499 7,853,743 4,506,696 9.2% 4.4% 120.7% 16.5% 120.7% 16.5% 9.6% 8.3%
Passive Repos 2,004,090 1,636,090 1,428,092 1,398,559 2,366,670 22.5% 17.1% -15.3% -55.3% -15.3% -55.3% 1.9% 4.4%
1 day 2,004,090 1,636,090 1,428,092 1,398,559 110,546 22.5% 17.1% 1712.9% 856.9% 1712.9% 856.9% 1.9% 0.2%
Stock of LELIQ 6,831,822 6,336,682 6,035,569 5,289,805 2,140,026 7.8% 3.1% 219.2% 68.5% 219.2% 68.5% 6.6% 4.0%
Stock of LELIQ at 28 days 6,821,262 6,332,127 6,031,014 5,285,251 2,140,026 7.7% 3.0% 218.7% 68.2% 218.7% 68.2% 6.6% 4.0%
Stock of LELIQ at 180 days 10,560 4,555 4,555 4,555 - 131.8% 121.6% - - - - 0.0% -
Stock of NOTLIQ 1,110,688 1,137,983 1,189,838 1,165,378 - -2.4% -6.7% - - - - 1.1% -
BCRA international reserves in dollars 40,650 37,897 38,710 37,174 40,584 7.3% -0.2% 0.2% - 0.2% - 6.7% 7.6%

Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2022 Year-on-year
Factors of average monthly variation
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution
Monetary base 393,590 9.0% 602,020 14.4% 1,387,449 40.9% 1,387,449 40.9%

Purchase of currency from the private sector and others 236,922 5.4% 731,166 17.5% 1,170,004 34.5% 1,170,004 34.5%
Purchase of currency from the National Treasury 167,934 3.8% -134,586 -3.2% -267,417 -7.9% -267,417 -7.9%
Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to the Nat. Gov. 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 1,013,351 29.9% 1,013,351 29.9%
Other public sector operations 39,182 0.9% 147,862 3.5% -85,716 -2.5% -85,716 -2.5%
Monetary regulation instruments -287,691 -6.6% -536,075 -12.8% -1,938,742 -57.1% -1,938,742 -57.1%
Others 237,242 5.4% 393,654 9.4% 1,495,969 44.1% 1,495,969 44.1%
BCRA International Reserves 2,753 7.3% 3,476 9.4% 66 0.2% 66 0.2%

Purchase of currency 744 2.0% 2,527 6.8% 4,391 10.8% 4,391 10.8%
International organizations 1,172 3.1% 331 0.9% 646 1.6% 646 1.6%
Other public sector operations -137 -0.4% -162 -0.4% -1,300 -3.2% -1,300 -3.2%
Minimum cash 356 0.9% 537 1.4% 406 1.0% 406 1.0%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 619 1.6% 243 0.7% -4,077 -10.0% -4,077 -10.0%

Note: The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
# REQUIREMENT AND INTEGRATION OF MINIMUM CASH Dec-22 Nov-22 Oct-22

## Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement minus deductions 18.9 19.4 18.7
Integration in current accounts 5.5 6.1 6.0
LELIQ Integration 32.4 32.3 32.2
BOTE 2027 Integration 3.7 3.4 3.3
Integration Rest of Public Securities 7.8 7.1 6.7

## Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes application of resources default) 62.5 62.9 63.3
Position (1) 38.5 38.9 39.3

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 12
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of dec-22 % of GDP 4

**Main monetary variables and financial system**

| | Monthly |  |  |  |  | Accumulated in 2022 |  | Year-on-year |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | dec-22 | nov-22 | oct-22 | sep-22 | dec-21 | dec-22 | dec-21 | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. |

## Domestic Currency Segment

**Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos** | 118,245,192 | 116,961,036 | 116,223,170 | 115,078,026 | 9,585,924 | 7.6% | 1.1% | 90.3% | 0.5% | 90.3% | 0.5% | 17.5% | 17.6%

**Private sector deposits** | 115,164,496 | 113,801,516 | 113,081,312 | 112,257,150 | 7,725,433 | 9.9% | 2.8% | 96.3% | 3.6% | 96.3% | 3.6% | 14.6% | 14.2%

**Sight deposits of private sector** | 7,301,525 | 6,268,864 | 6,013,572 | 5,799,507 | 4,094,910 | 16.5% | 4.5% | 78.3% | -5.9% | 78.3% | -5.9% | 6.6% | 7.2%

**Non-Remunerated (Transactional)** | 5,374,457 | 4,573,045 | 4,401,239 | 4,227,014 | 3,283,152 | 17.5% | 3.0% | 63.7% | -13.6% | 63.7% | -13.6% | 4.8% | 5.7%

**Remunerated** | 1,927,068 | 1,695,819 | 1,612,334 | 1,572,494 | 811,758 | 13.6% | 8.6% | 137.4% | 25.3% | 137.4% | 25.3% | 1.9% | 1.5%

**Farm deposits** | 131 | 109 | 116 | 19 | 0 | 20.2% | 16.9% | 0.0% |

**Fixed-term deposits and others of private sector** | 7,862,970 | 7,532,652 | 7,067,740 | 6,457,643 | 3,630,523 | 4.4% | 1.4% | 116.6% | 14.3% | 116.6% | 14.3% | 8.0% | 7.0%

**Fixed-term** | 7,637,488 | 7,323,767 | 6,868,862 | 6,272,288 | 3,482,489 | 4.3% | 1.4% | 119.3% | 15.8% | 119.3% | 15.8% | 7.7% | 6.8%

**Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange Rate** | 7,236,251 | 6,912,470 | 6,451,028 | 5,842,401 | 3,299,094 | 4.7% | 1.8% | 119.3% | 15.8% | 119.3% | 15.8% | 7.3% | 6.4%

**Adjustable by CER/UVA** | 359,896 | 369,121 | 375,071 | 390,789 | 159,676 | -2.5% | -5.2% | 125.4% | 19.0% | 125.4% | 19.0% | 0.4% | 0.3%

**Traditional** | 156,497 | 168,232 | 179,996 | 195,553 | 102,705 | -7.0% | -9.6% | 52.4% | -19.6% | 52.4% | -19.6% | 0.2% | 0.2%

**Precancelable** | 203,400 | 200,889 | 195,075 | 195,236 | 56,970 | 1.2% | -1.6% | 257.0% | 88.4% | 257.0% | 88.4% | 0.2% | 0.1%

**DIVA** | 41,340 | 42,176 | 42,763 | 39,098 | 23,719 | -2.0% | -4.7% | 74.3% | -8.0% | 74.3% | -8.0% | 0.0% | 0.0%

**Other deposits** | 225,483 | 208,885 | 198,878 | 185,355 | 148,035 | 7.9% | 3.2% | 52.3% | -19.6% | 52.3% | -19.6% | 0.2% | 0.3%

**Public sector deposits** | 23,080,696 | 23,159,520 | 23,141,858 | 22,820,876 | 1,860,491 | -2.5% | -6.8% | 65.6% | -12.6% | 65.6% | -12.6% | 3.0% | 3.4%

## Monetary Aggregates | 0.0% | 0.0%

**M2 Total** | 11,866,228 | 10,402,558 | 10,170,350 | 9,701,506 | 7,120,815 | 14.1% | 3.4% | 66.6% | -12.0% | 66.6% | -12.0% | 11.0% | 12.6%

**M3 Total** | 21,736,992 | 20,102,342 | 19,250,856 | 18,057,120 | 11,905,669 | 8.1% | 0.6% | 82.6% | -3.6% | 82.6% | -3.6% | 20.5% | 21.6%

## Private Monetary Aggregates | 0.0% | 0.0%

**M2 Private** | 10,664,189 | 9,288,963 | 8,925,246 | 8,655,650 | 6,325,612 | 14.8% | 4.5% | 68.6% | -11.0% | 68.6% | -11.0% | 9.9% | 11.3%

**M2 Private Transactional** 3 | 8,737,121 | 7,593,144 | 7,312,913 | 7,083,156 | 5,513,854 | 15.1% | 2.5% | 58.5% | -16.4% | 58.5% | -16.4% | 7.9% | 9.7%
# M3 private 18,527,159 16,821,615 15,992,986 15,113,292 9,956,135 10.1% 1.9% 86.1% -1.8% 86.1% -1.8% 17.7% 18.3%

Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 6,766,512 6,411,810 6,090,781 5,887,981 4,058,133 5.5% 0.1% 66.7% -12.0% 66.7% -12.0% 6.3% 7.3%

Loans to the non-financial private sector 6,695,004 6,347,428 6,023,276 5,823,913 4,003,444 5.5% 0.0% 67.2% -11.7% 67.2% -11.7% 6.2% 7.2%

Advances 775,524 737,290 660,906 625,127 392,585 5.2% 0.5% 97.5% 4.3% 97.5% 4.3% 0.7% 0.7%

Documents 1,708,408 1,626,484 1,547,739 1,509,228 1,010,395 5.0% -0.7% 69.1% -10.8% 69.1% -10.8% 1.6% 1.8%

Mortgages 371,755 366,279 364,942 360,617 280,283 1.5% -3.6% 32.6% -30.0% 32.6% -30.0% 0.4% 0.5%

Pledge loans 458,900 439,308 422,263 408,243 229,234 4.5% 0.1% 100.2% 5.7% 100.2% 5.7% 0.4% 0.4%

Personal loans 1,047,620 1,012,744 971,377 932,566 665,885 3.4% -1.6% 57.3% -17.0% 57.3% -17.0% 1.0% 1.2%

Credit cards 2,000,781 1,855,373 1,747,170 1,686,867 1,198,243 7.8% -1.0% 67.0% -11.9% 67.0% -11.9% 1.8% 2.1%

Other 332,015 309,951 308,879 301,265 226,818 7.1% -0.2% 46.4% -22.7% 46.4% -22.7% 0.3% 0.4%

Loans to the non-financial public sector 71,508 64,382 67,505 64,069 54,689 11.1% 6.2% 30.8% -31.0% 30.8% -31.0% 0.1% 0.1%

**Foreign currency segment**¹

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 18,784 18,091 17,523 17,454 18,237 3.8% -3.0% -3.0% -3.2% 3.5%

Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15,684 15,209 14,982 14,823 15,255 3.1% -2.8% -2.8% -2.6% 2.9%

On demand 11,937 11,469 11,254 11,074 11,233 4.1% -6.3% -6.3% -2.0% 2.1%

Fixed-term and other 3,747 3,740 3,728 3,749 4,022 0.2% - -6.8% - -6.8% - 0.6% 0.8%

Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 3,100 2,881 2,542 2,631 2,982 7.6% -4.0% -4.0% - 0.6% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,643 3,705 3,696 3,710 4,268 -1.7% - -14.6% - -14.6% - 0.6% 0.8%

Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,489 3,562 3,586 3,592 4,127 -2.0% - -15.4% - -15.4% - 0.6% 0.8%

Documents 2,271 2,296 2,296 2,345 2,729 -1.1% - -16.8% - -16.8% - 0.4% 0.5%

Credit cards 180 199 250 261 137 -9.7% - 31.8% - 31.8% - 0.0% 0.0%

Remainder 1,038 1,067 1,040 987 1,261 -2.7% - -17.7% - -17.7% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 153 143 111 118 141 6.9% - 8.8% - 8.8% - 0.0% 0.0%

---

¹ Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
² Net of unified funds utilization.
³ Excludes remunerated sight deposits with respect to M2 private.
⁴ Calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and estimated average moving 3-month non-seasonal GDP.

Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 13 Rates in annual percentage nominal (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages, in the case of rates weighted by amount.

**Interest Rates of monetary regulation instruments dec-22 TEA dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dec-21**

**BCRA repurchase rates**

Liabilities 1 day 70.00 101.24 70.00 70.00 67.25 32.00
Assets 1 day 95.00 158.25 95.00 95.00 91.50 42.70

LELIQ rate at 28 days 75.00 107.35 75.00 75.00 72.25 38.00
LELIQ rate at 180 days 83.50 101.23 83.50 83.50 79.75

**Interest rates of the Interbank Market dec-22 TEA dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 sep-22 dec-21**
Interest rates for repos between third parties 1-day wheel 66.37 94.09 69.01 70.70 64.62 30.98
Amount operated in repos between third parties wheel REPO (daily average) 7,500 9,942 19,455 6,393 4,489
Call in pesos (1 business day)
Rate 67.38 96.04 65.64 66.10 63.85 30.46
Amount operated 22,471 25,400 30,297 24,289 19,687
Passive Interest Rates Dec-22 TEA Dec-22 Nov-22 Oct-22 Sep-22 Dec-21
Sight Deposits
Remunerated 58.30 76.73 56.69 55.20 52.88 28.87
Fixed Term Deposits
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)1 74.67 106.40 74.64 74.65 71.98 36.29
TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 65.91 90.00 65.80 65.81 63.66 33.25
TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 66.48 91.03 66.49 66.48 64.30 33.98
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 68.58 94.88 68.52 68.38 65.97 33.34
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 69.45 96.47 69.31 69.19 66.84 34.20
Rate of early cancellation of deposits in UVA 71.00 99.38 71.00 71.00 68.25 30.50
Active Interest Rates Dec-22 TEA Dec-22 Nov-22 Oct-22 Sep-22 Dec-21
Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos
Current account advances 75.43 112.45 74.50 72.45 68.28 40.47
1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 millions 73.28 107.02 73.92 72.37 69.63 35.36
Documents at sole signature 61.52 82.23 61.22 61.09 58.98 34.78
Mortgage loans 62.71 84.31 61.42 60.85 49.10 29.71
Pledge loans 48.68 61.17 48.66 50.30 48.64 28.80
Personal loans 81.20 119.46 79.06 82.93 78.31 53.00
Credit cards 76.27 109.54 75.95 68.77 59.51 42.87
Interest rates in the foreign currency segment Dec-22 TEA Dec-22 Nov-22 Oct-22 Sep-22 Dec-21
Fixed term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.32 0.32 0.33 0.34 0.34 0.37
Documents at sole signature in dollars 5.40 5.54 4.26 4.55 4.95 5.97
Exchange Rate Dec-22 Monthly Var. (%) Nov-22 Oct-22 Sep-22 Dec-21
TCN peso/dollar
Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) 172.45 6.39 162.10 152.05 143.13 101.88
Retail2 175.20 6.28 164.85 154.64 145.69 104.27
TCN peso/real 32.92 7.10 30.74 28.93 27.33 18.01
TCN peso/euro 182.58 12.92 161.68 149.64 141.71 115.14
ITCNM 1,116.28 8.16 1,032.03 958.13 911.77 672.89
ITCRM 92.13 2.67 89.73 88.25 89.21 102.24

1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $1 million from persons who, in total, in the financial entity exceed one million pesos.
The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits in said entity do not exceed one million pesos.
2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates bought and sold noted by the adhering entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 14 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

**ANSES:** National Administration of Social Security.
**AFIP:** Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
**BADLAR:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
**BCRA:** Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
**BM:** Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
**CC BCRA:** Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
**CER:** Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
**CNV:** National Securities Commission.
**DEG:** Special Drawing Rights.
**EFNB:** Non-Banking Financial Entities.
**EM:** Minimum Cash.
**FCI:** Common Investment Fund.
**i.a.:** year-on-year.
**IAMC:** Argentine Capital Market Institute.
**IPC:** Consumer Price Index.
**ITCNM:** Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
**ITCRM:** Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
**LEBAC:** Central Bank Bills.
**LELIQ:** BCRA Liquidity Bills.
**LFIP:** Productive Investment Financing Line.
**M2 Total:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M2 Private:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
**M2 Private Transactional:** Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
**M3 Total:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
**M3 Private:** Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, clearing checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
**MERVAL:** Buenos Aires Stock Market.
**MM:** Money Market.
**n.a.:** nominal annual.
**e.a.:** effective annual.
**NOCOM:** Cash Compensation Notes.
**ON:** Negotiable Obligation.
**PIB:** Gross Domestic Product.
**P.B.:** Basis Points.
**PSP:** Payment Service Provider.
**p.p.:** Percentage Points.
**Mi PyMEs:** Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
**ROFEX:** Rosario Forward Market.
**s.e.:** without seasonality.
**SISCEN:** BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
**SIMPES:** Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 15

**TCN:** Nominal Exchange Rate.
**TIR:** Internal Rate of Return.
**TM20:** Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
**TNA:** Annual Nominal Rate.
**UVA:** Unit of Purchasing Power.

Monthly Monetary Report | December 2022 | BCRA | 16
