# Monthly Monetary Report
January 2023

## Contents

Pag. 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Pag. 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Pag. 4 | 3. Peso Savings Instruments

Pag. 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Pag. 7 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Pag. 9 | 6. Peso Liquidity of Financial Entities

Pag. 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Pag. 12 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Pag. 14 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Pag. 17 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was February 7, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monthly Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the Use of Inclusive Language in This Publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institu-
tional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication
recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value systems.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources
such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| Monetary Base | M2 | Priv. Transactional | Fixed Term | S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| 3.9% | 0.5% | -0.8% | -14.6% | -0.3% |

| Loans to S. Priv. |
|---|
| Deposits at fixed term in pesos of the private sector monthly var. real s.e. |
| thousands of millions of $ of Jan-23 % of GDP -1.7% |

**Monetary aggregates:**
- 8,500 | 12 | LELIQ rate 28 days
- Private fixed term s.e., at constant prices | nominal annual
- 7,500 | 8 | 75.0%
- 6,500 | | Passive Repos Rate 1d
- 5,500 | | nominal annual
- 4,500 | 4 | 72.0%
- 3,500 | 0 |
- ene-05 ene-08 ene-11 ene-14 ene-17 ene-20 ene-23 |

**International Reserves**
millions of USD; end of month
41,417

Source: BCRA.

The broad monetary aggregate (private M3) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered
a slight contraction in the first month of the year. At the level of components, means of payment
presented an increase that was more than offset by the decline in fixed-term deposits. Nevertheless,
savings instruments in pesos continue to be positioned around the maximum values of the last
decades and in a record similar to the pandemic maximum in terms of Product.

In mid-month, the BCRA decided to increase the remuneration of its shorter-term instruments,
increasing by 2 percentage points the interest rate on repos of financial entities. Likewise, with the
objective of strengthening the transmission channel of monetary policy to the different segments of the financial system
and capital market, the BCRA decided to increase the passive repos rate at 1 day
to FCIs which ultimately remained at the equivalent of 85% of the rate in effect for passive repos at 1 day
term with financial entities. Financial entities were also authorized to conduct
securities repurchase operations (takers) in pesos.

Finally, loans to the private sector at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered
a new monthly contraction, which was widespread across the major credit lines.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
Means of payment (M2 private transactional¹), in real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), would have registered an increase of 0.5% in January explained mostly by the positive statistical carryover left by December (see Chart 2.1). Within its components, growth was explained almost entirely by cash in circulation held by the public. Thus, in year-on-year terms and at constant prices, means of payment would have presented a contraction of around 19.1%. In terms of Product, private transactional M2 would have been positioned at 8%, remaining practically unchanged compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.2). Both components of means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 20 years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e. | p.p. % of GDP
[16 - Private transactional M2]
[4 - Non-remunerated sight deposits]
[3 - Transactional sight deposits] Cash in circulation held by the public
[2 - Cash in circulation held by the public] [14 - M2 private transactional (%)]
[1]
[0]
[-1]
[-2] [8 - 8.0]
[-3] [6]
[-4] [4.7]
[-5] [4 - 3.2]
[2]
[Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23] [Dec-04 Dec-06 Dec-08 Dec-10 Dec-12 Dec-14 Dec-16 Dec-18 Dec-20 Dec-22]
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

In a more structural vision, when analyzing the relationship between the ratio of transactional means of payment to wage bill and the interest rate, which represents the opportunity cost of money, it is verified that, after the significant increase in means of payment during the first year of the pandemic, the demand for real balances is in line with what is expected in a context of foreign exchange restrictions and given the current level of interest rates on savings instruments. The fall in means of payment in real terms observed in recent months reflects the greater preference of agents for remunerated instruments (see Chart 2.3).

Chart 2.3 | Estimation of real balances demand

TNA (%)
[80]
[70 - Jan-23]
[60 - Years 2021 - 2023]
[50 - Year 2020]
[40 - Years 2004-2019]
[30]
[20]
[10]
[0]
[7 9 11 13 15 17]
M2 priv. Transactional s.e. (% Wage Bill)*
*Wage bill: net salary of registered workers in the private sector per registered salaried employment in the private sector.
Source: BCRA, Ministry of Labor and INDEC.

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated sight deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The BCRA Board decided to keep the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits unchanged at the beginning of the year, noting 4 consecutive months without modifications². The decision was made considering that the real return on investments in local currency remains in positive territory. Thus, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements of individuals up to an amount of $10 million was maintained at 75% n.a. (107.05% e.a.), while for the rest of the depositors in the financial system the interest rate persisted at 66.5% n.a. (91.07% e.a.)³.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector would have registered a contraction of 0.8% s.e. at constant prices in the first month of the year, reversing the increase from the previous month. Nevertheless, these placements remained around the maximum levels of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have been positioned at 7.7% in January, a figure similar to the maximum reached during the pandemic.
# Translation to English

Analyzing the evolution of time deposits by amount bracket, a heterogeneous behavior is observed. Deposits of $1 to $20 million, whose main holders are individuals, registered an average increase during the month. This dynamic was offset by the decline experienced by retail deposits (less than $1 million) and wholesale deposits (more than $20 million).

The decrease in wholesale segment placements was explained by the unwinding of positions by Money Market Mutual Funds (MMF), which are the main agents within Financial Service Providers (PSF). These rebalanced, on a transitory basis, their portfolio in favor of passive repos with the BCRA to the detriment of fixed-term placements and also of remunerated sight deposits (see Chart 3.1). This occurred during a period when the relative return of MMF repos practically equaled that of other investment alternatives (see Chart 3.2). Toward the end of the month, with the readjustment of the coefficient that determines the interest rate of MMF repos, fund liquidity was channeled again to deposits (fundamentally remunerated sight deposits), given that the interest rate differential shifted once again in favor of this type of instrument.

Chart 3.1 | Assets of Money Market MMF and main investment instruments | Chart 3.2 | Interest rates of instruments of Financial Service Providers
Balance at current prices | TEA (%) | Investment with early redemption option PSF +$20M (PM 5d)
thousands of millions of $ | thousands of millions of $ | Traditional Fixed Term PSF +$20M
2,200 | 4,200 | 100 | 1-day Repos
2,000 | 4,000 | 95 | 94.9 | Remunerated sight (PSF)
1,800 | 3,800 | 91.6 | 1-day Passive Repos FCI
1,600 | 3,600 | 90 | 91.0
1,400 | 3,400 | 85 | 84.3
1,200 | 3,200 | 80 | —
1,000 | 3,000 | 75 | —
800 | — | Remunerated sight deposits of PSF | 2,800 | 73.1
600 | — | Traditional fixed-term deposits of PSF | 2,600 | 70
400 | — | Passive Repos FCI | 2,400 | 65
200 | — | MMF MM Assets (right axis) | 2,200 | —
0 | — | — | 2,000 | —
01-Oct | 24-Oct | 16-Nov | 09-Dec | 01-Jan | 24-Jan | 31-Oct | 15-Nov | 30-Nov | 15-Dec | 30-Dec | 14-Jan | 29-Jan

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

---

The segment of CER-adjustable fixed-term deposits showed a new contraction in real terms, accumulating 6 consecutive months of declines. The decrease was verified both in traditional UVA placements and in precancelable ones, whose monthly variation rates were -14.8% s.e. and -14.5% s.e. respectively (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder, it is confirmed that the decline was explained fundamentally by holdings of individuals, who concentrate approximately 85% of the total. Meanwhile, companies and PSF slightly increased their positions during the month (see Chart 3.4). In all, UVA deposits reached a balance of $323,500 million at the end of January, which represented 3.8% of the total time instruments denominated in domestic currency.

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector | Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument | Balance at constant prices by type of holder

thousands of millions of $ of 31-Jan-23 | thousands of millions of $ of 31-Jan-23
300 | 500 | Individuals
280 | 450 | —
260 | — | Financial Service Providers
240 | 400 | Other Legal Entities
220 | 178.7 | 350
200 | 321 | —
180 | 300 | —
160 | 144.7 | 250
140 | — | —
120 | — | 200
100 | — | 150
80 | Traditional UVA Fixed Term | —
60 | — | 100
40 | Precancelable UVA Fixed Term | 50 | 57
20 | — | —
0 | — | 0 | 7
Jan-21 | Apr-21 | Jul-21 | Oct-21 | Jan-22 | Apr-22 | Jul-22 | Oct-22 | Jan-23 | Jan-21 | May-21 | Sep-21 | Jan-22 | May-22 | Sep-22 | Jan-23

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

---

2 The interest rates currently in effect are those established through communication "A" 7527.
3 The rest of depositors is made up of Legal Entities and Individuals with deposits of more than $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA |
The BCRA approved the creation of an electronic fixed-term deposit: the Electronic Certificate for Time Deposits and Investments (CEDIP)4. Through the CEDIP, time deposits and investments made through Home Banking and mobile banking, both those made in pesos (including those expressed in UVA) as well as in dollars, may be transferred electronically in an easy and simple manner, be subdivided into placements of smaller amounts and offset, which will allow their use as a means of payment.

This new instrument will take effect as of July (with the exception of the functionalities of subdivision, transmission for negotiation in the securities market and collection over the counter, which must be operational as of November). In this way, the BCRA continues to promote the development of new instruments that expand the available menu for channeling savings in domestic currency.

The broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices would have registered in January a monthly decrease of 0.3% s.e.5. In year-over-year terms, this aggregate would have experienced a decline of 3% and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at 17.6%, 0.1 p.p. below the record of the previous month and at a level similar to the 2010-19 average.

## 4. Monetary Base

In January, the Monetary Base was located at $5,291.3 billion, which meant an average monthly nominal increase of 10.7% (+$509,352 million) in the original series. Said increase was explained, in large part, by the positive statistical carryover that December left, a month with strong positive seasonality. In effect,

4 Communication "A" 9672.
5 Private M3 includes currency in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (sight deposits, time deposits and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 5 the variation between December 31 and January 31 was 2.2% (+$112,970 million). Adjusted for seasonality and inflation, the Monetary Base would have registered an increase of 3.9% and in year-over-year terms a contraction of around 26.3%. As a ratio of GDP the Monetary Base would be located at 4.6%, 0.2 p.p. above the value recorded in the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Chart 4.1).

Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base       Chart 4.2 | Explanation Factors of the Monetary Base
 Average Monthly Variation

 thousands of      Rest*
 millions of $    Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
 1,200            Public Sector
 1,000            Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
 Monetary base
 800
 600
 400
 200
 0
 -200
 -400
 -600
 -800
 Jan-22 Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23

 * Includes the BCRA's intervention in the secondary market for securities.
 Source: BCRA.    Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the average monthly expansion of the Monetary Base was explained in large part by the statistical carryover left by the foreign currency purchases made within the framework of the "Export Increase Program" during December. Other factors of expansion of the monetary base were: the BCRA's purchases in the secondary market for public securities, with the objective of limiting excessive price volatility, and the use of regulation instruments by banks. These effects were partially offset by the contractionary effect of public sector operations (see Chart 4.2).

In mid-January, the BCRA Board of Directors decided to raise the interest rates corresponding to its shorter-term instruments. In this way, it increased by 2 p.p. both the interest rate on passive repos at 1 day and that on active repos at 1 day, which went on to be located at 72% n.a. (105.3% e.a.) and 95% n.a. (163.5% e.a.) respectively.
Additionally, with the objective of strengthening the transmission channel of monetary policy to the different segments of the financial system and capital market, the BCRA decided to raise the coefficient that determines the interest rate of FCI passive repos. Thus, on January 23rd, said coefficient went from 75% to 95% of the passive repo rate of financial entities (68.4% n.a.; 98.1% e.a.). Toward the end of the month, the FCI repo rate was readjusted, setting it at 85% of the repo rate of financial entities (61.2% n.a.; 84.3% e.a.) and financial entities were enabled to carry out securities lending operations (takers) in pesos⁶.

For its part, the interest rate of 28-day LELIQ remained at 75% n.a. (107.35% e.a.), while the interest rate of 180-day LELIQ continued at 83.5% n.a. (101.23% e.a.). Finally, the spread of NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was set at 8.5 p.p.

⁶ Communication "A" 7683.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 6

With the current instrument configuration, in the first month of the year remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 68.8% by 28-day LELIQ. Longer-term securities represented 9.3% of the total, concentrated practically entirely in NOTALIQ. Meanwhile, 1-day passive repos increased their participation in the total instruments, representing 20.7% of the total (0.8 p.p. more than the previous month). Finally, LEDIV, together with LEGAR, concentrated the remaining 1.2%, remaining stable with respect to December (see Graph 4.3).

Graph 4.3 | Composition of BCRA remunerated liabilities
Monthly average

% 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ | LEGAR | LEDIV

[Graph showing trend from jan-22 to jan-23]

*Include repos with FCI.
Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the private sector

In the first month of the year, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a monthly decline of 1.7%, accumulating seven consecutive months of decline. The decrease occurred practically in all financing lines with the exception of securities (see Graph 5.1). Thus, credit would have accumulated a decline of 13.9% y.o.y. in real terms. The ratio between loans in pesos to the private sector and current GDP fell slightly during the month and stood at 6.1% (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 | Loans in pesos to private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth

[Graph showing monthly changes]

Graph 5.2 | Loans in pesos to private sector
In terms of GDP

[Graph showing ratio trends]

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 7

When observing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines with mainly commercial destination were those that showed better performance. Securities would have registered a monthly growth of 1.1% s.e. at constant prices (-13.0% y.o.y.), driven by discounted securities. Meanwhile, securities on sole signature, with longer average life, would have fallen during January. For its part, financing granted through advances would have exhibited a decline at constant prices of 4.6% s.e. (-2.5% y.o.y.). Combined, commercial financing contracted 1.1% s.e. during the month and 12.6% in year-over-year terms.
The Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MiPyMEs). At the end of January, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $4,175 million since its launch, with an increase of 7.3% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3). For its part, of the total financing granted through the LFIP, 13.8% corresponds to investment projects and the remainder to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financing granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,254 million in December (latest available information), which represents about 18.7% of total loans and 44.5% of total commercial loans.

As for commercial credit by type of debtor, despite the boost from the LFIP, credit to MiPyMEs continued to show a slowdown. In year-over-year terms, it would have contracted by around 8.5% at constant prices in the first month of 2023, while that destined for large companies would have shown a greater contraction (17.8% y.o.y.; see Chart 5.4).

Chart 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by Type of Debtor
Investment Financing Line (LFIP) Y.o.y. var. at constant prices of the 30-day
Cumulative Disbursed Amounts; data at end of month moving average balance

thousands of var. % y.o.y.
millions of $ 100 MiPyMEs
4,500 4,175 Other Legal Entities
80
4,000 Total Investment Projects
3,500 60

3,000 40

2,500 20

2,000 0

1,500 -8.5
-20 -17.8
1,000 576
500 -40

0 -60
Jan-21 Apr-21 Jul-21 Oct-21 Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Jan-19 Jul-19 Jan-20 Jul-20 Jan-21 Jul-21 Jan-22 Jul-22 Jan-23
Source | BCRA. Source | BCRA.

Among loans associated with consumption, financing instruments with credit cards would have shown a monthly decrease of 1.0% s.a. at constant prices (-11.5% y.o.y.). Likewise, personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 0.8% s.a. and would already be 18.4% below the level recorded a year earlier. During January, the interest rate for personal loans was located on average at 79.2% n.a. (115.5% e.a.), recording a decrease of 2.0 p.p. compared to the previous month.

With regard to lines with real guarantees, pledged loans would have registered a decrease in real terms of 2.3% s.a., remaining at levels similar to those of a year earlier. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown in the month a decline of 3.7% s.a. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of 32.7% in the last twelve months.

## Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

In January, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁷ showed an increase of 0.3 p.p. with respect to December 2022, averaging 73.7% of deposits. Thus, it remained at historically elevated levels. The increase was mainly driven by the integration with public securities and current accounts at the BCRA, partially offset by a decline in remunerated liabilities.

Among the regulatory changes with an impact on banking liquidity, it is worth mentioning that it was established that taking stock market repos are excluded from the obligations comprised in the determination of the minimum cash requirement⁸.

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities
Net Repos LELIQ - Rest
% of NOTALIQ Integration in LELIQ
CC deposits BCRA $ BOTE 2022 - 2027
80 Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
Liquidity 71.0 71.9 73.4 73.7
70 66.3 65.8 66.3 67.1 66.6 68.9 68.1 69.7 2.0 1.9 2.2 1.9
65.3 2.3 2.2 2.3 2.1 7.1 7.8 8.7
2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 5.2 5.6 6.1 6.7
60 3.9 4.0 4.6 5.9 6.1 5.4 3.6 3.3 3.3 3.4 3.7 3.6
3.6 3.6 3.8 3.6 3.6 3.7 3.5 6.0 6.1 5.5 6.2
7.4 7.4 6.6 2.2 0.9
50 9.8 10.4 9.3 8.5 8.1 7.6 4.6 3.1 2.8 6.1 4.9
4.4 5.1 5.0 5.2 7.3 6.7
5.5 6.1 5.6 4.5 7.5 7.7
40 0.6 3.3 5.0 6.0 6.3 8.5

30 22.6 35.0 36.5
30.1 33.9 34.3
29.6 30.4
20 30.1 31.1 31.8 31.2 28.9

10 18.2
9.0 6.1 5.1 4.8 5.0 7.5 6.6 9.2 8.7 9.6 10.9 11.0
0
Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23
Source: BCRA.

## 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities showed mixed performance. On one hand, the balance of deposits from the private sector increased for the fifth consecutive month, averaging US$ 16,260 million in the month, which implied an increase of US$ 575 million compared to December. It should be noted that this increase was entirely explained by the statistical carryover from the previous month, impacted by the behavior of sight deposits of individuals which tend to grow at the end of December due to the exemption of the payment of tax on personal property for this type of placements. In effect, the variation between end-of-month balances resulted in a decline of US$ 28 million. On the other hand, the balance of loans to the private sector in foreign currency remained practically unchanged during the month (see Chart 7.1).

7 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.
8 Communication "A" 7683

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 9

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial
currency of the private sector entities

% of Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
deposits

90 82.9 82.9 83.2 82.7 82.8 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.9 85.8
82.5
80

70

60
63.5 64.1 63.6 63.5 64.5 64.2 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6
50 64.8

40

30

20

10 19.4 18.7 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 21.9 21.4 22.5 22.2

0
Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23
Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced an increase of 0.9 percentage points with respect to the previous month, standing at 85.8% of January deposits and maintaining itself at historically elevated levels. The increase was explained by current accounts in foreign currency at the BCRA, and was only partially offset by cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

During January, a series of regulatory modifications in exchange rate matters took place. Thus, seeking to allocate foreign currency more efficiently, the characteristics of goods for which access to the foreign exchange market was made more flexible for the payment of imports were detailed, within the framework of the Import System of the Argentine Republic (SIRA)9. In turn, the accounts to which funds proceeding from the liquidation of financing and contributions from international organizations in foreign currency10 and those arising from the voluntary declaration of the holding of foreign currency in the country11 must be allocated were regulated.
The International Reserves of the BCRA ended the month with a balance of US$ 41,417 million, registering a decrease of US$ 3,180 million as of December 31. This decline was explained mainly by capital payments to the International Monetary Fund for US$ 2,641 million and other operations of the public sector, among which stand out payments for cancellation of debt of the National Government and the repurchase of national public debt instruments denominated in foreign currency12. These effects were partially offset by the variation of dollar balances in current account at the BCRA and gains from valuation of net external assets (see Chart 7.3).

It should be noted that at the beginning of the month the currency swap agreement in force between the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) and the People's Bank of China (PBC) was activated, which comprises the exchange of currencies as reinforcement of International Reserves for 130,000 billion yuan and a special activation for 35,000 billion yuan to offset foreign exchange market operations.

Finally, the nominal exchange rate (TCN) bilateral with respect to the United States dollar increased 5.6% in January to stand, on average, at $ 182.12/US$ (see Chart 7.4). In this way, the BCRA has slowed down the rate of depreciation of the domestic currency in line with the moderation of inflation.

9 Communications "A" 7676 and "A" 7682.
10 Communication "A" 7667.
11 Communication "A" 7675.
12 https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/recompra-de-instrumentos-de-deuda-publica-nacional-denominados-en-moneda-extranjera

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 10

**Chart 7.3 | Variation of balance at end of month of International Reserves** | **Chart 7.4 | Variation of nominal exchange rate bilateral with United States**
Explanation Factors. January 2023 | var. % monthly average

[Million of US$] | [%]
2,000 | 7
1,000 | 803, 696 | 6.6, 6.4
32 | 6.2
0 | 5.8, 5.6
-192 | 5, 5.4
-1,000 | 4.7
-2,000 | -1,782 | 4, 4.1, 4.1
-3,000 | -2,737 | 3, 3.5
-3,180 | 2.8
-4,000 | 2, 2.4
| 2.0
| 1

Total Var. | Purchase | Org. | Other Op. | Cash | Val. | Exchange | Other | jan-22, mar-22, may-22, jul-22, sep-22, nov-22, jan-23
of currencies | International | Sect. Pub. | Minimum | Rate |

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 11

## 8. Regulatory Summary

| Date of Issue | Regulation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| 5-jan-23 | Com. "A" 7667 | It was established that entities receiving financial assistance and/or non-refundable contributions from international organizations, their associated agencies, multilateral development banks or official credit agencies may be holders of "Special Accounts for Exporters". The settlement of these financings and contributions can be credited to those accounts, up to the amount in pesos thereof. |
| 19-jan-23 | Com. "A" 7672 | It was established that every financial entity that captures term deposits or investments through internet banking or mobile banking services must issue an electronic certificate (CEDIP), which will be the electronic instrument representative of those placements, which will be electronically transmissible, fractionalizable and compensable. The CEDIP will be transmissible through an electronic circulation system (SCE) administered by Compensadora Electrónica S.A. (COELSA). These provisions will be in effect as of July 1, 2023, with the exception of the functionalities of fractionation, transmission for trading and counter collection, which must be operational as of November 1, 2023. |
| 19-jan-23 | Com. "A" 7673 | The "Registry of platforms for SME financing" was created, in which all legal entities that provide tools or computer systems that facilitate the performance of operations with SME electronic credit invoices referred to in article 13 of Law 27.440 must be registered. |
Extension until January 31, 2024 was granted to point 9.3 of the regulations on "Financing to the non-financial public sector," in which financial assistance to the non-financial public sector intended for the payment of personnel salaries are considered as an excluded concept for the purposes of calculating the individual and global basic limits established regarding credit risk fractionation to financial assistance to the non-financial public sector intended for the payment of personnel salaries that meet the requirements established in the regulation.

19-Jan-23 Com. "A" 7674 The "Special Deposit and Cancellation Accounts for Argentine Construction (CECON.Ar). Laws 27,613 and 27,679" and the "Special Deposit and Cancellation Account for Argentine Investment and Production (CEPRO.Ar). Law 27,701" were regulated. The amount from the voluntary declaration of foreign currency holdings in the country and abroad must be deposited in these accounts, which must be opened for that sole purpose, at the request of the declaring parties, by the commercial banks indicated in the regulations.

19-Jan-23 Com. "A" 7675 The declared funds must be maintained in these accounts until they are used, exclusively, for the transfer of foreign currency for the payment of imports for consumption, including services, intended for productive processes. The aforementioned funds cannot be used for payment of the special tax detailed in the regulations and must be intended, exclusively, for exporters' accounts abroad.

To the extent that it is not otherwise provided and insofar as it does not conflict with the aforementioned provisions, those established for deposits in savings accounts and special current accounts for legal entities shall apply, as appropriate.

It was established that entities may grant access to the foreign exchange market to make payments for imports of goods associated with a SIRA declaration before the term provided in such declaration if it is a payment for goods framed in the "Connect Equality" Program established by Decree No. 11/2022, provided that the requirements detailed in the regulations are met. Furthermore, a new product is added to the list of goods intended for local production of goods necessary for the construction of infrastructure works contracted by the public sector, for which access to the foreign exchange market is made more flexible to process import payments.

19-Jan-23 Com. "A" 7676 The characteristics of the goods that may be paid for were specified, in accordance with what is established in Communication "A" 7638. In particular, inputs whose importation is necessary to produce goods whose production is exported in at least 60% are considered, and when the total amount of the input paid abroad through this mechanism is less than the total amount of the export of goods produced with it. In turn, it may be tariff positions classified as capital goods in the Common Nomenclature of MERCOSUR (if the operation included goods that do not have such condition, they may also be paid insofar as capital goods represent at least 90% of the FOB value of the SIRA).

26-Jan-23 Com. "A" 7682 It was established that financial entities may carry out stock pledge operations as takers – passive – in pesos, on stock exchanges and markets authorized by the National Securities Commission. These stock pledge operations as takers – passive – are excluded from the obligations included in determining the minimum cash requirement in pesos in accordance with what is established in the regulations on "Minimum cash."

26-Jan-23 Com. "A" 7683

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 139. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of Jan-23 % of GDP
# Main monetary variables linked to BCRA monthly accumulated in 2023 year-on-year

|  | jan-23 | dec-22 | nov-22 | oct-22 | jan-22 | jan-23 | dec-22 | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| Monetary base | 5,291,282 | 4,781,929 | 4,388,339 | 4,225,141 | 3,685,633 | 10.7% | 3.9% | 10.7% | 3.9% | 43.6% | -26.3% | 4.6% | 4.4% |
| Monetary circulation | 4,089,114 | 3,767,917 | 3,348,968 | 3,240,179 | 2,677,121 | 8.5% | 0.3% | 8.5% | 0.3% | 52.7% | -21.6% | 3.6% | 3.6% |
| Cash in circulation held by the public | 3,714,454 | 3,362,008 | 3,019,931 | 2,911,683 | 2,412,204 | 10.5% | 1.9% | 10.5% | 1.9% | 54.0% | -20.9% | 3.2% | 3.2% |
| Cash in financial entities | 374,660 | 405,908 | 329,036 | 328,497 | 264,917 | -7.7% | -12.6% | -7.7% | -12.6% | 41.4% | -27.4% | 0.3% | 0.4% |
| Current account at the BCRA | 1,202,167 | 1,014,012 | 1,039,372 | 984,962 | 1,008,512 | 18.6% | 12.3% | 18.6% | 12.3% | 19.2% | -38.8% | 1.1% | 1.0% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) | 10,395,877 | 9,946,599 | 9,110,754 | 8,653,499 | 4,703,424 | 4.5% | -1.0% | 4.5% | -1.0% | 121.0% | 13.5% | 9.5% | 8.3% |
| Passive Repos | 2,182,287 | 2,004,090 | 1,636,090 | 1,428,092 | 1,840,825 | 8.9% | 3.2% | 8.9% | 3.2% | 18.5% | -39.1% | 2.0% | 1.4% |
| 1 day | 2,182,287 | 2,004,090 | 1,636,090 | 1,428,092 | 349,455 | 8.9% | 3.2% | 8.9% | 3.2% | 524.5% | 220.6% | 2.0% | 1.4% |
| 7 days | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1,491,369 | - | - | -100.0% | -100.0% | 0.0% | 0.0% | | |
| Stock of LELIQ | 7,268,795 | 6,831,822 | 6,336,682 | 6,035,569 | 2,862,599 | 6.4% | 0.8% | 6.4% | 0.8% | 153.9% | 30.4% | 6.6% | 5.8% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 28 days | 7,242,239 | 6,821,262 | 6,332,127 | 6,031,014 | 2,591,823 | 6.2% | 0.6% | 6.2% | 0.6% | 179.4% | 43.5% | 6.6% | 5.8% |
| Stock of LELIQ at 180 days | 26,556 | 10,560 | 4,555 | 4,555 | 270,776 | 151.5% | 138.2% | 151.5% | 138.2% | -90.2% | -95.0% | 0.0% | 0.0% |
| Stock of NOTALIQ | 944,796 | 1,110,688 | 1,137,983 | 1,189,838 | - | -14.9% | -19.4% | -14.9% | -19.4% | - | - | 0.9% | 1.1% |
| BCRA international reserves in dollars | 43,199 | 40,650 | 37,897 | 38,710 | 38,964 | 6.3% | - | 6.3% | - | 10.9% | - | 7.2% | 6.4% |

|  | Monthly | Quarterly | Accumulated 2023 | Year-on-year |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Factors of average monthly variation** | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution | Nominal | Contribution |
| Monetary base | 509,352 | 10.7% | 1,066,141 | 25.2% | 509,352 | 10.7% | 1,605,648 | 43.6% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others | 311,123 | 6.5% | 393,051 | 9.3% | 311,123 | 6.5% | 1,489,460 | 40.4% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury | -75,769 | -1.6% | 64,713 | 1.5% | -75,769 | -1.6% | -313,799 | -8.5% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Earnings to the Nat. Gov. | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 0 | 0.0% | 604,309 | 16.4% |
| Other operations of public sector | -145,744 | -3.0% | 7,235 | 0.2% | -145,744 | -3.0% | -192,427 | -5.2% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | 203,065 | 4.2% | -27,043 | -0.6% | 203,065 | 4.2% | -1,728,941 | -46.9% |
| Others | 216,678 | 4.5% | 628,184 | 14.9% | 216,678 | 4.5% | 1,747,047 | 47.4% |
| BCRA International Reserves | 2,548 | 6.3% | 4,489 | 11.6% | 2,548 | 6.3% | 4,235 | 10.9% |
| Purchase of foreign currency | 1,358 | 3.3% | 1,097 | 2.8% | 1,358 | 3.3% | 5,830 | 15.0% |
| International organisms | 1,015 | 2.5% | 2,107 | 5.4% | 1,015 | 2.5% | 3,061 | 7.9% |
| Other operations of the public sector | -1,207 | -3.0% | -1,433 | -3.7% | -1,207 | -3.0% | -3,102 | -8.0% |
| Minimum cash | 688 | 1.7% | 1,338 | 3.5% | 688 | 1.7% | 528 | 1.4% |
| Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) | 695 | 1.7% | 1,379 | 3.6% | 695 | 1.7% | -2,082 | -5.3% |

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being carried out.

# Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash

| | jan-23 | dec-22 | nov-22 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** | | |
| Net requirement of deductions | 19.3 | 18.9 | 19.4 |
| Integration in current accounts | 6.2 | 5.5 | 6.1 |
| LELIQ integration | 32.8 | 32.5 | 32.3 |
| BOTE 2027 integration | 3.6 | 3.7 | 3.4 |
| Integration Rest of Public Securities | 8.7 | 7.8 | 7.1 |
| **Foreign Currency** | **% of total deposits in foreign currency** | | |
| Requirement | 24.0 | 24.0 | 24.0 |
| Integration (includes default of resource application) | 63.6 | 62.5 | 62.9 |
| Position (1) | 39.6 | 38.5 | 38.9 |

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement
# Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 14

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average of jan-23 | % of GDP⁴

**Main monetary variables and financial system**

| | Monthly | Accumulated in 2023 | Year-on-year |
|---|---|---|---|
| | jan-23 | dec-22 | nov-22 | oct-22 | jan-22 | jan-23 | dec-22 | jan-23 | dec-22 | jan-23 | jan-22 |
| | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real |

**Domestic currency segment**

Total Deposits of non-financial sector in pesos¹ | 119.278.624 | 18.240.452 | 16.961.201 | 16.222.981 | 10.056.841 | 5.7% | -0.8% | 5.7% | -0.8% | 91.7% | -1.6% | 17.4% | 17.5%

Private sector deposits | 16.025.927 | 15.163.015 | 13.801.680 | 13.081.123 | 8.036.461 | 5.7% | -0.9% | 5.7% | -0.9% | 99.4% | 2.4% | 14.4% | 14.6%

Private sector sight deposits | 7.440.344 | 7.300.918 | 6.268.949 | 6.013.801 | 4.196.353 | 1.9% | -0.9% | 1.9% | -0.9% | 77.3% | -9.0% | 6.5% | 6.6%

Non-Remunerated (Transactional) | 5.460.701 | 5.386.436 | 4.572.751 | 4.401.468 | 3.407.328 | 1.4% | -0.4% | 1.4% | -0.4% | 60.3% | -17.7% | 4.7% | 4.8%

Remunerated | 1.979.643 | 1.914.482 | 1.696.198 | 1.612.333 | 789.026 | 3.4% | -2.0% | 3.4% | -2.0% | 150.9% | 28.8% | 1.8% | 1.8%

Farm deposits | 140 | 131 | 109 | 116 | 0 | 6.6% | -3.5% | 6.6% | -3.5% | 0.0% |

Fixed-term deposits and other private sector deposits | 8.585.583 | 7.862.097 | 7.532.731 | 7.067.322 | 3.840.108 | 9.2% | -1.0% | 9.2% | -1.0% | 123.6% | 14.8% | 7.9% | 8.0%

Fixed-term | 8.372.320 | 7.639.196 | 7.323.847 | 6.869.114 | 3.701.325 | 9.6% | -0.8% | 9.6% | -0.8% | 126.2% | 16.1% | 7.7% | 7.7%

Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange Rate | 7.989.611 | 7.237.933 | 6.912.547 | 6.451.272 | 3.507.442 | 10.4% | -0.1% | 10.4% | -0.1% | 127.8% | 16.9% | 7.3% | 7.3%

Adjustable by CER/UVA | 339.302 | 359.923 | 369.123 | 375.078 | 169.480 | -5.7% | -14.6% | -5.7% | -14.6% | 100.2% | 2.8% | 0.3% | 0.4%

Traditional | 147.268 | 156.518 | 168.232 | 179.996 | 107.593 | -5.9% | -14.8% | -5.9% | -14.8% | 36.9% | -29.7% | 0.1% | 0.2%

Pre-cancellable | 192.034 | 203.405 | 200.892 | 195.083 | 61.887 | -5.6% | -14.5% | -5.6% | -14.5% | 210.3% | 59.3% | 0.2% | 0.2%

DIVA | 43.407 | 41.340 | 42.176 | 42.763 | 24.403 | 5.0% | -4.9% | 5.0% | -4.9% | 77.9% | -8.7% | 0.0% | 0.0%

Other deposits | 213.263 | 222.900 | 208.885 | 198.208 | 138.782 | -4.3% | -9.4% | -4.3% | -9.4% | 53.7% | -21.1% | 0.2% | 0.2%

Public sector deposits² | 3.252.697 | 3.077.437 | 3.159.520 | 3.141.858 | 2.020.380 | 5.7% | 0.1% | 5.7% | 0.1% | 61.0% | -17.3% | 3.0% | 3.0%

**Monetary aggregates**

M2 Total | 12.428.780 | 11.865.345 | 10.402.475 | 10.170.584 | 7.528.239 | 4.7% | -1.0% | 4.7% | -1.0% | 65.1% | -15.2% | 10.8% | 11.0%

M3 Total | 23.130.550 | 21.731.311 | 20.102.338 | 19.250.676 | 12.554.345 | 6.4% | 0.7% | 6.4% | 0.7% | 84.2% | -5.4% | 20.6% | 20.5%

**Private monetary aggregates**

Private M2 | 11.154.798 | 10.662.927 | 9.288.880 | 8.925.484 | 6.608.557 | 4.6% | -0.4% | 4.6% | -0.4% | 68.8% | -13.3% | 9.9% | 9.9%

Private M2 transactional³ | 9.175.155 | 8.748.444 | 7.592.683 | 7.313.151 | 5.819.531 | 4.9% | 0.5% | 4.9% | 0.5% | 57.7% | -19.1% | 8.0% | 8.0%
# M3 private 19.740.381 18.525.024 16.821.611 15.992.806 10.448.664 6.6% -0.3% 6.6% -0.3% 88.9% -3.0% 17.6% 17.7%
 Total Loans to non-financial sector in pesos 6.962.371 6.763.983 6.412.609 6.090.876 4.160.051 2.9% -1.7% 2.9% -1.7% 67.4% -14.1% 6.2% 6.3%
 Loans to non-financial private sector 6.893.898 6.692.709 6.348.146 6.023.242 4.108.928 3.0% -1.7% 3.0% -1.7% 67.8% -13.9% 6.1% 6.2%
 Advances 758.077 774.823 737.274 660.899 397.613 -2.2% -4.6% -2.2% -4.6% 90.7% -2.1% 0.7% 0.7%
 Documents 1.779.275 1.708.414 1.626.579 1.547.748 1.050.002 4.1% 1.1% 4.1% 1.1% 69.5% -13.0% 1.6% 1.6%
 Mortgages 379.392 371.698 366.274 364.911 289.439 2.1% -3.7% 2.1% -3.7% 31.1% -32.7% 0.3% 0.4%
 Pledge loans 468.492 458.905 439.307 422.246 241.208 2.1% -2.3% 2.1% -2.3% 94.2% -0.3% 0.4% 0.4%
 Personal loans 1.089.436 1.047.471 1.012.711 971.315 685.574 4.0% -0.8% 4.0% -0.8% 58.9% -18.4% 1.0% 1.0%
 Credit cards 2.088.789 1.999.246 1.856.063 1.747.254 1.212.016 4.5% -1.0% 4.5% -1.0% 72.3% -11.5% 1.8% 1.8%
 Others 330.438 332.152 309.938 308.870 233.076 -0.5% -3.8% -0.5% -3.8% 41.8% -27.2% 0.3% 0.3%
 Loans to non-financial public sector 68.473 71.275 64.463 67.634 51.123 -3.9% -9.0% -3.9% -9.0% 33.9% -31.2% 0.1% 0.1%
 Segment in foreign currency 1

 Deposits of non-financial sector in dollars 19.539 18.784 18.091 17.524 18.742 4.0% - 4.0% - 4.3% - 3.3% 3.2%
 Deposits of non-financial private sector in dollars 16.260 15.685 15.209 14.982 15.539 3.7% - 3.7% - 4.6% - 2.7% 2.6%
 On demand 12.448 11.937 11.469 11.254 11.526 4.3% - 4.3% - 8.0% - 2.1% 2.0%
 Fixed-term and others 3.812 3.747 3.740 3.729 4.012 1.7% - 1.7% - -5.0% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Deposits of non-financial public sector in dollars 3.279 3.100 2.881 2.542 3.203 5.8% - 5.8% - 2.4% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Loans to non-financial sector in dollars 3.675 3.645 3.705 3.696 4.048 0.8% - 0.8% - -9.2% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Loans to non-financial private sector in dollars 3.503 3.491 3.562 3.586 3.907 0.4% - 0.4% - -10.3% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Documents 2.307 2.273 2.296 2.296 2.551 1.5% - 1.5% - -9.6% - 0.4% 0.4%
 Credit Cards 192 179 199 250 145 7.5% - 7.5% - 32.8% - 0.0% 0.0%
 Rest 1.004 1.039 1.067 1.040 1.212 -3.4% - -3.4% - -17.2% - 0.2% 0.2%
 Loans to non-financial public sector in dollars 172 153 143 111 141 11.9% - 11.9% - 21.8% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to private M2 remunerated on-demand deposits.
4 It is calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series for the month and estimated moving average of 3 months of seasonally adjusted GDP.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

 Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 15 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

 Interest Rates on monetary regulation instruments jan-23 AER jan-23 dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22
 BCRA Repo Rates
 Liabilities 1 day 70.90 103.06 70.00 70.00 70.00 32.00
 Liabilities 1 day (FCI) 56.20 74.89 52.50 52.50 52.50
 Assets 1 day 95.90 160.59 95.00 95.00 95.00 42.70
 LELIQ Rate at 28 days 75.00 107.35 75.00 75.00 75.00 39.61
 LELIQ Rate at 180 days 83.50 101.23 83.50 83.50 83.5 44
Interest Rates of the Interbank Market jan-23 TEA jan-23 dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22
Rates of repos between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day 62.08 85.94 66.37 69.01 70.70 29.43
Amount traded of repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 12.393 7.500 9.942 19.455 3.753
Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
Rate 66.67 94.66 67.38 65.64 66.10 31.36
Amount traded 16.420 22.471 25.400 30.297 20.031

Passive Interest Rates jan-23 TEA jan-23 dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22

Sight Deposits
Remunerated 58.98 77.87 57.48 56.58 55.20 28.53
Fixed Term
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 1 74.67 106.40 74.67 74.66 74.65 38.24

TM 20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 65.94 90.06 65.91 65.80 65.81 35.28
TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 66.52 91.11 66.48 66.49 66.48 35.98
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 68.94 95.53 68.58 68.52 68.38 35.78
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 69.58 96.73 69.45 69.31 69.19 36.72
Rate of early repayment of deposits in UVA 71.00 99.38 71.00 71.00 71.00 33.32

Active Interest Rates jan-23 TEA jan-23 dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22

Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos
Overdrafts in current account 76.75 115.27 75.43 74.49 72.45 41.59
1 to 7 days — with company agreement — more than $10 million 74.51 109.55 73.27 73.92 72.37 35.68
Documents at sole signature 61.43 82.09 61.43 61.22 61.09 34.80
Mortgage loans 58.18 76.53 62.71 61.42 60.85 30.51
Pledge loans 46.21 57.38 48.68 48.66 50.30 28.73
Personal loans 79.23 115.46 81.20 79.06 82.93 54.89
Credit cards 78.91 114.81 76.97 76.84 68.77 43.05
Interest rates of the foreign currency segment jan-23 TEA jan-23 dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22

Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.31 0.32 0.32 0.33 0.34 0.37
Documents at sole signature in dollars 3.56 3.62 5.40 4.26 4.55 4.97
Exchange Rate jan-23 Monthly Var. (%) dec-22 nov-22 oct-22 jan-22
TCN peso / dollar
Wholesale (Com. "A" 3.500) 182.12 5.61 172.45 162.10 152.05 103.93
Retail 2 185.16 5.68 175.20 164.85 154.64 106.28
TCN peso / real 35.12 6.69 32.92 30.74 28.93 18.81
TCN peso / euro 196.31 7.52 182.58 161.68 149.64 117.63
ITCNM 1.199.58 7.46 1.116.28 1.032.03 958.13 693.36
ITCRM 95.35 2.29 93.21 90.13 88.25 101.95

1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the guaranteed minimum interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $10 million from persons who, in total, in the financial entity exceed one million pesos. The guaranteed minimum interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total of fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed $10 million.
2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates purchased and sold noted by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 16 Glossary
ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Current account deposits at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the public and private non-financial sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in circulation held by the public, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Informational Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 17

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | January 2023 | BCRA | 18
