# Monthly Monetary Report
August 2023

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Page 7 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Page 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Page 12 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was September 7, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the Use of Inclusive Language in This Publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Base Monetary | M2 Priv. Transactional | Fixed Term Deposit S. Priv. | Fixed Term Deposit UVA S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | -6.2% | -2.7% | -3.9% | -17.9% | -2.5% |
| | | Loans to S. Priv. | Monetary Policy Interest Rates | | |
| | | monthly var. real s.e. | TEA; % | | |
| | | -4.9% | | | |

**Interest Rates** (nominal annual)

| Fixed term deposit of Natural Persons up to $30 million* | 209.4 | 28-day LELIQ Rate |
|---|---|---|
| Remaining fixed term deposits | 208.4 | 118.0% |
| 1-day Passive Repos | 202.9 | 1-day Passive Repos Rate |
| 28-day LELIQ | 189.3 | 111.0% |

**International Reserves** (millions of US$; end of month)
27,818

*Until 04-27-23 corresponds to the minimum regulated rate for natural persons up to $10 million.

Source: BCRA.

Following the Primary, Open, Simultaneous and Mandatory Elections (PASO), the BCRA, in a context of high financial volatility, recalibrated the official exchange rate level with the objective of favoring the accumulation of international reserves. In the same sense, and with the purpose of mitigating the pass-through to prices of the devaluation and promoting positive real returns on investments in local currency, the reference interest rates and fixed-term deposit rates were simultaneously readjusted.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector measured at constant prices, which had experienced a reduction in the first half of the month, recovered following the interest rate increase driven by the BCRA. Nevertheless, they presented a contraction in the average monthly variation. For its part, means of payment continued to show a decline in real terms and remained at minimum levels of recent decades. Thus, private M3 again showed real contraction without seasonality in August.

Finally, it should be noted that within the framework of the fifth and sixth review of the Extended Facilities Program (PFE), an IMF disbursement of approximately US$7,300 million was received, which allowed strengthening International Reserves and advancing the next September payment of US$950 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
Means of payment (private transactional M2¹), in real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.),
would have registered a contraction of 2.7% in August, and in this way would accumulate a decline
of approximately 16.3% in the year. This dynamic responded fundamentally to the behavior of cash in
the hands of the public, which continued marking new historical lows. Meanwhile, non-remunerated
demand deposits showed a slight decline (see Chart 2.1). In this way, at constant prices private transactional
M2 would be positioned 19.1% below the level of August 2022.

As a ratio of Product, means of payment would have been situated at 7.2%, remaining practically
unchanged with respect to the previous month (see Chart 2.2). Both components of means of payment
remained in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 20 years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e.     | % of GDP

p.p. Transactional demand deposits                    | % Private transactional M2
4  Cash in the hands of the public              | 16 Non-remunerated demand deposits
3  Private transactional M2 (%)                 | 14 Cash in the hands of the public
2                                               | 12
1                                               | 10
0                                               | 8
-1                                              | 6 7.2
-2                                              | 4 4.6
-3                                              | 2 2.6
-4                                              | 0
-5
-6
Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23 Jun-23 Aug-23 | Aug-05 Aug-07 Aug-09 Aug-11 Aug-13 Aug-15 Aug-17 Aug-19 Aug-21 Aug-23

Source: BCRA.                                    | Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

In line with the readjustment of interest rates of monetary policy instruments, the Board of Directors
of the BCRA arranged to increase the minimum guaranteed rates of fixed-term deposits². In this way,
it sought to maintain the incentive for savings in domestic currency and contribute to financial and
exchange rate equilibrium. Specifically, the monetary authority raised the minimum guaranteed interest
rate for placements of natural persons from 97% p.a. to 118% p.a., which is equivalent to a monthly
effective yield of 9.7%. Meanwhile, for the rest of the depositors of the financial system the minimum
guaranteed interest rate was raised from 90% p.a. to 111% p.a., with the monthly effective interest
being placed at 9.2%³.

The evolution of fixed-term deposits throughout the month was not homogeneous. In effect, the Monday
following the PASO elections, a nominal decline was verified, which can be explained by the very seasonality
of these placements on Mondays and the announcement of the new interest rates for these deposits that
would come into effect from

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component
was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² The interest rates currently in force are those established through communication "A" 7726.
³ The rest of the depositors is made up of Natural Persons with deposits of more than $30 million and by legal entities.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 3

Tuesday, which implied an increase in profitability by delaying the renewal of placements one day.
Thus, in the following days a reversal in the dynamic was observed (see Chart 3.1).

Nevertheless, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector would have experienced a contraction
of 3.9% s.e. at constant prices in the month. In any case, these placements remained around the maximum
levels of recent decades. In the same sense, as a percentage of GDP they would have been positioned at
7.4% in August (0.1 p.p. below the figure for July).
By amount stratum, the wholesale segment (more than $20 million) was the one that showed better performance, maintaining a balance in real terms similar to that observed since June (see Chart 3.2). By type of holder, Financial Service Providers (PSF) increased their holdings at constant prices and, in particular, Money Market Mutual Funds (FCI MM), whose assets increased 3.4% s.e. at constant prices. These agents also drove the growth of sight deposits with remuneration, which registered an increase of 7.7% s.e. in real terms. In the case of other companies, an average decline was observed during the month. For their part, placements of $1 to $20 million and less than $1 million showed a decline throughout the month.

Chart 3.1 | Fixed-term deposits by type of instrument Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term deposits by amount stratum
At constant prices At constant prices

The segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER continued to show a decrease in real terms, accumulating 13 consecutive months of contraction. The decrease was verified both in placements in traditional UVA as in precancellable ones, whose monthly rates of variation were -13.9% s.e. and -21.2% s.e. respectively, accelerating their rate of decline compared to previous months (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder, the decrease was fundamentally due to the dynamics of placements of individuals, which represented approximately 70% of the total. In any case, the balance of UVA deposits reached $272,400 million at the end of August, which is equivalent to 2% of the total instruments at term denominated in domestic currency.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 4 Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector Chart 3.4 | Deposits adjustable by exchange rate
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument Balance at constant prices

billions of $ of 31-Aug-23 billions of $ of 31-Aug-23
500 800

450 700
Fixed-term deposits
400 600 Sight deposits
350 500
300 471.7
250 400

200 300

150 Traditional UVA Fixed Rate 140.3
100 132.2 200
Precancellable UVA Fixed Rate
50 100
59.3
0 0
Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 Sep-22 Jan-23 May-23 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 May-23 Jul-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the other hand, deposits with adjustment based on the value of the reference exchange rate, while experiencing an average increase during the month, the behavior within the period under analysis was not homogeneous. In effect, sight deposits with exchange rate adjustment grew until mid-month, to then experience a decline. This behavior was explained in part by the halt in operations of the Exporter Increment Program (PIE) in the second half of the month. In the same sense, the announcement of the freeze on the exchange rate had an impact, which could have motivated the partial use of these funds. In any case, this type of deposits experienced an average monthly expansion of 5% at constant prices, favored by the carryover effect from the previous month, and a decline of 22.5% in real terms between end-of-month balances. Meanwhile, fixed-term deposits with adjustment based on the exchange rate reached a balance of $59,250 million at the end of the month, which implied an average monthly contraction of 0.8% at constant prices (see Chart 3.4).

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality, would have exhibited in August a monthly decline of 2.5%⁴. In the year-on-year comparison, this aggregate would have registered a decline of 5.7% and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at 16.9%, remaining stable compared to the previous month's record.

4. Monetary Base
The Monetary Base averaged $6,422.7 billion in August, which implied a monthly expansion of 4.8% (+$293,790 million) at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have shown a decrease of 6.2%, accumulating a decline of 33% over the last twelve months. As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would be positioned at 3.6%, a figure 0.1 p.p. lower than the value registered in the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Graph 4.1).

4 Private M3 includes currency in circulation in the hands of the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (sight, time and other).

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 | Monetary Base Graph 4.2 | Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
Average monthly variation
billions of pesos of Aug-23 % of GDP millions of pesos Rest*
18,500 12 1,500 Public Sector
17,500 Foreign currency purchases from private sector
16,500 10 1,000 Monetary base
15,500
14,500 8
13,500 500
12,500
11,500 6
10,500 0
9,500 4
8,500 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices -500
7,500 2
6,500 As a percentage of GDP (right axis)
5,500 -1,000
4,500 0 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23 Jun-23 Aug-23
Aug-05 Aug-07 Aug-09 Aug-11 Aug-13 Aug-15 Aug-17 Aug-19 Aug-21 Aug-23 * Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary market for securities and the execution of PUT
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, one of the main factors of monthly expansion of the monetary base was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector. Prior to the exchange rate correction, it was driven by operations carried out within the framework of the Export Growth Program; while thereafter, the impulse came from operations with the rest of the private sector. Also noteworthy were operations with public securities in the secondary market and the execution of put option contracts on National Government securities by financial entities, with the latter explaining most of it. Finally, public sector operations had an expansionary effect on average during the month due to the carry-over effect from the previous month. Within these operations is included the cancellation of Temporary Advances for $500,000 million. Overall, these effects were partially sterilized through monetary regulation instruments (see Graph 4.2).

Mid-month, the BCRA decided to readjust the interest rate level of monetary policy instruments, in line with the recalibration of the official exchange rate. The objective of the interest rate increase was to anchor expectations, minimize the degree of pass-through to prices, promote positive real returns on investments in local currency and contribute to financial and exchange rate equilibrium. Specifically, it ordered an increase of 21 p.p. in the 28-day LELIQ rate, bringing it to 118% n.a. (209.4% e.a.). The interest rate on 180-day LELIQ was increased by 15 p.p. and was positioned at 120.5% n.a. (157.5% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos increased from 91% n.a. to 111% n.a. (202.9% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos was set at 140% n.a. (304.4% e.a.). Finally, the NOTALIQ spread was set at 2.5 p.p. in the last auction.
## Composition of Remunerated Liabilities

Regarding the composition of remunerated liabilities, in August LELIQs with a 28-day term represented, on average, 68.2% of the total, reducing their relative participation compared to the previous month. Longer-term species, concentrated through NOTALIQ, represented only 0.7% of the August balance. On the other hand, 1-day reverse repos increased their participation in the total of instruments, reaching a representativeness of 26.4%. The remainder was made up of LEDIV and LEGAR which increased their participation by 1.0 p.p. compared to the previous month.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 65. Loans to the Private Sector

In August, loans in pesos to the private sector in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a monthly contraction of 4.9% and in the last 12 months would have accumulated a decline of around 13.0%. The decline in the month was widespread across major credit lines (see Graph 5.1). As a percentage of GDP, loans in pesos to the private sector fell slightly in the month and were placed at 6.2%, the lowest level since mid-2004 (see Graph 5.2).

Graph 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth

Graph 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
In terms of GDP

[Graphs showing percentage trends with following elements:]
- Personal Documents, Advances, Credit Cards
- Pledged, Mortgage loans
- Other Total (monthly variation) -4.9%
- Loans in pesos to the private sector
- GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
- Ratio to GDP at 6.2%
- Dates from feb-22 to ago-23

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Commercial lines would have fallen 4.5% s.e. monthly in real terms. At the instrument level, loans granted through documents would have decreased 3.0% s.e. in real terms and would be placed practically at the same level as a year ago. Within these lines, single-signature documents would have recorded a decline of 4.2% s.e. and discounted documents exhibited a decline of 1.3% s.e. Meanwhile, advances would have recorded a sharp contraction at constant prices of 7.2% s.e., and would be placed 14% below the level of August 2022.

The Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel credit to productive activities of Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MiPyMES). At the end of August, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated $7,342 billion since its launch, with an increase of 8.4% compared to the previous month (see Graph 5.3). Of the total financing granted through the LFIP, 14.3% corresponds to investment projects and the remainder to working capital. The average balance of financing granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,783 billion in July (latest available information), which represents around 17.6% of total loans and 38.2% of total commercial loans.

Regarding commercial loans by type of debtor, credit to relatively smaller-sized companies continued to be located around 1.7% of GDP, above the pre-pandemic record and the historical average. In contrast, in the case of large companies, the credit-to-GDP ratio remains around 1.2% of GDP, among the lowest records of the last 20 years (see graph 5.4).

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 7

Graph 5.3 | Financing granted through the Productive
Investment Financing Line (LFIP)
Cumulative amounts disbursed; data at end of month

Graph 5.4 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor
As a percentage of GDP

[Graphs showing:]
- Billions of pesos scale up to 8,000
- Total of 7,342 with MiPyMEs and Investment projects
- Thousands of millions reaching 1,048
- Percentage of GDP scale up to 4.0%
- MiPyMEs, Other Legal Entities
- Levels at 1.7% and 1.2%
0 0.5
 nov-20 mar-21 jul-21 nov-21 mar-22 jul-22 nov-22 mar-23 jul-23 ago-05 ago-07 ago-09 ago-11 ago-13 ago-15 ago-17 ago-19 ago-21 ago-23
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Consumer loans would have fallen 5.0% s.e. at constant prices during the month and would accumulate a
reduction of 15.7% in the last year. Within these lines, financings implemented with credit cards
would have shown a contraction in real terms of 4.0% s.e. in the month and personal loans
would have fallen 7.1% s.e. in the same period. In year-over-year terms, these loans registered
declines on the order of 10% and 26%, respectively.

With respect to lines with real guarantees, at constant prices, pawn loans would have
registered a decrease of 6.2% s.e., bringing the year-over-year decline to 15.6%. For its part, the balance of
mortgage credits would have shown a monthly decrease of 7.6% s.e., with a decline on the order of
42% in the last 12 months.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In August, broad banking liquidity in local currency5 remained unchanged compared to July,
averaging 84% of deposits (see Chart 6.1 and 6.2). In this way it remained at historically
elevated levels. Within this, it is worth mentioning that there was an increase in reverse repos, to the
detriment of LELIQ and public securities eligible for minimum cash integration.

5 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, net repo balances arranged with the BCRA, holdings
of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and public bonds eligible for reserve requirements.

 Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 8 Chart 6.1 | Liquidity levels in pesos Chart 6.2 | Composition of liquidity
of financial entities of financial entities
 % of deposits

 % of LELIQ Securities for
 deposits Integration
 90
 80 Liquidity* 84.0
 Broad Liquidity 75.4
 70
 60 Rest
 8.6
 50

 40

 30

 20 Net Integrated Repos
 16.4 6.7
 10

 0 Rest Cash in
 ago-13 ago-15 ago-17 ago-19 ago-21 ago-23 39.4 Banks
 CC BCRA $ BOTE 1.8
 *Public securities that are susceptible to being integrated are excluded, but are considered Integrated 3.2 4.0 3.5 NOTALIQ 0.4
 surpluses. Note: For the distribution of securities between integrated and rest, the last available information
 Source: BCRA. from the Minimum Cash Information System is assumed constant
 Source: BCRA.

7. Foreign currency

In the foreign currency segment, private sector deposits showed a decline of US$ 518 million
in the month, which was concentrated in sight deposits, and ended August with a balance of US$ 14,987 million.
On the other hand, the balance of loans to the private sector decreased US$ 21 million and ended the month at
US$ 3,805 million (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency
in foreign currency of the private sector of financial entities

 thousands of % of Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
 millions of US$ deposits
 25 90 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.9 86.0 86.4 85.5 84.9 83.4
 82.5 81.7 82.5
 Deposits Loans 80

 20 70

 15 15.0 60
 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6 66.4 64.4 63.5 62.4 60.0 56.4 56.0
 50

 10 40

 30
 5
 3.8 20

 10 20.3 21.9 21.4 22.5 22.4 20.1 21.1 21.4 21.0 22.4 25.3 26.6
 0 18.7

 0
 ago-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dic-22 ene-23 feb-23 mar-23 abr-23 may-23 jun-23 jul-23 ago-23
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment increased 0.8 p.p.
with respect to the July average, standing at 82.5% of deposits and remaining at historically
elevated levels. This increase was explained principally by cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

During August, a series of regulatory modifications took place in foreign exchange matters. Thus, greater
flexibility was provided in access to the foreign exchange market6 and the entry and settlement of
## Communications "A" 7815 and "A" 7830

**Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 9**

...the foreign currency from exports of certain corn-derived products⁷. In turn, the conditions were expanded for the subscription of Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in dollars redeemable in pesos at the Reference Exchange Rate Com. "A" 3500 (LEDIV) at zero rate⁸. For its part, the tax rate on certain consumption in foreign currency was reduced provided it exceeds a certain amount, which had a fundamental impact on the exchange rate facing outbound tourism⁹.

It should be noted that in the first days of September the "Export Increment Program" was re-established, with the objective of increasing the supply of foreign currency. On this occasion, instead of determining a differential exchange rate, it was established that 75% of the countervalue of the export of the goods covered must be brought into the country in foreign currency and traded through the Free Exchange Market (MLC), while the remaining 25% will be freely available¹⁰.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended August with a balance of US$ 27.818 billion, recording an increase of US$ 3.727 billion compared to the end of July (see Chart 7.3). This dynamic was impacted by the disbursement from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) made within the framework of the fifth and sixth review of the Extended Facilities Program (PFE), for approximately US$7.300 billion (5.500 billion SDRs). With part of these funds, $500.000 billion of Transitory Advances were paid (around US$1.430 million), the capital payment to the IMF was advanced for about US$ 950 million that was due in September, and the debt with Qatar was paid for US$ 773.7 million. The latter had been contracted in early August as a bridge loan to comply with the payment of interest to the IMF. In turn, towards the end of the month, the placement that CAF had made at the BCRA was reversed for US$ 1.000 billion. Another factor that contributed to the increase in International Reserves was the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector, which totaled US$ 1.254 million in the month.

Finally, in the middle of the month, the BCRA decided to recalibrate the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar, bringing it to $ 350/US$. In this way, the Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM) reached levels similar to those recorded in mid-2021 and to the historical average of the index (see Chart 7.4).

**Chart 7.3 | Balance of International Reserves | Chart 7.4 | Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index**

[Chart showing values in billions of US$ from Aug-15 to Aug-23, with values ranging from 0 to 90]

Source: BCRA.

⁷ Communication "A" 7826.
⁸ Communication "A" 7829.
⁹ General Resolution 5403/2023 of the General Administration of Public Revenue.
¹⁰ Decree 443/2023 of the National Executive Branch.

**Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 10**

## 8. Regulatory Summary

| Date of Issue | Regulation | Description |
Regarding access to the foreign exchange market for payment of services provided by non-residents, the requirement of having the declaration made through the Comprehensive System for Monitoring Foreign Payments of Services (SIMPE S) in "APPROVED" status is waived when it is a payment by: i) the public sector, ii) all business organizations in which the National State has majority participation in capital or in the formation of corporate decisions, insofar as the payments do not correspond to insurance premiums, claims and auxiliary insurance services, iii) trusts constituted with contributions from the national public sector, iv) financial entities for imports of services carried out by the same entity, or v) entities for the cancellation of letters of credit or endorsed bills issued or granted until January 6, 2022 inclusive.

Effective as of August 15, 2023, an increase in the minimum limits of interest rates on fixed-term deposits was ordered, bringing them to a yield of 118% nominal annual for deposits of natural persons of up to 30 million pesos and 111% nominal annual for the rest of the fixed-term deposits. In the same sense, the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with the option of early cancellation rose to 108.93% nominal annual, and was raised to 110.93% nominal annual when the contractual term of the deposit is at least 180 days and the effective term in which it has been held is at least 120 days.

For its part, financing agreed within the framework of the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of MSMEs" increased its interest rate to 97% nominal annual for investment projects and 109% nominal annual for working capital financing and discounting of post-dated checks and other documents.

Finally, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to September 2023, the compensatory interest limit for financing linked to credit cards was raised to 107% nominal annual, which financial entities may apply when the amount financed to natural persons for this purpose, considering each credit card account, does not exceed $200,000.

It was ordered that payment service providers that offer payment accounts must pass on to their customers the full compensation they receive for balances in pesos of deposit accounts in the financial entities where their customers' funds are deposited.

As of August 25, 2023, certain corn-derived products were incorporated into the list of tariff positions for which a period of 15 calendar days is set for the receipt and settlement of foreign currency from goods exports.

The conditions were detailed under which the "Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in dollars and payable in pesos at the Reference Exchange Rate (LEDIV) at zero rate" will be offered. In particular, this regulation enables entities to participate in the subscription on behalf and order of clients that are Mass Consumer Goods Provider Companies participating in the voluntary agreements of the "Fair Prices" Program, for the equivalent of new shipments pending payment as of August 25, 2023.

With respect to non-resident clients, it was ordered that international organizations and institutions that fulfill the functions of official export credit agencies may access the foreign exchange market for the purchase of foreign currency, which will require prior approval from the BCRA.
The entry into force of the interoperability of QR codes for charging with credit cards was postponed for 45 calendar days, which had originally been arranged in Communication A7769 on September 1, 2023.

August 31 - 2023 Com. "A" 7 8 30

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 11 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of Aug-23 % of GDP
Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA monthly accumulated in 2023 year-on-year
Aug-23 Jul-23 Jun-23 Dec-22 Aug-22 Aug-23 Dec-22
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real

Monetary base 6,422,707 6,128,916 5,603,843 4,781,929 4,287,266 4.8% -6.2% 4.8% -26.1% 49.8% -33.0% 3.6% 4.6%

Monetary circulation 5,188,683 4,918,975 4,501,724 3,767,917 3,234,769 5.5% -5.3% 5.5% -25.4% 60.4% -28.2% 2.9% 3.6%

Cash in the hands of the public 4,634,709 4,439,884 4,022,764 3,361,661 2,904,397 4.4% -6.2% 4.4% -25.4% 59.6% -28.6% 2.6% 3.2%

Cash in financial entities 553,856 479,090 478,960 406,256 330,371 15.6% 2.4% 15.6% -25.1% 67.6% -25.0% 0.3% 0.4%

Current account at the BCRA 1,234,023 1,209,941 1,102,119 1,014,012 1,052,497 2.0% -9.7% 2.0% -33.2% 17.2% -47.6% 0.7% 1.0%

Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN $) 19,479,195 16,950,486 15,902,970 10,076,065 7,028,162 14.9% 1.8% 14.9% 6.2% 177.2% 24.0% 11.0% 9.8%

Passive Repos 5,148,609 3,803,047 3,663,530 2,004,090 944,336 35.4% 19.9% 35.4% 41.1% 445.2% 143.9% 2.9% 1.9%

Stock of LELIQ 13,310,271 12,353,763 11,381,469 6,831,822 4,832,790 7.7% -4.6% 7.7% 7.0% 175.4% 23.2% 7.5% 6.6%

Stock of LELIQ at 28 days 13,288,889 12,298,524 11,305,721 6,820,934 4,825,195 8.1% -4.3% 8.1% 7.0% 175.4% 23.2% 7.5% 6.6%

Stock of LELIQ at 180 days 21,382 55,238 75,748 10,888 7,595 -61.3% -65.7% -61.3% 7.9% 181.5% 25.9% 0.0% 0.0%

Stock of NOTALIQ 116,691 172,093 241,188 1,110,688 1,206,889 -32.2% -39.9% -32.2% -94.2% -90.3% -95.7% 0.1% 1.1%

Stock of LEDIV 821,470 554,601 550,993 76,058 0 48.1% 31.2% 48.1% 493.3% - - 0.5% 0.1%

Stock of LEGAR 82,154 66,982 65,789 53,408 44,147 22.7% 8.6% 22.7% -15.5% 86.1% -16.8% 0.0% 0.1%

BCRA international reserves in dollars 25,132 26,140 31,931 40,650 37,116 -3.9% - -3.9% - -32.3% - 4.6% 6.8%

Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2023 Year-on-year

Factors of average monthly variation
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution

Monetary base 293,790 4.8% 1,029,912 19.1% 1,640,777 34.3% 2,135,441 49.8%

Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others 409,730 6.7% 345,425 6.4% 278,291 5.8% 1,487,871 34.7%

Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury -124,583 -2.0% -1,150,799 -21.3% -1,537,265 -32.1% -1,732,240 -40.4%

Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits to Nat. Gov. 231,613 3.8% 1,459,290 27.1% 2,028,645 42.4% 2,026,387 47.3%

Other public sector operations -49,818 -0.8% -44,681 -0.8% -37,112 -0.8% 46,306 1.1%

Monetary regulation instruments -800,807 -13.1% -743,091 -13.8% -946,873 -19.8% -1,916,932 -44.7%

Others 627,656 10.2% 1,163,768 21.6% 1,855,091 38.8% 2,224,049 51.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA -1,009 -3.9% -8,394 -25.0% -15,519 -38.2% -11,985 -32.3%
Foreign currency purchase 894 3.4% 15 0.0% -1,644 -4.0% 2,971 8.0%
International organizations 5 -592 -22.3% -3,524 -10.5% -6,163 -15.2% -6,810 -18.3%
Other public sector operations 2,392 9.2% 1,339 4.0% -720 -1.8% -724 -2.0%
Minimum cash -214 -0.8% -1,300 -3.9% -1,919 -4.7% -1,730 -4.7%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -3,488 -13.3% -4,924 -14.7% -5,072 -12.5% -5,692 -15.3%
Note: The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
5 Does not include the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) or the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE).

Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration Aug-23 Jul-23 Jun-23
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement after deductions 16.8 17.7 17.4
Integration in current accounts 4.0 4.2 4.1
Integration LELIQ 27.6 30.0 31.0
Integration BOTE 2027 3.5 3.8 4.0
Integration Other Public Securities 15.3 16.8 15.6
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes application of resources default) 56.0 56.4 60.0
Position (1) 32.0 32.4 36.0

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement
Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 12 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages Percentage variations average of Aug-23 % of GDP 4

Main monetary variables and financial system Monthly Accumulated in 2023 Year-on-year
Aug-23 Jul-23 Jun-23 Dec-22 Aug-22 Aug-23 Dec-22
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Domestic currency segment
Total deposits of non-financial sector in pesos 1 131,025,952 28,326,479 26,470,637 18,248,097 14,057,898 9.5% -1.5% 9.5% -6.4% 120.7% -1.3% 17.5% 17.7%

Private sector deposits 25,570,919 23,358,729 21,817,209 15,170,436 11,426,208 9.5% -1.2% 9.5% -7.1% 123.8% 0.1% 14.4% 14.7%
Sight deposits of private sector 11,957,640 10,820,590 10,145,436 7,305,131 5,436,199 10.5% 1.9% 10.5% -4.0% 120.0% -1.6% 6.8% 6.7%
Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 8,014,804 7,578,035 7,165,810 5,375,548 4,093,193 5.8% -0.6% 5.8% -10.3% 95.8% -12.4% 4.6% 4.8%
Remunerated 3,942,836 3,242,555 2,979,626 1,929,583 1,343,006 21.6% 7.7% 21.6% 12.2% 193.6% 31.3% 2.2% 1.9%
Sight deposits with exchange rate adjustment 552 465 514 132 18.7% 5.0% 18.7% 117.5% 0.0%
Fixed-term deposits and other private sector 13,613,278 12,538,139 11,671,773 7,865,305 5,990,009 8.6% -3.9% 8.6% -9.8% 127.3% 1.7% 7.6% 7.9%
Fixed-term 13,288,981 12,233,425 11,369,525 7,642,488 5,812,179 8.6% -3.9% 8.6% -9.5% 128.6% 2.3% 7.4% 7.7%
Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange rate 12,948,978 11,877,963 10,991,646 7,241,211 5,378,497 9.0% -3.5% 9.0% -6.9% 140.8% 7.7% 7.2% 7.3%
Adjustable by CER/UVA 280,908 302,736 324,048 359,936 399,382 -7.2% -17.9% -7.2% -59.4% -29.7% -68.5% 0.2% 0.4%
Traditional 132,994 136,652 141,399 156,519 204,126 -2.7% -13.9% -2.7% -55.8% -34.8% -70.9% 0.1% 0.2%
Cancelable in advance 147,913 166,084 182,649 203,417 195,256 -10.9% -21.2% -10.9% -62.2% -24.2% -66.1% 0.1% 0.2%
DIVA 59,096 52,726 53,831 41,340 34,300 12.1% -0.8% 12.1% -25.6% 72.3% -22.9% 0.0% 0.0%
Other deposits 324,297 304,714 302,249 222,818 177,830 6.4% -5.7% 6.4% -20.1% 82.4% -18.4% 0.2% 0.2%
Public sector deposits 2 5,455,033 4,967,750 4,653,428 3,077,661 2,631,690 9.8% -2.7% 9.8% -2.6% 107.3% -7.3% 3.1% 3.0%

Monetary aggregates
M2 Total 18,596,033 16,988,760 15,748,895 11,869,262 9,240,533 9.5% -0.9% 9.5% -10.2% 101.2% -10.0% 10.5% 11.1%
M3 Total 35,846,572 32,916,252 30,715,273 21,738,611 17,075,219 8.9% -2.7% 8.9% -8.0% 109.9% -6.1% 20.2% 20.7%

Private monetary aggregates
M2 private 16,592,350 15,260,475 14,168,200 10,666,792 8,340,596 8.7% -1.6% 8.7% -11.7% 98.9% -11.0% 9.3% 10.0%
M2 private transactional 3 12,649,514 12,017,920 11,188,574 8,737,209 6,997,590 5.3% -2.7% 5.3% -16.3% 80.8% -19.1% 7.2% 8.1%

M3 private 30,205,628 27,798,614 25,839,973 18,532,097 14,330,605 8.7% -2.5% 8.7% -10.6% 110.8% -5.7% 16.9% 17.9%

Total loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 11,106,051 10,294,800 9,642,961 6,765,414 5,722,071 7.9% -5.2% 7.9% -7.6% 94.1% -13.2% 6.3% 6.4%

Loans to the non-financial private sector 10,980,024 10,146,225 9,514,817 6,694,118 5,664,897 8.2% -4.9% 8.2% -7.6% 93.8% -13.3% 6.2% 6.3%
Advances 1,228,694 1,175,146 1,054,388 775,219 640,655 4.6% -7.2% 4.6% -14.1% 91.8% -14.2% 0.7% 0.7%
Documents 3,365,958 3,017,779 2,765,663 1,708,519 1,497,990 11.5% -3.0% 11.5% 11.3% 124.7% 0.5% 1.9% 1.6%
Mortgages 458,322 437,870 420,761 371,698 350,440 4.7% -7.6% 4.7% -32.2% 30.8% -41.5% 0.3% 0.4%
Pledges 725,127 676,923 627,753 458,905 384,534 7.1% -6.2% 7.1% -12.5% 88.6% -15.6% 0.4% 0.4%
Personal 1,495,358 1,424,297 1,397,529 1,050,186 900,839 5.0% -7.1% 5.0% -21.1% 66.0% -25.7% 0.9% 1.0%
Credit cards 3,220,098 2,941,548 2,805,560 1,999,883 1,596,047 9.5% -4.0% 9.5% -5.8% 101.8% -9.7% 1.9% 1.9%
Others 486,467 472,663 443,163 329,708 294,391 2.9% -7.5% 2.9% -20.4% 65.2% -26.1% 0.3% 0.3%

Loans to the non-financial public sector 126,027 148,575 128,144 71,296 57,173 -15.2% -24.9% -15.2% -2.9% 120.4% -1.4% 0.1% 0.1%

Segment in foreign currency 1

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 17,578 17,835 17,601 18,785 17,547 -1.4% - -1.4% - 0.2% - 3.2% 3.2%

Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15,232 15,477 15,440 15,686 14,603 -1.6% - -1.6% - 4.3% - 2.8% 2.6%
Sight deposits 11,879 12,074 11,998 11,937 10,824 -1.6% - -1.6% - 9.7% - 2.2% 2.0%
Fixed-term deposits and others 3,353 3,403 3,442 3,749 3,779 -1.5% - -1.5% - -11.3% - 0.6% 0.6%

Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2,346 2,358 2,161 3,100 2,944 -0.5% - -0.5% - -20.3% - 0.5% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,932 3,953 4,045 3,645 3,835 -0.5% - -0.5% - 2.5% - 0.7% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,737 3,760 3,853 3,491 3,714 -0.6% - -0.6% - 0.6% - 0.7% 0.6%
Documents 2,559 2,607 2,671 2,273 2,434 -1.8% - -1.8% - 5.1% - 0.5% 0.4%
Credit Cards 223 223 221 179 272 0.0% - 0.0% - -18.0% - 0.0% 0.0%
Rest 956 931 961 1,039 1,008 2.7% - 2.7% - -5.2% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 194 193 192 153 120 0.8% - 0.8% - 61.4% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, without adjusting for financial trusts.
2 Net of the use of unified funds.
3 Excludes with respect to private M2 remunerated sight deposits.
4 It is calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and the non-seasonal GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 13 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Interest rates of monetary regulation instruments Aug-23 TEA Aug-23 Jul-23 Jun-23 Dec-22 Aug-22
# RATES OF BCRA OPERATIONS

**Liabilities 1 day** 102.61 178.62 91.00 91.00 70.00 61.44
**Liabilities 1 day (FCI)** 87.22 137.50 77.35 77.35 52.50
**Assets 1 day** 129.94 265.85 116.00 116.00 95.00 83.81
**LELIQ Rate at 28 days** 109.19 185.37 97.00 97.00 75.00 66.44
**LELIQ Rate at 180 days** 114.21 147.42 105.50 105.50 83.50 73.45

# INTEREST RATES OF THE INTERBANK MARKET

| | aug-23 | AER aug-23 | jul-23 | jun-23 | dec-22 | aug-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Rates of repos between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day** | 87.77 | 140.29 | 82.71 | 77.58 | 66.63 | 60.31 |
| **Amount traded of repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average)** | 13,054 | 14,268 | 15,262 | 7,500 | 11,723 | |
| **Call in pesos (at 1 business day)** | | | | | | |
| Rate | 97.57 | 164.97 | 85.43 | 84.13 | 67.38 | 57.79 |
| Amount traded | 20,813 | 18,007 | 15,838 | 22,471 | 22,249 | |

# PASSIVE INTEREST RATES

| | aug-23 | AER aug-23 | jul-23 | jun-23 | dec-22 | aug-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Demand Deposits** | | | | | | |
| Remunerated | 86.04 | 129.65 | 77.86 | 72.75 | 57.46 | 45.26 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | | | | |
| Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) | 107.05 | 179.00 | 96.66 | 96.67 | 74.67 | 65.56 |
| TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) | 102.02 | 166.37 | 89.48 | 89.10 | 65.91 | 57.44 |
| TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) | 102.72 | 168.08 | 90.04 | 89.92 | 66.48 | 58.14 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 103.72 | 170.57 | 92.16 | 91.66 | 68.58 | 59.74 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 104.59 | 172.74 | 92.82 | 92.62 | 69.45 | 60.71 |
| **Rate of early cancellation of deposits in UVA** | 101.19 | 164.34 | 91.80 | 91.80 | 71.00 | 62.44 |

# ACTIVE INTEREST RATES

| | aug-23 | AER aug-23 | jul-23 | jun-23 | dec-22 | aug-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos** | | | | | | |
| Overdrafts in current account | 104.37 | 183.55 | 97.05 | 95.09 | 75.43 | 60.09 |
| 1 to 7 days — with company agreement — more than $10 millions | 102.02 | 174.66 | 91.70 | 92.08 | 73.27 | 61.71 |
| Single signature documents | 92.55 | 143.99 | 86.63 | 83.27 | 61.42 | 54.10 |
| Mortgage loans | 78.84 | 114.67 | 74.65 | 75.44 | 62.71 | 43.80 |
| Pledge loans | 66.19 | 90.51 | 65.13 | 66.15 | 48.60 | 41.66 |
| Personal loans | 108.35 | 182.34 | 102.72 | 104.05 | 81.19 | 74.76 |
| Credit cards | 87.78 | 133.40 | 84.17 | 82.72 | 77.10 | 54.92 |

# INTEREST RATES OF THE FOREIGN CURRENCY SEGMENT

| | aug-23 | AER aug-23 | jul-23 | jun-23 | dec-22 | aug-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days)** | 0.32 | 0.32 | 0.33 | 0.32 | 0.32 | 0.34 |
| **Single signature documents in dollars** | 4.75 | 4.86 | 4.77 | 6.77 | 5.40 | 5.31 |

# EXCHANGE RATE

| | aug-23 | Monthly Var. (%) | jul-23 | jun-23 | dec-22 | aug-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **ECN peso / dollar** | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 321.62 | 20.89 | 266.05 | 248.31 | 172.45 | 135.26 |
| Retail¹ | 328.13 | 20.62 | 272.03 | 253.61 | 175.20 | 138.02 |
| **ECN peso / real** | 65.58 | 18.22 | 55.48 | 51.17 | 32.92 | 26.32 |
| **ECN peso / euro** | 350.66 | 19.21 | 294.16 | 269.24 | 182.58 | 136.95 |
| **ITCNM** | 2,121.83 | 19.08 | 1,781.88 | 1,653.49 | 1,116.28 | 878.15 |
| **ITCRM** | 106.70 | 11.63 | 95.58 | 93.65 | 93.21 | 91.50 |

¹ The Reference Retail Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the purchase and sale exchange rates recorded by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 14 Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 private: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M2 private transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and non-remunerated demand deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in the hands of the public, cancelable checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Futures Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring of Service Payments Abroad.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 15

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | August 2023 | BCRA | 16
