# Monetary Report
Monthly
May 2023

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Page 6 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Page 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Page 14 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 17 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was on June 7, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the Use of Inclusive Language in this Publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows all gender identities to be made visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. At the same time, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value systems.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Base Monetary | M2 Priv. Transactional | Fixed Term S. Priv. | Fixed Term UVA S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | -4.2% | -3.1% | 0.1% | -2.8% | -1.9% |

| Loans to S. Priv. | Interest Rates of Monetary Policy |
|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | TEA; % 154.9 |
| | 160 154.3 |
| | 148.2 -0.1% |
| | 138.3 |

Fixed term deposits from individuals up to $30 million* | 28-day LELIQ Rate | 140 Remaining fixed terms
Annual nominal rate | 120 1-day Passive Repos
28-day LELIQ | 100 1-day Passive Repos Rate
Annual nominal rate | 80 | 91.0%
| | 60 |
| | 40 International Reserves
| | millions of US$; end of month
| | may-22 ago-22 nov-22 feb-23 may-23 |

*Until April 27-23 corresponds to the minimum regulated rate for individuals up to $1,033,001

Source: BCRA.

In mid-May, the BCRA raised by 6 percentage points (p.p.) the monetary policy interest rate (28-day LELIQ), bringing it to 97% n.a. (154.9% e.a.). It also raised the interest rates of the remaining monetary regulation instruments and the minimum regulated interest rates of deposits. Since the increase occurred in mid-month, it still did not fully impact the dynamics of deposits. In May, fixed-term placements in pesos by the private sector remained unchanged. In this way, they persist around the maximum values of recent decades, both at constant prices and as a percentage of GDP.

For its part, transactional means of payment continued to decline and, in contrast to what occurred with peso savings instruments, private transactional M2 in terms of GDP continued to be located at minimum levels of the last 20 years.

In a context in which fixed-term deposits remained unchanged and in which means of payment contracted, the broad monetary aggregate (private M3) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered a contraction in the fifth month of the year.

Loans to productive activities of MSMEs, implemented through documents, were those that showed the most dynamism, with the Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) being the main instrument used to channel this type of credit.
# Translation to English

Finally, it is worth noting that in May the third edition of the Export Increase Program for the soy complex ended, although it continues for regional economies. The program allowed the BCRA, until June 2, to purchase foreign currency for a total of US$5,112.5 million, a figure that was in line with the forecasts made at the program's launch that anticipated liquidations of around US$5,000 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of payment

In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), means of payment (private transactional M2¹), would have registered a contraction of 3.1% in May. The dynamics of the month responded, in similar proportions, to both the behavior of cash in the hands of the public and non-remunerated demand deposits (see Chart 2.1). In this way, in year-over-year terms and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned 18.7% below the level of May 2022. As a proportion of GDP, means of payment would have represented 7.7%, showing a slight decrease (0.1 p.p.) compared to the previous month and around its minimum values of the last 20 years (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices
Contribution by component to monthly variation s.e.

Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
% of GDP - Private transactional M2

[Details of charts showing: Non-remunerated demand deposits, Transactional demand deposits, Cash in the hands of the public, and M2 private transactional (%), with data from May 2022 to May 2023]

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings instruments in pesos

The BCRA Board decided to increase the minimum guaranteed interest rates for fixed-term deposits in the fifth month of the year, with the objective of maintaining the incentive to save in domestic currency and contributing to financial and exchange rate balance². Specifically, the monetary authority raised the minimum guaranteed interest rate for fixed-term deposits of individuals from 91% n.a. to 97% n.a. (154.3% e.a.). Meanwhile, for the rest of the depositors in the financial system, the minimum guaranteed interest rate was increased from 85.5% n.a. to 90% n.a. (138.3% e.a.³).

Since the new rate was only in effect for 15 days of May, the effect on the monthly average variation was limited. Thus, private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos would have maintained their balance stable at constant prices and, in this way, remained close to the highest levels recorded in recent decades. In terms of Product, this type of deposits would have been positioned at 7.7% in May.

Analyzing placements by amount bracket, wholesale deposits (more than $20 million) showed an average increase during the month (see Chart 3.1). The dynamics of the wholesale segment were explained by the greater holdings of Financial Service Providers, whose main actors are Money Market Common Investment Funds (Money Market CIFs). These agents rebalanced their portfolio in favor

---

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.

² The interest rates currently in effect are those established through communication "A" 7726.

³ The rest of the depositors is made up of Legal Entities and Individuals with deposits of more than $10 million.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 3

of traditional fixed-term placements and to the detriment of remunerated sight deposits. In fact, in the monthly average, remunerated sight deposits registered a contraction of 2.4% at constant prices and without seasonality. This change in composition in the portfolio of MM FCIs occurred in a context of relative stability of its assets measured at constant prices⁴ (see Chart 3.2). The dynamics of the wholesale segment was offset by the behavior of retail deposits (up to $1 million) and those from $1 to $20 million, which experienced declines in real terms. Finally, Investments with early cancellation options, which cannot be classified by type of holder, showed an increase during the month.

Chart 3.1 | Private sector deposits in pesos | Chart 3.2 | Deposits of more than $20 million
Contribution to monthly real growth by amount stratum | Balance at constant prices
thousands of millions | thousands of millions
of $ as of 31-May-23 | Remunerated sight deposits of PSF of $ as of 31-May-23
p.p. | Traditional fixed-term deposits of PSF
 | Patrimony FCIs MM (right axis)
6 | 3,600 | 5,600
5 | 3,400 | 5,400
4 | 3,200 | 5,200
3 | 3,000 | 5,000
2 | 2,800 | 4,800
1 | 2,600 | 4,600
0 | 2,400 | 4,400
-1 | 2,200 | 4,200
-2 | 2,000 | 4,000
-3 | Less than $1 million | 1,800 | 3,800
-4 | | 1,600 | 3,600
  | From $1 million to $20 million | 1,400 | 3,400
-5 | More than $20 million | 1,200 | 3,200
-6 | Total (%) | 1,000 | 3,000
-7 | | 800 | 2,800
-8 | | 01-nov | 23-nov | 15-dic | 06-ene | 28-ene | 19-feb | 13-mar | 04-abr | 26-abr | 18-may
 | may-22 | jul-22 | sep-22 | nov-22 | ene-23 | mar-23 | may-23 | Source: BCRA.
 | Source: BCRA. |

The segment of CER-adjustable fixed-term deposits continued to experience a contraction in real terms, accumulating ten consecutive months of decline. However, they moderated their rate of decline compared to previous months. The decrease was verified both in traditional UVA placements and in those with early cancellation options, whose monthly rates of change were -3.3% s.e. and -2.3% s.e. respectively (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder, the decrease was fundamentally due to the dynamics of placements of individuals, which represent approximately 85% of the total. In any case, the balance of UVA deposits reached $321,500 million at the end of May, which is equivalent to 2.9% of the total instruments at fixed term denominated in domestic currency.

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of private sector | Chart 3.4 | Deposits adjustable by exchange rate
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument | Balance at current prices

thousands of millions | thousands of
of $ as of 31-May-23 | millions of $
400 | 550
360 | Fixed-term deposits | 534.7
500 | Sight deposits
320 | 450
280 | 400
240 | 350
200 | 180.8 | 300
160 | 250
120 | 140.7 | 200
 | Traditional UVA Fixed-Term | 150
80 | Precancelable UVA Fixed-Term | 100
40 | 50 | 52.9
0 | 0
ene-21 | may-21 | sep-21 | ene-22 | may-22 | sep-22 | ene-23 | may-23 | sep-22 | oct-22 | nov-22 | dic-22 | ene-23 | feb-23 | mar-23 | abr-23 | may-23
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

⁴ Although on average the patrimony of MM FCIs grew 2.2% s.e. in real terms, this increase was fundamentally due to the carryover effect from the previous month.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 4

On the other hand, deposits with adjustment based on the reference exchange rate value experienced an increase in the fifth month of the year. Currently, there exist two types of deposits with exchange rate coverage: a demand account and time investments, the latter denominated DIVA dollar⁵. Demand deposits with exchange rate adjustment experienced a variation at the end of the month of 119.6% at current prices, reaching a balance of $534,700 million at the end of May. It is worth recalling that the origin of these funds is the operations carried out under the "Exporter Increment Program" (PIE). Meanwhile, DIVA dollars reached a balance of $52,900 million at the end of the month, which implied an average monthly expansion of 5.8% at current prices (see Chart 3.4). To cover the exchange rate risk of these deposits, financial entities have available Letters with adjustment based on the dollar value (LEDIV).

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality would have exhibited in May a monthly decline of 1.9%⁶. In the year-on-year comparison, said aggregate would have experienced a decline of 4%. As a proportion of GDP it would have been located at 17.5%, showing a decrease (0.1 p.p.) with respect to the previous month and persisting in line with the average of the 2010-2019 period.

## 4. Monetary Base

The Monetary Base was located on average at $5,392.8 billion in May, which implied a monthly expansion of 2.8% (+$147,443 million) at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices would have exhibited a decrease of 4.2%, accumulating in the last twelve months a decline of 30.7%. In terms of GDP, the Monetary Base would be situated at 4%, a figure 0.1 p.p. below the value recorded in the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Chart 4.1).

**Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base** | **Chart 4.2 | Factors explaining the Monetary Base**
Average monthly variation | May-23 | % of GDP | thousands of millions of $
[14,500 to 4,500 range in thousands of millions of $] | [12 to 0 range in % of GDP] | [1,200 to -800 range in thousands of millions of $]
- Monetary base s.e., at constant prices (left axis)
- As a percentage of GDP (right axis)
- Timeline: may-05 through may-23

**Chart 4.2 components:**
- LELIQ, Passes and NOTALIQ
- Public Sector
- Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
- Monetary base
- Rest*
[Timeline: may-22 through may-23]

*Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary market for securities.
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the main factors of monetary base expansion were operations of the public sector and the net purchase of foreign currency from the private sector that drove the reopening of the "Exporter Increment Program." Another factor of liquidity expansion was the purchase of public securities in the secondary market, with the objective of limiting excessive financial volatility. These effects, together, were

---

⁵ This type of account is not available to all agents. Demand accounts with adjustment based on the exchange rate can only be subscribed by 1) account holders with agricultural activity (who participated in the Exporter Increment Program - PIE - and exporters from regional economies) and 2) special accounts for exporters. The latter includes exporters of goods under certain requirements and entities that receive financial assistance and/or non-reimbursable contributions from international organizations. In contrast, time deposits with exchange rate adjustment are only for agents with agricultural activity.

⁶ Private M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (demand, time and other).
# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 5

partially sterilized through monetary regulation instruments and, to a lesser extent, by the effect of the integration of guarantees for futures positions (see Chart 4.2).

In mid-May, the BCRA decided to raise by 6 p.p. the interest rate of the 28-day LELIQ to 97.0% n.a. (154.9% e.a.). The interest rate of the 180-day LELIQ was increased by the same amount and was placed at 105.5% n.a. (133.8% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate of 1-day passive repos increased from 85% n.a. to 91% n.a. (148.2% e.a.); while the interest rate of 1-day active repos was set at 116% n.a. (218.4% e.a.). Finally, the spread of NOTALIQ was 8.5 p.p. in the last auction, the same value it has registered since September of last year.

The decision of the monetary authority was based on the need to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency and to prevent financial volatility from impacting inflation expectations. Likewise, this decision is consistent with the level of short-term interest rates of the National Treasury debt instruments.

With the current configuration of instruments, in May remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 71.3% by 28-day LELIQ. The longer-term instruments, mainly concentrated in NOTALIQ, represented 2.7% of the total. On the other hand, 1-day passive repos decreased their participation in the total of instruments, representing 22.7% of the total. The remainder was made up of LEDIV and LEGAR, increasing their participation by 1.5 p.p. compared to the previous month (see Chart 4.3).

Chart 4.3 | Composition of Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
Monthly average

% | 1-day Repos | 7-day Repos | LELIQ 28 | LELIQ 180 | NOTALIQ | LEGAR | LEDIV
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 May-23

*Include repos with FCI.
Source: BCRA.

# 5. Loans to the private sector

In May, loans in pesos to the private sector in real terms and without seasonality would have recorded a monthly decline of 0.1% and accumulated a decrease of 11.2% over the last 12 months. The decrease occurred in practically all financing lines with the exception of documents (see Chart 5.1). As a percentage of current GDP, loans in pesos to the private sector grew slightly during the month and were placed at 6.5% (see Chart 5.2).

Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 6

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth

% 
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
-4
-5

Documents | Personals | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Advances | Cards
Pledged | Mortgages | Total (monthly var.)
Remainder

Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Apr-23

Source: BCRA.

Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
In terms of GDP

%
12
9
6 6.5
3
0
-3
-6
-9
-12

Loans in pesos to the private sector
GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
Ratio to GDP

May-20 Nov-20 May-21 Nov-21 May-22 Nov-22 May-23

Source: BCRA.

By type of financing, the lines intended mainly for commercial purposes grew 0.7% in real terms, with heterogeneous behaviors at the level of loans instrumented through documents and advances in current accounts. In effect, loans granted through documents would have exhibited an increase of 4.9% s.e. in real terms, reaching a balance similar to that of May 2022. The impetus came from both discounted documents (6.0% s.e. monthly), as well as documents at sole signature, which also grew during the month in real terms (4.0% s.e.). For its part, advances would have registered a decline at constant prices of 7.2% s.e., the largest in the last two years, placing itself 2.3% below the level of a year ago.
When analyzing the evolution of commercial credit by type of debtor, financing to SMEs would have grown at constant prices (1.7% s.e.), while credit to large companies would have registered a slight monthly contraction. In terms of GDP, credit to relatively smaller companies was located above the pre-pandemic record and above its historical average. In contrast, in the case of large companies, although it showed an increase in the last two months, the credit to GDP ratio is around minimum values in historical terms (see graph 5.3).

From this it follows that credit was directed fundamentally to the productive activity of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), in this sense, the Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel this type of credit. At the end of May, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $5,817 thousand million since its launch, with an increase of 8.3% compared to last month (see Graph 5.4). Of the total financings granted through the LFIP, 13.7% corresponds to investment projects and the rest to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financings granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,566 thousand million in April (last available information), which represents about 18.7% of total loans and 42.7% of total commercial loans.

Graph 5.3 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor
As a percentage of GDP

Graph 5.4 | Financings granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP)
Cumulative amounts disbursed; data at end of month

Consumer loans would have fallen 0.3% s.e. at constant prices during the month and would accumulate a reduction of 13.9% in the last 12 months. Within these lines, financings implemented with credit cards would have shown an increase in real terms of 0.7% s.e. in May (-10.0% y.o.y.). For its part, personal loans would have exhibited a fall of 2.2% monthly s.e. and would be located close to 20.0% below the level registered a year ago.

With regard to lines with real guarantee, in real terms, pledge loans would have registered a decline of 0.2% s.e. and are 9.5% below the level of a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown a monthly contraction of 4.9% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a fall of 39.1% in the last twelve months.

## 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In May, broad banking liquidity in local currency showed a new increase of 1.3 p.p. with respect to April, averaging 79.1% of deposits (see Graph 6.1). In this way it remained at historically elevated levels. The increase was explained mainly by LELIQs and integration with public securities, partially offset by NOTALIQs and current accounts at the Central Bank.
Regarding regulatory changes with potential impact on bank liquidity, first, it should be mentioned that as of May 15, the requirement for minimum cash that can be integrated with BOTE 2027 (with maturity 23/05/2027 and 23/11/2027) may also be integrated with the new National Treasury Bond in pesos with maturity on August 23, 2025⁸. Said bond was issued at the end of May, so the full impact on the integration will be observed as of June.

Second, with respect to public securities admitted for minimum cash integration, the maximum residual term was extended to 760 days for all admitted securities⁹. Third, it was established that financial

⁷ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos agreed with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserves.
⁸ Communication "A" 7767
⁹ Communication "A" 7775

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 8 entities will be able to compute as a deduction from the minimum cash requirement the financing to SMEs implemented through the purchase of Electronic Credit Invoices for SMEs (FCEM) accepted by companies that comply with certain conditions contemplated in the regulations¹⁰.

Graph 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
Net Repos LELIQ - Rest
% of the Notaliq Integration in LELIQ
deposits CC BCRA $ BOTE 2025-27
Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $ 77.8 79.1
80 Liquidity 73.7 75.4 76.6 1.8
71.0 71.9 73.4 2.1 1.9 1.9
68.9 68.1 69.7 2.2 1.9
70 67.1 66.6 2.1 2.0 1.9 9.4 10.3 11.9 12.6
2.3 2.3 2.2 2.3 6.7 7.1 7.8 8.7
5.2 5.6 6.1 3.6 3.5 3.3 3.4
60 6.1 5.4 3.6 3.3 3.3 3.4 3.7 3.6 4.4
3.6 3.7 3.5 5.5 5.7 5.1 4.8 0.0
6.0 6.1 6.2 0.6 0.0 1.2
7.4 7.4 6.6 2.2 0.9 0.8 2.9 1.8
50 8.1 7.6 4.6 3.1 2.8 6.1 4.9 3.9
5.1 5.0 5.2 7.3 6.7
4.4 7.7
40 6.0 6.3 7.5 8.5

38.5 40.7 42.3
30 35.0 36.5 37.9
30.1 33.9 34.3
31.8 31.2 30.4 28.9
20

10
9.2 8.7 9.6 10.9 11.0 12.1 13.6 13.4 13.4
4.8 5.0 7.5 6.6
0
May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23 Apr-23 May-23
Source: BCRA.

7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities had limited variations. On one hand, at the end of the month, the balance of private sector deposits was US$ 15,282 million, so it practically did not register changes with respect to the end of April. Within it, however, increases in deposits from legal entities and decreases in those from individuals stand out. On the other hand, the balance of loans to the private sector fell US$ 80 million and ended the month at US$ 3,946 million (see Graph 7.1).

Graph 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans
in foreign currency of the private sector

thousands of % of the Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits

25 90 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.9 86.0 86.4 85.5 84.9 83.4
82.7 82.8
Deposits Loans 80

20 70

60
15 15.3 50 64.8 64.5 64.2 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6 66.4 64.4 63.5 62.4

10 40

30

5 20
3.9 21.9 21.4 22.5 22.4 21.1 21.4 21.0
10 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 20.1

0 0
May-20 Nov-20 May-21 Nov-21 May-22 Nov-22 May-23 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23 Apr-23 May-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Graph 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency
of financial entities

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced a decline of 1.5 p.p. with respect to the April average, standing at 83.4% of deposits. In any case, it remains at historically elevated levels. The movement was explained by current accounts at the BCRA, partially offset by an increase in cash in banks (see Graph 7.2).

¹⁰ Communication "A" 7758
# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 9

During May, a series of regulatory modifications took place in foreign exchange matters, aimed at promoting an efficient allocation of International Reserves. First, it was established that consumption by foreign tourists carried out through electronic wallets that imply a debit in their bank or virtual accounts may also be settled at an exchange rate that has financial dollars as a reference 11. Likewise, in that same regulation it was provided that when the currency stated in the SIRA or SIRASE declaration is the currency of a country with which the BCRA has a valid Bilateral Currency Swap Agreement in force, the payment must be made in the same currency that is stated in the corresponding declaration. On the other hand, it was decided to apply the export pre-financing system to the payment of imports 12. This system allows companies that act as both importers and exporters to finance the purchase of inputs with their own suppliers or with international credit lines from foreign or local banks. Finally, new conditions were established to grant access to the foreign exchange market for the payment of imports 13, to carry out operations with securities 14 and payments abroad with credit cards 15.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended May with a balance of US$ 33,001 million, recording a decrease of US$ 2,000 million compared to the end of April. This fall was explained mainly by payments to international organizations, among which payments to the International Monetary Fund for US$ 800 million and losses from valuation of net external assets stood out. For its part, foreign currency purchases within the framework of the Export Increase Program totaled US$ 3,205 million in the month, although they were partially offset by net sales made outside said program (see Chart 7.3). It is worth noting that, as of June 2, by the third edition of the Export Increase Program the BCRA purchased foreign currency for US$ 5,112.5 million.

Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 7.1% in May, an increase higher than that of the previous month (see Chart 7.4). In this way, it was placed, on average, at $ 231.14/US$.

Chart 7.3 | Balance of International Reserves | Chart 7.4 | Variation of the nominal bilateral exchange rate with the United States
 thousands of | var. % average
 millions of US$ | monthly
 90 | 8
 80 | 7.1
 70 | 6 | 6.6 6.4 6.3
 60 | 6.2
 50 | 5.8 5.6 5.7
 40 | 5.4 5.4
 30 | 4.7
 20 | 4 | 4.1
 10 | 4.1
 0 | 2
 | 0
 May-15 May-16 May-17 May-18 May-19 May-20 May-21 May-22 May-23 | May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 May-23
 Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

11 Communication "A" 7762.
12 Communication "A" 7770.
13 Communications "A" 7763, "A" 7766 and "A" 7771.
14 Communication "A" 7772.
15 Communication "A" 7766.

Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 10

8. Regulatory Summary
# Translation to English

| Date of issuance | Regulation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| 4-May-23 | Com. "A" 7758 | Since the month of May 2023, financial entities may compute as a deduction from the requirement of minimum cash in pesos the financings to MSMEs instrumented through the purchase of Electronic Credit Invoices for MSMEs (FCEM), insofar as certain requirements detailed in the regulations are met. |
| 4-May-23 | Com. "A" 7759 | It was provided that payment service providers that offer payment accounts (PSPCP) may not perform nor facilitate to their clients operations with digital assets, including cryptoassets, that are not regulated by the competent national authority and authorized by the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA). |
| 4-May-23 | Com. "A" 7762 | In the first place, it was provided that when the currency stated in the SIRA or SIRASE declaration is the currency of a country with which the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic has a Bilateral Currency Swap Agreement in force, the entity shall verify as an additional requirement for access to the foreign exchange market that payment is made in the same currency that appears in the corresponding declaration. In turn, the requirement of settlement in the foreign exchange market was exempted, insofar as they are received within the regulatory deadlines established, from charges for consumption made by non-residents through electronic wallets or any other payment method that implies an immediate debit in an account at a financial entity abroad or in a virtual account in a company abroad. |
| 4-May-23 | Com. "A" 7763 | It was provided that to grant access to the foreign exchange market for payment of temporary imports of soybean seeds excluded for planting, entities shall additionally verify that, for the amount equivalent to what is intended to be paid, the client: a) has settled export collections associated with export for consumption with temporary import dispatch (DIT), and/or b) simultaneously settles anticipated collections or pre-financing of exports from abroad or pre-financing of exports granted by local financial entities with funding from foreign credit lines, which have a maturity date that is equal to or after the date on which the export of goods elaborated from those temporarily imported will occur that are being paid for. |
| | | It was established that to grant access to the foreign exchange market to process payments with pending customs entry registration for operations backed by SIRA declarations officialized as of May 12, 2023, entities must verify that the corresponding SIRA declaration in "EXIT" status has been assigned a term of 0 business days, in addition to the requirements already established in prior regulations. |
| 11-May-23 | Com. "A" 7766 | On the other hand, it was provided that legal entities wishing to conduct operations with securities must provide evidence that in the 180 business days prior (until this regulation, it was 90 days) it has not delivered in the country funds in local currency nor other liquid local assets – except funds in foreign currency deposited in local financial entities – to any natural or legal person exercising a direct control relationship over it, or to other companies with which it integrates the same economic group, except those directly associated with ordinary operations between residents of acquisition of goods and/or services. Finally, it was established that financial entities and non-financial companies issuing local cards must have the prior approval of the BCRA to access the foreign exchange market to make payments abroad for the use of said cards, when such payments originate, directly or indirectly through the use of international payment networks, in the |
acquisition of gift cards or equivalents from stores or establishments located abroad.

Effective as of May 16, 2023, it was arranged to increase the minimum limits of interest rates on fixed-term deposits, bringing them to a yield of 97% nominal annual for the case of deposits from natural persons of up to 30 million pesos and 90% nominal annual for the rest of the fixed-term deposits. In the same sense, the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with early cancellation option amounted to 91.8% nominal annual, and was raised to 93.8% nominal annual when the contractual term of the deposit is at least 180 days and the effective period in which it has been held is at least 120 days.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 11

For its part, financing agreements reached within the framework of the "Financing Line for Productive Investment of SMEs" increased their interest rate to 76% nominal annual for investment projects and to 88% nominal annual for working capital financing and discounting of deferred payment checks and other documents.

Finally, with effect from the billing cycle corresponding to June 2023, the limit on compensatory interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities can apply was raised to 86% nominal annual when the amount financed to individuals for this purpose, considering each credit card account, does not exceed $ 200,000.

With the objective of improving the experience for both users and merchants, as of September 1, 2023, merchants that display a QR code to charge with credit cards must accept that customers can make payments with any interoperable digital wallet, regardless of the QR brand. The acquirers and aggregators that offer the service may not discriminate in commissions and fund settlement terms to the merchant according to the wallet brand that ordered the payment. In the same sense, it was stipulated that when acquirers or aggregators are also payment acceptors with transfers, they must offer merchants a single QR code that covers all

18-May-23 Com. "A" 7769 payment instruments. For its part, to achieve more transparency, the new provision expanded the scope of the payment provider registry. Furthermore, companies providing non-bank collection services that provide payment services, tax collection, services through the use of cash and other payment instruments will be included in the PSP registry. Finally, the regulation extended to PSPs that initiate immediate transfers from accounts provided by others (payment initiators, PSI) the obligation to comply with the standards for this payment instrument. One of the most important consequences will be that PSIs must enable their customers to make transfers to both CBU and CVU, as financial entities and other PSPs that offer payment accounts to their customers currently do.

The application of foreign currency from export collections of goods to the cancellation of capital and interest maturities of certain import financing operations was admitted.

Once a period of 60 consecutive days has elapsed from the customs entry registration, customers will be able to credit up to the peso equivalent of the amount of financing framed within the mechanism provided for in the regulation in a special account whose remuneration will be determined based on the evolution of the reference exchange rate of Communication "A" 3500 of the BCRA,

18-May-23 Com. "A" 7770 or subscribe Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in pesos and payable at the Reference Exchange Rate of Communication "A" 3500 of the BCRA.

Finally, it is considered that the requirement to enter and settle foreign currency in the foreign exchange market for an amount equivalent to the nominal value of financial borrowing with the exterior has been met in the case of financial loans granted by counterparties linked to the client in which the disbursements in foreign currency are applied directly and entirely to payment at sight and/or deferred to the foreign supplier, to the extent that customs entry registration of goods for a value equivalent to the financing received is demonstrated.

As a complement to Communication "A" 7766, it was established that to provide access to the foreign exchange market to process payments with pending customs entry registration for operations backed by SIRA declarations made official as of May 12, 2023, the entities
They must also verify that it is a payment that corresponds to a SIRA declaration that
18-May-23 Com. "A" 7,771 obtained the status "EXIT" until May 11, 2023.
On the other hand, it was established that entities must require a declaration made through
the Import System of the Argentine Republic and Payment of Services Abroad (SI-
RASE) in "APPROVED" status to grant access to the foreign exchange market to process
freight service payments.
It was established that another way in which entities may consider the requirement of prior
BCRA approval fulfilled for carrying out operations with securities when the client is a legal
entity is that the client presents a sworn statement leaving
19-May-23 Com. "A" 7,772 evidence that in the previous 90 running days has not delivered in the country funds in
local currency nor other liquid local assets – except funds in foreign currency deposited
in local financial entities – to any natural or legal person, except those directly
associated with usual operations within the framework of the development of their activity.
# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 12

As of May 24, 2023, the BCRA will offer "Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in dollars and payable in pesos at the Reference Exchange Rate (LEDIV) at zero rate". Financial entities that have deposits in their portfolio with Variable Interest rates calculated according to the wholesale dollar value and those that do so on account and order of clients that are constituted as firms of the energy sector may participate in the subscription, provided that they have settled through the MULC on the subscription day income from pre-financing and export advances with a minimum term of 180 days, and foreign exchange settlements that have no obligation of income and settlement, for at least the equivalent in foreign currency of the amount to be subscribed in pesos taking into consideration the Reference Exchange Rate of that day.

These letters may not be transferred. In turn, at the request of the subscriber, the BCRA will redeem the LEDIVs from 48 hours after their subscription, the holder being able to request early redemption of all or part of these before their maturity.

It was established, effective as of May 29, 2023, in 760 calendar days the maximum term of national public securities in pesos acquired by primary subscription from that date, to be integrated as minimum Cash.

---

# Monthly Monetary Report | May of 2023 | BCRA | 13

## 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations average of May-23 | % of GDP

**Main monetary variables linked to the BCRA** | **monthly** | **accumulated in 2023** | **interannual**
---|---|---|---
 | **May-23** | **Apr-23** | **Mar-23** | **Dec-22** | **May-22** | **May-23** | **Dec-22** | **Nominal s.o.** | **Real s.e.** | **Nominal** | **Real** | **Nominal** | **Real**
**Monetary Base** | 5,392,794 | 5,245,351 | 5,161,255 | 4,781,929 | 3,696,382 | 2.8% | -4.2% | 2.8% | -27.3% | 45.9% | -30.7% | 4.0% | 4.6%
**Monetary Circulation** | 4,300,300 | 4,155,790 | 4,070,844 | 3,767,917 | 2,743,185 | 3.5% | -4.3% | 3.5% | -27.4% | 56.8% | -25.6% | 3.2% | 3.6%
**Cash in public hands** | 3,854,549 | 3,726,177 | 3,660,100 | 3,361,646 | 2,471,599 | 3.4% | -4.3% | 3.4% | -27.5% | 56.0% | -25.9% | 2.9% | 3.2%
**Cash in financial entities** | 445,724 | 429,613 | 410,745 | 406,270 | 271,586 | 3.8% | -3.9% | 3.8% | -27.1% | 64.1% | -22.1% | 0.3% | 0.4%
**Current account at the BCRA** | 1,092,494 | 1,089,561 | 1,090,411 | 1,014,012 | 953,197 | 0.3% | -7.1% | 0.3% | -29.6% | 14.6% | -45.6% | 0.8% | 1.0%
**Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN $)** | 14,007,476 | 12,623,436 | 11,808,752 | 9,946,599 | 5,557,121 | 11.0% | 2.8% | 11.0% | -22.1% | 152.1% | 19.7% | 10.1% | 9.7%
**Passive Repos** | 3,289,269 | 3,029,621 | 2,878,700 | 2,004,090 | 572,009 | 8.6% | 0.5% | 8.6% | -23.7% | 475.0% | 173.1% | 2.4% | 1.9%
**Stock of LELIQ** | 10,412,635 | 9,190,259 | 8,307,160 | 6,831,822 | 4,281,073 | 13.3% | 4.9% | 13.3% | -20.4% | 143.2% | 15.5% | 7.5% | 6.6%
**Stock of LELIQ at 28 days** | 10,329,490 | 9,107,114 | 8,224,016 | 6,820,934 | 3,904,694 | 13.4% | 5.0% | 13.4% | -20.3% | 164.5% | 25.6% | 7.4% | 6.6%
**Stock of LELIQ at 180 days** | 83,145 | 83,145 | 83,145 | 10,888 | 376,379 | 0.0% | -7.4% | 0.0% | -29.8% | -77.9% | -89.5% | 0.1% | 0.0%
**Stock of NOTA LIQ** | 305,572 | 403,556 | 622,891 | 1,110,688 | 704,039 | -24.3% | -29.9% | -24.3% | -46.8% | -56.6% | -79.4% | 0.2% | 1.1%
**International Reserves of the BCRA in dollars** | 33,525 | 37,169 | 37,952 | 40,650 | 41,620 | -9.8% | - | -9.8% | - | -19.4% | - | 5.6% | 6.8%

**Factors of variation average monthly**
**Monthly** | **Quarterly** | **Accumulated 2023** | **Interannual**
---|---|---|---
**Nominal** | **Contribution** | **Nominal** | **Contribution** | **Nominal** | **Contribution** | **Nominal** | **Contribution**
Monetary Base 147.443 2.8% 150.584 2.9% 610.865 12.8% 1.696.412 45.9%
 Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others 200.841 3.8% -214.297 -4.1% -67.133 -1.4% 1.029.946 27.9%
 Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -126.761 -2.4% -212.333 -4.1% -386.466 -8.1% -458.236 -12.4%
 Temporary Advances and Transfer of Profits to the National Government 406.022 7.7% 569.355 10.9% 569.355 11.9% 869.706 23.5%
 Other public sector operations -22.214 -0.4% 86.202 1.6% 7.570 0.2% -128.458 -3.5%
 Monetary regulation instruments -414.577 -7.9% -460.228 -8.8% -203.782 -4.3% -1.902.496 -51.5%
 Others 104.133 2.0% 381.885 7.3% 691.322 14.5% 2.285.952 61.8%
 International Reserves of the BCRA -3.644 -9.8% -6.318 -15.9% -7.125 -17.5% -8.095 -19.4%
 Purchase of foreign currency 203 0.5% -2.149 -5.4% -1.659 -4.1% 2.122 5.1%
 International Organizations 5 -2.183 -5.9% -1.591 -4.0% -2.596 -6.4% -4.660 -11.2%

 Other public sector operations -150 -0.4% 95 0.2% -2.060 -5.1% -3.283 -7.9%
 Minimum Cash -606 -1.6% -1.889 -4.7% -620 -1.5% -863 -2.1%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -908 -2.4% -785 -2.0% -191 -0.5% -1.410 -3.4%

 Note: The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being carried out.
 5 Does not include the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) or the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE).

 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration may-23 apr-23 mar-23
 Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Net requirement of deductions 17.7 17.7 18.4
 Integration in current accounts 4.4 4.8 5.1
 Integration LELIQ 32.1 33.1 32.6
 Integration BOTE 2027 3.4 3.3 3.5
 Integration Rest of Public Securities 12.6 11.9 10.3
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes default in application of resources) 62.4 63.5 64.4
 Position (1) 38.4 39.5 40.4

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement

 Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 14 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.
 Monthly Averages Percentage variations average of may-23 % of GDP 4

 Main monetary variables and financial system Variables Monthly Accumulated in 2023 Year-on-Year
 may-23 apr-23 mar-23 dec-22 may-22 may-23 dec-22
 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
 Segment in domestic currency
 Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 1 24.390.855 22.435.850 21.068.536 18.247.859 11.651.240 8.7% 0.5% 8.7% -23.8% 109.3% -0.6% 17.7% 17.7%
# Private Sector Deposits

| Item | Value 1 | Value 2 | Value 3 | Value 4 | Value 5 | % Change 1 | % Change 2 | % Change 3 | % Change 4 | % Change 5 | % 6 | % 7 |
|------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|------|------|
| Private sector deposits | 20,198,324 | 18,891,828 | 17,816,660 | 15,170,198 | 9,426,304 | 6.9% | -1.1% | 6.9% | -25.0% | 114.3% | 1.8% | 14.7% | 14.7% |
| Sight deposits of private sector | 9,221,091 | 8,666,742 | 8,403,393 | 7,305,580 | 4,590,395 | 6.4% | -2.4% | 6.4% | -26.0% | 100.9% | -4.6% | 6.8% | 6.7% |
| Non-Remunerated (Transactional) | 6,498,405 | 6,083,966 | 5,636,720 | 5,392,611 | 3,577,297 | 6.8% | -2.4% | 6.8% | -26.0% | 81.7% | -13.7% | 4.8% | 4.9% |
| Remunerated | 2,722,686 | 2,582,775 | 2,766,673 | 1,912,969 | 1,013,098 | 5.4% | -2.4% | 5.4% | -26.0% | 168.7% | 27.6% | 2.0% | 1.9% |
| Farm deposits | 431 | 144 | 131 | 132 | 0 | 198.6% | 178.1% | 198.6% | 110.9% | 0.0% | | |
| Fixed-term deposits and others of private sector | 10,977,233 | 10,225,087 | 9,413,267 | 7,864,618 | 4,835,909 | 7.4% | 0.0% | 7.4% | -24.2% | 127.0% | 7.8% | 7.9% | 7.9% |
| Fixed-term | 10,711,460 | 9,967,515 | 9,179,654 | 7,641,974 | 4,674,136 | 7.5% | 0.1% | 7.5% | -24.1% | 129.2% | 8.8% | 7.7% | 7.7% |
| Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange Rate | 10,338,347 | 9,610,827 | 8,833,757 | 7,240,644 | 4,353,521 | 7.6% | 0.2% | 7.6% | -24.0% | 137.5% | 12.8% | 7.4% | 7.3% |
| Adjustable by CER/UVA | 320,868 | 307,304 | 298,898 | 359,989 | 294,680 | 4.4% | -2.8% | 4.4% | -26.3% | 8.9% | -48.3% | 0.2% | 0.4% |
| Traditional | 139,793 | 134,650 | 135,023 | 156,519 | 170,152 | 3.8% | -3.3% | 3.8% | -26.7% | -17.8% | -61.0% | 0.1% | 0.2% |
| Precancellable | 181,076 | 172,654 | 163,875 | 203,470 | 124,528 | 4.9% | -2.3% | 4.9% | -25.9% | 45.4% | -30.9% | 0.1% | 0.2% |
| DIVA | 52,244 | 49,384 | 46,999 | 41,340 | 25,935 | 5.8% | -1.5% | 5.8% | -25.3% | 101.4% | -4.3% | 0.0% | 0.0% |
| Other deposits | 265,773 | 257,572 | 233,613 | 222,644 | 161,772 | 3.2% | -4.4% | 3.2% | -27.5% | 64.3% | -22.0% | 0.2% | 0.2% |
| Public sector deposits | 24,192,531 | 3,544,021 | 3,251,876 | 3,077,661 | 2,224,936 | 18.3% | 9.6% | 18.3% | -16.9% | 88.4% | -10.5% | 3.0% | 3.0% |

# Monetary Aggregates

| Item | Value 1 | Value 2 | Value 3 | Value 4 | Value 5 | % Change 1 | % Change 2 | % Change 3 | % Change 4 | % Change 5 | % 6 | % 7 |
|------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|------|------|
| M2 Total | 14,497,496 | 13,556,014 | 13,173,823 | 11,869,697 | 7,877,349 | 6.9% | 0.1% | 6.9% | -24.1% | 84.0% | -12.6% | 10.8% | 11.1% |
| M3 Total | 28,461,747 | 26,338,695 | 24,880,752 | 21,738,359 | 14,237,457 | 8.1% | 0.3% | 8.1% | -23.9% | 99.9% | -5.1% | 20.8% | 20.7% |

# Private Monetary Aggregates

| Item | Value 1 | Value 2 | Value 3 | Value 4 | Value 5 | % Change 1 | % Change 2 | % Change 3 | % Change 4 | % Change 5 | % 6 | % 7 |
|------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|------|------|
| M2 Private | 13,075,640 | 12,392,919 | 12,063,493 | 10,667,226 | 7,061,994 | 5.5% | -2.8% | 5.5% | -26.2% | 85.2% | -12.1% | 9.6% | 10.0% |
| M2 Private Transactional³ | 10,352,954 | 9,810,144 | 9,296,820 | 8,754,257 | 6,048,896 | 5.5% | -3.1% | 5.5% | -26.5% | 71.2% | -18.7% | 7.7% | 8.1% |
| M3 Private | 24,052,873 | 22,618,005 | 21,476,760 | 18,531,844 | 11,897,903 | 6.3% | -1.9% | 6.3% | -25.6% | 102.2% | -4.0% | 17.5% | 17.9% |

# Total Loans to Non-Financial Sector in Pesos

| Item | Value 1 | Value 2 | Value 3 | Value 4 | Value 5 | % Change 1 | % Change 2 | % Change 3 | % Change 4 | % Change 5 | % 6 | % 7 |
|------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|------|------|
| Total loans to non-financial sector in pesos | 9,081,954 | 8,375,281 | 7,651,783 | 6,764,682 | 4,860,064 | 8.4% | -0.2% | 8.4% | -24.3% | 86.9% | -11.3% | 6.6% | 6.4% |
| Loans to private non-financial sector | 8,983,909 | 8,276,756 | 7,578,357 | 6,693,402 | 4,804,730 | 8.5% | -0.1% | 8.5% | -24.2% | 87.0% | -11.2% | 6.5% | 6.3% |
| Advances | 1,029,703 | 1,010,004 | 877,111 | 774,929 | 500,439 | 2.0% | -7.2% | 2.0% | -29.6% | 105.8% | -2.3% | 0.8% | 0.7% |
| Documents | 2,592,804 | 2,263,959 | 1,996,661 | 1,708,525 | 1,232,828 | 14.5% | 4.9% | 14.5% | -20.4% | 110.3% | -0.1% | 1.9% | 1.6% |
| Mortgage | 408,180 | 397,633 | 389,769 | 371,698 | 318,397 | 2.7% | -4.9% | 2.7% | -27.8% | 28.2% | -39.1% | 0.3% | 0.4% |
| Pledge | 588,215 | 543,949 | 508,941 | 458,905 | 308,757 | 8.1% | -0.2% | 8.1% | -24.3% | 90.5% | -9.5% | 0.4% | 0.4% |
| Personal | 1,357,104 | 1,289,203 | 1,214,201 | 1,050,187 | 806,715 | 5.3% | -2.2% | 5.3% | -25.9% | 68.2% | -20.1% | 1.0% | 1.0% |
| Credit cards | 2,586,350 | 2,374,810 | 2,247,164 | 1,999,439 | 1,365,371 | 8.9% | 0.7% | 8.9% | -23.7% | 89.4% | -10.0% | 1.9% | 1.9% |
| Others | 421,553 | 397,198 | 344,511 | 329,720 | 272,223 | 6.1% | -3.8% | 6.1% | -27.0% | 54.9% | -26.5% | 0.3% | 0.3% |
| Loans to non-financial public sector | 98,046 | 98,525 | 73,426 | 71,280 | 55,334 | -0.5% | -7.8% | -0.5% | -30.1% | 77.2% | -15.9% | 0.1% | 0.1% |
| Segment in foreign currency¹ | | | | | | | | | | | | |
Fixed-term

Individual persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 93.32 145.74 79.27 76.01 74.67 46.90

TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 87.02 131.74 71.66 67.78 65.91 44.05

TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 87.82 133.49 71.98 68.31 66.48 45.04

BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 89.19 136.48 74.13 70.59 68.58 44.61

BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 90.19 138.71 74.74 71.29 69.45 45.67

Prepayment rate of deposits in UVA 89.04 136.16 75.91 72.45 71.00 42.23

---

## ACTIVE INTEREST RATES

May-23 TEA May-23 Apr-23 Mar-23 Dec-22 May-22
# LOANS TO NON-FINANCIAL PRIVATE SECTOR IN PESOS

| | may-23 | apr-23 | mar-23 | feb-23 | jan-23 | may-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Overdrafts on current account** | 87.82 | 140.40 | 79.73 | 77.93 | 75.43 | 46.40 |
| **1 to 7 days — with company agreement — more than $10 million** | 88.43 | 140.35 | 76.36 | 75.13 | 73.27 | 40.70 |
| **Promissory notes** | 79.77 | 116.54 | 69.99 | 64.51 | 61.42 | 41.11 |
| **Mortgage loans** | 67.41 | 92.72 | 63.17 | 63.21 | 62.71 | 34.42 |
| **Pledge loans** | 57.66 | 75.66 | 50.76 | 48.87 | 48.60 | 30.98 |
| **Personal loans** | 93.00 | 145.03 | 81.08 | 79.72 | 81.19 | 58.95 |
| **Credit cards** | 79.71 | 116.43 | 79.88 | 79.39 | 77.10 | 50.23 |

# INTEREST RATES OF THE FOREIGN CURRENCY SEGMENT — MAY-23 TEA

| | may-23 | apr-23 | mar-23 | dec-22 | may-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days)** | 0.32 | 0.33 | 0.32 | 0.32 | 0.33 |
| **Promissory notes in dollars** | 6.07 | 6.24 | 4.18 | 3.83 | 5.40 | 3.26 |

# EXCHANGE RATE

| | may-23 | Monthly Var. (%) | apr-23 | mar-23 | dec-22 | may-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Official Exchange Rate peso/dollar** | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 231.14 | 7.12 | 215.78 | 202.91 | 172.45 | 117.79 |
| **Retail** ¹ | 235.84 | 7.89 | 218.58 | 205.83 | 175.20 | 119.95 |
| **Official Exchange Rate peso/real** | 46.53 | 8.20 | 43.01 | 38.91 | 32.92 | 23.85 |
| **Official Exchange Rate peso/euro** | 251.15 | 6.20 | 236.48 | 217.45 | 182.58 | 124.55 |
| **Nominal Multilateral Exchange Rate Index (ITCNM)** | 1,538.79 | 7.00 | 1,438.10 | 1,330.19 | 1,116.28 | 785.42 |
| **Real Multilateral Exchange Rate Index (ITCRM)** | 95.12 | -0.51 | 95.61 | 94.06 | 93.21 | 96.44 |

---

¹ The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the buying and selling exchange rates recorded by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 16 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus peso deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Current account deposits at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in public hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: Centralized System of Informational Requirements of the BCRA.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Foreign Payments for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 17

TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | May 2023 | BCRA | 18
