# Monthly Monetary Report
July 2023

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of Payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary Base

Page 7 | 5. Loans in Pesos to the Private Sector

Page 8 | 6. Liquidity in Pesos of Financial Entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign Currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory Summary

Page 12 | 9. Monetary and Financial Indicators

Page 15 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was August 7, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar

The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

Regarding the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institutional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. Additionally, those of us who have prepared this publication recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and evaluation schemes.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| Monetary Base | M2 Private Transactional | Fixed Term | S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| -1.1% | -4.5% | -0.8% | -13.9% | -1.5% |

| Loans to S. Priv. | Fixed Term Deposits in Pesos of the Private Sector | monthly var. real s.e. |
|---|---|---|
| thousands of millions of $ from jul-23 | % of GDP | -1.0% |
| 13,500 | 14 | LELIQ Rate 28 days |
| 12,500 | 12 | nominal annual |
| 11,500 | | 97.0% |
| 10,500 | 10 | Passive Passes Rate 1d |
| 9,500 | 8 | nominal annual |
| 8,500 | | 91.0% |
| 7,500 | 6 | |
| 6,500 | 4 | Domestic Reserves |
| 5,500 | Private fixed term s.e., at constant prices | 2 | millions of US$; end of month |
| 4,500 | As a percentage of GDP (right axis) | 0 | |
| 3,500 | | | 24,092 |
| | jul-05 | jul-08 | jul-11 | jul-14 | jul-17 | jul-20 | jul-23 |

Source: BCRA.

The BCRA maintained the reference interest rates unchanged throughout July, given the deceleration of the inflation rate in June. In particular, the monetary policy interest rate (LELIQ 28 days) remained at 97% n.a. (154.9% e.a.) and in real terms remained in positive territory both with respect to observed inflation and that expected by the market.

The broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered a contraction in the seventh month of the year and would be positioned at 16.9% of GDP, showing a decrease of 0.5 p.p. compared to the previous month. This decline was fundamentally due to the behavior of transactional means of payment, which in terms of GDP continued reaching new lows. Regarding remunerated instruments, at constant prices, placements at fixed term in pesos of the private sector registered a slight contraction in July, although they persist around the maximum values of recent decades in terms of the Product.

Regarding bank financing, loans registered an additional monthly contraction at constant prices and without seasonality, a dynamic explained by consumer loans and those with real collateral. Meanwhile, loans intended to finance commercial activities maintained their stable balance during the period under analysis.

On July 24, a new differential exchange rate was set for the settlement of foreign currency within the framework of the Export Increase Program (PIE). Additionally, corn and brewing barley production were incorporated into the Program. Purchases of foreign currency from the private sector through the PIE totaled US$ 1,225 million in the month, of which US$ 1,000 million were recorded from July 24 onwards.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of Payment
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), the means of payment (private transactional M2¹) would have registered a contraction of 4.5% in July, and in this way accumulated a decline of around 14.5% for the year. This dynamic was due to both the behavior of currency in the hands of the public as well as non-remunerated sight deposits, although the latter explained the greater part of the decline (see Chart 2.1). In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, the private transactional M2 would be positioned 20.7% below the level of July 2022.

The means of payment in terms of Product would have stood at 7.2%, which would imply a decrease (0.4 p.p.) with respect to the previous month and marking new lows of the last 20 years (see Chart 2.2). In particular, currency in the hands of the public reached a new historical low in terms of GDP, while sight deposits continue to be positioned slightly above the minimum values reached at the end of 2019.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e. | % of GDP

p.p. Transactional sight deposits | % of GDP
4 Private transactional M2 | 16 Non-remunerated sight deposits
3 Private transactional M2 (%) | Currency in the hands of the public
2 14

1 12

0 10

-1 8

-2 7.2 7

-3 6

-4 4.5 4
-5 2.6 2
-6
jul-22 sep-22 nov-22 ene-23 mar-23 may-23 jul-23 | jul-05 jul-07 jul-09 jul-11 jul-13 jul-15 jul-17 jul-19 jul-21 jul-23

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The Board of Directors of the BCRA decided to keep unchanged the minimum guaranteed interest rates of fixed-term deposits in the seventh month of the year², in a context of positive real levels and deceleration in the inflation rate. The interest rate policy seeks to generate positive real returns on investments in local currency, in order to preserve monetary and exchange rate stability. Thus, the minimum guaranteed interest rate for placements of natural persons was maintained at 97% n.a. (154.3% e.a.), while for the rest of the depositors of the financial system the minimum guaranteed interest rate persisted at 90% n.a. (138.3% e.a.)³.

In July, remunerated sight deposits presented an expansion of 1.7% at constant prices and without seasonality, positioning themselves 27.2% above the records from a year ago. These deposits correspond fundamentally to Financial Service Providers, and in particular to Money Market Investment Funds (FCI of MM). This dynamic occurred in a context in which the equity of these funds decreased in real terms 1.9%, which reflects a change in the portfolio composition of these agents with a greater preference for liquid and remunerated instruments.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector would have experienced in July a contraction of 0.8% s.e. at constant prices. Despite said decrease, these placements remained around the maximum levels of recent decades. In the same sense, as a percentage of GDP they would have been positioned at 7.5% in July (0.2 p.p. less than in June), a value similar to the maximum reached in the COVID-19 pandemic.

---

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated sight deposits of companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded given that it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.

² The interest rates currently in effect are those established through communication "A" 7726.

³ The rest of depositors is made up of Natural Persons with deposits of more than $30 million and legal entities.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 3
Analyzing the evolution of time deposits by amount bracket, the wholesale segment (more than $20 million) was the one that concentrated almost all of the month's decline, which was explained by the change in portfolio composition of Money Market Mutual Funds (MMMFs). The average monthly dynamics was explained fundamentally by the drag effect of the decline observed at the close of June, where portfolio rotation occurred with greater force (see Chart 3.1). In effect, analyzing the daily evolution of this type of placements, it is verified that the holdings of traditional fixed-term deposits of Financial Services Providers (FSPs) ended the month at a slightly higher level than end of June and those of the rest of companies remained stable. Meanwhile, investments with early cancellation option (which cannot be classified by type of holder) managed to stabilize after the decline evident in the previous month (see Chart 3.2). Deposits of less than $1 million at constant prices also presented a monthly contraction, although of a limited magnitude. The dynamics of these segments was partially offset by the behavior of placements between $1 and $20 million, which would have experienced an increase in real terms.

Chart 3.1 | Private Sector Peso Deposits Chart 3.2 | Fixed-term Deposits of More than $20 Million
Contribution to real monthly growth by amount bracket Balance at constant prices by type of depositor and instrument. Original series

p.p. thousands of millions thousands of millions
of $ as of 31-Jul-23 of $ as of 31-Jul-23
6 2,200 3,600
5 2,000 3,400
4 1,800 3,200
3 1,600 3,000
2 1,400 2,800
1 1,200 2,600
0 1,000 Traditional fixed-term deposits of FSPs
-1 800 Investments with early cancellation option 2,400
-2 Less than $1 million 600 Traditional fixed-term deposits of Other Legal Entities (right axis) 2,200
-3 From $1 million to $20 million 400 2,000
-4 More than $20 million 200 1,800
-5 Total (%) 1,600
-6 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 May-23 Jul-23 01-Jan 23-Jan 14-Feb 08-Mar 30-Mar 21-Apr 13-May 04-Jun 26-Jun 18-Jul
-7
-8
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER continued showing a decrease in real terms, accumulating 12 consecutive months of contraction. The decrease was verified both in traditional UVA placements and in pre-cancelable ones, whose monthly variation rates were -10.9% s.e. and -16.2% s.e. respectively, accelerating their rate of decline compared to previous months (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder, the decrease was due fundamentally to the dynamics of placements of natural persons, which represent approximately 71% of the total. In any case, the balance of UVA deposits reached $286,500 million at the end of July, which is equivalent to 2.3% of the total fixed-term instruments denominated in domestic currency.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 4

Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term Deposits in UVA of the Private Sector Chart 3.4 | Deposits Adjustable by Exchange Rate
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument Balance at constant prices

thousands of millions
of $ as of 31-Jul-23
450

400

350

300

250

200

150 152.8
Traditional UVA Fixed-term 133.7
100 Pre-cancelable UVA Fixed-term

50

0
Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 Sep-22 Jan-23 May-23

Source: BCRA.
On the other hand, deposits with adjustment based on the value of the reference exchange rate experienced a decline in the seventh month of the year. The contraction, for those placed on demand, averaged 16.6% s.a. at constant prices in the month and the balance stood at $538,400 million at the end of July. It is worth noting that the establishment of new conditions of the "Export Increment Program" (PIE)4 began to give new momentum to these deposits towards the end of the month. Meanwhile, dollar DIVA, fixed-term deposits, reached a balance of $53,222 million at the end of July, which implied an average monthly contraction of 9.7% s.a. at constant prices (see Chart 3.4).

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality would have exhibited a monthly decline of 1.5%5 in July. In the year-over-year comparison, this aggregate would have registered a decline of 6.6% and as a percentage of GDP would have stood at 16.9%, 0.5 p.p. below the figure from the previous month.

## 4. Monetary Base

The Monetary Base stood on average at $6,128.9 billion in July, which implied a monthly expansion of 9.4% (+$525,073 million) at current prices; it should be noted that in the month of July the positive seasonality of currency in circulation due to winter holidays influences this. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a decline of 1.1%, accumulating a fall of 31.5% over the last twelve months. As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would be situated at 3.7%, a figure 0.1 p.p. below the value registered in the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Chart 4.1).

4 Highlighting the incorporation of Corn and Brewing Barley into the regional economies program.
5 Private M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits of the non-financial private sector (on demand, fixed-term and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 5

**Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base**
Average monthly variation (in billions of pesos of July-23 / % of GDP)
[Graph showing trends from jul-05 to jul-23]

**Chart 4.2 | Factors explaining the Monetary Base**
Monthly variation (in millions of pesos)
- LELIQ, Repos and NOTALIQ
- Public Sector
- Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
- Monetary base
- Other*
[Graph showing data from jul-22 to jul-23]

* Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary securities market.
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, the main factors of monetary base expansion were operations by the public sector (transfers to the National Treasury through Temporary Advances and Profits, whose expansionary effect was partially offset by the sale of dollars to the Treasury to make foreign payments) and operations with public securities in the secondary market, with the objective of limiting excessive financial volatility. On the other hand, remunerated liabilities of the BCRA resulted in a liquidity expansion, because subscriptions were lower than interest payments. These factors were partially offset by the contractionary effect of the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector (see Chart 4.2).
Regarding the composition of remunerated liabilities, in July the 28-day LELIQs represented, on average, 72.6% of the total. The longer-term instruments, mainly concentrated through NOTALIQs, represented only 1.3% of the July balance. On the other hand, 1-day reverse repos decreased their participation in the total of instruments, reaching a representativeness of 22.4%. The remainder was made up of LEDIVs and LEGARs which reduced their participation by 0.2 p.p. compared to June, although the former with a recovery at the end of the month due to the effect of growth in deposits adjusted according to the exchange rate following modifications in the PIE (see Chart 4.3).

Chart 4.3 | Composition of Remunerated Liabilities
of the BCRA
Monthly average

% 1-day Repos 7-day Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ LEGAR LEDIV

100

90
80

70
60
50

40

30
20

10

0
Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 May-23 Jul-23
*Include repos with FCIs.
Source: BCRA.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 6

Finally, the BCRA decided to keep its reference interest rates unchanged in July considering their current level in real terms and the deceleration of the inflation rate for a second consecutive month, the evolution of leading indicators for July and future inflation prospects. The interest rate on 28-day LELIQs remained at 97.0% n.a. (154.9% e.a.), while the interest rate on 180-day LELIQs continued at 105.5% n.a. (133.8% e.a.). Regarding shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day reverse repos stands at 91% n.a. (148.2% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day forward repos is at 116% n.a. (218.4% e.a.). Finally, the spread on NOTALIQs was 8.5 p.p. in the last auction, the same value it has recorded since September of last year.

5. Loans to the private sector

In July, loans in pesos to the private sector in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a monthly contraction of 1.0% and over the last 12 months would have accumulated a decline of around 12%. The month's decline was concentrated in loans associated with consumption and those with real guarantees, while commercial loans remained stable (see Chart 5.1). As a percentage of GDP, loans in pesos to the private sector fell slightly during the month and stood at 6.3% (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth In terms of GDP

% %
3 12

2 9

1 6 6.3

0 3

-1 -1.0 0

-2 -3
-3 Loans in pesos to the private sector
-6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving avg.)
Personal Documents Advances
-9 Ratio to GDP
Credit Cards Pledged Mortgages
Remainder Total (monthly var.)
-4 -12
Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Apr-23 Jul-23 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22 Sep-22 Feb-23 Jul-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The lines with primarily commercial destination would have remained without significant changes in real terms, with heterogeneous behavior by type of instrument. In fact, loans granted through documents would have grown 0.9% s.e. in real terms and would be positioned slightly above their level from a year earlier. The month's increase was concentrated mainly in discounted documents (2.5% s.e.), while documents at signature alone registered an increase of lesser magnitude (0.5% s.e. monthly). For their part, advances would have registered a contraction at constant prices of 1.5% s.e., positioning themselves near 10.0% below the level of June 2022.
The Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel credit to productive activities for Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MSMEs). At the end of July, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated $6,772 billion since its launch, with an increase of 8% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.3). Of the total financing granted through the LFIP, 14% corresponds to investment projects and the remainder

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 7a working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financing granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,721 billion in June (latest available information), which represents about 18.1% of total loans and 40.4% of total commercial loans.

In terms of GDP, credit to relatively smaller-sized companies continued to be around 1.7%, above the pre-pandemic record and the historical average. In contrast, in the case of large companies, the credit to GDP ratio remains around minimum values in historical terms (see chart 5.4).

Chart 5.3 | Financing Granted through the Productive Chart 5.4 | Commercial Loans by Type of Debtor
Investment Financing Line (LFIP) As a percentage of GDP
Cumulative disbursed amounts; data at end of month

billions of % of GDP
pesos
8,000 4.0
 MSMEs
7,000 Total Investment Projects 6,772 3.5 Other Legal Entities

6,000 3.0

5,000 2.5

4,000 2.0
3,000 1.7
2,000 1.5
 947 1.2
1,000 1.0

 0 0.5
 nov-20 mar-21 jul-21 nov-21 mar-22 jul-22 nov-22 mar-23 jul-23 abr-05 abr-07 abr-09 abr-11 abr-13 abr-15 abr-17 abr-19 abr-21 abr-23
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Consumer loans would have fallen 2.1% s.a. at constant prices during the month and would accumulate a reduction of 15.0% over the last 12 months. Within these lines, financing instruments with credit cards would have shown a contraction in real terms of 1.3% s.a. in the month and personal loans would have fallen 3.7%. In year-on-year terms, these loans showed declines of around 10.0% and 22.0%, respectively.

With respect to lines with real guarantees, at constant prices, pledged loans would have registered a contraction of 0.6% s.a., positioning themselves around 11.0% below the level of a year earlier. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown a monthly decline of 3.3% s.a., with a fall of around 40% over the last 12 months.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In July, broad banking liquidity in local currency 6 showed a new increase of 1.1 p.p. with respect to June, averaging 83.8% of deposits (see Chart 6.1). In this way it remained at historically elevated levels. The increase was mainly explained by holdings of LELIQs and public securities for minimum cash integration, partially offset by reverse repos and NOTALIQs.

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, net repo balances arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQs and NOTALIQs and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 8

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity Levels in Pesos of Financial Chart 6.2 | Composition of Liquidity of Financial
Entities Entities
 % of deposits

 % of deposits LELIQs Securities for Integration
 90
 80 83.8

 70 74.3

 Remainder
 60 9.6

 50

 40

 30 Integrated Liquidity Net Repos
 7.2 13.3
 20 Broad Liquidity
 Cash in
 10 Remainder Banks
 40.5 Current Account BCRA $ BOTE 1.7
 0 Integrated 2.8 4.3 3.8 NOTALIQs
 0.6

 Note: For the distribution of securities between integrated and remainder, the latest available
 information from the Minimum Cash Reporting Regime is assumed constant.
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.
# 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities showed disparate behavior. On one hand, private sector deposits increased by US$ 71 million during the month and ended July with a balance of US$ 15,498 million. On the other hand, the balance of loans to the private sector decreased by US$ 105 million and ended the month at US$ 3,759 million (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency
in foreign currency of the private sector of financial entities

thousands of % of Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ deposits
25 90 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.9 86.0 86.4 85.5 84.9 83.4 82.5
Deposits Loans 81.8
80
20 70

15.5 60
15 50 64.2 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6 66.4 64.4 63.5 62.4 60.0 56.9

10 40

30

5 20
3.8 10 21.9 21.4 22.5 22.4 21.1 21.4 21.0 22.4 24.9
18.9 18.7 20.3 20.1
0 0

Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced a decline of 0.8 percentage points with respect to the average of June, standing at 81.7% of deposits and remaining at historically elevated levels (see Chart 7.2).

During July, a series of regulatory modifications in foreign exchange matters took place. Among them, the expansion of conditions for the subscription of Internal Letters of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in dollars payable in pesos at the Reference Exchange Rate "A" 3500 (LEDIV) at zero rate stood out 7. Additionally, access to the foreign exchange market was limited to natural persons who are beneficiaries of ANSES credits until they have paid off their debt to the agency 8.

7 Communication "A" 7803.
8 Communication "A" 7810.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 9

As a complement to these regulations, and in order to promote a more efficient allocation of foreign currency, modifications were established in the withholding rates of the Income Tax for operations of formation of external assets and the PAIS tax for the purchase of dollars intended for the payment of services abroad 9. In turn, with the objective of increasing the supply of foreign currency through the establishment of export incentives, new conditions were established with reference to the "Export Increase Program," setting a differential exchange rate of $340 per dollar for the liquidation of foreign currency from the export of products from regional economies that will be in effect until August 31 10. It is worth noting that among the tariff positions covered by the measure, corn and brewery barley production were incorporated 11.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended July with a balance of US$ 24,092 million, registering a decrease of US$ 3,834 million with respect to the end of June (see Chart 7.3). This decline was explained mostly by payments to international organizations and the cancellation of foreign currency debt by the National Government. Specifically, at the end of the month a payment was made to the International Monetary Fund for approximately US$ 2,700 million, of which US$ 1,700 million were integrated in yuan, making use of the currency swap with the People's Republic of China Bank. The remaining US$ 1,000 million were covered with funds from the Latin American and Caribbean Development Bank (CAF).
Another factor that also contributed to explaining the fall in International Reserves in July, although to a lesser extent, was the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector. However, it should be noted that during the last days of the month the BCRA maintained a buyer position, due to liquidations from the new edition of the Export Increment Program. In effect, the purchases made under this Program totaled US$ 1,225 million in the month, of which US$1,000 million corresponded to the period after the modifications promoted at the end of July.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the United States dollar increased 7.1% in July and was located, on average, at $266.05/US$. In this way, the depreciation rate of the domestic currency has been slightly lower than that of the previous month, in line with the moderation of inflation (see Chart 7.4).

Chart 7.3 | International Reserves Balance     Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate with the United States

var. % avg.
monthly
8

7.1 7.4 7.1

6 6.6 6.4 6.3
6.2
5.8 5.6 5.7
5.4 5.4

4 4.7

2

0
jul-22 sep-22 nov-22 ene-23 mar-23 may-23 jul-23
Source: BCRA.

9 Decree 377/2023 of the National Executive Branch.
10 Decree 378/2023 of the National Executive Branch.
11 Resolution 295/2023 of the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fishing.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 108. Regulatory Summary

Date of      Standard          Description
Issue

The conditions for the subscription of Internal Bonds of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic in dollars payable in pesos at the Reference Exchange Rate Com. "A" 3500 (LEDIV) at zero rate were expanded. In particular, this regulation enables financial entities to participate in the subscription, on behalf and by order of clients who are beneficiaries of the Regime for Access to Foreign Currency for the Incremental Production of Oil (RADPIP) and the Regime for Access to Foreign Currency for the Incremental Production of Natural Gas (RADPIGN) that could request the issuance of "Certifications of the regimes for access to foreign currency for incremental production of oil and/or natural gas (Decree No. 277/22)". In said case, the holding of LEDIV may be at most equivalent to the amount of the aforementioned certifications pending issuance.

6-jul-23 Com. "A" 7803

It was provided that natural persons who are beneficiaries of ANSES loans will not be able to access the exchange market to make purchases of foreign currency for the formation of external assets of residents, remittance of family aid and for operations with derivatives, nor enter into sales in the country with settlement in foreign currency of securities issued by residents or exchanges of securities issued by residents for external assets or transfer them to deposit entities abroad or the acquisition in the country with settlement in pesos of securities issued by non-residents, until they have canceled the debt.

20-jul-23 Com. "A" 7810

It was clarified that it is appropriate to use the "Special accounts for holders with agricultural activity and others" and the "Special accounts for exporters" for the crediting of any foreign currency liquidation that is realized within the framework of the Export Increment Program.

24-jul-23 Com. "A" 7813

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 119. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages    Percentage variations    Average of jul-23    % of GDP
# MAIN MONETARY VARIABLES LINKED TO BCRA
## jul-23 | jun-23 | may-23 | dic-22 | jul-22 | monthly | accumulated in 2023 | interannual | jul-23 | dic-22

| | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | s.o. | Real | s.e. | Nominal | Real |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 6,128,916 | 5,603,843 | 5,392,794 | 4,781,929 | 4,212,024 | 9.4% | -1.1% | 9.4% | -21.6% | 45.5% | -31.5% | 3.7% | 4.6% |
| Monetary circulation | 4,918,975 | 4,501,724 | 4,300,300 | 3,767,917 | 3,197,739 | 9.3% | -2.1% | 9.3% | -21.6% | 53.8% | -27.6% | 2.9% | 3.6% |
| Currency in circulation held by public | 4,439,939 | 4,022,759 | 3,853,869 | 3,361,649 | 2,897,184 | 10.4% | -1.6% | 10.4% | -20.9% | 53.3% | -27.9% | 2.6% | 3.2% |
| Cash in financial entities | 479,036 | 478,965 | 446,431 | 406,268 | 300,555 | 0.0% | -6.6% | 0.0% | -27.3% | 59.4% | -25.0% | 0.3% | 0.4% |
| | | | | | | | | | | |
| Current account at BCRA | 1,209,941 | 1,102,119 | 1,092,494 | 1,014,012 | 1,014,285 | 9.8% | 2.6% | 9.8% | -26.4% | 19.3% | -43.9% | 0.8% | 1.0% |
| Remunerated Liabilities of BCRA (VN$) | 16,950,487 | 15,902,970 | 14,481,169 | 10,076,065 | 6,932,704 | 6.6% | -0.4% | 6.6% | 3.8% | 144.5% | 15.0% | 10.5% | 9.8% |
| Passive Repos | 3,803,047 | 3,663,530 | 3,289,269 | 2,004,090 | 1,027,065 | 3.8% | -3.0% | 3.8% | 17.1% | 270.3% | 74.2% | 2.4% | 1.9% |
| LELIQ stock | 12,353,764 | 11,381,469 | 10,412,635 | 6,831,822 | 4,831,273 | 8.5% | 1.4% | 8.5% | 11.6% | 155.7% | 20.3% | 7.7% | 6.6% |
| LELIQ stock at 28 days | 12,298,526 | 11,305,721 | 10,329,490 | 6,820,934 | 4,610,899 | 8.8% | 1.6% | 8.8% | 11.2% | 166.7% | 25.5% | 7.6% | 6.6% |
| LELIQ stock at 180 days | 55,238 | 75,748 | 83,145 | 10,888 | 220,374 | -27.1% | -31.9% | -27.1% | 213.0% | -74.9% | -88.2% | 0.0% | 0.0% |
| NOTALIQ stock | 172,093 | 241,188 | 305,572 | 1,110,688 | 1,029,356 | -28.6% | -33.3% | -28.6% | -90.4% | -83.3% | -92.1% | 0.1% | 1.1% |
| LEDIV stock | 554,601 | 550,993 | 411,906 | 76,058 | 0 | 0.7% | -6.0% | 0.7% | 349.9% | — | — | 0.3% | 0.1% |
| LEGAR stock | 66,982 | 65,789 | 61,786 | 53,408 | 45,010 | 1.8% | -4.9% | 1.8% | -22.6% | 48.8% | -30.0% | 0.0% | 0.1% |
| | | | | | | | | | | |
| BCRA International Reserves in dollars | 26,140 | 31,931 | 33,525 | 40,650 | 40,335 | -18.1% | — | -18.1% | — | -35.2% | — | 4.3% | 6.8% |

## Variation Factors
| | Monthly | Contribution | Trimestral | Contribution | Accumulated 2023 | Contribution | Interannual | Contribution |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Monetary base | 525,073 | 9.4% | 883,565 | 16.8% | 1,346,987 | 28.2% | 1,916,892 | 45.5% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others | -340,891 | -6.1% | 136,536 | 2.6% | -131,439 | -2.7% | 927,319 | 22.0% |
| Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury | -922,065 | -16.5% | -1,152,977 | -22.0% | -1,412,682 | -29.5% | -1,674,383 | -39.8% |
| Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to Nat. Gov. | 1,104,099 | 19.7% | 1,633,699 | 31.1% | 1,797,032 | 37.6% | 1,823,968 | 43.3% |
| Other public sector operations | 173,698 | 3.1% | -17,078 | -0.3% | 12,706 | 0.3% | 180 | 0.0% |
| Monetary regulation instruments | 193,893 | 3.5% | -356,861 | -6.8% | -146,066 | -3.1% | -920,031 | -21.8% |
| Others | 316,338 | 5.6% | 640,247 | 12.2% | 1,227,436 | 25.7% | 1,759,839 | 41.8% |
| BCRA International Reserves | -5,791 | -18.1% | -11,029 | -29.7% | -14,510 | -35.7% | -14,195 | -35.2% |
| Purchase of foreign currency | -1,411 | -4.4% | -676 | -1.8% | -2,538 | -6.2% | 925 | 2.3% |
| International organizations⁵ | -2,567 | -8.0% | -5,100 | -13.7% | -5,513 | -13.6% | -7,548 | -18.7% |
| Other public sector operations | -916 | -2.9% | -1,203 | -3.2% | -3,113 | -7.7% | -3,538 | -8.8% |
| Minimum cash requirement | -527 | -1.7% | -1,692 | -4.6% | -1,705 | -4.2% | -1,604 | -4.0% |
| Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) | -369 | -1.2% | -2,359 | -6.3% | -1,641 | -4.0% | -2,429 | -6.0% |

**Note:** The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month in relation to which the variation is being calculated.

⁵ Does not include the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) or the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE).

## Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration
| | jul-23 | jun-23 | may-23 |
|---|---|---|---|
| **National Currency** | **% of total deposits in pesos** | |
| Net requirement after deductions | 17.7 | 17.4 | 17.5 |
| Integration in current accounts | 4.2 | 4.1 | 4.4 |
| LELIQ integration | 29.8 | 31.0 | 31.9 |
# INTEGRATION BOTE 2027 3.8 4.0 3.4
Integration Rest Public Securities 16.8 15.6 12.5
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default application of resources) 56.4 60.0 62.3
Position (1) 32.4 36.0 38.3

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement
Monthly Monetary Report | July of 2023 | BCRA | 12 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average of jul-23 % of GDP4

Main monetary variables and financial system Monthly Accumulated in 2023 Year-over-year
jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dec-22 jul-22 jul-23 dec-22
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Segment in domestic currency
Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 128,334,089 26,470,550 24,496,952 18,248,097 13,538,200 7.0% -1.9% 7.0% -5.4% 109.3% -1.5% 17.3% 17.7%

Deposits of the private sector 23,355,596 21,817,152 20,306,159 15,170,437 11,109,005 7.1% -2.3% 7.1% -6.5% 110.2% -1.1% 14.2% 14.7%
Sight deposits of the private sector 10,817,599 10,145,415 9,325,631 7,305,131 5,432,699 6.6% -3.9% 6.6% -6.3% 99.1% -6.3% 6.5% 6.7%
Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 7,578,778 7,171,543 6,588,310 5,375,548 4,234,480 5.7% -6.2% 5.7% -10.1% 79.0% -15.8% 4.5% 4.8%
Remunerated 3,238,821 2,973,872 2,737,321 1,929,583 1,198,219 8.9% 1.7% 8.9% 3.6% 170.3% 27.2% 2.0% 1.9%
Sight deposits with adjustment by Exchange Rate 465 514 431 132 0 -9.6% -16.6% -9.6% 106.1% 0.0%
Fixed-term deposits and others of the private sector 12,537,997 11,671,737 10,980,528 7,865,306 5,676,306 7.4% -0.9% 7.4% -6.6% 120.9% 3.9% 7.7% 7.9%
Fixed-term 12,231,804 11,369,524 10,715,945 7,642,487 5,494,220 7.6% -0.8% 7.6% -6.4% 122.6% 4.7% 7.5% 7.7%
Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange Rate 11,876,307 10,991,645 10,342,288 7,241,211 5,077,836 8.0% -0.4% 8.0% -4.0% 133.9% 10.0% 7.3% 7.3%
Adjustable by CER/UVA 302,771 324,048 321,413 359,936 387,052 -6.6% -13.9% -6.6% -50.8% -21.8% -63.2% 0.2% 0.4%
Traditional 136,669 141,399 139,762 156,519 202,935 -3.3% -10.9% -3.3% -48.9% -32.7% -68.3% 0.1% 0.2%
Precancellable 166,101 182,649 181,651 203,417 184,116 -9.1% -16.2% -9.1% -52.2% -9.8% -57.6% 0.1% 0.2%
DIVA 52,726 53,831 52,244 41,340 29,332 -2.1% -9.7% -2.1% -25.4% 79.8% -15.4% 0.0% 0.0%
Other deposits 306,193 302,213 264,583 222,818 182,086 1.3% -5.4% 1.3% -15.2% 68.2% -20.9% 0.2% 0.2%
Deposits of the public sector 4,978,492 4,653,398 4,190,793 3,077,661 2,429,195 7.0% -0.1% 7.0% -0.2% 104.9% -3.6% 3.1% 3.0%

Monetary Aggregates
M2 Total 16,985,303 15,748,853 14,601,322 11,869,250 9,181,623 7.9% -3.0% 7.9% -9.9% 85.0% -13.0% 10.3% 11.1%
M3 Total 32,923,952 30,715,181 28,567,102 21,738,600 16,538,242 7.2% -2.1% 7.2% -6.0% 99.1% -6.3% 20.2% 20.7%
Private Monetary Aggregates
M2 private 15,257,538 14,168,174 13,179,500 10,666,780 8,329,883 7.7% -2.4% 7.7% -10.7% 83.2% -13.8% 9.2% 10.0%
M2 private transactional 12,018,717 11,194,302 10,442,179 8,737,196 7,131,664 7.4% -4.5% 7.4% -14.5% 68.5% -20.7% 7.2% 8.1%
M3 private 27,795,535 25,839,911 24,160,028 18,532,085 14,006,189 7.6% -1.5% 7.6% -8.8% 98.5% -6.6% 16.9% 17.9%
Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 10,289,684 9,642,911 9,087,727 6,765,414 5,471,415 6.7% -0.9% 6.7% -3.8% 88.1% -11.5% 6.4% 6.4%
Loans to the non-financial private sector 10,141,115 9,514,766 8,989,819 6,694,118 5,410,117 6.6% -1.0% 6.6% -4.1% 87.4% -11.8% 6.3% 6.3%
Advances 1,174,981 1,054,498 1,029,315 775,219 610,512 11.4% -1.5% 11.4% -8.3% 92.5% -9.5% 0.7% 0.7%
Documents 3,018,039 2,765,661 2,592,949 1,708,519 1,398,984 9.1% 0.9% 9.1% 12.7% 115.7% 1.5% 1.9% 1.6%
Mortgages 437,850 420,772 408,194 371,698 341,943 4.1% -3.3% 4.1% -27.2% 28.0% -39.8% 0.3% 0.4%
Pledge loans 676,927 627,756 588,222 458,905 359,343 7.8% -0.6% 7.8% -7.0% 88.4% -11.4% 0.4% 0.4%
Personal loans 1,424,138 1,397,529 1,365,153 1,050,186 863,486 1.9% -3.7% 1.9% -15.8% 64.9% -22.4% 0.9% 1.0%
Credit cards 2,936,074 2,805,393 2,590,101 1,999,883 1,540,691 4.7% -1.3% 4.7% -3.8% 90.6% -10.4% 1.9% 1.9%
Other 473,105 443,158 415,886 329,708 295,158 6.8% -0.7% 6.8% -14.2% 60.3% -24.6% 0.3% 0.3%
Loans to the non-financial public sector 148,570 128,145 97,908 71,296 61,298 15.9% 8.3% 15.9% 28.6% 142.4% 14.0% 0.1% 0.1%
Segment in foreign currency1

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 17,834 17,601 17,843 18,785 18,118 1.3% - 1.3% - -1.6% - 3.0% 3.2%
Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15,476 15,440 15,293 15,686 15,074 0.2% - 0.2% - 2.7% - 2.6% 2.6%
On demand 12,074 11,998 11,730 11,937 11,226 0.6% - 0.6% - 7.6% - 2.0% 2.0%
Fixed-term and other 3,402 3,442 3,563 3,749 3,848 -1.1% - -1.1% - -11.6% - 0.6% 0.6%
Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2,358 2,161 2,551 3,100 3,045 9.1% - 9.1% - -22.6% - 0.4% 0.6%
Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,950 4,045 4,133 3,645 3,970 -2.3% - -2.3% - -0.5% - 0.7% 0.6%
Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3,758 3,853 3,939 3,491 3,849 -2.5% - -2.5% - -2.4% - 0.6% 0.6%
Documents 2,606 2,671 2,742 2,273 2,609 -2.5% - -2.5% - -0.1% - 0.4% 0.4%
Credit Cards 222 221 206 179 253 0.4% - 0.4% - -12.4% - 0.0% 0.0%
Rest 930 961 991 1,039 986 -3.2% - -3.2% - -5.7% - 0.2% 0.2%
Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 193 192 195 153 121 0.3% - 0.3% - 58.9% - 0.0% 0.0%

1 Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes with respect to M2 private remunerated sight deposits.
4 Calculated based on the non-seasonal series of the month and the non-seasonal GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary
Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 13 Interest rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Interest Rates of monetary regulation instruments jul-23 AER jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dec-22 jul-22

BCRA repo rates
Liabilities 1 day 91.00 148.15 91.00 88.29 70.00 44.89
Liabilities 1 day (FCI) 77.35 115.51 77.35 75.05 52.50
Assets 1 day 116.00 218.41 116.00 113.29 95.00 62.90
LELIQ rate 28 days 97.00 154.88 97.00 94.29 75.00 53.03
LELIQ rate 180 days 105.50 133.83 105.50 102.79 83.50 59.74
Interest Rates of the Interbank Market jul-23 AER jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dec-22 jul-22

Repo rates between third parties REPO wheel 1 day 82.72 128.47 81.18 79.91 66.37 44.04
Amount operated in repos between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 14,268 15,262 8,487 7,500 13,815
Call in pesos (1 business day)
Rate 85.43 134.75 84.13 82.30 67.38 43.31
Amount operated 18,007 15,838 18,395 22,471 32,733
# INTEREST RATES AND EXCHANGE RATES

## Passive Interest Rates
jul-23 TEA jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dic-22 jul-22

**Sight Deposits**
Remunerated 77.96 112.91 73.52 71.06 57.46 35.65

**Fixed Term**
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 96.66 153.48 96.67 93.32 74.67 53.15
TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 89.48 137.13 89.10 87.02 65.91 49.28
TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 90.04 138.36 89.92 87.82 66.48 50.08
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 92.16 143.12 91.66 89.19 68.58 50.18
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 92.82 144.62 92.62 90.19 69.45 51.16
Prepayment rate of deposits in UVA 91.80 142.30 91.80 89.04 71.00 49.03

## Active Interest Rates
jul-23 TEA jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dic-22 jul-22

**Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos**
Current account advances 97.05 163.60 95.09 89.31 75.43 51.44
1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies— more than $10 million 91.70 148.19 92.08 88.46 73.27 46.68
Documents on sole signature 85.88 129.30 83.27 79.87 61.42 49.33
Mortgage 74.65 106.36 75.44 67.47 62.71 39.29
Pledge 65.42 89.12 66.15 57.64 48.60 37.53
Personal 102.56 167.69 104.05 93.68 81.19 65.64
Credit cards 83.65 124.57 82.70 80.40 77.10 52.30

## Interest rates of the foreign currency segment
jul-23 TEA jul-23 jun-23 may-23 dic-22 jul-22

Fixed term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.33 0.33 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.34
Documents on sole signature in dollars 4.87 4.98 6.77 6.07 5.40 4.01

## Exchange Rate
jul-23 Monthly Var. (%) jun-23 may-23 dic-22 jul-22

**TCN peso / dollar**
Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) 266.05 7.14 248.31 231.14 172.45 128.39
Retail¹ 272.03 7.26 253.61 235.84 175.20 131.18

**TCN peso / real** 55.48 8.41 51.17 46.53 32.92 23.97
**TCN peso / euro** 294.16 9.25 269.24 251.15 182.58 130.83
**ITCNM** 1,787.16 7.79 1,658.07 1,538.79 1,116.28 824.53
**ITCRM** 95.91 1.39 94.60 93.79 93.21 91.71

¹ The Reference Retail Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the purchase and sale exchange rates recorded by the adhering entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 14 Glossary
# GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Current account deposits at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises cash in circulation held by the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Stock Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
MiPyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 15

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: without seasonality.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized Information Requirements System.
SIMPES: Comprehensive Monitoring System for Payments Abroad for Services.
TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisition Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | July 2023 | BCRA | 16
