Savings instruments in pesos | Loans to the S. Private
Contribution to monthly growth by type of deposit | monthly var. real s.e.
p.p. Fixed Term Deposits + Other Private | -2.0%
6 | Sight Deposits Remunerated
5 | Remunerated Deposits | 28-day LELIQ Rate
4 | nominal annual
3 | 75.0%
2 |
1 | Passive Repo Rate 1d
0 | nominal annual
-1 | 72.0%
-2 |
-3 | International Reserves
-4 | millions of US$; end of month
-5 | 38,709
-6 |
feb-22 apr-22 jun-22 aug-22 oct-22 dec-22 feb-23

Source: BCRA.

The broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered a contraction in the second month of the year, which was explained both by the behavior of means of payment and by fixed-term deposits.

The fall in fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector was concentrated in the wholesale segment and was explained by a portfolio rebalancing of Money Market Investment Funds (FCI MM), which channeled their funds into remunerated sight deposits. The change in composition in the assets of the FCI MM occurred in a context in which the yield on sight placements, for these agents, came to be positioned at levels similar to those of fixed-term placements.

Despite the decline recorded in the month, fixed-term deposits continue to be positioned around the maximum values of the last decades and at a level similar to the pandemic maximum in terms of Product.

Finally, loans to the private sector at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered a new monthly contraction. The Financing Line for Productive Investment allowed credit to SMEs in terms of GDP to be sustained above the pre-pandemic record and above its historical average.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of payment
**Means of Payment**

The means of payment (private transactional M2¹), in real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.a.), would have registered a decrease of 2.0% in February. This dynamic was fundamentally driven by the behavior of currency in the hands of the public, while non-remunerated demand deposits recorded a slight negative contribution to the monthly variation (see Chart 2.1). In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned 20% below the February 2022 level.

As a ratio of GDP, the means of payment would have stood at 7.8%, showing a decrease (0.2 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.2). Both components of the means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 20 years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices
Contribution by component to monthly variation s.a.
p.p.
- Demand deposits transactional
- Non-remunerated demand deposits
- Currency in the hands of the public
- Private transactional M2 (%)

Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
% of GDP
- Currency in the hands of the public
- Private transactional M2 (%)

Source | BCRA. Source | BCRA.

---

## **3. Savings Instruments in Pesos**

The BCRA Board decided to keep the minimum guaranteed interest rates on fixed-term deposits unchanged in the second month of the year, marking 5 consecutive periods without modifications². The decision was made considering that the real return on investments in local currency remains in positive territory and short-term inflation perspectives. In this way, the minimum guaranteed rate for placements by individuals up to an amount of $10 million remained at 75% p.a. (107.05% e.a.), while for the remaining depositors of the financial system the interest rate persisted at 66.5% p.a. (91.07% e.a.)³.

Private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos would have registered a contraction of 6.0% s.a. at constant prices in February. Although fixed-term placements showed a decline in the month, at constant prices they still remained around the maximum levels of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, said deposits would have stood at 7.3% in February (0.4 p.p. less than in January).

Financial Services Providers (PSF) explained the monthly decline in fixed-term instruments. Money Market Funds, which are the main agents in terms of deposit movement within PSFs and which operate fundamentally in the segment of more than $20 million, carried out a rotation in their portfolio composition in favor of remunerated instruments of shorter maturity. This led to the decline in their positions in fixed-term placements and an increase in remunerated demand deposits (22.4% at constant prices), which by mid-February already represented approximately 65% of their portfolio (see Chart 3.1). This portfolio rebalancing occurred in a context where the return on demand placements for these agents came to be positioned at levels similar to that of fixed-term placements (see Chart 3.2).

Chart 3.1 | Equity and investments of MM Funds
Balances s.o. at constant prices

Chart 3.2 | Interest rates of PSF deposits

---

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial services providers. This component was excluded because it is more similar to a savings instrument than to a means of payment.

² The interest rates currently in effect are those established through communication "A" 7527.

³ The remaining depositors are made up of Legal Persons and Individuals with deposits exceeding $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 3
# Translation from Spanish to English

---

Thousands of Thousands of TEA; %
 millions of $ Remunerated sight deposits of PSF millions of $
 as of 28-Feb-23 as of 28-Feb-23 100 PF Traditional PSF +$20M
 2,600 Traditional fixed-term deposits of PSF 4,600 1-day Repos
 Patrimony FCI MM (right axis) 95 Remunerated sight (PSF)
 2,400 4,400 1-day Passive Repos FCI 94.8
 93.6
 2,200 4,200 90 92.2

 2,000 4,000
 85 84.3
 1,800 3,800
 1,600 3,600 80

 1,400 3,400 75

 1,200 3,200 70

 1,000 3,000
 65
 800 2,800 31-Oct 15-Nov 30-Nov 15-Dec 30-Dec 14-Jan 29-Jan 13-Feb 28-Feb
 01-Oct 23-Oct 14-Nov 06-Dec 28-Dec 19-Jan 10-Feb Source: BCRA.
 Source: BCRA.

The rest of the companies (excluding PSF), which also operate in the wholesale segment, registered a slight
decrease in their holdings. On the other hand, natural persons, which operate mostly in the segment of less than
$20 million, maintained their holdings without major changes (see Graph 3.3).

 Graph 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits of the private sector
 by type of depositor
 s.o. at constant prices

 thousands of millions thousands of millions
 of $ as of 28-Feb-23 of $ as of 28-Feb-23
 3,400 4,900

 3,200 4,700

 3,000 4,500

 2,800 4,300

 2,600 4,100

 2,400 3,900

 2,200 3,700

 2,000 3,500
 1,800 Financial Services Providers 3,300
 Other legal entities
 1,600 Natural persons (right axis) 3,100

 1,400 2,900
 31-Oct 14-Nov 28-Nov 12-Dec 26-Dec 09-Jan 23-Jan 06-Feb 20-Feb

 Source: BCRA.

The segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER exhibited a new contraction in real terms,
accumulating 7 consecutive months of declines. The decrease was verified both in placements in traditional
UVA as well as in those that can be canceled early, whose monthly rates of variation were -11.8% s.e. and
-17.6% s.e. respectively (see Graph 3.4). Differentiating by type of holder, it is verified that the decline was
explained almost entirely by the dynamics of placements of natural persons, who concentrate about 85% of
the total (see Graph 3.5). In any case, UVA deposits reached a balance of $300,000 million at the end of
February, which represented 3.5% of the total of fixed-term instruments denominated in domestic currency.

Graph 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector Graph 3.5 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector
Balance at constant prices by type of instrument Balance at constant prices by type of holder
 thousands of millions thousands of millions
 of $ as of 28-Feb-23 of $ as of 28-Feb-23
320 500 Natural persons

280 450 Financial Services Providers
 400 Other Legal Entities
240
 350
200 300 294

160 164.1 250

120 135.9 200

 80 150
 Traditional UVA Fixed Term
 100
 40 Cancelable Early UVA Fixed Term 50 57

 0 0 7
 Jan-21 Apr-21 Jul-21 Oct-21 Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Jan-21 May-21 Sep-21 Jan-22 May-22 Sep-22 Jan-23
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, private M3, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality
would have exhibited in February a monthly decline of 1.1%. 4 In the year-over-year comparison, said
aggregate would have experienced a decrease of 3.2% and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at
17.5%, 0.2 p.p. below the record of the previous month and at a level similar to the 2010-19 average.

4. Monetary Base

The Monetary Base was located on average at $5,242.2 thousands of millions in February, which implied a
monthly contraction of 0.9% ($49,072 million) in the original series at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality
and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a contraction of 5.6% and in the last twelve months would
accumulate a decline in the order of 30%. In terms of GDP, the Monetary Base would be located at 4.4%,
0.2 p.p. below the value recorded in the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from
convertibility (see Graph 4.1).
**Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base Chart 4.2 | Factors explaining Monetary Base Variation
 thousands of Average monthly variation
 millions of $ % of GDP thousands of
 from Feb -23 millions of $ Other*
11,500 12 1,200 Remunerated Liabilities of BCRA
 Public Sector
 1,000 Purchases of foreign currency from private sector
10,500 10 800 Monetary base

 9,500 600
 8
 8,500 400
 6 200
 7,500 0
 6,500 4 -200
 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices -400
 5,500 As percentage of GDP (right axis) 2
 -600
 4,500 0 -800
 Feb-05 Feb-07 Feb-09 Feb-11 Feb-13 Feb-15 Feb-17 Feb-19 Feb-21 Feb-23 Feb-22 Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23
 Source: BCRA. * Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary market for securities.
 Source: BCRA.

4 Private M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits of the non-financial private sector (on demand, fixed-term and other).

 Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 5On the supply side, among the factors that positively contributed to the monthly variation of the monetary
base are the BCRA's purchases in the secondary market for public securities, which the BCRA continued to
carry out with the objective of limiting excessive volatility in the public debt securities market, and the effect
of interest income from the BCRA's monetary regulation instruments. These effects were more than offset by
the contractive effect of net sales of foreign currency to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, by operations
of the public sector (see Chart 4.2).

The BCRA kept its reference interest rates unchanged in February, considering that they continue to be in
positive territory in real terms. Thus, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQ remained at 75% n.a. (107.35% e.a.),
while the interest rate on 180-day LELIQ continued at 83.5% n.a. (101.23% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments,
the interest rate on 1-day passive repos is at 72% n.a. (105.3% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos
is at 97% n.a. (163.5% e.a.). Finally, the spread on NOTALIQ in the last auction of the month was set at 8.5 p.p.

With the current instrument configuration, in February remunerated liabilities were composed, on average,
of approximately 70% in 28-day LELIQ. Longer-term instruments represented 7.5% of the total, concentrated
practically entirely in NOTALIQ. Meanwhile, 1-day passive repos increased their participation in the total
instruments, representing 21.9% of the total (1.2 p.p. more than the previous month). The remainder was
composed of LEDIV and LEGAR, which slightly decreased their participation compared to January (see Chart 4.3).

 **Chart 4.3 | Composition of Remunerated Liabilities of BCRA**
 Monthly average

 % 1-day Repos 7-day Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ LEGAR LEDIV
 100

 90

 80

 70

 60

 50

 40

 30

 20

 10

 0
 Feb-22 Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23
 *Include repos with FCIs.
 Source: BCRA.

**5. Loans to the Private Sector**

In February, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have
registered a monthly decline of 2.0%, accumulating eight consecutive months of contraction. The decrease
occurred in practically all financing lines with the exception of advances (see Chart 5.1). Over the last 12 months,
bank financing would have accumulated a decline of 14.2% in real terms. Thus, loans in pesos to the private
sector measured in terms of current GDP fell during the month and stood at 6.1% (see Chart 5.2).

 Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 6**Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to private sector**
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth In terms of GDP

 % %
 3 12

 2 9

 1 6 6.1

 0 3

 -1 0
-2 -2.0 -3
Personal Documents Loans in pesos to the private sector
-3 Advances Credit Cards -6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
-4 Pawn Mortgages -9 Ratio to GDP
Other Total (monthly var.)

-5 -12
Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Mar-20 Aug-20 Jan-21 Jun-21 Nov-21 Apr-22 Sep-22 Feb-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

When observing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines intended mainly for commercial purposes showed, in real terms, a decrease of 0.3% monthly s.e. and 11.8% y.o.y. The financing granted through advances would have exhibited an increase at constant prices of 1.7% s.e. in the month. This dynamic was offset by the behavior of documents and other commercial loans, which would have registered a decline compared to January of 0.1% s.e. and 5.8% s.e., respectively.

Distinguishing commercial credit by type of debtor, so far this year, a contraction in financing to MSMEs of around 9% y.o.y. at constant prices and 16% y.o.y. of that corresponding to large companies is observed. However, in terms of GDP, credit to relatively smaller-sized companies was positioned above the pre-pandemic record and above its historical average. In contrast, in the case of large companies, the credit-to-GDP ratio is at its historical minimum (see Chart 5.3).

Chart 5.3 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor Chart 5.4 | Financing granted through the LFIP
As a percentage of Product Cumulative disbursed amounts; data at end of month

% of GDP thousands of
4.0 millions of $
MSMEs Other Legal Entities 5,000
3.5 4,500 4,447
Total Investment Projects
3.0 4,000
3,500
2.5 3,000

2.0 2,500

2,000
1.5 1.5 1,500

1.0 1.0 1,000 607
500

0.5 0
Feb-05 Feb-07 Feb-09 Feb-11 Feb-13 Feb-15 Feb-17 Feb-19 Feb-21 Feb-23 Nov-20 Feb-21 May-21 Aug-21 Nov-21 Feb-22 May-22 Aug-22 Nov-22 Feb-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). As of the end of February, loans granted under the LFIP accumulated approximately $4,447 billion since its launch, with an increase of 6.5% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.4). For its part, of the total financings granted through the LFIP, 13.7% corresponds to investment projects and the remainder to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financings granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,288 billion in January (latest available information), which represents about 18.7% of total loans and 44.9% of total commercial loans.

Among loans associated with consumption, financings implemented with credit cards would have shown a real decrease of 2.2% s.e. in February (-12.4% y.o.y.). Likewise, personal loans would have exhibited a decline of 1.7% monthly s.e. and would already be 18.8% below the level recorded a year ago. During February, the interest rate corresponding to personal loans was on average 79.7% n.a. (116.4% e.a.), with an increase of 0.4 p.p. compared to the previous month.

With respect to lines with real collateral, pawn loans would have registered a decrease in real terms of 2.3% s.e. and are 4.7% below the level of a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credit would have shown in the month a decrease of 4.8% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of 34.5% in the last twelve months.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities
In the month of February, broad banking liquidity in local currency⁵ showed an increase of 1.7 p.p. with respect to January, averaging 75.4% of deposits. Thus, it remained at historically elevated levels. The increase was explained mainly by LELIQ, passive repos and integration with public securities, partially offset by NOTALIQ and current accounts at the Central Bank.

**Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities**

[Chart description with data points and legend showing: Net Repos, LELIQ - Rest, NOTALIQ, CC BCRA, Integration with LELIQ, Integration with Other Securities, Cash in Banks, BOTE 2022-2027, and Liquidity percentages of deposits]

Source: BCRA.

## 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities registered limited variations. The balance of deposits from the private sector averaged US$ 16,374 million in the month, which implied an increase of US$ 115 million with respect to January. For its part, the average monthly balance of loans to the private sector in foreign currency was US$ 3,589 million, thus registering an increase of US$ 84 million compared to the previous month (see Chart 7.1).

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced an increase of 0.2 p.p. with respect to the average of January, placing itself at 86% of deposits and remaining at historically elevated levels. The increase was explained by current accounts in foreign currency at the BCRA, and was partially offset by cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

⁵ Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, balances of net repos arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.

**Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector**

[Chart data showing thousands of millions of US$ and percentages of deposits for Deposits and Loans from January 2020 to February 2023]

Source: BCRA.

**Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency of financial entities**

[Chart data showing percentages of deposits for Cash in Banks US$, CC BCRA US$, and Liquidity US$ from February 2022 to February 2023]

Source: BCRA.

During February, some regulatory modifications took place in foreign exchange matters. Thus, seeking to allocate foreign currency more efficiently, access to the foreign exchange market was made more flexible for the payment of imports in the case of certain tariff positions related to fruits and vegetables⁶.

The Central Bank's International Reserves reached a balance of US$ 38,709 million at the end of February, registering a decrease of US$ 2,708 million in the month. Among the factors that explain this decline, the following stand out: payments to international organizations (fundamentally the payment of interest to the International Monetary Fund for approximately US$ 700 million), net sale of foreign currency, and losses from valuation of net external assets (see Chart 7.3).
Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 5.4% in February to stand, on average, at $191.97/US$ (see Chart 7.4). In this way, the BCRA continued decelerating the rate of depreciation of the domestic currency.

Chart 7.3 | Change in balance at end of month of International Chart 7.4 | Change in nominal bilateral exchange rate
Reserves with the United States
Explanation Factors. February of 2023

 millions of US$ var. % prom.
 500 monthly
 65 75 7
 0 6.6
 6 6.2 6.4
 -500 -329 5.8 5.6
 5 5.4 5.4
-1,000 -890 -733
 -896 4 4.7
 4.1 4.1
-1,500 3.5
 3
-2,000 2.8
 2 2.4

-2,500 1
-3,000 -2,708
 Total Var. Purchase Org. Other Op. Cash Min. Type Other 0
 of foreign Internac. Sect. Pub. of Exchange feb-22 abr-22 jun-22 ago-22 oct-22 dic-22 feb-23
 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

6 Communications "A" 7676 and "A" 7682.

 Monthly Monetary Report | February of 2023 | BCRA | 98. Regulatory Summary

 Issue Norm Description
 Date

 Certain tariff positions referring to fruits, legumes and vegetables are exempted from the requirement of
 2-feb-23 Com. "A" 7686 waiting 180 consecutive days from the date of customs entry registration of goods in order to
 access the foreign exchange market for payment abroad of imports of goods that have
 customs entry registration that are recorded in the SEPAIMPO.

 Measures were taken to favor the financing of the productive sector affected by drought, which include more
 flexible terms for the determination of default and the possibility of accessing subsidized credit lines. In particular,
 it was established that agricultural producers covered by the Agricultural Emergency Law have until December 31
 2-feb-23 Com. "A" 7687 of this year more flexible terms in counting default to consider their credit situation, according to what is
 established in the norm on Debtor Classification.

 Thus, 45 days are added to the first three categories of debtors to relieve agricultural producers. The treatment
 provided under this provision may not imply improvement of the classification assigned to the client based on their
 individual situation, prior to the declaration of emergency, nor may its application extend beyond the term set
 for it.

 As of July 31 of this year, Section 4 of the norms on "National Payments System – Transfers" will be repealed,
 2-feb-23 Com. "A" 7688 in which financial entities are required to provide their clients with an access card to their current accounts that
 allows, among other services, to make immediate fund transfers, including payments by transfer.

 Monthly Monetary Report | February of 2023 | BCRA | 109. Monetary and Financial Indicators
 Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average of feb-23 % of GDP

 Principal monetary variables linked to BCRA monthly accumulated in 2023 interannual
 feb-23 ene-23 dic-22 nov-22 feb-22 feb-23 dic-22
 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Monetary base 5,242,210 5,291,282 4,781,929 4,388,339 3,750,943 -0.9% -5.6% -0.9% -10.4% 39.8% -29.7% 4.4% 4.4%
Monetary circulation 4,087,141 4,089,114 3,767,917 3,348,968 2,686,579 0.0% -3.5% 0.0% -8.4% 52.1% -23.5% 3.4% 3.6%
Cash in public hands 3,662,715 3,714,156 3,361,593 3,020,044 2,417,036 -1.4% -4.5% -1.4% -9.4% 51.5% -23.8% 3.1% 3.2%
Cash in financial entities 424,090 374,957 406,323 328,924 269,543 13.1% 5.8% 13.1% 0.5% 57.3% -20.9% 0.4% 0.4%
Current account at the BCRA 1,155,069 1,202,167 1,014,012 1,039,372 1,064,364 -3.9% -10.1% -3.9% -14.7% 8.5% -45.4% 1.0% 1.0%
Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (FV $) 11,017,136 10,395,877 9,946,599 9,110,754 4,652,744 6.0% -0.8% 6.0% -5.9% 136.8% 19.1% 9.4% 8.8%
Passive Repos 2,436,638 2,182,287 2,004,090 1,636,090 922,635 11.7% 4.5% 11.7% -0.8% 164.1% 32.8% 2.1% 1.6%
Stock of LELIQ 7,799,573 7,268,795 6,831,822 6,336,682 3,667,847 7.3% 0.4% 7.3% -4.7% 112.6% 6.9% 6.7% 6.1%
Stock of LELIQ at 28 days 7,740,924 7,242,239 6,821,262 6,332,127 3,293,933 6.9% 0.0% 6.9% -5.1% 135.0% 18.2% 6.6% 6.1%
Stock of LELIQ at 180 days 58,649 26,556 10,560 4,555 373,914 120.8% 106.7% 120.8% 96.2% -84.3% -92.1% 0.1% 0.0%
Stock of NOTA LIQ 780,925 944,796 1,110,688 1,137,983 62,263 -17.3% -22.7% -17.3% -26.6% 1154.2% 530.6% 0.7% 1.1%
International reserves of the BCRA in dollars 39,843 43,199 40,650 37,897 37,252 -7.8% - -7.8% - 7.0% - 6.5% 6.3%

Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2023 Year-on-year
Factors of average monthly variation
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution

Monetary base -49,072 -0.9% 853,871 19.5% 460,281 9.6% 1,491,267 39.8%
Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector and others -163,960 -3.1% 384,086 8.8% 147,163 3.1% 1,348,114 35.9%
Purchase of foreign currency from the National Treasury -98,364 -1.9% -6,199 -0.1% -174,134 -3.6% -298,050 -7.9%
Temporary advances and Transfer of Utilities to the Nat. Gov. 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 498,051 13.3%
Other operations of public sector 67,112 1.3% -39,450 -0.9% -78,632 -1.6% -20,095 -0.5%
Monetary regulation instruments 53,382 1.0% -31,245 -0.7% 256,446 5.4% -1,904,258 -50.8%
Others 92,759 1.8% 546,679 12.5% 309,437 6.5% 1,867,504 49.8%
International Reserves of the BCRA -3,356 -7.8% 1,946 5.1% -807 -2.0% 2,591 7.0%
Purchase of foreign currency -868 -2.0% 1,233 3.3% 490 1.2% 5,177 13.9%
International organizations -2,020 -4.7% 166 0.4% -1,006 -2.5% 2,089 5.6%
Other operations of the public sector -948 -2.2% -2,292 -6.0% -2,155 -5.3% -3,727 -10.0%
Minimum cash -581 1.3% 1,625 4.3% 1,269 3.1% 1,152 3.1%
Rest (incl. exchange rate valuation) -101 -0.2% 1,213 3.2% 594 1.5% -2,100 -5.6%

Note: The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.

Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash Feb-23 Jan-23 Dec-22
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement of deductions 19.2 19.4 18.6
Integration in current accounts 5.7 6.2 5.5
Integration LELIQ 33.0 32.8 32.5
Integration BOTE 2027 3.6 3.6 3.7
Integration Rest of Public Titles 9.3 8.7 7.8
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default in application of resources) 66.4 63.6 62.5
Position (1) 42.4 39.6 38.5

(1) Position = Integration - Requirement
# Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 11

Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations | Average of Feb-23 | % of GDP⁴

Principal monetary variables and financial system variables | Monthly | Accumulated in 2023 | Year-on-year
feb-23 | jan-23 | dec-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 | feb-23 | dec-22 | | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real

**Segment in domestic currency**

Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos | 120.048.132 | 19.284.200 | 18.242.671 | 16.961.680 | 10.183.215 | 4.0% | -1.9% | 4.0% | -6.9% | 96.9% | -1.0% | 17.1% | 17.5%

Deposits of the private sector | 16.885.933 | 16.029.480 | 15.165.780 | 13.802.155 | 8.252.928 | 5.3% | -0.4% | 5.3% | -5.5% | 104.6% | 2.9% | 14.4% | 14.5%

Sight deposits of the private sector | 8.135.594 | 7.442.723 | 7.302.883 | 6.268.837 | 4.169.728 | 9.3% | 6.0% | 9.3% | 0.6% | 95.1% | -1.9% | 6.9% | 6.7%

Non-remunerated (Transactional) | 5.542.271 | 5.459.673 | 5.387.960 | 4.572.640 | 3.368.665 | 1.5% | -0.2% | 1.5% | -5.3% | 64.5% | -17.3% | 4.7% | 4.8%

Remunerated | 2.593.324 | 1.983.050 | 1.914.922 | 1.696.197 | 801.063 | 30.8% | 22.4% | 30.8% | 16.2% | 223.7% | 62.8% | 2.2% | 1.8%

Farm deposits | 121 | 140 | 131 | 109 | 0 | -13.1% | -19.7% | -13.1% | -23.8% | 0.0%

Fixed-term deposits and other deposits of the private sector | 8.750.338 | 8.586.757 | 7.862.897 | 7.533.318 | 4.083.201 | 1.9% | -5.8% | 1.9% | -10.6% | 114.3% | 7.7% | 7.5% | 7.9%

Fixed-term | 8.515.245 | 8.373.639 | 7.639.978 | 7.324.335 | 3.926.448 | 1.7% | -6.0% | 1.7% | -10.8% | 116.9% | 9.0% | 7.3% | 7.6%

Non-adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange rate | 8.158.881 | 7.990.925 | 7.238.714 | 6.913.044 | 3.715.410 | 2.1% | -5.6% | 2.1% | -10.4% | 119.6% | 10.4% | 7.0% | 7.2%

Adjustable by CER/UVA | 311.780 | 339.307 | 359.923 | 369.115 | 186.678 | -8.1% | -15.1% | -8.1% | -19.4% | 67.0% | -16.0% | 0.3% | 0.4%

Traditional | 140.504 | 147.274 | 156.518 | 168.223 | 117.758 | -4.6% | -11.8% | -4.6% | -16.3% | 19.3% | -40.0% | 0.1% | 0.2%

Pre-cancellable | 171.276 | 192.033 | 203.405 | 200.892 | 68.919 | -10.8% | -17.6% | -10.8% | -21.7% | 148.5% | 25.0% | 0.1% | 0.2%

DIVA | 44.584 | 43.407 | 41.340 | 42.176 | 24.361 | 2.7% | -5.1% | 2.7% | -9.9% | 83.0% | -8.0% | 0.0% | 0.0%

Other deposits | 235.093 | 213.117 | 222.919 | 208.983 | 156.752 | 10.3% | 3.2% | 10.3% | -2.0% | 50.0% | -24.6% | 0.2% | 0.2%

Deposits of the public sector | 3.162.199 | 3.254.720 | 3.076.891 | 3.159.525 | 1.930.286 | -2.8% | -9.1% | -2.8% | -13.7% | 63.8% | -17.6% | 2.7% | 3.0%
# MONETARY AGGREGATES

**Monetary Aggregates**
M2 Total | 12,871,300 | 12,432,951 | 11,866,151 | 10,402,476 | 7,354,581 | 3.5% | -0.3% | 3.5% | -5.3% | 75.0% | -12.0% | 10.9% | 11.0%
M3 Total | 23,849,383 | 23,135,994 | 21,733,115 | 20,102,926 | 12,689,059 | 3.1% | -2.1% | 3.1% | -7.1% | 88.0% | -5.5% | 20.3% | 20.5%

**Private Monetary Aggregates**
M2 private | 11,798,309 | 11,156,879 | 10,664,476 | 9,288,881 | 6,586,763 | 5.7% | 2.3% | 5.7% | -2.9% | 79.1% | -9.9% | 10.0% | 9.9%
M2 private transactional ³ | 9,204,986 | 9,173,830 | 8,749,554 | 7,592,683 | 5,785,700 | 0.3% | -2.0% | 0.3% | -6.9% | 59.1% | -20.0% | 7.8% | 8.0%
M3 private | 20,548,648 | 19,743,636 | 18,527,373 | 16,822,199 | 10,669,964 | 4.1% | -1.1% | 4.1% | -6.1% | 92.6% | -3.2% | 17.5% | 17.7%

**Total Loans to the Non-Financial Sector in Pesos**
Total loans to the non-financial sector in pesos | 7,213,741 | 6,964,242 | 6,764,715 | 6,412,960 | 4,236,915 | 3.6% | -2.0% | 3.6% | -7.0% | 70.3% | -14.4% | 6.2% | 6.3%

**Loans to the Non-Financial Private Sector**
Loans to the non-financial private sector | 7,141,571 | 6,895,637 | 6,693,435 | 6,348,494 | 4,185,286 | 3.6% | -2.0% | 3.6% | -7.0% | 70.6% | -14.2% | 6.1% | 6.2%
Overdrafts | 836,885 | 758,413 | 775,009 | 737,322 | 412,470 | 10.3% | 1.7% | 10.3% | -3.5% | 102.9% | 2.0% | 0.7% | 0.7%
Documents | 1,836,663 | 1,779,358 | 1,708,525 | 1,626,572 | 1,058,608 | 3.2% | -0.1% | 3.2% | -5.1% | 73.5% | -12.8% | 1.6% | 1.6%
Mortgages | 384,161 | 379,392 | 371,698 | 366,274 | 294,723 | 1.3% | -4.8% | 1.3% | -9.6% | 30.3% | -34.5% | 0.3% | 0.4%
Pledges | 483,775 | 468,506 | 458,905 | 439,306 | 255,227 | 3.3% | -2.3% | 3.3% | -7.2% | 89.5% | -4.7% | 0.4% | 0.4%
Personal loans | 1,152,303 | 1,092,005 | 1,050,134 | 1,014,111 | 713,158 | 5.5% | -1.7% | 5.5% | -6.7% | 61.6% | -18.8% | 1.0% | 1.0%
Credit cards | 2,123,458 | 2,090,035 | 1,999,444 | 1,856,083 | 1,218,540 | 1.6% | -2.2% | 1.6% | -7.2% | 74.3% | -12.4% | 1.8% | 1.8%
Others | 324,326 | 327,927 | 329,719 | 308,827 | 232,559 | -1.1% | -5.8% | -1.1% | -10.6% | 39.5% | -29.9% | 0.3% | 0.3%

**Loans to the Non-Financial Public Sector**
Loans to the non-financial public sector | 72,169 | 68,605 | 71,280 | 64,465 | 51,629 | 5.2% | -1.6% | 5.2% | -6.6% | 39.8% | -29.7% | 0.1% | 0.1%

## FOREIGN CURRENCY SEGMENT ¹

**Deposits**
Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars | 19,590 | 19,539 | 18,784 | 18,092 | 18,476 | 0.3% | - | 0.3% | - | 6.0% | - | 3.2% |
Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars | 16,374 | 16,259 | 15,684 | 15,210 | 15,248 | 0.7% | - | 0.7% | - | 7.4% | - | 2.6% |
On demand | 12,609 | 12,447 | 11,936 | 11,469 | 11,311 | 1.3% | - | 1.3% | - | 11.5% | - | 2.0% |
Fixed-term and others | 3,765 | 3,812 | 3,747 | 3,741 | 3,937 | -1.2% | - | -1.2% | - | -4.4% | - | 0.6% |
Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars | 3,216 | 3,279 | 3,100 | 2,882 | 3,228 | -1.9% | - | -1.9% | - | -0.4% | - | 0.6% |

**Loans**
Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars | 3,758 | 3,677 | 3,644 | 3,705 | 3,973 | 2.2% | - | 2.2% | - | -5.4% | - | 0.6% |
Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars | 3,589 | 3,505 | 3,491 | 3,562 | 3,846 | 2.4% | - | 2.4% | - | -6.7% | - | 0.6% |
Documents | 2,401 | 2,309 | 2,273 | 2,296 | 2,475 | 4.0% | - | 4.0% | - | -3.0% | - | 0.4% |
Credit Cards | 233 | 193 | 179 | 199 | 199 | 20.7% | - | 20.7% | - | 17.2% | - | 0.0% |
Rest | 956 | 1,004 | 1,039 | 1,067 | 1,173 | -4.9% | - | -4.9% | - | -18.5% | - | 0.2% |
Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars | 169 | 172 | 153 | 143 | 127 | -1.7% | - | -1.7% | - | 33.2% | - | 0.0% |

---

¹ Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
² Net of the use of unified funds.
³ Excludes from M2 private the remunerated sight deposits.
⁴ Calculated based on the non-seasonally adjusted series of the month and on the non-seasonally adjusted GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.

**Note:** The definitions of the monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 12 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.
# Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments Feb-23

## BCRA Pass Rates

| | TEA feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Liabilities 1 day | 72.00 | 105.30 | 70.90 | 70.00 | 70.00 | 32.59 |
| Liabilities 1 day (FCI) | 61.20 | 83.76 | 56.20 | 52.50 | 52.50 | |
| Assets 1 day | 97.00 | 163.46 | 95.90 | 95.00 | 95.00 | 43.29 |
| LELIQ Rate at 28 days | 75.00 | 107.35 | 75.00 | 75.00 | 75.00 | 40.98 |
| LELIQ Rate at 180 days | 83.50 | 101.23 | 83.50 | 83.50 | 83.50 | 45.18 |

## Interest Rates of the Interbank Market Feb-23

| | TEA feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Pass rates between third parties REPO wheel at 1 day | 67.62 | 96.52 | 62.08 | 66.37 | 69.01 | 32.31 |
| Amount traded of passes between third parties REPO wheel (daily average) | 7,306 | 12,393 | 7,500 | 9,942 | 12,058 | |
| **Call in pesos (at 1 business day)** | | | | | |
| Rate | 66.42 | 94.18 | 66.67 | 67.38 | 65.64 | 31.08 |
| Amount traded | 12,780 | 16,420 | 22,471 | 25,400 | 17,276 | |

## Passive Interest Rates Feb-23

| | TEA feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Deposits on Demand** | | | | | |
| Remunerated | 60.89 | 81.15 | 58.95 | 57.47 | 56.58 | 27.60 |
| **Fixed Term** | | | | | |
| Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)¹ | 74.67 | 106.41 | 74.67 | 74.67 | 74.66 | 39.60 |
| TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) | 66.02 | 90.21 | 65.94 | 65.91 | 65.80 | 36.83 |
| TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) | 66.63 | 91.30 | 66.52 | 66.48 | 66.49 | 37.58 |
| BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 69.06 | 95.76 | 68.94 | 68.58 | 68.52 | 37.36 |
| BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) | 69.90 | 97.32 | 69.58 | 69.45 | 69.31 | 38.28 |
| Early cancellation rate of deposits in UVA | 71.00 | 99.38 | 71.00 | 71.00 | 71.00 | 34.98 |

## Active Interest Rates Feb-23

| | TEA feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Loans to non-financial private sector in pesos** | | | | | |
| Overdrafts in current account | 77.69 | 117.29 | 76.76 | 75.43 | 74.49 | 42.05 |
| 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 millions | 75.23 | 111.05 | 74.51 | 73.27 | 73.92 | 35.96 |
| Documents on sole signature | 64.21 | 86.96 | 61.43 | 61.42 | 61.22 | 35.74 |
| Mortgages | 57.28 | 75.01 | 58.18 | 62.71 | 61.42 | 30.87 |
| Pledges | 47.24 | 58.96 | 46.21 | 48.60 | 48.40 | 29.24 |
| Personal loans | 79.67 | 116.35 | 79.24 | 81.19 | 79.04 | 55.87 |
| Credit cards | 79.46 | 115.92 | 79.05 | 77.10 | 76.84 | 46.20 |

## Interest Rates of the Foreign Currency Segment Feb-23

| | TEA feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) | 0.32 | 0.32 | 0.31 | 0.32 | 0.33 | 0.36 |
| Documents on sole signature in dollars | 3.72 | 3.79 | 3.56 | 5.40 | 4.26 | 3.70 |

## Exchange Rate Feb-23

| | feb-23 | Monthly Var. (%) | ene-23 | dic-22 | nov-22 | feb-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **TCN peso/dollar** | | | | | | |
| Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) | 191.97 | 5.41 | 182.12 | 172.45 | 162.10 | 106.38 |
| Retail² | 194.89 | 5.26 | 185.16 | 175.20 | 164.85 | 108.77 |
| **TCN peso/real** | 37.06 | 5.53 | 35.12 | 32.92 | 30.74 | 20.47 |
| **TCN peso/euro** | 205.32 | 4.59 | 196.31 | 182.58 | 161.68 | 120.74 |
| **ITCNM** | 1,261.83 | 5.19 | 1,199.58 | 1,116.28 | 1,032.03 | 721.96 |
| **ITCRM** | 95.72 | 0.53 | 95.21 | 93.21 | 90.13 | 102.66 |

---

¹ The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $10 million from individuals who, in total, at the financial entity exceed $10 million. The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor to the extent that the total fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed $10 million.

² The Retail Reference Exchange Rate of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates bought and sold recorded by the adherent entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 13 Glossary
ANSES: National Social Security Administration.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding one million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Current account deposits at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
SDR: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
y.o.y.: year-over-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Markets Institute.
CPI: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Notes.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Notes.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises circulating money in the public's hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises circulating money in the public's hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises circulating money in the public's hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating money in the public's hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the public and private non-financial sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises circulating money in the public's hands, cancellatory checks in pesos and total deposits in pesos of the private non-financial sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
GDP: Gross Domestic Product.
B.P.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
Mi PyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive Monitoring System of Payments Abroad for Services.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 14

NER: Nominal Exchange Rate.
IRR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate on fixed-term deposits for amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and 30 to 35 days maturity.
ANN: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Purchasing Power Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | February 2023 | BCRA | 15
