# Monthly Monetary Report
April 2023

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings instruments in pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary base

Page 7 | 5. Loans in pesos to the private sector

Page 9 | 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign currency

Page 11 | 8. Regulatory summary

Page 13 | 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 16 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was May 8, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be freely cited as long as the source is clarified: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institutional
commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have prepared this publication
recognize the influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking and systems of valuation.

In this document, an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading,
resources such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| Monetary Base | M2 Priv. transactional | Fixed Term | S. Priv. Fixed Term UVA | S. Priv. M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| -4.4% | 0.3% | 0.3% | -5.0% | -1.7% |

| Fixed-term deposits without seasonality | Loans to S. Priv. |
|---|---|
| At constant prices and in terms of GDP | monthly var. real s.e. |
| thousands of millions of $ of Apr-23 | % of GDP |
| 10,500 | 12 | 0.9% |
| 9,500 | 10 | |
| 8,500 | 8 | LELIQ 28-day rate |
| 7,500 | 6 | 91.0% nominal annual |
| 6,500 | | |
| 5,500 | 4 | Passive Repos Rate 1d |
| | | 85.0% nominal annual |
| Private fixed-term s.e., at constant prices | 2 | |
| 4,500 | | International Reserves |
| | | As percentage of GDP (right axis) |
| 3,500 | 0 | millions of US$; end of month |
| apr-05 | apr-08 | apr-11 | apr-14 | apr-17 | apr-20 | apr-23 | |
| | | | | | | | 35,001 |

Source: BCRA.

The BCRA raised the monetary policy interest rate (LELIQ 28 days) on two occasions during the month for a total
of 13 percentage points (p.p.), bringing it to 91% n.a. (141.0% e.a.). It also raised the interest rates of the rest of the
monetary regulation instruments and the minimum regulated interest rates for deposits.

Given that the largest increase in the rate occurred towards the end of April, fixed-term deposits in pesos from the
private sector did not yet show significant variations in real terms and persisted around the maximum values of recent
decades, both at constant prices and as a percentage of Product. By amount stratum, the wholesale segment (more than
$20 million) registered an expansion, which was offset by the dynamics of the rest of placements.

Nevertheless, the broad monetary aggregate (M3 private) at constant prices and without seasonality would have registered
a contraction in the fourth month of the year. This dynamic was explained fundamentally by the behavior of remunerated
demand deposits that presented a decline at constant prices in the period under analysis.

For its part, loans to the private sector at constant prices and without seasonality would have grown in the month,
breaking a period of nine consecutive months of declines. Commercial lines were the ones that led the increase, with
increases in financing to SMEs and large companies.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 2

## 2. Means of payment
Means of payment (private transactional M2 1), in real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), would have experienced an expansion of 0.3% in April. This increase responded fundamentally to the behavior of non-remunerated demand deposits, while currency in circulation held by the public registered a negative contribution to the monthly variation (see Chart 2.1). In the year-on-year comparison, and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned 18.2% below the level of April 2022. As a ratio of Output, means of payment would have represented 7.9%, exhibiting a slight increase (0.1 p.p.) in relation to the previous month and around its minimum values of the last 20 years (see Chart 2.2).

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices | Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly variation s.e. | % of GDP

[p.p. / %]
4 | 16 | Private transactional M2
Demand deposits transactional | Non-remunerated demand deposits
3 | Currency in circulation held by the public | Currency in circulation held by the public
2 | 12 | Private transactional M2 (%)
1 | 10
0 | 8 | 7.9
-1 | 6
-2 | 4.9
-3 | 4
-4 | 3.0
-5 | 2
-6 |
Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23 | Apr-05 Apr-07 Apr-09 Apr-11 Apr-13 Apr-15 Apr-17 Apr-19 Apr-21 Apr-23

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

## 3. Savings instruments in pesos

The BCRA Board decided to increase the minimum guaranteed interest rates of fixed-term deposits on two occasions throughout the month, with the objective of maintaining the incentive to save in domestic currency and contributing to financial and exchange equilibrium 2. Specifically, the monetary authority raised the minimum guaranteed interest rate of fixed-term deposits for natural persons from 78% n.a. to 91% n.a. (140.5% e.a.) and tripled the maximum imposable amount, establishing it at $30 million. Meanwhile, for the rest of the depositors in the financial system, the minimum guaranteed interest rate was increased from 69.5% n.a. to 85.5% n.a. (128.5 e.a.3).

Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, private sector fixed-term deposits in pesos would have registered a slight expansion (0.3% s.e. real). In this way, they remain in real terms close to the maximum records of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP, this type of deposits would have been positioned at 7.6% in April.

Analyzing placements by amount bracket, wholesale deposits (more than $20 million) grew on average, favored by the carryover effect from the previous month (see Chart 3.1). Their evolution in the

---

1 Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated demand deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it is more similar to a savings instrument than a means of payment.

2 The interest rates currently in effect are those established through communication "A" 7726.

3 The rest of the depositors is made up of Legal Persons and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.
# Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 3

throughout the month was not homogeneous, which was due to the behavior of Financial Services Providers (PSF), whose main agents are Money Market Common Investment Funds (FCI MM). In this sense, the assets of FCI MM presented a decline during the first days of the month, a trend that reversed with the beginning of the "Exporter Increase Program," given that part of the liquidity generated by these operations was channeled towards FCI MM. In this context of greater fund availability, a portfolio rebalancing was initially observed in favor of remunerated sight deposits and to the detriment of fixed-term placements, a movement that reversed after the increase in the interest rate paid for these investments (see Chart 3.2). The dynamics of the wholesale segment was offset by the behavior of retail deposits (up to $1 million) and those of $1 to $20 million, which experienced declines in real terms. Regarding remunerated sight deposits, the improvement observed from mid-month was not sufficient to reverse the drag effect left by March, when MM FCI rotated their portfolios towards term deposits, causing that in the monthly average, remunerated sight deposits registered a contraction of 13.7% at constant prices and without seasonality.

**Chart 3.1 | Peso deposits of the private sector**
**Contribution to real monthly growth by deposit amount stratum**

**Chart 3.2 | Deposits of more than $20 million**
**Balance at constant prices**

p.p. billion pesos | 30-Apr-23 | Remunerated sight deposits of PSF | billion pesos | 30-Apr-23
6 3,200 | Remunerated Sight Deposits of PSF | 5,200
5 3,000 | Traditional Fixed-Term Deposits of PSF | 5,000
4 2,800 | FCI MM Assets (right axis) | 4,800
3 2,600 | | 4,600
2 2,400 | | 4,400
1 2,200 | | 4,200
0 0.3 2,000 | | 4,000
-1 1,800 | | 3,800
-2 1,600 | | 3,600
-3 | Less than $1 million | 1,400 | | 3,400
-4 | From $1 million to $20 million | 1,200 | | 3,200
-5 | More than $20 million | 1,000 | | 3,000
-6 | | 800 | | 2,800
-7 | Total (%) | |
-8 | |

Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23 | 01-Oct 23-Oct 14-Nov 06-Dec 28-Dec 19-Jan 10-Feb 04-Mar 26-Mar 17-Apr

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

The segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER continued to experience a contraction in real terms, accumulating nine consecutive months of decline. Although such reduction was observed in both traditional UVA placements and those with early redemption options, the latter began to stabilize in April. Thus, the monthly rate of change of traditional UVA placements would have been located at -7.8% s.e. at constant prices, compared to -2.6% s.e. in the case of UVA deposits with early redemption option (see Chart 3.3). Distinguishing by type of holder, it is verified that the decrease is largely due to the dynamics of natural person placements, which represent approximately 85% of the total. Consequently, the balance of UVA deposits reached $319,100 million at the end of April, which is equivalent to 3.1% of the total fixed-term instruments denominated in domestic currency.

# Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 4

**Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector**
**Balance at constant prices by type of instrument**

**Chart 3.4 | Deposits adjustable by exchange rate**
**Balance at current prices**

billion pesos | 30-Apr-23 | | million pesos
400 | | 250 | Sight Deposits
360 | | | 232.5
320 | | 200 |
280 | | |
240 | | 150 |
200 | | |
160 | | 100 | 182.1
120 | Traditional Fixed-Term UVA | |
80 | Fixed-Term UVA with Early Redemption | 50 | 137.0
40 | | |
0 | | 0 | 54.0

Jan-21 Apr-21 Jul-21 Oct-21 Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Apr-23 | Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23 Apr-23

Source: BCRA | Source: BCRA
On the other hand, deposits with adjustment based on the reference exchange rate value registered an increase in the fourth month of the year. Currently, there are two types of deposits with exchange rate coverage: a demand account and fixed-term investments, the latter called DIVA dollar 4. Demand deposits with exchange rate adjustment experienced a variation at the end of the month of 182.2% at current prices, reaching a balance of $232,500 million at the end of April. It should be noted that the origin of these funds came from operations carried out under the "Export Increase Program". Meanwhile, DIVA dollars reached a balance of $54,000 million at the end of the month, which implied an average monthly expansion of 5.1% at current prices (see Chart 3.4). To cover the exchange rate risk of these deposits, financial institutions have available Letters with adjustment based on the dollar value (LEDIV).

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate M3 private would have exhibited in April a monthly decline of 1.7% in real terms and adjusted for seasonality 5. In the year-on-year comparison, said aggregate would have experienced a decrease of 1.9%. As a proportion of GDP, it would have been located at 17.6%, showing a decrease (0.2 p.p.) compared to the previous month and persisting in line with the average for the 2010-2019 period.

## 4. Monetary Base

In April, the average of the Monetary Base reached $5,245.4 billion, experiencing a monthly increase of 1.6% (+$84,095 million) at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a decrease of 4.4%, accumulating in the last twelve months a decline of 29.3%. As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would stand at 4.1%, a figure 0.2 p.p. lower than the previous month and close to the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Chart 4.1).

4 Demand accounts with exchange rate adjustment are available for: 1) special accounts for holders with agricultural activity (PIE and incorporates exporters from regional economies) and 2) special accounts for exporters. This includes exporters of goods under certain requirements and entities that receive financial assistance and/or non-reimbursable contributions from international organizations. In contrast, fixed-term deposits with exchange rate adjustment only for agents with agricultural activity.

5 Private M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector (demand, fixed-term and other).

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 5

## Chart 4.1 | Monetary Base
**Average monthly variation**
**billions of $ from Apr-23** | **% of GDP**

[Vertical axis shows billions of $: 4,500 to 13,500]
[Horizontal axis shows dates from Apr-05 to Apr-23]
- Monetary base s.e., at constant prices (left axis)
- As a percentage of GDP (right axis)

## Chart 4.2 | Factors explaining the Monetary Base
**billions of $**

[Vertical axis shows range from -800 to 1,200]
[Horizontal axis shows dates from Apr-22 to Apr-23]

Legend:
- LELIQ, Repos and NOTALIQ
- Public Sector
- Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
- Monetary base
- Other*

Source: BCRA. *Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary market for public securities.
Source: BCRA.

With the objective of limiting excessive volatility in the secondary market for public securities, the BCRA continued participating in said market. This generated, from the supply side, an expansion of liquidity. Although to a lesser extent, operations by the public sector also gave rise to an expansion of liquidity. These effects, taken together, were partially offset by the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector (see Chart 4.2).
The BCRA accelerated the pace of increases in reference interest rates, raising them twice in the month for a total of 13 p.p. Thus, the interest rate on 28-day LELIQs moved to 91.0% n.a. (141.0% e.a.) and the 180-day LELIQ stood at 99.5% n.a. (124.7% e.a.). Regarding shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repo operations increased from 72% n.a. to 85% n.a. (133.7% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repo operations was set at 110% n.a. (199.9% e.a.). Finally, the spread on NOTALIQs was 8.5 p.p. in the last auction, the same value it has recorded since September of last year. The decision to increase reference rates at the end of the month was based on recent inflation developments and short-term expectations for inflation and the foreign exchange market. In this way, the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic (BCRA) aims to promote positive real returns on investments in local currency, which contributes to preserving financial and exchange rate stability.

With the current availability of instruments, in April remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 70.9% by 28-day LELIQs. Longer-term securities represented 3.8% of the total, concentrated fundamentally in NOTALIQs. Meanwhile, 1-day passive repo operations decreased their share of total instruments, representing 23.6% of the total. The remainder was composed of LEDIVs and LEGARs, increasing their participation by 1.8 p.p. compared to March (see Chart 4.3).

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 6 Chart 4.3 | Composition of BCRA Remunerated Liabilities
Monthly Average

% 1-day Repo 7-day Repo LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ LEGAR LEDIV
100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0
Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23
*Include repo operations with FCIs.
Source: BCRA.

## 5. Loans to the Private Sector

In April, loans in pesos to the private sector in real terms and without seasonality would have recorded an expansion (0.9%), breaking with a period of nine consecutive months of declines. At the level of major credit lines, behavior was heterogeneous. Commercial lines showed a strong increase in the month, which was partially offset by the dynamics of other financing (see Chart 5.1). Over the last 12 months, credit would have accumulated a decline of 11.7% in real terms. Measured as a percentage of GDP, loans in pesos to the private sector remained stable in the month and stood at 6.4% (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth In terms of GDP; latest estimated data

% %
3 12

2 9

1 0.9 6 6.4

0 3

-1 0

-2 -3

-3 Personal Documents Loans in pesos to the private sector
-6 GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving avg.)
Advances Credit cards
-4 Secured Mortgages -9 Ratio to GDP
Rest Total (monthly var.)
-5 -12
Jan-22 Apr-22 Jul-22 Oct-22 Jan-23 Apr-23 Apr-20 Aug-20 Dec-20 Apr-21 Aug-21 Dec-21 Apr-22 Aug-22 Dec-22 Apr-23
Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

Lines essentially destined for commercial purposes would have recorded a monthly expansion of 4.5% s.e. at constant prices and thus reduced their year-over-year decline to -5.3%. Among these lines, advances would have recorded a real monthly expansion of 8.6% s.e., the largest since July 2021, positioning themselves 8.4% above the level of one year ago. For their part, loans granted through documents would have exhibited an increase in the month of 3.2% s.e. in real terms, driven by both discounted documents and documents on signature alone. Nevertheless, they are located close to 6% below the level of April 2022.
By type of debtor, the expansion of commercial credit was reflected in financing to SMEs and, to a greater extent, in credit to large companies, with monthly increases in real terms of 1.1% s.e. and 9.6% s.e., respectively. In this way, they reduced their year-on-year rate of decline in both cases (see chart 5.3).

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to SMEs. At the end of April, loans granted under the LFIP framework accumulated approximately $5,370 billion pesos since its launch, with an increase of 10% compared to the previous month (see Chart 5.4). It should be noted that the average balance of financings granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,370 billion pesos in March (latest available information), which represents about 18.1% of total loans and 42.6% of total commercial loans. Of the average balance from March, 43.7% corresponded to investment projects exceeding the minimum quota of 30% established in the regulations.

Chart 5.3 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor. Year-on-year variation
Chart 5.4 | Financings granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP). Accumulated disbursed amounts; data at end of month

Consumer loans would have contracted 1.6% s.e. in April at constant prices, accumulating a reduction of 14.4% over the last 12 months. Within these lines, financings executed with credit cards would have shown a decrease of 1.0% s.e. (-11.6% y.o.y.), while personal loans would have contracted 2.5% s.e. during the month and would be 19.0% below the level recorded a year ago.

With regard to lines with real guarantees, in real terms, chattel mortgage loans would have registered a decline of 1.3% s.e. and are 7.7% below the level of a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credit would have shown in April a decrease of 5.8% s.e. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of 37.6% in the last twelve months.

## Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In April, broad banking liquidity in local currency showed an increase of 1.2 p.p. with respect to March, averaging 77.8% of deposits (see Chart 6.1). In this way it remained at historically elevated levels. The increase was explained mainly by LELIQs and integration with public securities, partially offset by NOTALIQs, passive repos and current accounts in the Central Bank.

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities. % of deposits

[The chart shows the composition of liquidity with various components including Net Repos, LELIQ - Other, NOTALIQ, Integration in LELIQ, Integration with Other Securities, Cash in Banks, and Current Account in Central Bank, tracked from March 2022 to April 2023]

Source: BCRA.
# 7. Foreign Currency

In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities showed mixed performance. On one hand, at the end of the month, the balance of deposits from the private sector was US$15,289 million, registering a decline of US$757 million compared to the end of March, which was explained fundamentally by sight deposits of natural persons and, to a lesser extent, by legal entities with more than US$1 million. On the other hand, the balance of loans to the private sector increased by US$175 million mainly due to the contribution of documents at signature alone, and ended the month at US$4,004 million (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans | Chart 7.2 | Liquidity in foreign currency
in foreign currency of the private sector | of financial entities

thousands of | % of deposits | Cash in Banks US$ CC BCRA US$ Liquidity US$
millions of US$ |  |
25 | | 90 82.5 82.7 82.8 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 84.3 84.9 85.8 86.4 85.5 84.2
Deposits Loans | |
20 | | 80
| | 70
15 | | 60
| | 15.3
| | 64.2 65.8 64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6 66.4 64.4 63.5
| | 50 63.5 64.8 64.5
10 | | 40
| | 30
5 | | 20
| | 4.0
0 | | 10 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 21.9 21.4 22.5 22.2 20.1 21.1 20.7
| | 0
Apr-20 Oct-20 Apr-21 Oct-21 Apr-22 Oct-22 Apr-23 | Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23 Apr-23
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

6 Includes current accounts at the BCRA, cash in banks, net repo balances arranged with the BCRA, holdings of LELIQ and NOTALIQ and eligible public bonds to integrate reserve requirements.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 9

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced a decline of 1.3 percentage points with respect to the average for March, placing itself at 84.2% of deposits and remaining at historically elevated levels. The movement was explained both by current accounts in foreign currency at the BCRA and by cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

During April, a series of regulatory modifications took place in exchange rate matters, which were aimed at increasing the supply of foreign currency and reducing pressures on International Reserves. First, measures were taken to finance the payment of imports of professional services and freight between related companies and prior authorization was arranged for the payment of interest on intra-company debt7. Furthermore, the term was extended to 180 days to enter and settle the foreign currency corresponding to advances, pre-financing and post-financing of exports from abroad8. On the other hand, with the objective of increasing the supply of foreign currency through the establishment of incentives for exports, the "Export Increase Program"9 was re-established. On this occasion, a temporary differential exchange rate of $300/US$ is contemplated for the settlement of foreign currency from soy exports and by-products until May 31. In this edition, in order to counteract the negative impact of adverse weather conditions, it was decided to extend it to Regional Economies, if they meet a series of requirements, which will have this benefit available until August 3110.

The BCRA's International Reserves ended April with a balance of US$35,001 million, registering a decrease of US$4,059 million compared to the end of March. This decline was explained mainly by payments to international organizations, among which the capital payments to the International Monetary Fund of US$2,667.6 million stood out. The rest of the factors of variation in reserves also had a negative impact, with the exception of foreign currency purchases under the Export Increase Program, which totaled US$1,613 million in the month (see Chart 7.3).
Finally, the nominal bilateral exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 6.3% in April, an increase greater than that of the previous month (see Chart 7.4). In this way, it was located, on average, at $215.78/US$.

Chart 7.3 | Stock of International Reserves    Chart 7.4 | Variation of nominal bilateral exchange rate with the United States

var. % avg.
monthly
7

6.6
6 6.2 6.4 6.3
5.8 5.6 5.7
5 5.4 5.4

4.7
4 4.1 4.1

3 3.5

2

1

0
Apr-22 Jun-22 Aug-22 Oct-22 Dec-22 Feb-23 Apr-23

Source: BCRA.

7 Communication "A" 7746.
8 Communication "A" 7740.
9 Decree 194/2023 of the National Executive Power.
10 In Communication "A" 7743 the use of the accounts to which the funds credited under Decree No. 194/23 are allocated was regulated.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 108. Regulatory Summary

Date of Regulation Description
issuance

The term for entering and settling foreign currency corresponding to advances, prefinancing and
postfinancing of exports from abroad was extended to 180 days when, together with the compli-
ance with other requirements detailed in the regulations, the transfer of foreign currency has
entered the correspondent account of the local entity as of April 10, 2023 and until the end of
13-Apr-23 Com. "A" 7740 the year. In turn, with validity until December 31, 2023, exporters of goods were authorized to credit
the amount in pesos received as consideration for a settlement of export collections in a "Special
account for exporters", when the export destinations have obtained the customs shipment compli-
ance before April 10, 2023 inclusive and the remaining requirements of the regulations are met.

It was established that the funds that exporters credit in the "Special accounts for exporters" and/or
in the "Special accounts for holders with agricultural activity" as a concept of foreign currency
settlement within the framework of Decree No. 194/23, can be used both for the cancellation of
purchases made from natural and legal persons within the scope of the aforementioned decree,
14-Apr-23 Com. "A" 7743 as well as for the payment of rights, taxes and commissions derived from the export operations in
question. Even the exporter holding the "Special account for exporters" and/or in the "Special
accounts for holders with agricultural activity" can transfer the pesos to a bank current account in
pesos (nominal) of their ownership and from that account pay the producer. The producer, in turn,
may use them or deposit them in a "Special account for holders with agricultural activity".

In the first place, and in order to maintain the incentive to save in pesos, from April 21, 2023 the
minimum limit of interest rates on fixed-term deposits for natural persons was raised, bringing it to
81% a.n. for deposits of up to 10 million pesos and 72.5% a.n. for the rest of the fixed-term deposits.
In the same sense, the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with the option of early cancella-
tion was raised to 77% a.n., and to 79% a.n. when the contractual term of the deposit is at least 180
20-Apr-23 Com. "A" 7745 days and the effective period in which it has been maintained is at least 120 days.

For its part, with validity as of April 21, 2023, the interest rates of the financing agreed within the
framework of the "Financing line for productive investment of SMEs" were raised, setting at 67.5%
a.n. for investment projects and 77.5% a.n. for working capital financing and discount of post-
dated checks and other documents.

Finally, with validity as of the billing cycle corresponding to May 2023, the limit on compensatory
interest for financing linked to credit cards that financial entities may apply was increased to 80%
a.n.
It was established that entities require prior approval from the BCRA to grant access to the foreign exchange market to clients before 60 calendar days from the date of approval of the SIRASE declaration when the operation corresponds to certain services detailed in the regulations. In turn, measures were announced to finance the payment of imports of professional services and freight between related companies and prior authorization was established for the payment of 20-Apr-23 Com. "A" 7746 interest on intra-company debt. The measure on market access to cancel service imports does not cover the payment of services currently subject to the PAIS tax. In the event that the creditor is a counterparty related to the debtor, prior authorization will be required until year-end to access the foreign exchange market to pay interest services on commercial debts for imports of goods and services and/or foreign financial loans.

Monetary Monthly Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 11 For its part, it was extended to 180 calendar days before and after during which the client wishing to access the foreign exchange market cannot arrange in the country operations of securities with settlement in foreign currency. In the case of securities issued under Argentine law, the period to be computed remains at 90 calendar days.

Finally, companies were enabled to make remunerated deposits at the reference exchange rate of Communication "A" 3500 of the BCRA, for the amount in pesos equivalent to unpaid interest or the use of foreign currency of own availability that they apply to the payment of commitments when the creditor is a related counterparty.

Effective as of April 28, 2023, it was established to increase the minimum limits of interest rates on fixed-term deposits of natural persons, bringing them to 91% p.a. in the case of deposits of up to 30 million pesos and 85.5% p.a. for the remainder of fixed-term deposits. In the same sense, the fixed rate for early cancellation of deposits with early cancellation option was set at 86.10% p.a., and was raised to 88.10% p.a. when the contractual term of the deposit is at least 180 days and the effective term in which it has been held is at least 120 days.

27-Apr-23 Com. "A" 7751 Furthermore, the interest rate on financing agreed within the framework of the "Financing line for productive investment of MSMEs" was increased, set at 74.5% p.a. for investment projects and 86.5% p.a. for working capital financing and discount of post-dated checks and other documents.

Finally, effective as of the billing cycle corresponding to June 2023, the limit on compensatory interest for financing related to credit cards that financial entities can apply was raised to 88% p.a.

Monetary Monthly Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 12 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly averages | Percentage variations | Average of Apr-23 | % of GDP
Principal monetary variables linked to the BCRA | Apr-23 | Mar-23 | Feb-23 | Dec-22 | Apr-22 | monthly | accumulated in 2023 | year-on-year | Apr-23 | Dec-22
Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
Monetary Base 5,245,351 5,161,255 5,242,210 4,781,929 3,628,710 1.6% -4.4% 1.6% -21.4% 44.6% -29.3% 4.1% 4.6%
Monetary Circulation 4,155,790 4,070,844 4,087,141 3,767,917 2,688,459 2.1% -3.3% 2.1% -20.5% 54.6% -24.4% 3.3% 3.6%
Cash in hands of public 3,726,490 3,660,067 3,662,332 3,361,646 2,393,458 1.8% -3.3% 1.8% -20.5% 55.7% -23.9% 3.0% 3.2%
Cash in financial entities 429,293 410,777 424,809 406,270 295,001 4.5% -3.3% 4.5% -20.5% 45.5% -28.9% 0.3% 0.4%
Current account at BCRA 1,089,561 1,090,411 1,155,069 1,014,012 940,252 -0.1% -7.6% -0.1% -24.0% 15.9% -43.4% 0.8% 1.0%
Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN$) 12,623,436 11,808,752 11,017,136 9,946,599 4,518,428 6.9% -1.1% 6.9% -18.7% 179.4% 36.6% 9.7% 9.7%
Passive Repos 3,029,621 2,878,700 2,436,638 2,004,090 0 5.2% -2.6% 5.2% -20.0% #DIV/0! #DIV/0! 2.3% 1.9%
LELIQ Stock 9,190,259 8,307,160 7,799,573 6,831,822 3,965,042 10.6% 2.3% 10.6% -15.9% 131.8% 13.3% 7.1% 6.6%

LELIQ Stock at 28 days 9,107,114 8,224,016 7,738,381 6,820,934 3,588,663 10.7% 2.4% 10.7% -15.8% 153.8% 24.0% 7.0% 6.6%
LELIQ Stock at 180 days 83,145 83,145 61,192 10,888 376,379 0.0% -7.5% 0.0% -23.9% -77.9% -89.2% 0.1% 0.0%
NOTALIQ Stock 403,556 622,891 780,925 1,110,688 553,386 -35.2% -40.1% -35.2% -50.7% -27.1% -64.4% 0.3% 1.1%
International Reserves of the BCRA in dollars 37,169 37,952 39,843 40,650 43,011 -2.1% - -2.1% - -13.6% - 6.2% 6.8%
Monthly Quarterly Accumulated 2023 Year-on-year
Average Monthly Variation Factors
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution
Monetary Base 84,095 1.6% -45,931 -0.9% 463,422 9.7% 1,616,640 44.6%

Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others -195,083 -3.8% -579,098 -10.9% -267,975 -5.6% 913,655 25.2%
Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury -26,710 -0.5% -183,935 -3.5% -259,705 -5.4% -350,122 -9.6%

Temporary Advances and Transfer of Utilities to National Gov. 100,430 1.9% 163,333 3.1% 163,333 3.4% 656,051 18.1%
Other operations of public sector -11,645 -0.2% 175,528 3.3% 29,784 0.6% 23,806 0.7%

Monetary Regulation Instruments 9,877 0.2% 7,730 0.1% 210,795 4.4% -1,798,820 -49.6%
Others 207,226 4.0% 370,511 7.0% 587,189 12.3% 2,172,071 59.9%

International Reserves of the BCRA -783 -2.1% -6,030 -14.0% -3,481 -8.6% -5,842 -13.6%
Purchase of foreign currency -1,249 -3.3% -3,220 -7.5% -1,862 -4.6% 2,646 6.2%
International organizations¹ 877 2.3% -1,428 -3.3% -413 -1.0% -3,616 -8.4%
Other operations of public sector 169 0.4% -703 -1.6% -1,910 -4.7% -3,221 -7.5%

Minimum Cash -716 -1.9% -702 -1.6% -14 0.0% 27 0.1%
Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) 135 0.4% 23 0.1% 718 1.8% -1,679 -3.9%

Note: The field "Contribution" refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor over the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being performed.
¹ Does not include the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) or the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE).
Requirement and Integration of Minimum Cash Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23
National Currency % of total deposits in pesos
Net requirement of deductions 17.7 18.4 19.4
Integration in current accounts 4.8 5.1 5.7
LELIQ Integration 33.2 32.6 33.0
BOTE 2027 Integration 3.3 3.5 3.6
Integration Rest of Public Bonds 11.9 10.3 9.4
Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency

Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
Integration (includes default in resource application) 63.5 64.4 66.4
Position¹ 39.5 40.4 42.4
¹ Position = Integration - Requirement

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 13 Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average Apr-23 % of GDP⁴
# Main monetary variables and financial system variables
## Monthly, Accumulated in 2023, Year-on-year
|  | Apr-23 | Mar-23 | Feb-23 | Dec-22 | Apr-22 | Apr-23 | Dec-22 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal s.o. | Real s.e. | Nominal | Real |
| **Segment in domestic currency** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos¹** | 22,430,380 | 21,071,303 | 20,044,045 | 18,248,058 | 10,977,659 | 6.4% | -0.8% | 6.4% | -18.4% | 104.3% | -0.1% | 17.4% | 17.7% |
| Deposits of the private sector | 18,886,774 | 17,819,343 | 16,882,151 | 15,170,398 | 8,872,696 | 6.0% | -1.1% | 6.0% | -18.7% | 112.9% | 4.0% | 14.7% | 14.7% |
| Sight deposits of the private sector | 8,664,299 | 8,406,344 | 8,132,046 | 7,305,580 | 4,294,580 | 3.1% | -2.7% | 3.1% | -20.0% | 101.7% | -1.4% | 6.9% | 6.7% |
| Non-Remunerated (Transactional) | 6,082,226 | 5,639,663 | 5,538,634 | 5,392,615 | 3,464,178 | 7.8% | 2.6% | 7.8% | -15.7% | 75.6% | -14.2% | 4.9% | 4.9% |
| Remunerated | 2,582,073 | 2,766,681 | 2,593,413 | 1,912,965 | 830,402 | -6.7% | -13.7% | -6.7% | -29.0% | 210.9% | 52.0% | 2.0% | 1.9% |
| Farm deposits | 133 | 94 | 121 | 132 | 0 | 40.8% | 30.2% | 40.8% | 7.0% | 0.0% |  |  |  |
| Fixed-term deposits and others of the private sector | 10,222,475 | 9,412,999 | 8,750,105 | 7,864,818 | 4,578,116 | 8.6% | 0.4% | 8.6% | -17.5% | 123.3% | 9.1% | 7.8% | 7.9% |
| Fixed-term | 9,963,645 | 9,179,584 | 8,516,025 | 7,641,974 | 4,416,322 | 8.5% | 0.3% | 8.5% | -17.5% | 125.6% | 10.3% | 7.6% | 7.7% |
| Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange Rate | 9,606,912 | 8,833,657 | 8,159,632 | 7,240,645 | 4,142,084 | 8.8% | 0.5% | 8.8% | -17.4% | 131.9% | 13.4% | 7.3% | 7.3% |
| Adjustable by CER/UVA | 307,349 | 298,927 | 311,808 | 359,989 | 250,223 | 2.8% | -5.0% | 2.8% | -21.9% | 22.8% | -40.0% | 0.2% | 0.4% |
| Traditional | 134,701 | 135,052 | 140,521 | 156,519 | 152,508 | -0.3% | -7.8% | -0.3% | -24.2% | -11.7% | -56.8% | 0.1% | 0.2% |
| Pre-cancelable | 172,648 | 163,875 | 171,287 | 203,470 | 97,715 | 5.4% | -2.6% | 5.4% | -19.9% | 76.7% | -13.6% | 0.1% | 0.2% |
| DIVA | 49,384 | 46,999 | 44,584 | 41,340 | 24,015 | 5.1% | -2.9% | 5.1% | -20.2% | 105.6% | 0.5% | 0.0% | 0.0% |
| Other deposits | 258,830 | 233,415 | 234,080 | 222,844 | 161,794 | 10.9% | 2.6% | 10.9% | -15.7% | 60.0% | -21.8% | 0.2% | 0.2% |
| **Deposits of the public sector²** | 3,543,606 | 3,251,959 | 3,161,894 | 3,077,660 | 2,104,963 | 9.0% | 0.8% | 9.0% | -17.1% | 68.3% | -17.7% | 2.7% | 3.0% |
| **Monetary aggregates** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| M2 Total | 13,553,792 | 13,176,845 | 12,867,616 | 11,869,697 | 7,485,795 | 2.9% | -3.3% | 2.9% | -20.5% | 81.1% | -11.5% | 10.7% | 11.1% |
| M3 Total | 26,333,514 | 24,883,481 | 23,844,882 | 21,738,559 | 13,508,660 | 5.8% | -1.2% | 5.8% | -18.8% | 94.9% | -4.7% | 20.5% | 20.7% |
| **Private monetary aggregates** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| M2 private | 12,390,789 | 12,066,411 | 11,794,378 | 10,667,226 | 6,688,037 | 2.7% | -2.8% | 2.7% | -20.1% | 85.3% | -9.4% | 9.8% | 10.0% |
| M2 private transactional³ | 9,808,716 | 9,299,730 | 9,200,966 | 8,754,261 | 5,857,635 | 5.5% | 0.3% | 5.5% | -17.6% | 67.5% | -18.2% | 7.9% | 8.1% |
| M3 private | 22,613,264 | 21,479,410 | 20,544,483 | 18,532,044 | 11,266,154 | 5.3% | -1.7% | 5.3% | -19.2% | 100.7% | -1.9% | 17.6% | 17.9% |
| **Loans** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Total loans to the non-financial sector in pesos** | 8,378,841 | 7,651,908 | 7,220,323 | 6,764,682 | 4,638,583 | 9.5% | 1.1% | 9.5% | -16.9% | 80.6% | -11.7% | 6.5% | 6.4% |
| Loans to the non-financial private sector | 8,280,606 | 7,578,589 | 7,148,137 | 6,693,402 | 4,584,523 | 9.3% | 0.9% | 9.3% | -17.1% | 80.6% | -11.7% | 6.4% | 6.3% |
| Overdrafts | 1,013,188 | 877,152 | 839,601 | 774,929 | 456,968 | 15.5% | 8.6% | 15.5% | -10.7% | 121.7% | 8.4% | 0.8% | 0.7% |
| Documents | 2,264,269 | 1,996,656 | 1,837,160 | 1,708,525 | 1,175,357 | 13.4% | 3.2% | 13.4% | -15.2% | 92.6% | -5.8% | 1.8% | 1.6% |
| Mortgages | 397,569 | 389,774 | 384,246 | 371,698 | 311,607 | 2.0% | -5.8% | 2.0% | -22.6% | 27.6% | -37.6% | 0.3% | 0.4% |
| Pledges | 543,912 | 508,979 | 483,832 | 458,905 | 288,012 | 6.9% | -1.3% | 6.9% | -18.9% | 88.9% | -7.7% | 0.4% | 0.4% |
| Personal | 1,288,281 | 1,214,211 | 1,152,887 | 1,050,187 | 777,034 | 6.1% | -2.5% | 6.1% | -19.8% | 65.8% | -19.0% | 1.0% | 1.0% |
| Credit cards | 2,376,230 | 2,247,165 | 2,126,133 | 1,999,439 | 1,314,587 | 5.7% | -1.0% | 5.7% | -18.6% | 80.8% | -11.6% | 1.8% | 1.9% |
| Others | 397,158 | 344,652 | 324,278 | 329,720 | 260,959 | 15.2% | 2.1% | 15.2% | -16.0% | 52.2% | -25.6% | 0.3% | 0.3% |
| Loans to the non-financial public sector | 98,235 | 73,318 | 72,186 | 71,280 | 54,060 | 34.0% | 24.0% | 34.0% | 1.9% | 81.7% | -11.2% | 0.1% | 0.1% |
| **Segment in foreign currency¹** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| **Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars** | 18,462 | 19,328 | 19,590 | 18,786 | 18,433 | -4.5% | - | -4.5% | - | 0.2% | - | 3.1% | 3.2% |
# Deposits of the non-financial private sector in dollars 15.798 16.319 16.375 15.686 15.334 -3.2% - -3.2% - 3.0% - 2.6% 2.6%
 sight deposits 12.132 12.578 12.609 11.937 11.412 -3.5% - -3.5% - 6.3% - 2.0% 2.0%
 fixed term and others 3.666 3.741 3.766 3.749 3.922 -2.0% - -2.0% - -6.5% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Deposits of the non-financial public sector in dollars 2.664 3.009 3.216 3.100 3.099 -11.5% - -11.5% - -14.1% - 0.5% 0.6%
 Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 4.030 3.868 3.762 3.644 3.902 4.2% - 4.2% - 3.3% - 0.7% 0.6%
 Loans to the non-financial private sector in dollars 3.839 3.686 3.593 3.491 3.778 4.1% - 4.1% - 1.6% - 0.6% 0.6%
 Documents 2.664 2.530 2.403 2.273 2.518 5.3% - 5.3% - 5.8% - 0.4% 0.4%
 Credit cards 184 208 233 179 188 -11.6% - -11.6% - -2.4% - 0.0% 0.0%
 Other 991 949 957 1.039 1.072 4.4% - 4.4% - -7.6% - 0.2% 0.2%
 Loans to the non-financial public sector in dollars 191 182 169 153 124 5.3% - 5.3% - 54.8% - 0.0% 0.0%
# GLOSSARY AND NOTES

1 Does not include the financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
2 Net of unified funds utilization.
3 Excludes, with respect to private M2, remunerated sight deposits.
4 Calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and on seasonally adjusted GDP estimated as a 3-month moving average.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 14 Rates in annual nominal percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Interest Rates of Monetary Regulation Instruments Apr-23 TEA Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

BCRA Repo Rates
Liabilities 1 day 73.68 108.77 72.00 72.00 70.00 35.15
Liabilities 1 day (FCI) 62.63 86.37 61.20 61.20 52.50
Assets 1 day 98.68 167.90 97.00 97.00 95.00 48.02
LELIQ Rate at 28 days 79.68 116.71 76.45 75.00 75.00 45.58
LELIQ Rate at 180 days 88.18 107.96 84.95 83.50 83.50 50.58

Interest Rates of the Interbank Market Apr-23 TEA Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

Repo rates among third parties REPO wheel at 1 day 71.38 104.03 68.58 67.62 66.37 36.04
Amount traded in repos among third parties REPO wheel (daily average) 11.881 8.155 7.306 7.500 26.244
Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
Rate 70.48 102.22 68.37 66.42 67.38 35.18
Amount traded 23.045 15.150 12.780 22.471 26.002

Passive Interest Rates Apr-23 TEA Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

Sight Deposits
Remunerated 63.07 84.95 61.97 60.88 57.47 29.77
Fixed Term
Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days) 79.27 115.53 76.01 74.67 74.67 44.51
TM20 Total (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 71.66 100.62 67.78 66.02 65.91 41.84
TM20 Private Banks (more than $20 million, 30-35 days) 71.98 101.24 68.31 66.63 66.48 42.58
BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 74.13 105.36 70.59 69.06 68.58 42.33
BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 74.74 106.55 71.29 69.90 69.45 43.21
UVA deposit early redemption rate 75.18 107.41 72.45 71.00 71.00 39.58

Active Interest Rates Apr-23 TEA Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos
Overdrafts on current accounts 79.68 121.65 77.93 77.69 75.43 44.43
1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 million 76.36 113.41 75.13 75.23 73.27 38.90
Documents on sole signature 69.99 97.49 64.51 64.21 61.42 39.60
Mortgage loans 63.17 85.13 63.19 57.28 62.71 32.01
Pledge loans 50.76 64.43 48.87 47.24 48.60 29.63
Personal loans 81.08 119.22 79.72 79.68 81.19 58.03
Credit cards 79.88 116.77 79.28 79.94 77.10 48.44

Interest Rates of the Foreign Currency Segment Apr-23 TEA Apr-23 Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.34
Documents on sole signature in dollars 4.18 4.26 3.83 3.72 5.40 3.49

Exchange Rate Apr-23 Monthly Var. (%) Mar-23 Feb-23 Dec-22 Apr-22

TCN peso/dollar
Wholesale (Com. "A" 3.500) 215.78 6.34 202.91 191.97 172.45 113.18
Retail¹ 218.58 6.19 205.83 194.89 175.20 115.31
TCN peso/real 43.01 10.52 38.91 37.06 32.92 23.83
TCN peso/euro 236.48 8.75 217.45 205.32 182.58 122.51
ITCNM 1.438.10 8.11 1.330.19 1.261.89 1.116.28 775.01
ITCRM 95.61 1.65 94.06 94.89 93.21 99.81

1 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the buying and selling exchange rates recorded by the participating entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 15 Glossary
# ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ANSES: National Administration of Social Security.
AFIP: Federal Administration of Public Revenue.
BADLAR: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding one million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
BCRA: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
BM: Monetary Base, comprises monetary circulation plus deposits in pesos in current account at the BCRA.
CC BCRA: Deposits in current account at the BCRA.
CER: Reference Stabilization Coefficient.
CNV: National Securities Commission.
DEG: Special Drawing Rights.
EFNB: Non-Banking Financial Entities.
EM: Minimum Cash.
FCI: Common Investment Fund.
i.a.: year-on-year.
IAMC: Argentine Capital Market Institute.
IPC: Consumer Price Index.
ITCNM: Multilateral Nominal Exchange Rate Index.
ITCRM: Multilateral Real Exchange Rate Index.
LEBAC: Central Bank Bills.
LELIQ: BCRA Liquidity Bills.
LFIP: Productive Investment Financing Line.
M2 Total: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M2 Private: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M2 Private Transactional: Means of payment, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and non-remunerated sight deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
M3 Total: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial public and private sector.
M3 Private: Broad aggregate in pesos, comprises currency in the hands of the public, cancelatory checks in pesos and the total deposits in pesos of the non-financial private sector.
MERVAL: Buenos Aires Securities Market.
MM: Money Market.
n.a.: nominal annual.
e.a.: effective annual.
NOCOM: Cash Compensation Notes.
ON: Negotiable Obligation.
PIB: Gross Domestic Product.
P.B.: Basis Points.
PSP: Payment Service Provider.
p.p.: Percentage Points.
MiPyMEs: Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 16

ROFEX: Rosario Forward Market.
s.e.: seasonally unadjusted.
SISCEN: BCRA Centralized System of Information Requirements.
SIMPES: Comprehensive System for Monitoring Payments Abroad for Services.
TCN: Nominal Exchange Rate.
TIR: Internal Rate of Return.
TM20: Interest rate for fixed-term deposits in amounts exceeding 20 million pesos and with a term of 30 to 35 days.
TNA: Annual Nominal Rate.
UVA: Acquisitive Value Unit.

Monthly Monetary Report | April 2023 | BCRA | 17
