# Monthly Monetary Report
March 2023

## Contents

Page 2 | 1. Executive Summary

Page 3 | 2. Means of payment

Page 3 | 3. Savings instruments in pesos

Page 5 | 4. Monetary base

Page 7 | 5. Loans in pesos to the private sector

Page 9 | 6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Page 9 | 7. Foreign currency

Page 12 | 8. Regulatory summary

Page 14 | 9. Monetary and financial indicators

Page 17 | Glossary

The statistical closing of this report was on April 11, 2023. All figures are provisional and subject to revision.

Inquiries and/or comments should be directed to: analisis.monetario@bcra.gob.ar
The content of this report may be cited freely as long as the source is stated: Monetary Report – BCRA.

## On the use of inclusive language in this publication

The use of language that does not discriminate and that allows making all gender identities visible is an institu-
tional commitment of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic. In turn, those of us who have produced this publication recognize the
influence of language on ideas, feelings, ways of thinking, and value systems.

In this document an effort has been made to avoid sexist and binary language. However, in order to facilitate reading, resources
such as "@" or "x" are not included.

## 1. Executive Summary

| | Monetary Base | M2 Priv. transactional | Time Deposits S. Priv. | Time Deposits UVA S. Priv. | M3 Private |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. | monthly var. real s.e. |
| | -6.1% | -2.9% | 0.6% | -10.5% | -1.1% |

**Fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector. At constant prices and without seasonality. Loans to S. Priv.**
**Contribution to monthly growth by amount stratum** | monthly var. real s.e. |
| p.p. |
| 6 | -0.3% |
| 4 | **28-day LELIQ Rate** |
| | **nominal annual** |
| 2 | |
| | 0.6 | 78.0% |
| 0 | |
| | **1-day Passive Repo Rate** |
| -2 | **nominal annual** |
| | Less than $1 million |
| -4 | From $1 million to $20 million |
| | More than $20 million | 72.0% |
| -6 | Total (%) | **International Reserves** |
| | | millions of US$; end of month |
| -8 | |
| | mar-22 may-22 jul-22 sep-22 nov-22 ene-23 mar-23 | 39,060 |

Source: BCRA.

The BCRA raised the interest rate paid on Liquidity Letters (LELIQ) by 3 percentage points (p.p.),
bringing it to 78% n.a. Meanwhile, it decided to keep the interest rates associated with repo
operations unchanged. Finally, regarding the minimum regulated interest rates on deposits,
it increased those corresponding to fixed-term deposits by the same magnitude as those of LELIQ.

In this context, fixed-term deposits in pesos of the private sector recorded an expansion in
real terms and persist around the maximum values of recent decades both at constant prices and
as a percentage of Product. The greatest impulse came from the wholesale segment,
given that Money Market Mutual Funds (MM Mutual Funds) rotated their portfolios toward
fixed-term deposits. However, as this occurred in the second part of the month, the
impact was only partial, leaving positive carryover for April.

Nevertheless, the broad monetary aggregate (private M3) at constant prices and without seasonality
would have recorded a contraction in the third month of the year. This dynamic was explained
fundamentally by the behavior of means of payment which, both at constant prices and in terms
of GDP, are at minimum levels of the last 20 years.

Finally, loans to the private sector at constant prices and without seasonality would have
marked a new monthly contraction. In March, the Financing Line for Productive Investment (LFIP)
was renewed for the period April-September. This line allowed credit to SMEs in terms of GDP
to be sustained above the pre-pandemic record and the historical average.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 2 2. Means of payment
In real terms and adjusted for seasonality (s.e.), means of payment (private transactional M2¹), would have registered a contraction of 2.9% in March. The dynamics of the month responded in equal magnitude to the behavior of both currency in circulation held by the public and non-remunerated sight deposits (see Chart 2.1). Thus, in year-on-year terms and at constant prices, private transactional M2 would be positioned 19.6% below the level of March 2022. In terms of Product, means of payment would have stood at 7.8%, exhibiting a slight decrease (0.1 p.p.) compared to the previous month (see Chart 2.2). Both components of means of payment remain in terms of GDP around the lows of the last 20 years.

Chart 2.1 | Private transactional M2 at constant prices Chart 2.2 | Private transactional M2
Contribution by component to monthly var. s.e.

p.p. % of GDP
4 16 Private transactional M2
Transactional sight deposits Non-remunerated sight deposits
3 Currency in circulation held by the public
Currency in circulation held by the public 14
2 Private transactional M2 (%)

1 12

0 10

-1
-2 8 7.8

-3 6

-4 4.7
-5 4
3.0
-6 2
Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23 Mar-05 Mar-07 Mar-09 Mar-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Mar-17 Mar-19 Mar-21 Mar-23

Source | BCRA. Source | BCRA.

## 3. Savings Instruments in Pesos

The BCRA Board decided to increase the minimum guaranteed interest rates of fixed-term deposits by 3 p.p. in the third month of the year². In this way, the monetary authority seeks to encourage savings in domestic currency. The minimum guaranteed rate for placements by natural persons up to an amount of $10 million was raised to 78% n.a. (113% e.a.), while for the rest of the depositors of the financial system the interest rate was increased to 69.5% n.a. (96.6% e.a.)³.

Fixed-term deposits in pesos from the private sector, in real terms and without seasonality, would have grown in March (0.6%). Thus, these placements continued to be positioned around the maximum levels of recent decades. As a percentage of GDP this type of deposits would have been placed at 7.5% in March (0.1 p.p. more than in February).

¹ Corresponds to private M2 excluding remunerated sight deposits from companies and financial service providers. This component was excluded since it resembles more a savings instrument than a means of payment.
² The interest rates currently in effect are those established by communication "A" 7726.
³ The rest of the depositors is made up of Legal Persons and Natural Persons with deposits of more than $10 million.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 3

Analyzing the evolution of placements by amount stratum, heterogeneous behavior is observed. Deposits of $1 to $20 million and wholesale deposits (more than $20 million) registered an average increase in the month, with the latter showing an acceleration in their monthly expansion rate. This dynamic was offset by the fall in retail deposits (less than $1 million).

The behavior of Financial Service Providers (PSF) was what drove the growth of wholesale fixed-term deposits. Money Market Investment Funds (FCIMM), which are the main agents in terms of deposit movement within PSF and which operate fundamentally in the segment of more than $20 million, rotated the composition of their investment portfolios towards fixed-term deposits to the detriment of remunerated sight deposits (see Chart 3.1). Likewise, the increase in the equity of these funds was also destined fundamentally towards fixed-term investments. This portfolio rebalancing occurred in a context in which the new configuration of interest rates led to the return on fixed-term placements being greater than that of other investment alternatives for PSF (see Chart 3.2).
**Chart 3.1 | Assets and investments of FCI MM** | **Chart 3.2 | Interest rates on PSF deposits**
at constant prices

Billions of | Billions of | TEA; %
pesos as of 31-Mar-23 | pesos as of 31-Mar-23 |
Demand deposits with interest from PSF | PF Traditional | PSF +$20M
2,800 | Traditional fixed-term deposits of PSF | 4,800 | 100 | One-day repurchase agreements
Demand deposit with interest (PSF) | | | | 96.8
2,600 | FCI MM Assets (right axis) | 4,600 | 95 | One-day passive repurchase FCI
| | | | 96.3
2,400 | | 4,400 | 93.3
| | | | 90
2,200 | | 4,200 |
| | | | 85 | 84.3
2,000 | | 4,000 |
| | | | 80
1,800 | | 3,800 |
| | | | 75
1,600 | | 3,600 |
| | | | 70
1,400 | | 3,400 |
| | | | 65
1,200 | | 3,200 |
| | | |
1,000 | | 3,000 |
800 | | 2,800 |
01-Oct | 23-Oct | 14-Nov | 06-Dec | 28-Dec | 19-Jan | 10-Feb | 04-Mar | 26-Mar | 31-Oct | 15-Nov | 30-Nov | 15-Dec | 30-Dec | 14-Jan | 29-Jan | 13-Feb | 28-Feb | 15-Mar | 30-Mar

Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

The remaining companies (excluding PSF), which also operate in the wholesale segment, maintained their holdings relatively stable during the month. Similarly, placements from individuals, concentrated fundamentally in the segment of less than $20 million, maintained their holdings without major changes (see Chart 3.3).

**Chart 3.3 | Fixed-term deposits of the private sector**
**by type of depositor**
as of constant prices

Billions of | Billions of
pesos as of 31-Mar-23 | pesos as of 31-Mar-23
3,600 | 5,100

3,400 | 4,900

3,200 | 4,700

3,000 | 4,500

2,800 | 4,300

2,600 | 4,100

2,400 | 3,900

2,200 | 3,700

2,000 | 3,500
Financial Service Providers |
1,800 | Other legal entities | 3,300

1,600 | Individuals (right axis) | 3,100

1,400 | 2,900
31-Oct | 14-Nov | 28-Nov | 12-Dec | 26-Dec | 09-Jan | 23-Jan | 06-Feb | 20-Feb | 06-Mar | 20-Mar

Source: BCRA.

**Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 4**

The segment of fixed-term deposits adjustable by CER exhibited a new contraction in real terms, accumulating 8 consecutive months of declines. The decrease was verified both in placements in traditional UVA and in those with early redemption option, whose monthly rates of change were -10.2% s.e. and -10.7% s.e. respectively (see Chart 3.4). Distinguishing by type of holder, it is verified that the decline was explained almost entirely by the dynamics of placements from individuals, which concentrate close to 85% of the total (see Chart 3.5). In this way, UVA deposits reached a balance of $302,200 million at the end of March, which represented 3.1% of the total of fixed-term instruments denominated in domestic currency.

**Chart 3.4 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector** | **Chart 3.5 | Fixed-term deposits in UVA of the private sector**
**Balance at constant prices by type of instrument** | **Balance at constant prices by type of holder**

Billions of | Billions of
pesos as of 31-Mar-23 | pesos as of 31-Mar-23
360 | 550 | Individuals

320 | 500 | Financial Service Providers

280 | 450 | Other Legal Entities

240 | 400

| 350
200 | 300 | 291.2
167.1 |
160 | 250

120 | 135.1 | 200
80 | Traditional UVA Fixed-Term Deposit | 150

100 |
40 | Early Redemption UVA Fixed-Term Deposit | 50 | 60.9

0 | 0 | 7.2
Jan-21 | Apr-21 | Jul-21 | Oct-21 | Jan-22 | Apr-22 | Jul-22 | Oct-22 | Jan-23 | Jan-21 | May-21 | Sep-21 | Jan-22 | May-22 | Sep-22 | Jan-23

Source: BCRA. | Source | BCRA.

In any case, the broad monetary aggregate, M3 private, at constant prices and adjusted for seasonality would have exhibited in March a monthly decline of 1.1%⁴. In the year-on-year comparison, said aggregate would have experienced a decrease of 1.8% and as a percentage of GDP would have been located at 17.7%, remaining stable compared to the previous month and at a level similar to the 2010-19 average.

**4. Monetary base**
In March, the Monetary Base was located on average at $5,161.3 billion, registering a monthly contraction of 1.5% (-$80,955 million) at current prices. Adjusted for seasonality and at constant prices, it would have exhibited a contraction around 6% and in the last twelve months would have accumulated a decline in the order of 30%. As a ratio of GDP, the Monetary Base would be positioned at 4.2%, 0.2 p.p. below the value registered the previous month and around the minimum values since the exit from convertibility (see Graph 4.1).

4 Private M3 includes currency in circulation held by the public and peso deposits from the non-financial private sector (on demand, time deposits and others).

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 5 Graph 4.1 | Monetary Base Graph 4.2 | Explanatory Factors of the Monetary Base
Average monthly variation

billions of pesos of Mar-23 % of GDP millions of pesos Other*
1,200 Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
12,500 12 Public Sector
1,000 Purchase of foreign currency from the private sector
11,500 10 800 Monetary base

10,500 600
9,500 8 400

8,500 6 200

0
7,500 4 -200

6,500 Monetary base s.e., at constant prices -400
As percentage of GDP (right axis) 2
5,500 -600

4,500 0 -800
Mar-05 Mar-07 Mar-09 Mar-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Mar-17 Mar-19 Mar-21 Mar-23 Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23
Source: BCRA. * Includes BCRA intervention in the secondary public securities market.
Source: BCRA.

On the supply side, with the objective of limiting excessive volatility in the secondary public securities market, the BCRA continued participating in that market. On the other hand, operations by the public sector gave rise to an expansion of liquidity. These effects, taken together, were more than offset by the net sale of foreign currency to the private sector and, to a lesser extent, by the absorption of liquidity through monetary regulation instruments (see Graph 4.2).

In mid-March, the BCRA decided to raise the interest rate on 28-day LELIQ by 3 p.p., bringing it to 78.0% n.a. (113.3% e.a.). The interest rate on 180-day LELIQ was increased by the same magnitude and stood at 86.5% n.a. (105.5% e.a.). As for shorter-term instruments, the interest rate on 1-day passive repos was maintained at 72% n.a. (105.3% e.a.); while the interest rate on 1-day active repos continued at 97% n.a. (163.5% e.a.). Finally, the spread on NOTALIQ was 8.5 p.p. in the last auction, the same value it has registered since September of last year. The decision to raise the reference rates toward the end of the quarter was taken considering the recent evolution and short-term perspectives of inflation, the level of economic activity and the foreign exchange market. In this way, the BCRA seeks to keep the real interest rate of monetary policy in positive territory, which will contribute to preserving financial and exchange rate stability.

With the current availability of instruments, in March remunerated liabilities were composed, on average, of 69% by 28-day LELIQ. Longer-term securities represented 5.9% of the total, concentrated practically entirely in NOTALIQ. Meanwhile, 1-day passive repos continued increasing their participation in the total of instruments, representing 24.2% of the total (2.3 p.p. more than the previous month). The remainder was made up of LEDIV and LEGAR, slightly decreasing their participation compared to February (see Graph 4.3).

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 6 Graph 4.3 | Composition of Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA
Average monthly

% 1-day Repos 7-day Repos LELIQ 28 LELIQ 180 NOTALIQ LEGAR LEDIV
100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0
Mar-22 May-22 Jul-22 Sep-22 Nov-22 Jan-23 Mar-23
*Include repos with FCI.
Source: BCRA.

5. Loans to the private sector
During March, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in real terms and without seasonality would have registered a new monthly contraction (-0.3%), accumulating nine consecutive months of declines. The decrease occurred practically in all financing lines with the exception of documents (see Chart 5.1). In the last 12 months, credit would have accumulated a decline of 13.8% in real terms. Thus, loans in pesos to the private sector measured in terms of current GDP remained relatively stable during the month and were located at 6.2% (see Chart 5.2).

Chart 5.1 | Loans in pesos to the private sector Chart 5.2 | Loans in pesos to the private sector
Real without seasonality; contribution to monthly growth In terms of GDP
%                                          %
3 Documents Personal              12
2 Advances Cards                   9
  Pledged Mortgages                6  6.2
  Other Total (monthly var.)       3
1                                  0
0                              -0.3
-1                                -3
-2                                -6
-3                                -9
-4                               -12
  mar-22 may-22 jul-22 sep-22    mar-20 jul-20 nov-20 mar-21 jul-21 nov-21 mar-22 jul-22 nov-22 mar-23
  nov-22 ene-23 mar-23

  Loans in pesos to the private sector
  GDP (s.e.; 3-month moving average)
  Ratio to GDP

  Source: BCRA.                     Source: BCRA.

Observing the evolution of loans by type of financing, the lines with destination mainly commercial would have registered a monthly expansion of 0.9% s.e. at constant prices, with a year-over-year variation of -10.3%. Among these financings, loans granted through documents would have exhibited an increase of 2.6% s.e., resulting in the only loan line that grew in March in real terms. The impulse came fundamentally from discounted documents (4.8% monthly), although single-signature documents also contributed positively. For their part, advances would have registered in March a decline at constant prices of 2.1% s.e. (-1.9% y.o.y.).

Distinguishing commercial credit by type of debtor, so far this year, a contraction in financing to SMEs of around 8.3% y.o.y. at constant prices is observed and 12.8% y.o.y. for large companies. However, in terms of GDP, credit to smaller relative size enterprises was located above the pre-pandemic record and its historical average. In contrast, in the case of large companies, the credit to GDP ratio is at its historical minimum (see Chart 5.3).

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP) continued to be the main tool used to channel productive credit to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). At the end of March, loans granted within the framework of the LFIP accumulated approximately $4,882 billion since its launch, with an increase of 9.8% compared to last month (see Chart 5.4). For its part, of the total financings granted through the LFIP, 13.6% corresponds to investment projects and the remainder to working capital. It should be noted that the average balance of financings granted through the LFIP reached approximately $1,308 million in February (latest available information), which represents approximately 18.3% of total loans and 43.6% of total commercial loans.

It is worth noting that recently, the BCRA arranged the renewal of the LFIP and established a new quota that will extend from April to September of this year (2023 Quota)5. The same will continue to be 7.5% of deposits in pesos from the non-financial private sector of March 2023 for financial entities of Group A and 25% of said quota for financial agents from the public sector that do not belong to this group.

Chart 5.3 | Commercial Loans by type of debtor Chart 5.4 | Financings granted through the Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP)
As a percentage of Product                    Accumulated disbursed amounts; data at end of month
% of GDP thousands of
4.0 millions of $
SMEs Other Legal Entities 5,000 4,882

3.5 4,500
Total Investment Projects
3.0 4,000

3,500
2.5 3,000

2.0 2,500

2,000
1.5 1,600 1,500

1.0 1,000
1.0 666
500
0.5 0
Mar-05 Mar-07 Mar-09 Mar-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Mar-17 Mar-19 Mar-21 Nov-20 Mar-21 Jul-21 Nov-21 Mar-22 Jul-22 Nov-22 Mar-23
Source: BCRA
Source: BCRA.

With respect to loans associated with consumption, financing instruments executed with credit cards
would have shown a decrease in real terms of 0.9% m.o.m. in March (-12.3% y.o.y.). Likewise, personal
loans would have exhibited a decline of 1.7% monthly and would already be 18.8% below the level registered
a year ago. During March, the interest rate corresponding to personal loans averaged 79.7% p.a.
(116.4% e.a.), remaining stable with respect to the previous month.

5 Communication "A" 7720. See Regulatory Summary.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 8 With respect to lines with real guarantees, in real terms, pledge loans would have registered a decline of 1.4% m.o.m.
and are 5.4% below the level from a year ago. For its part, the balance of mortgage credits would have shown
in the month a decrease of 5.0% m.o.m. at constant prices, accumulating a contraction of 36% in the last
twelve months.

6. Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

In March, broad banking liquidity in local currency6 showed an increase of 1.2 p.p. with respect to
February, averaging 76.6% of deposits (see Chart 6.1). In this way it remained at historically elevated levels.
The increase was explained mainly by LELIQs, passive repurchase agreements and integration with public
securities, partially offset by NOTALIQs and current accounts at the Central Bank.

Regarding regulatory changes with potential impact on banking liquidity, in the first place, it was provided
that the maximum net position of 28-day LELIQs be determined based on the average of daily balances of
the total fixed-term deposits in pesos of the previous period (previously only deposits from the private sector
were considered). In the second place, it was established that financial entities that have a percentage of
fixed-term deposits (with the regulation it went from considering only private to the total) over total deposits
greater than or equal to 20% may have a positive net position of 180-day LELIQs and NOTALIQs.

In the third place, with respect to public securities admitted for integration of minimum cash, it was provided
that securities subscribed through exchanges must have a residual term between 300 and 730 calendar days.
Finally, the maximum residual term was extended to 730 days for the totality of securities admitted for the
integration of minimum cash7.

Chart 6.1 | Liquidity in pesos of financial entities

Net Repurchase Agreements LELIQs - Other
% of Notaliq Integration in LELIQs
deposits CC BCRA $ BOTE 2022 - 2027
Integration with Other Securities Cash in Banks $
80 Liquidity 73.4 73.7 75.4 76.6
69.7 71.0 71.9 2.1 1.9
66.3 67.1 66.6 68.9 68.1 1.9 2.2 1.9
70 65.3 2.2 2.3 2.1 2.0 7.8 8.7 9.4 10.3
2.6 2.6 2.3 2.3 5.2 6.1 6.7 7.1
4.6 5.9 6.1 5.4 5.6 3.3 3.4 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.5
60 3.6 3.7 3.6 3.5 3.3 5.5 5.7 5.1
3.8 3.6 7.4 6.6 6.0 6.1 6.2 0.8 0.6
8.1 7.6 7.4 3.1 2.8 2.2 0.9 3.9 2.9
50 9.3 8.5 5.0 4.6 6.1 4.9
4.4 5.1 5.2 7.3 6.7
5.6 4.5 7.5 7.7
40 3.3 5.0 6.0 6.3 8.5

37.9 38.5
30 35.0 36.5
30.1 33.9 34.3
30.1 31.1 31.8 31.2 30.4 28.9
20

10 13.6
7.5 9.2 8.7 9.6 10.9 11.0 12.1
6.1 5.1 4.8 5.0 6.6
0
Mar-22 Apr-22 May-22 Jun-22 Jul-22 Aug-22 Sep-22 Oct-22 Nov-22 Dec-22 Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23
Source: BCRA.

7. Foreign currency
In the foreign currency segment, the main assets and liabilities of financial entities registered limited variations on average during the month. The balance of private sector deposits averaged US$ 16,317 million in the month, registering a slight decline compared to February. For its part, the average monthly balance of private sector loans in foreign currency was US$ 3,683 million, thus registering an increase of US$ 90 million compared to the previous month, explained mainly by the behavior of promissory notes (see Chart 7.1).

Chart 7.1 | Balance of deposits and loans in foreign currency of the private sector | Chart 7.2 | Foreign currency liquidity of financial entities

thousands of millions of US$ | % of deposits
25 | 90
| 83.2 83.1 84.5 84.5 85.2 85.2 85.0 86.0 86.4 84.6
Deposits Loans | 82.5 82.7 82.8
20 | 80
| 70
16.0 |
15 | 60
64.2 63.3 62.9 62.5 63.6 66.4 64.4
| 50 63.6 63.5 64.8 64.5 64.2 65.8
10 | 40

30
5 | 20
3.8 |
10 19.6 19.0 17.9 18.3 18.9 18.7 20.3 21.9 22.3 22.5 22.4 20.1 20.3
0 | 0
jan-20 jul-20 jan-21 jul-21 jan-22 jul-22 jan-23 mar-22 apr-22 may-22 jun-22 jul-22 aug-22 sep-22 oct-22 nov-22 dec-22 jan-23 feb-23 mar-23
Source: BCRA. | Source: BCRA.

The liquidity of financial entities in the foreign currency segment experienced a decline of 1.8 percentage points with respect to the average of February, standing at 84.6% of deposits and maintaining historically elevated levels. The movement was explained by current accounts in foreign currency at the BCRA and was partially offset by cash in banks (see Chart 7.2).

During March, some regulatory modifications took place in foreign exchange matters. Thus, seeking to allocate foreign currency more efficiently, access to the foreign exchange market was made more flexible for the payment of imports in the case of certain tariff positions referring to products and inputs related to healthcare or a public connectivity access program⁸. In turn, the regulations were adjusted to provide access to public entities that received financing from international organizations to the "Special Accounts for Exporters"⁹, in such a way that they are permitted to make debits to acquire in the foreign exchange market the amount of foreign currency necessary for repayment to the financing organizations, in case there are funds that have not been used in the projects¹⁰. Finally, the direct or indirect dollarization of beneficiaries of a social security debt regularization plan was restricted, until they pay their debt¹¹.

The BCRA's International Reserves reached a balance of US$ 39,060 million at the end of March, registering an increase of US$ 351 million in the month (see Chart 7.3). Among the factors explaining this increase, operations with international organizations stand out, and in particular, with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This increase was partially offset by foreign currency sales to the private sector. While the remaining components, as a whole, had a neutral impact in the month.

⁸ Communications "A" 7709 and "A" 7733. See Normative Summary.
⁹ Communication "A" 7667.
¹⁰ Communication "A" 7732.
¹¹ Communication "A" 7735.

Finally, the bilateral nominal exchange rate (TCN) with respect to the US dollar increased 5.7% in March, an increase greater than that of the previous month (see Chart 7.4). In this way, it stood, on average, at $ 202.91/US$.
Chart 7.3 | Stock of International Reserves Chart 7.4 | Variation of bilateral nominal exchange rate
 with the United States
 billions of
 US$ avg. % var.
 90 monthly
 80 7

 6.6 6.4
 70 6 6.2
 5.8 5.6 5.7
 60 5 5.4 5.4

 50 4 4.7
 4.1 4.1
 40
 3 3.5
 30 2.8
 20 2

 10 1

 0 0
 mar-15 mar-16 mar-17 mar-18 mar-19 mar-20 mar-21 mar-22 mar-23 mar-22 may-22 jul-22 sep-22 nov-22 ene-23 mar-23

 Source: BCRA. Source: BCRA.

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 118. Regulatory Summary

 Date Regulation Description
 of issuance

 New tariff positions of the Common Nomenclature of Mercosur (NCM), relating to pharmaceutical
 2-mar-23 Com. "A" 7709 products and/or inputs used in their local production and other goods related to health care were
 incorporated, for which access to the foreign exchange market is made more flexible to process
 import payments.

 Some operational mechanisms of the liquidity option on securities awarded by the National State were
 modified. First, this tool was in effect for securities maturing this year and the regulation adjustment
 contemplates those that will mature in 2024 and 2025. The purchase price contained in the instrument
 continues to be the lower of the closing price and the weighted average operated by the instrument on
 the business day prior to the exercise of the option, but to said price an additional 30 basis points of
 7-mar-23 Com. "A" 7716 equivalent rate will be added. In addition, the selection of the market and term of the instrument was
 modified to define the price, as the one with greater depth (operated volume) will be taken. The settlement
 periods were also modified: once the price is defined, the liquidity option can be exercised at t0, t+1 or
 t+2 as chosen by the holder of the derivative.

 The BCRA will remain present in the LETE and BON1 rounds of the Electronic Open Market at the t+2
 term, buying those debt securities of the National State awarded as of March 7 of the current year with
 residual term exceeding 1 day, at a curve similar to the last one validated in the primary market plus a
 maximum spread of 2%.

 Effective as of March 9, 2023, financial entities are permitted to integrate the requirement of minimum
 cash in pesos with national public securities in pesos –including those adjustable by CER and with
 returns in dual currency (DUAL BOND) and excluding those linked to the evolution of the United States
 dollar– with residual term not less than 300 days nor greater than 730 calendar days at the time of
 subscription, received in exchange operations arranged by the National Government for securities
 acquired both through primary subscription and in the secondary market. In turn, 730 calendar days
 was established as the maximum term for national public securities in pesos acquired through primary
 9-mar-23 Com. "A" 7717 subscription from that date, provided for in points 1.3.7.1. and 1.3.17. of the regulations on "Minimum
 Cash".

 On the other hand, it is provided that, as of March 9, 2023, the net position that financial entities may
 maintain in BCRA Liquidity Bills (LELIQ) of shorter issuance term shall be for an amount equivalent to
 the average of daily balances of fixed-term deposits in pesos for the previous period. In the same sense,
 financial entities that have a percentage of fixed-term deposits in pesos with respect to the total of
 deposits in pesos -with the measurement detailed in the regulations- equal to or greater than 20%, may
 maintain a joint positive net position of LELIQ of longer issuance term and Variable Rate Liquidity Notes
 (NOTALIQ).
It is established that financial entities may integrate Central Bank of Argentina Liquidity Letters (LE-LIQ) up to 50% of the guarantees by product required in current regulations to cover the net debit balances arising from compensation processes of peso operations in electronic clearing houses. The excess LELIQ that exceeds 50% of the indicated guarantees shall not be computable as integration of said guarantees.

Effective as of April 1, 2023, the regulations that suspended the distribution of results by financial entities are repealed. Thus, until December 31, 2023, financial entities that have authorization from the Central Bank of Argentina may distribute results in 6 equal, monthly and consecutive installments for up to 40% of the amount that would have corresponded from applying the aforementioned regulation.

The Productive Investment Financing Line (LFIP), which grants special facilities for the development of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs), is extended until September 30. In this way, financial entities must maintain a balance of financing within this line that is equivalent, at minimum, to 7.5% of their deposits from the non-financial private sector in pesos, calculated based on the monthly average of daily balances as of March 2023. In the case of affected entities not included in Group "A", the minimum percentage to apply shall be 25% of the amount previously established.

A series of minimum requirements were approved for the management and control of technology risks and information security with a view to improving strategic planning of cybersecurity, fraud prevention and cyber-resilience, considered fundamental elements when properly providing financial services to users. The regulation integrates these best practices and security requirements in a comprehensive regulatory framework that seeks to promote operational resilience and preserve the stability of the financial system. In order to allow a review of the processes to adjust to this new regulatory approach, the regulation enters into force 180 days after its publication.

Effective as of March 17, 2023, the remuneration of fixed-term deposits was updated, bringing them to a return of 78% nominal annual rate for deposits of up to 10 million pesos of individuals and 69.5% nominal annual rate for the remainder of fixed-term deposits. In turn, a fixed rate of 74% nominal annual was set for the early cancellation of deposits with the option of early cancellation in UVA.

It was established to allow entities of the non-financial public sector to credit, in the "Special accounts for exporters", amounts up to the amount in pesos from the liquidations, carried out as of December 1, 2022, of financing and/or non-reimbursable contributions from international organizations, their associated agencies, multilateral development banks or official credit agencies. In turn, debits are permitted for the acquisition in the foreign exchange market of the foreign currency necessary for direct repayment to the financing organizations of the respective projects of any unused funds in such projects.

Financial entities are permitted to grant access to the foreign exchange market to make payments for imports of goods associated with a SIRA declaration before the term provided in such declaration when it is a payment for goods framed in the "Connecting with you" program established by the Resolution of the National Communications Authority (ENACOM), insofar as the conditions detailed in the regulations are met.
It was established that, until such time as they have paid off the debt, natural persons who are beneficiaries of the "Plan de pago de deuda previsional" (Social Security Debt Payment Plan) provided for in Law No. 27,705 or another social security debt regularization plan, may not access the foreign exchange market to carry out purchases of foreign currency for the formation of external assets of residents, family assistance remittances and derivatives operations, nor conclude sales in the country with settlement in foreign currency of securities issued by residents or exchanges of securities issued by residents for external assets or transfer them to depository entities abroad or the acquisition in the country with settlement in pesos of securities issued by non-residents.

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 139. Monetary and Financial Indicators
Figures in millions, expressed in the currency of origin. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

Monthly Averages Percentage variations average of mar-23 % of GDP
Principal monetary variables linked to BCRA mar-23 feb-23 jan-23 dic-22 mar-22 monthly accumulated in 2023 year-on-year mar-23 dic-22

Nominal s. o. Real s. e. Nominal s. o. Real s. e. Nominal Real
Monetary base 5,161,255 5,242,210 5,291,282 4,781,929 3,660,266 -1.5% -6.1% -1.5% -17.3% 41.0% -29.9% 4.2% 4.5%

Monetary circulation 4,070,844 4,087,141 4,089,114 3,767,917 2,674,269 -0.4% -4.4% -0.4% -15.7% 52.2% -24.4% 3.4% 3.6%
Cash in public hands 3,660,432 3,662,280 3,714,183 3,361,593 2,392,924 -0.1% -3.8% -0.1% -15.2% 53.0% -24.0% 3.0% 3.2%
Cash in financial entities 410,413 424,861 374,931 406,323 281,346 -3.4% -9.6% -3.4% -20.3% 45.9% -27.5% 0.3% 0.4%
Current account in the BCRA 1,090,411 1,155,069 1,202,167 1,014,012 985,997 -5.6% -11.6% -5.6% -22.1% 10.6% -45.0% 0.9% 1.0%
Remunerated Liabilities of the BCRA (VN$) 11,808,752 11,017,136 10,395,877 9,946,599 4,803,021 7.2% 0.3% 7.2% -11.6% 145.9% 22.2% 9.7% 9.5%
Passive Repurchase Agreements 2,878,700 2,436,638 2,182,287 2,004,090 649,856 18.1% 10.6% 18.1% -2.5% 343.0% 120.1% 2.4% 1.9%
Stock of LELIQ 8,307,160 7,799,573 7,268,795 6,831,822 3,804,296 6.5% -0.3% 6.5% -12.1% 118.4% 8.5% 6.8% 6.5%
Stock of LELIQ at 28 days 8,224,016 7,738,381 7,239,699 6,820,934 3,427,949 6.3% -0.5% 6.3% -12.3% 139.9% 19.2% 6.7% 6.5%
Stock of LELIQ at 180 days 83,145 61,192 29,096 10,888 376,347 35.9% 27.2% 35.9% 12.1% -77.9% -89.0% 0.1% 0.0%
Stock of NOTALIQ 622,891 780,925 944,796 1,110,688 348,869 -20.2% -25.3% -20.2% -34.2% 78.5% -11.3% 0.5% 1.1%

BCRA International Reserves in dollars 37,952 39,843 43,199 40,650 38,511 -4.7% - -4.7% - -1.5% - 6.3% 6.7%

Monthly Accumulated 2023 Year-on-year
Variation factors average monthly
Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution Nominal Contribution
Monetary base -80,955 -1.5% 379,326 7.9% 1,500,989 41.0%

Purchase of foreign currency from private sector and others -220,055 -4.2% -72,892 -1.5% 1,105,935 30.2%
Purchase of foreign currency from National Treasury -58,862 -1.1% -232,995 -4.9% -346,944 -9.5%

Transitory Advances and Transfer of Utilities to Nat. Gov. 62,903 1.2% 62,903 1.3% 560,954 15.3%
Other public sector operations 120,061 2.3% 41,429 0.9% 168,293 4.6%

Monetary regulation instruments -55,528 -1.1% 200,918 4.2% -1,942,305 -53.1%
Others 70,526 1.3% 379,963 7.9% 1,955,057 53.4%

BCRA International Reserves -1,891 -4.7% -2,698 -6.6% -559 -1.5%
Purchase of foreign currency -1,103 -2.8% -613 -1.5% 3,870 10.0%
International Organizations5 -285 -0.7% -1,291 -3.2% 456 1.2%
 Other public sector operations 76 0.2% -2,079 -5.1% -3,398 -8.8%
 Minimum cash -567 -1.4% 702 1.7% 726 1.9%
 Remainder (incl. exchange rate valuation) -12 0.0% 582 1.4% -2,214 -5.7%
 Note: The "Contribution" field refers to the percentage of the variation of each factor on the main variable corresponding to the month with respect to which the variation is being calculated.
 5 Does not include the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) or the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE).
 Minimum Cash Requirement and Integration mar-23 feb-23 jan-23
 Domestic Currency % of total deposits in pesos
 Net requirement of deductions 18.2 19.5 19.3
 Integration in current accounts 5.1 5.7 6.2
 LELIQ Integration 32.6 33.0 32.8

 BOTE 2027 Integration 3.5 3.6 3.6
 Integration Remainder Public Securities 10.3 9.4 8.7
 Foreign Currency % of total deposits in foreign currency
 Requirement 24.0 24.0 24.0
 Integration (includes resource application default) 64.4 66.4 63.6
 Position (1) 40.4 42.4 39.6

 (1) Position = Integration - Requirement
 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 14 Figures in millions, expressed in the original currency. Provisional figures and subject to revision.

 Monthly averages Percentage variations average of mar-23 % of GDP4
 Main monetary and financial system variables Monthly Accumulated in 2023 Year-over-year
 mar-23 feb-23 jan-23 dec-22 mar-22 mar-23 dec-22
 Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal s.o. Real s.e. Nominal Real
 Domestic currency segment
 Total Deposits of the non-financial sector in pesos 121,072,944 20,043,888 19,284,422 18,243,811 10,541,123 5.1% -1.0% 5.1% -12.7% 99.9% -0.7% 17.3% 17.3%
 Deposits of the private sector 17,817,292 16,882,147 16,029,685 15,166,107 8,474,272 5.5% -0.5% 5.5% -12.3% 110.3% 4.5% 14.7% 14.4%

 Sight deposits of the private sector 8,405,628 8,132,039 7,442,954 7,303,247 4,172,728 3.4% -1.6% 3.4% -13.2% 101.4% 0.1% 7.0% 6.6%
 Non-Remunerated (Transactional) 5,639,303 5,538,584 5,474,161 5,390,282 3,356,146 1.8% -2.2% 1.8% -13.8% 68.0% -16.5% 4.7% 4.8%
 Remunerated 2,766,326 2,593,455 1,968,793 1,912,965 816,582 6.7% -0.1% 6.7% -12.0% 238.8% 68.4% 2.3% 1.8%
 Agricultural deposits 94 121 140 131 0 -22.1% -27.3% -22.1% -35.9% 0.0%
 Fixed-term deposits and others of the private sector 9,411,664 8,750,108 8,586,731 7,862,860 4,301,544 7.6% 0.5% 7.6% -11.5% 118.8% 8.7% 7.7% 7.8%
 Fixed-term 9,176,230 8,516,006 8,373,659 7,640,020 4,145,039 7.8% 0.6% 7.8% -11.3% 121.4% 10.0% 7.5% 7.6%
 Non-Adjustable by CER/UVA/Exchange rate 8,830,335 8,159,622 7,990,944 7,238,756 3,912,325 8.2% 1.1% 8.2% -10.9% 125.7% 12.2% 7.2% 7.2%
 Adjustable by CER/UVA 298,917 311,800 339,308 359,923 208,488 -4.1% -10.5% -4.1% -21.1% 43.4% -28.7% 0.2% 0.4%
 Traditional 135,097 140,521 147,274 156,518 130,621 -3.9% -10.2% -3.9% -20.9% 3.4% -48.6% 0.1% 0.2%
 Precancellable 163,820 171,279 192,033 203,405 77,867 -4.4% -10.7% -4.4% -21.3% 110.4% 4.6% 0.1% 0.2%
 DIVA 46,978 44,584 43,407 41,340 24,226 5.4% -1.6% 5.4% -13.3% 93.9% -3.6% 0.0% 0.0%
 Other deposits 235,435 234,102 213,072 222,841 156,505 0.6% -5.8% 0.6% -17.0% 50.4% -25.2% 0.2% 0.2%
 Deposits of the public sector2 3,255,652 3,161,740 3,254,737 3,077,704 2,066,851 3.0% -3.6% 3.0% -15.0% 57.5% -21.7% 2.7% 2.9%

 Monetary aggregates
 M2 Total 13,175,830 12,867,485 12,433,205 11,867,311 7,385,028 2.4% -1.9% 2.4% -13.5% 78.4% -11.3% 10.9% 10.9%
 M3 Total 24,885,797 23,844,677 23,136,233 21,734,259 13,038,164 4.4% -1.1% 4.4% -12.8% 90.9% -5.1% 20.5% 20.4%
 Private monetary aggregates
 M2 private 12,066,060 11,794,319 11,157,137 10,664,840 6,565,652 2.3% -2.7% 2.3% -14.2% 83.8% -8.7% 10.0% 9.8%
 M2 private transactional3 9,299,734 9,200,864 9,188,344 8,751,875 5,749,070 1.1% -2.9% 1.1% -14.4% 61.8% -19.6% 7.8% 8.0%
M3 private 21,477,724 20,544,427 19,743,868 18,527,700 10,867,196 4.5% -1.1% 4.5% -12.8% 97.6% -1.8% 17.7% 17.5%

Total Loans to the non-financial sector in pesos 7,651,124 7,220,296 6,964,311 6,764,763 4,418,347 6.0% -0.4% 6.0% -12.2% 73.2% -13.9% 6.3% 6.3%

Loans to the private non-financial sector 7,578,194 7,148,110 6,895,705 6,693,483 4,367,790 6.0% -0.3% 6.0% -12.2% 73.5% -13.8% 6.2% 6.2%

Advances 876,940 839,593 758,412 775,003 444,107 4.4% -2.1% 4.4% -13.8% 97.5% -1.9% 0.7% 0.7%

Documents 1,997,412 1,837,165 1,779,401 1,708,525 1,099,195 8.7% 2.5% 8.7% -9.6% 81.7% -9.7% 1.7% 1.6%

Mortgages 389,752 384,246 379,393 371,698 302,454 1.4% -5.0% 1.4% -16.3% 28.9% -36.0% 0.3% 0.4%

Pledges 508,987 483,832 468,515 458,905 267,503 5.2% -1.4% 5.2% -13.0% 90.3% -5.4% 0.4% 0.4%

Personal 1,214,030 1,152,888 1,092,071 1,050,187 742,997 5.3% -1.7% 5.3% -13.4% 63.4% -18.8% 1.0% 1.0%

Credit cards 2,246,369 2,126,067 2,089,962 1,999,446 1,273,214 5.7% -0.9% 5.7% -12.7% 76.4% -12.3% 1.8% 1.8%

Others 344,702 324,321 327,950 329,719 238,321 6.3% -1.0% 6.3% -12.7% 44.6% -28.1% 0.3% 0.3%

Loans to the public non-financial sector 72,931 72,186 68,606 71,280 50,557 1.0% -5.4% 1.0% -16.6% 44.3% -28.3% 0.1% 0.1%

Segment in foreign currency¹

Deposits of the non-financial sector in dollars 19,326 19,590 19,539 18,787 18,405 -1.3% - -1.3% - 5.0% - 3.3% 3.1%

Deposits of the private non-financial sector in dollars 16,317 16,375 16,260 15,687 15,240 -0.4% - -0.4% - 7.1% - 2.7% 2.6%

On demand 12,577 12,609 12,447 11,938 11,351 -0.3% - -0.3% - 10.8% - 2.1% 2.0%

Fixed term and others 3,740 3,766 3,813 3,749 3,890 -0.7% - -0.7% - -3.8% - 0.6% 0.6%

Deposits of the public non-financial sector in dollars 3,009 3,216 3,280 3,100 3,165 -6.4% - -6.4% - -4.9% - 0.5% 0.6%

Loans to the non-financial sector in dollars 3,865 3,762 3,677 3,644 3,978 2.7% - 2.7% - -2.8% - 0.6% 0.6%

Loans to the private non-financial sector in dollars 3,683 3,593 3,506 3,491 3,853 2.5% - 2.5% - -4.4% - 0.6% 0.6%

Documents 2,527 2,403 2,309 2,273 2,507 5.2% - 5.2% - 0.8% - 0.4% 0.4%

Credit Cards 207 233 193 179 200 -11.1% - -11.1% - 3.6% - 0.0% 0.0%

Rest 949 957 1,004 1,039 1,146 -0.8% - -0.8% - -17.2% - 0.2% 0.2%

Loans to the public non-financial sector in dollars 182 169 172 153 125 7.4% - 7.4% - 45.7% - 0.0% 0.0%

¹ Does not include financial sector or residents abroad. Loan figures correspond to statistical information, not adjusted for financial trusts.
² Net of unified funds utilization.
³ Excludes from private M2 remunerated sight deposits.
⁴ Calculated based on the seasonally adjusted series of the month and estimated seasonally adjusted GDP moving average of 3 months.
Note: The definitions of monetary aggregates can be found in the Glossary

Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 15 Rates in annual percentage (unless otherwise specified) and amounts in millions. Monthly averages.

Interest Rates of monetary regulation instruments | mar-23 | TEA | mar-23 | feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | mar-22

BCRA repo rates

Liabilities 1 day 72.00 105.30 72.00 70.90 70.00 33.79

Liabilities 1 day (FCI) 61.20 83.76 61.20 56.20 52.50

Assets 1 day 97.00 163.46 97.00 95.90 95.00 44.87

LELIQ rate at 28 days 76.45 110.21 75.00 75.00 75.00 43.08

LELIQ rate at 180 days 84.95 103.31 83.50 83.50 83.50 47.73

Interest Rates of the Interbank Market | mar-23 | TEA | mar-23 | feb-23 | ene-23 | dic-22 | mar-22

Repo rates among third parties wheel at 1 day 68.58 98.41 67.62 62.08 66.37 33.35

Amount operated of repos among third parties wheel (daily average) 8,155 7,306 12,393 7,500 14,420
Call in pesos (at 1 business day)
 Rate 68.37 97.98 66.42 66.67 67.38 33.13
 Amount Operated 15,150 12,780 16,420 22,471 19,284

 Passive Interest Rates mar-23 TEA mar-23 feb-23 jan-23 dec-22 mar-22
 Demand Deposits

 Remunerated 61.95 82.99 60.89 58.07 57.47 28.41
 Fixed Term Deposits

 Natural persons up to $1 million (30-35 days)1 76.01 109.02 74.67 74.67 74.67 41.80
 TM 20 Total (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 67.78 93.40 66.02 65.94 65.91 39.10
 TM 20 Private Banks (more than $20 millions, 30-35 days) 68.31 94.37 66.63 66.52 66.48 39.84
 BADLAR Total (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 70.59 98.61 69.06 68.94 68.58 39.60
 BADLAR Private Banks (more than $1 million, 30-35 days) 71.29 99.94 69.90 69.58 69.45 40.48
 Rate of early cancellation of deposits in UVA 72.45 102.13 71.00 71.00 71.00 37.08
 Active Interest Rates mar-23 TEA mar-23 feb-23 jan-23 dec-22 mar-22
 Loans to the non-financial private sector in pesos
 Overdrafts in current account 77.93 117.81 77.69 76.75 75.43 43.00
 1 to 7 days — with agreement to companies — more than $10 millions 75.13 110.85 75.23 74.51 73.27 37.17
 Single signature documents 64.50 87.48 64.21 61.43 61.42 36.47
 Mortgages 63.19 85.16 57.28 58.18 62.71 32.66
 Pledges 48.87 61.46 47.24 46.21 48.60 28.35
 Personal loans 79.72 116.44 79.68 79.24 81.19 55.98
 Credit Cards 79.44 115.88 79.94 79.28 77.10 46.70
 Interest Rates of the segment in foreign currency mar-23 TEA mar-23 feb-23 jan-23 dec-22 mar-22
 Fixed-term deposits in dollars (30 to 44 days) 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.31 0.32 0.38
 Single signature documents in dollars 3.83 3.90 3.72 3.56 5.40 3.04
 Exchange Rate mar-23 Monthly Var. (%) feb-23 jan-23 dec-22 mar-22
 TNC peso/dollar
 Wholesale (Com. "A" 3,500) 202.91 5.70 191.97 182.12 172.45 109.37
 Retail2 205.83 5.61 194.89 185.16 175.20 111.56
 TNC peso/real 38.91 5.00 37.06 35.12 32.92 21.99
 TNC peso/euro 217.45 5.91 205.32 196.31 182.58 120.42
 ITCNM 1,329.76 5.38 1,261.83 1,199.58 1,116.28 745.24
 ITCRM 95.30 -0.44 95.72 95.21 93.21 101.29

 1 The observed interest rate does not necessarily coincide with the minimum guaranteed interest rate because it includes deposits of up to $10 millions from persons who, in total, in the financial entity exceed $10 millions. The minimum guaranteed interest rate applies to all fixed-term deposits of a depositor insofar as the total of fixed-term deposits in said entity does not exceed $10 millions.
 2 The Retail Reference Exchange Rate offered in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires is calculated considering the exchange rates bought and sold recorded by the affiliated entities, weighted by their participation in the retail market. (Communication "B" 9791)

 Monthly Monetary Report | March 2023 | BCRA | 16 Glossary
